Hope the sermon is better than how are they starting out so First Samuel, chapter twenty one. Verses one through fourteen. Then there was a famine in the days of David, three years. Year after year. And David inquired the Lord, and the Lord answered, It is for Saul and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites. And the king called the Gibeonites and said of them, and there's a parentheses for parentheses that there's a phrase here, parenthetical phrase here. Now Gibbonites were not of the children of Israel. Blood of the remnant of the Amorites and the children of Israel had sworn on them, and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah. So he had great zeal for the children of Judah and Israel, so he wanted to kill the Gimonites. He thought that'd make everybody happy. Verse 3, Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And wherever shall I make the atonement, that you may bless the inheritance of the Lord. And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver nor gold of Saul. Nor of his house, neither for us shall thou kill any man in Israel. And he said that his day, well, then what shall you say that will I do for you? You don't want Saul's gold, you don't want his silver, you don't want his house What can I do for you? And they answered the king, The man that consumed us and that devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in the coast of Israel, let seven of his sons be delivered unto us. And we will hang them onto the Lord in Gibeah of Saul. We're going to hang them right in Gibeah's backyard, in Gibeah of Saul. whom the Lord did choose, meaning Saul had been chosen of God. And the king said, I will give them. But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan. Well, there was a covenant between David and and Jonathan that he would spare his children. And they're not asking that all of Saul's sons be killed, but seven of them, and David made sure that Mephibosheth was not one of them. Because of the words, Olaf was between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul, and it states it there. But the king took two sons of Rispha. the daughter of Aya, whom she bare unto Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth. That name Mephibosheth must have been common. Because Jonathan had a son named Mephibosheth, and now we find that Rizfa, the daughter, she also had a son named Mephibosheth. So it must have been a common name then, but they're not the same one And the five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel, the son of Brasilia. Now, this is not the same Brasilia we spoke about a couple of weeks ago. This here says Brasilia the Maholothite But if you go back to chapter nineteen and thirty-one, uh Brasilia that we preached on a couple of weeks ago is Brasilia the Gilladite, all right? Uh just in verse nineteen. Verse thirty one. Brasilia the Gilodite. So they're two different again, there are common names like John and Matthew and Mark are common names as well. So just want that pointed out to you And he delivered, that is, of seven uh of those men, uh into the hands of the Gibeonites, verse nine, and they hang them in the hill before the Lord. And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days in the beginning of the barley harvest. And Rispah, the daughter of Ayah, took sackcloth and spread it for her upon the rock from the beginning of harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night And it was told David that Rispah, the daughter of Ayah, the concubine of Saul, what she had done. And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son. From the men of Jabus Gilead which had stolen them from the street of Bashan. Actually it stolen from the Philistines, where the Philistines had hanged them, when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboah. Verse 13. And he brought up from thence the bones of Saul, the bones of Jonathan's son, and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged as well. And the bones of Saul and Jonath and his son buried the all in the country of Benjamin in Salah, in the sepulchre of Kis his father. And they performed all that the king commanded And after that, God was entreated for the land. Hope we can clarify a little more what's going on here this morning as we look at these verses a little closer. In verse 1, we're introduced to the fact that there was a famine in the days of David. This famine had been going on for three years. And after three years of a famine, David's thinking, there's something going on here. God's not blessing us. There's something wrong here. I don't know what it is. He's in the dark. And so it says that David inquired the Lord. He wanted to know what was going on David didn't believe that the famine was some planetary uh disturbance or it was because of sunspots or some astronomical cycles or global warming. He believed that whatever was going on, God's hand was in it. There was something wrong here. And so he inquires of the Lord, and the Lord says, you're right, David, there is something wrong. Saul in this bloody house, they slew the Gibeonites. And they shouldn't have done that. Slaying the Gibeonites, it was contrary to an oath that was made 400 years previously. And we won't go into the whole story, but the Gibeonites had heard about the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and they'd heard how they powered the Red Sea and they were in a panic And the Israelites were were moving into the promised land and the Gibeonites thought they they wiped out the city of Jericho and Ai, and we're next, what are we going to do? And and so they put on old clothes and moldy bread and they they're only a couple days away and they said we've come a long way. We've come a long, long way, you know, and we have heard about your God and we don't we want to make peace with you And so Joshua swore an oath that they would make peace with the Gibeonites. Within a week, Joshua found out they'd lied to him, and that they weren't from a long ways away. They were just over the hill, a couple days' journey. But Joshua was a man whose word was good, and he would not break the bow, the covenant, the oath he made with the Gibeonites. And so he said, uh we will not kill you. You are allowed to stay in the promised land, but you will become hewers of wood and carriers of water to the congregation. All the days, all the days of your life. And so there was an oath there, a covenant made, 400 years before David and Saul were reigning in Israel, that the Gibeonites could live among them. And as as it transpired, the Gibbonites, uh many of them got saved. Many of them the hewing of wood and carrying of water to the tabernacle and to the congregation. uh you know went for the sacrifices and they hear the gospel, they get saved. They were saved a godly people. But being saved never protects you from King Saul. He would throw a javelin at David while he's playing the harp And these Gibeonites, he didn't like them either. They were outsiders, although they were now saved. It makes you wonder how Saul would have treated the Gentiles as they got saved. Because these Gibeonites were basically Gentiles as well And so he in the days of Saul he didn't care about Joshua's oath. Some people don't care about an oath or a promise that their fathers made or their grandfathers made, you know David had made an oath that my family and I will always protect Jonathan and his seed and and Solomon would keep that oath going. And some people say, Well that oath was four hundred years ago. Saul says I'm not going to keep that oath anymore, I'm going to kill the Gibeonites. And he did. He began to slay the Gideonites. And David said, Why do we have a famine in the land? What is going on here? And he finds out that the oath in Joshua 9, chapter 9, verses 19 through 21, the oath sworn That they swore unto the Lord by the Lord's name that they would let them live, lest wrath be upon us because of the oath. So Joshua, in the name of God, in the name of Jehovah, in the name of Elohim, he said, Look We will let you live. You'll be hewers of wood and carriers of water, but we'll let you live in the name of the Lord. We will not kill you That's the oath that Saul broke. And began to slay and begin to kill him. God said, Saul in his bloody house, they slew the Gibeonites. First thing I'd ask you this morning is why didn't God just punish Saul when he did it? I mean Saul's dead now. It's been several years and why didn't God just go in there and and w wipe out Saul immediately when he did something like that? It would have protected Israel from the famine that was brought upon by Saul's slaying of these Gibeonites. Well, first off, I would say this: God often delays our punishment. He often delays our punishment, or he withholds the affliction. In fact, we know that sometimes this can be withheld until the judgment seat of Christ. We read about that in Romans 14 and 10. Some of us are going to get by with things, and because we get by with them, we're going to do more and more because our heart has not been touched by the gospel, and we think we're getting by with everything. Saul thought he was getting by with everything. Nothing happened to him for killing the Gibeonites, for breaking the covenant, for breaking the oath, for breaking the promise. And some of you may have broken your promise. Maybe when you got baptized and you swore you'd walk in the in the in the straight and the narrow and you'd follow the Lord Jesus Christ. You'd love him and serve him forever. And you've broken that baptismal covenant. Or the parents who who've had their children baptized. You said we're going to raise up a child in the ways of the Lord. And you haven't Or you've dropped the ball. That's breaking the covenant, breaking a promise, breaking an oath. Those of you who are married this morning You vowed to serve and love your spouses and sickness and health for richer or poorer. How are we doing with that? Have we broken that vow or that covenant? Well, Saul broke one here. And he didn't pay for it immediately. But David talks about in Psalm 73 and 17. He looked about and he saw the wickedness of man and so forth. And he said he didn't understand why they were always getting by with things. And then he said I then I understood I considered their end. So the wicked get by with things sometimes and and they die without ever being punished. And you say, that's not fair. Well it's not fair if there's not something after death, but it is fair if there's judgment after death. People say life isn't fair. Oh, there's judgment after this life, which makes everything fair. The second thing we might consider is that God did not deal with Saul, but he dealt with the nation of Israel Why? Why did Nation get punished? Why did the nation of Israel being punished in three years of famine for what Saul had done? Well, God deals with nations according to the conduct of its rulers You may say, well, I don't care what the President does or the Premier does or the Queen or the King of England does. You know, it doesn't really affect me. It does affect us what our rulers do And that's why in 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 and 2, it says, pray for your kings, pray for all those in authority, that we may lead a quiet life. There might not be any famines. You know, there might not be any tsunamis. We we need to pray for those in authority, whether we like them or not, we need to pray that they they walk the straight and arrow that they obey the things of God because if they don't, we as a nation for not praying for them, we will suffer I mean does any government uh think you know if if there's a country out there that doesn't like another country, they say, well I sure would like to attack England. That's but The people are pretty nice, so I don't care what their King of England did or their Queen of England said. No, they don't care. They if they have an animosity towards a ruler of a country, they'll attack the whole country, don't they? So we need to pray for our rulers And the third thing is that why would all of Israel suffer this famine for what Saul had done? Well, probably because the army of Israel helped Saul kill the Gibeonites You know, the army of Israel wasn't totally innocent. Saul was a king. He said, I don't like these Gibeonites, we're going to deal with them. I don't care about Joshua's oath. It's a 400-year-old oath. We're going to kill the Gibeonites. And the army went along with it and they did it And not only did the army probably go along with it and do it, but the people of Israel had to know about it. Their sons served in the military, you know the word was out, where was Saul and where was the army to Eliolf killing the Gibeonites Wow, we're not supposed to do that, are we? Well, let's speak up, let's say something. But Israel didn't. There's a time to speak, Ecclesiastes 3. 7. But Israel kept quiet. So why not throw the famine on all of Israel? They kept quiet or they'd partaken in it themselves. So what at first seems harsh Punishment on the nation of Israel by God for what Saul had done, we find that they were all complicit in it, really, when you look at it. Makes it important who you vote for. In this election four years ago we end up with a person that wants to put boys in the girls' bathrooms and locker rooms, made decrees like that. It's important. And we're held responsible for who we elect and who we complain about and if we keep silent and say nothing. And that's what was found here with Israel. Jeremiah 5 and 25 says, your sins have withholden good things from you. They didn't have any rain for three years. Why was Israel not having any rain? Because the sins of Israel, the sins of Saul, the sins of Saul's army, the sins of the people who remained silent. See, oftentimes Sin uh silence is not golden, silence is yellow or cowardly. And so here that we have it, that their sins have withholden good things from you. They had no rain, they had a famine, they had no crops That's what your sins will do. And I would say this morning, has God kept showers of blessing from you this morning? For some sin. Maybe you don't have good health. Uh maybe your employment is not what you would have it to be. Uh maybe you're just not content in this world. And maybe, not always, but sometimes our lack of contentment and our employment and our poor health is due to sin. We don't know, do we? Sometimes it's poor health because we're just older or poor health because we work in an environment where there's a lot of sick people if you're working in an old folks' home. We can't always blame it on sin, but you know what we need to do when we have uh poor health or we have employment problems or contentment when we have those things we need to inquire the God is something going on here in my life? Is there something that needs to be addressed? Is there some sin that's brought this upon me Or is this just a part of the walk in my life you've chosen for me, Lord? We need to inquire when things aren't going well of the Lord, whether there's some sin that has brought uh some conditions upon us. Some sin that maybe we haven't addressed. And if it is a sin, then we address it. And that's what David did here in verses two and three. David said unto the Gibeonites, because God had shared with David. It's a Gibeonites. Saul slew the Gibeonites. He broke the vow. So David goes to Gibeonites and says, What shall I do for you? You know, that's the way to settle things. If you find out there's something wrong, you go to people and say, what can I do to make it right? What can I do? You know, if you just start, I think I'll send them flowers. I'll give them a box of chocolate Oh, I know, I'll buy her a brand new car. You come with all kinds of ideas, things you can do, right? And it doesn't seem to work Plopping the chocolates and throwing all the wrappers away and she's still mad at you because you haven't gotten a clue, you know, what's really wrong. I remember we had a neighbor, he bought this big, big a box of flowers, long-stem roses. They came and delivered and they they taped them right to the door. I thought, wow, it must be a big anniversary. Or he's done something wrong. And I saw the wife come home and she walked up. I think I don't know if Liver's watching me too. And we're looking out there watching to see the surprise and the elation. And she walked up and she pulled the flowers off and she threw them on the front of the yard. No, it wasn't an anniversary. And he's in the background, what can I do to make it right? You know, it wasn't flowers. That's what David does here. You can't guess what people need To make things right. You have to ask them what to make it right. And David said on the giving that says, What shall I do for you? Where shall I make atonement? Blood has been shed. I want to atone for you I'm the king now. I can I can do anything. What do you need? I said to you that the Gibeonites, many of them got saved. They really loved the Lord. They really knew the scriptures. And you know what the Gibeans could have done? The Gibnots could have said, We are hewers of wood and carriers of water, and we have this is the oath, this is the covenant was made, and it was never, never shall be changed. But there was an exception to that. It was in Exodus chapter 21 and 26, where it talked about slaves and servants. If the master were to punch or hit someone and strike them, that they would lose an eye or knock out a tooth? I bet that happened in slavery in America. You know, back in the seven eighteen hundreds, some there was probably some evil slave master that punched one of the slaves and he lost his sight and his eye or knocked out of tooth. You know what the scripture says? In Exodus twenty-one and twenty-six, you had to let 'em go free. That that keeps The slave master from punishing the slaves. Bring that verse out and share it with them. And this is what the Gibeonites could have done. They said, knocked out an eye, knocked out a two. Are you kidding? They've been killing our people. Exodus. Look at Exodus 21, 26, King David. We want to be set free from this 400-year-old covenant. And David, by scripture, would have had the right to do just that. And the Gibeonites, they knew the scriptures we'll find here But they didn't ask for freedom. What would you have done if you've been a slave for 400 years? Isn't it amazing today? The attitude is they go to the government, we want reparations. Our great-great-grandparents were slaves, and we want reparations, and we want Money, silver, gold, right? Look what they look at the gibiness to. You're gonna find here in a second when they respond We're not getting that verse yet, but we're going to find out something about that. So they they they could have had the freedom. The Gibeonites believed, they didn't ask for the freedom because the Gibeonites believed They didn't ask their freedom because they believed that the public trust and using God's name and an oath must be restored They've taken the Lord's name in vain. Here's the oath made by Joshua and everybody's supposed to abide by the oath made in God's name that we will not kill them, that they will live with us. And they broke an oath made in God's name. And the Gibeonites revered Jehovah. They revered God and they said, His name has been taken in vain. His name has been desecrated. We don't want freedom. We don't want gold. We don't want silver. We want God's name upheld. We need to restore the public trust. When someone uses God's name in an oath, it must be believed. It must be held held strong to it. Can you imagine you can have your freedom, but instead you want God's name honored back in the public trust of society? The other nations around you are going to hear about the Gibeonites and a vow made in Jehovah's Name and they broke it. It didn't mean anything. And the Gibby night's the moment we want that restored. God was first in their life. These are really saved Gibeonites. They're more concerned. concerned about what people say about an oath made in God's name. God was first in our life, as Christ should be first in our life. We read Colossians 1 and 18, that Christ who is the head of the church, the beginning of the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have prepared. Preeminence. These Gibeonites, God is going to have preeminence. We're not after our freedom, God's going to have preeminence. We're not after gold and silver, God's going to have preeminence. His oath, his word, his name must be honored must be restored. He is first in our lives. Is God first in your life? Hey, I'll admit there are days when God doesn't come first in my life. But I'll also admit that He should. First thing I read in the morning shouldn't be the paper. Right here. You read the paper, God's second in your life. Check out the TV guide, God's third in your life. Check out the stock market, God's fourth in your life. God's to be first in life to have preeminence. Christ said to have preeminence. Is there somebody in your family that is more important than God? Boy, I never used to think so, but I got these three adorable grandchildren, and I'm gonna tell you It's hard sometimes not to put your kids or your grandchildren first I'm not going to embarrass anybody this morning, but it was almost late getting up here to the pulpit, starting the service in time, because it was one of the cute little girls out of the audience. She had a little ear sticking above her head. Ah, my heart, yeah. It's hard. We put kids ahead of us sometimes, ahead of the Lord. God's supposed to be first in our life. How about paying your bills? People say to me, boy, I'd like to give some of the church this week, but after I got through paying my bills, there was nothing left Dear friend, the scripture said that God gets the first fruits. You you give to the Lord, and then we'll let you pay off the bills. I'll never ever know. You will. You will. I can't tell you how God makes makes the money stretch. It he just does They always the Jews, when they were out there in the field harvesting, the first basket of barley, the first basket of wheat, the first basket of of of olives or grapes, they went to the Lord. They brought it to the temple, the first fruits. And they always had enough left over for everything Else. You make God first in your life. Make him pre-eminent. Christ is in all things he might have preeminence. That's in your grandchildren, Christ first. Your children? Christ first. Your bills? Christ first. Everything. Christ has preeminence. If a nation or person would have God's blessing, we must deal with our sin first That has to have priority dealing with the sinner life. Inquire of God, is there a sinner life? Something's got to be taken care of. If we don't have as our first priority take care of that sin against our God, who is to have preeminence in our life. If we don't deal with that sin, that should be a priority. A famine will come in our life too. And so they give you his answer in four and six. Wow, he's giving us he's given us an empty checkbook. Whatever we want, we can have our freedom. So they answer David: no silver, no gold. Wow. It's really different from people today in America, right? I think I said about it earlier. You know, they've been slaves for 200 years or 300 years ago and and they want reparations, they want money, they want silver, they want gold. They didn't want that. And they've been slaves for 400 years. No silver, no gold. Let seven, not only Saul's sons, but seven of Saul's sons be delivered unto us, and we'll hang them. Unto the Lord. See that again? This reference back to the Lord? These are people, why do they want to hang them on the Lord? They want God's name restored in the public view, that you don't use his name in some promise, I swear to God I'll do it, then you better do it. In the presence of God in this congregation, I ought to love her and cherish her and sickness and hell. Well then you better do it. You use God's name in a vow or a promise or an oath or a covenant, you'd better do it, and that's what they wanted done here. And so they said we're gonna do them, or we're gonna hang them. Unto the Lord. This is not for us. This is not for revenge that we're hanging them. The scripture says that they why would they want to hang them? Why not stone them? Why not guillotine them? Because these Gibeonites want to do this on the Lord. They want to do it right. And the scripture in Deuteronomy 21. 23 said, to hang them on a tree that they be accursed. These people knew the scriptures. These Gibeonites were not just some uh run-of-the-mill lackluster Gentiles. They they had they had been they had they had been absorbed into the Christian into the re- uh Israel's faith of God of Abram, Isaac and Jacob. They were they were saved people. They knew the law. They knew Deuteronomy 21-23. They're to be hung as a curse. They knew the law. And they knew the Lord of the law. Boy, a lot of people know the law, don't they? How dare you do that? It it says you thou shalt not steal, and you just did this, took something from my property, and how dare you, I you you just did this, I heard you bearing a false witness about my reputation. Well, we know the law. But do we know the Lord? These Gibeonites they knew the Lord as well. The execution Of Saul's, go back to verse one, of Saul's bloody house. See, it wasn't just Saul that killed the Gimeonites. He had those in his own house that were were involved with this killing some of his sons. They were old enough. They were in the military. They had political positions. And he was he was killing Saul, not just Saul, but those in his own house. It's called Saul and his bloody house Killed the Gibeonites. So it wasn't cruel to kill some of his sons. They were a part of it. And it wasn't cruel to kill Saul's sons who were a part of it because it was for the public welfare of the nation. If we don't kill these sons of the bloody house of Saul, who are also partakers of it and involved it, we don't do that Israel's going to remain in a famine. And people die in famines. And so for the public good, for the public welfare of the nation of Israel, somebody's going to have to die. That sounds familiar, doesn't it? The blood of Christ atoned for the nation too that would believe, right? For the believers of every nation, the blood of Christ atoned as the blood here of these sons would atone for their sins. Christ's blood was going to atone for the sins of believers There's a blood atonement. It was taught in the Old Testament, not just in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. It was noted. And when you when you think about the atonement for our sins in this day and age. It's like the Gibeonites, we know that silver and gold aren't gonna pay for our sins. I know the Catholic Church, mass cards, you pay for the mass cards, you get out of purgatory, get to heaven sooner. But that's Just not true. Silver and gold will not pay for our sins. A tithe, a double tithe, a triple tithe is not going to get you to heaven. It's the blood atonement. That satisfies the wrath of God. These Gibeonites obviously weren't out for revenge, they weren't out for money. They not primarily they didn't even want to stop the famine as much as they wanted to hang these men onto the Lord because the Lord's name had been taken in vain. Exodus 20 and 7, take not the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for he should not hold them guiltless that taketh this name in vain. God's name has been desecrated And this has got to be atoned for. We don't need the gold. We don't need the silver. We're not out for revenge. We're not even out primarily to stop the famine. Although it will stop the famine. We are primarily interested in God's name being revered again. Boy, I hear the name the Lord's name taken on radio and television. You know when I was growing up it was a if someone said God in an inappropriate way. Today it's the Lord Jesus Christ tossed out there like some conjunction or adjective or adverb. Just it just floats out there on the radio waves, the newsway And I'm telling you, I hear it from some of the most conservative of people on talk radio too. Taking the Lord's name in vain. We're gonna have to atone for that someday, this nation for not speaking up and allowing it. Have you ever considered the consequences? Have you ever considered the consequence of taking the Lord's name in vain? Have you ever thought that you take the Lord's name in vain and you get caught in a tornado somewhere? And you wonder why? Or you get caught in a tsunami? Or you get caught in a in a flood? Or you're caught in a famine, or you're caught in an earthquake? I mean, consider the consequences, pilgrim, of taking the Lord's name in vain. And people take it in some crazy places. I'm on an airplane, they lost electricity, the plane was going down, Libya was with me, the emergency janitor kicked in after the plane only fell, I don't know, 100 feet, I don't know how fast they fall But my brother's right behind us. He's an atheist. But he says, oh my God. He took the Lord's name in vain. He's an atheist. I turned around. I said, Rick, what what are you doing? You don't even believe in God. He says, turn around, turn around, don't even talk to me. To take the name of the Lord in vain, people do it all the time, it's wrong, and we're gonna atone for it, we're gonna pay for that Don't you think that because you get caught in a flood somewhere or a famine somewhere or something drastic happens you that this is just what happens to everybody David inquired, and we need to inquire when bad things happen to us. Maybe we brought it on ourselves by our sin. Sin. Sin. Today's society won't define sin. They won't declare what is sin. They won't discipline sin, nor do they discern the damage that sin is doing to our country, our nation, our world. They think it's just global warming. I'll tell you what, you talk about global warming, it's gone Oh, when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, he's gonna burn this place up and melt the elements of this earth. You want global warming? It's not gonna be. 0222 degrees of centigrade It's going to melt the elements. That's global warming. In fact, in Revelation it talks about there'd be a loud bang. That's the bang. That's no theory. There's one coming. People don't talk about sin today. They don't know what sin is. They don't know they're committed to sin because everything's declared not sin anymore. David understood the curse causeless shall not come, Proverbs 26, 2. And that's why he inquired of God, what's going on here? Something's going on here. This this is the promised land. This is the nation of Israel. You love this nation. You love this land. Jerusalem is Is your footstool of me? What's going on, God? We need to ask those questions when things aren't going in our life as they should And so he inquires a God, and we already talked about that, and he's got to deliver up seven of the sons of Saul. He says, well, not Mephibosheth, not Jonathan's son. But he selected seven others of Saul's bloody house who probably had a direct hand in the person. And if not that, they were probably guilty of other sins worthy of death, for there is no unrighteousness with God. These seven men that were chosen And David was led of God to who he would choose. There's no unrighteousness with God. Paul talks about that in Romans 9:14. Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid. Or in the English vernacular, certainly not God is not unrighteous. These seven men are chosen. David's directed perhaps exactly who he should choose. And we read in verse 8: the king took the two sons of Rispah. Why would he take the two sons of Rispha? Well, we don't know, but I will say this in verse 11 if you drop down, Rispah is the concubine of Saul. But they are his sons. She's a concubine, not a direct wife, but they are his sons. Who she bare unto Saul? It says in verse 8, and drop down eleven, and find out she was his concubine And then also it took five other sons, they're actually turned out to be grandsons, who Michael brought up for Adriel. Gotta pause here for a second. Who is Michael. Michael is David's wife, remember? Michael is David's wife And not time to go through the whole story, but in the over a time King Saul called his daughter back and I don't know how they divorced or annulled or whatever they did, but the king he married her off to somebody else. And later on when David's king, he said the first thing he says I want Michael back. Get her. There's no peace between Israel and Judah and the Benjamites and I'll have my wife Michael back. He loved her. But she might marry another guy And that didn't turn out so good either, because when she finally came back, she lasted David for his rejoicing and praising God and singing hallelujah before the Ark of the Covenant. And so he he said to her Well he says you know the the the marriage is just not there. And it says that she never bore children. So here we find she adopts five. She actually adopts five. Um They are the children of Adriel. Now who's Adriel? Well, Adriel married Saul's oldest sister, Mirab. Why does she take over Mirab's children? Mirab must have died. There's no one to raise these five kids, so Michael becomes, rather than just being an aunt, she becomes the mother that they would never that they never maybe never really knew. She raises all five of these children. She's not going to have her own children anyway. And who is Mirab, by the way Well she was the oldest daughter, and Michael was the second daughter. But who was Mirab? Mirab was also the daughter promised to David to be his wife So Saul said, You go out and you wipe out these Philistines and you do a good job, and you show valentry in the battlefield, and she will be your wife. And so David goes out, he does all these battles, and he shows himself valiant, and when he comes back in the battlefield Saul's married her after somebody else. And so then he says, I'll tell you what, David, let's start her over again. Alright? Hit the reset button. Go back out, fight the Philistines, give me 104 skins, and you can have Michael as your daughter, or as your wife So these two women, Mirab, who is dead, she was supposed to be David's wife, and Michael, who was David's wife for a brief time, is raising the five children of her older sister, who obviously has passed away. She steps in to raise the five boys. But these two daughters of Saul must have broke David's heart He fought battle after battle, sweat, blood, and tears, men dying all around him, perhaps himself being injured in some slight manner or another, fear certainly all around him, and he comes back and the first daughter, she'd already married off The second daughter, she runs off another guy afterwards because Saul the King says she can do so. And he wanted Michael back. These two girls mentioned here in these verses, I know you read through this, and who's this and who's that, and who cares? But it's important if you look at these names and find who they are. They broke David's heart. They wounded his heart. And if you ever wound the heart of a believer, oh, payment does come. It's one thing to break somebody's heart, but when you wound the heart of a believer like David, consequences can be startling For Michael, she probably became pretty attached to those boys, raising them all those years. They weren't her flesh and blood, but they were her boys But she broke David's heart, and now her boys are hung. All five of them. Hung on a hill. Saul's bloody house paid the price. Saul's bloody house, they were called the bloody house of Saul. They paid the price. And the House of Congress in this country is going to pay the price for the blood that they have shed in these abortion clinics. They have passed the laws. They have not only encouraged it, they supported it, they have financed it Tuesday of this last week, five days ago in Washington, D. C. , a $20 million Planned Parenthood Center was opened. $20 million Planned Parenthood. We drive down, it's less than an hour away. It's right next to an elementary school. Isn't that a nice place to put an abortion claim? $20 million Planned Parenthood that does the abortions. And on top of that, they brought in to open to cut the ribbon 20 or more top religious leaders across America. Muslims, rabbis, one Iman They came in and at the ceremony, it was called the ceremony of blessing. These twenty people in the ministry came in to do a ceremony of blessing. And to make holy the abortion clinic. Not my words, that's their words. Alright? Describing themselves as having a sense of deep spirituality, they pronounce the clinic a blessed place. A sacred work, a prophetic witness wherein are found those serving as instruments of God's hands Making sacred decisions in the way to best honor God. And on Tuesday, they completed that ceremony by singing, this little light of mine, it's going to shine. You don't think the blood of the House of Congress that we'll pay for that someday, that this nation, that the House of the Bloody Congress won't pay for these things? There's gonna be a there's a startling day coming in this nation. And you can vote Republican and Conservative for the rest of your life, but this innocent bloodshed will be required of this nation. We ought to be on our knees inquiring of God, what can we do? And maybe God will say we've got to henge the people in Congress. Wow. Maybe we should stop the service and pray right now. This little light of mine, it's gonna shine. You know what Christ said, little children, forbid them not to come unto me, Matthew 9. nineteen and fourteen. Congress has forbidden sixty plus million little children from coming on to me. Doesn't say much more about Michael here. Uh she wasn't you know it's it's it's amazing the concubine risk but she's out there, as we're about to see chasing away you know the vultures and the hyenas that want to eat her dead sons hanging there. Michael's nowhere to be found. I guess Arispa has to chase them away from all seven bodies and not just the two sons. But we read in verse ten Arispa took sackcloth and spread it out upon a rock. She she built as it were a tent to shade herself. and to dwell because the bodies were not to be removed, it says in verse ten, until water dropped from heaven. There have been a famine, there'd been no rain And those vines were to hang up there on those on those trees, they were to hang there until it rained, until God's wrath had been Satur not saturated to her God's wrath had been appeased. The absence of rain had caused the famine, and when it would rain again, Rispa could take down the bodies and bury them. Rain would be a sign of God's rest, satisfied for Saul's sins, and for the bloody house of Saul, and for whatever else Israel was involved. So this was carried for her sons. They were going to care for her in her old age, don't you think? She's already lost something here. Who's going to take care of her in her old age? She never dreamed she'd be taking care of them in her old age, hanging on a tree. And it says she suffered neither birds to rest on them by day nor beasts by night. That is, she drove the lions away She drove the vultures away. They were probably circling overhead all day long. And when they come and land on one of the sun, she'd drive them away. The hyenas by night. She would drive the vultures away, the hyenas, the lions, but she couldn't drive away the stench. Of seven rotting corpses. She couldn't drive away the ghastly scene that she had to watch and observe carefully to keep the vultures off of her rotting sons' bodies. And she couldn't keep the flies off, could she? Or the maggots. Is this repulsive to you to talk Well, it should be. Consider what becomes of those who break their oaths. It ought to make you as repulsive as this scene is in Scripture. And we don't have to preach on this, we could have skipped over this, but it's there. It's inspired of God. It's in error, it's infallible. We're not going to skip over it. There's something we can learn from this. We learn nothing else. It's this We must consider what becomes of those who break an oath made in God's name. Hanging on a tree, it's horrible. Hanging on a tree, it's nasty. Hanging on a tree, it's gory. But this is what happens to covenant breakers. They will be dealt with one manner another with God, maybe not on a tree, but God will deal with them. But hanging on a tree, it does one thing. It removes the consequences of sin. And I would say this morning. The atonement that is paid here by these seven men, the atonement, has it become some dull, boring doctrine to you? It's a ghastly thing, it's a gory thing, it's a horrible thing, it's a nasty thing. And so the atonement shouldn't just be some doctrine. That bores us, that we find dull. It should captivate us. As we contemplate the crucifix of Christ at Calvary, we ought to think about how horrible it was and how necessary it was and what it accomplished. And the blessing that followed the death of Christ and his resurrection. Covenant breakers who don't repent of the oaths they break. See, there is hope. Well if we repent of breaking those oaths and covenants and promises, God forgives us. This family hadn't repented, and they paid. And mercifully the rain came We read here. Verse 11 through 14, and David brought the bones of Saul and Jonathan and them that were hung, and he buried them in the sepulchre of Kish. And after that God was entreated for the land. The rain came When justice was done on earth, vengeance from heaven ceased. Is there a famine in your life this morning? If sin is the cause, repent, for Christ is the cure. A cure that will bring you showers of blessings as well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that for whatever sin we've committed There is hope. Judgment is not the only alternative. We can repent. We can avoid the wrath of God. We can actually begin to experience the blessings of God. No matter what we've done in our lives before, look to the atonement. Look to Christ. He paid it all. May we do that this day if we haven't already. And may we begin to experience the blessings that Come from believing in a Savior. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.