Looking at John chapter one this evening, and verse twenty-nine, and also verse uh thirty-six. The next day, John, that's John the Baptist, seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. And again in verse 36, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, John the Baptist again says, Behold, the Lamb of God. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sinners of world. Until that moment, as John was speaking, every Jew always brought a lamb for a sacrifice every year. And for him to say, behold the Lamb of God, you might, most Gentiles would say, now what is this? What does he mean by the Lamb of God? Has God got a lamb? God had a lamb. The lamb of God was a man. Christ Jesus, his only begotten Son. Son. To the Jews standing there, they were not near as taken back by what does he mean by a lamb of God? We bring a lamb to God every year. Why would he look to the man and point to the man and call him the Lamb of God? And prophecies started flowing through the Jewish heads. It was a man that was a Lamb of God, and he didn't just take away the sins of the Jewish nation. Behold the Lamb of God that take away the sins of the world. That was a concept different to them. All the other lands are taking away the sins of those who repented of their sins in Israel. This was open to forgiveness to the world, to the Gentile world. And I want us to look to a little bit tonight to this Lamb of God and become as perhaps more familiar with him than we have. have been before. I hope so. I hope every time we open the Bibles we know Christ better, uh our closer to him. We look at Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane, the night after they had taken bread and broke it and and drank from the cup. And they're out in the Garden of Gethsemane. And we find Christ was out there and he was in agony. Agony. Agoni. Agonized. They hadn't driven anything through his hands yet or through his feet, but he was in agony. He knew what was coming And perhaps he could even see the laughter of Satan and those demons in the garden that night rejoicing, because they knew that Judas was coming, and the arrest was coming, and the crucifixion they hoped was coming. Being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and we can relate to that when we're in agony and we're troubled, we're struggling with things now. We pray more earnestly, and it says he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood falling down to the ground, Luke 22 and 44. Now it doesn't say he sweat drops of blood, but he sweat like drops There is a medical term for this where people who they are in such uh agony and they perspire in the moment and they're they're they're in pain or whatever. And Capillaries will break and they actually will sweat blood. So he may have very well done that here. The interesting thing is that when we look at Luke 22, 44 and again in John 18, 18, really This was not a hot evening. This was not a humid evening. You know, we're talking about Passover time, March or April over in Israel. It's about like here. It's not what you consider a hot evening He was not sweating as it were great drops of blood because it was hot and humid. He was sweating because he was in agony as he prayed Some of you know sometimes when you're in a lot of pain before the medication works, you actually start to perspire. You feel your your skin feels damp, you you feel like it's really hot in the room. And this is what it was out in a garden on a cool evening So much agony. John 18, 18 says, it was cold. Remember Peter standing by the fireplace trying to warm himself? It was a cold night, not just a mild night, or just uh no, not just uh was not a warm night, it was a cold night, John 18, 18. And that's when he began to sweat, and he began to pour out his soul to his father in heaven. He saw the agony was coming, the cat of nine tails, the scourging, the crown of thorn on his head, piercing of the nails through his flesh, his hands, his feet. We can never understand the emotional and the spiritual agony that he was going through that night. We would not have survived it. It would have killed us. Only because he was God could he endure. The assaults that were coming upon him before the first nail was even driven. And that night in the garden, when he's arrested, all his disciples stood by him and No, it says in Matthew 26, 56, they forsook him and fled. Why would you flee someone who's in agony? Why would you flee someone who's who's praying? And they had to have heard some of the prayer and they they flee him. They they forsake him. And some would say, well that was a reasonable move to make because there were a well armed group coming and they were outnumbered by this enemy force. It seems like a good idea that they should flee. Where else would we have been safer? Beside Christ. In the garden? He's the captain of the host of Israel, isn't he? He can call in a myriad of angels. In fact he said you could have called in twelve legions of angels in Matthew 26, 53. If there's an enemy approaching and they're well armed and you feel like you're outnumbered, the safest place there would have been for them to stay right there with the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. They forsook the safe harbor. They forsook the true safety that we know today, if we're saved, that we find in Christ Jesus. Well, we're safe there regardless of past sins committed. We're safe there regardless of the criminals that are out on the streets or some nation that wants to hurt our nation. We are so safe. Safe in Christ. They fled their true safety. That was a huge mistake. To flee the safest place on the planet that night. in the garden with Christ. Huge mistake it is to pull away from Christ when your life isn't going well. You know, Peter had pulled out the sword, chopped off the high priest uh Malchus' servant, and they'd fallen on the ground as Christ said, I am he and there should have been a demonstration of power, and Peter should have realized they also realized, Well, we're in a safe place here. This is the place to be. You do not want to pull away from Christ when your life isn't going well. And then we're surrounded by all these people. Their life wasn't going well. Why on earth? Pull away from Christ. And some people do that. They get mad at God when things aren't going well You know, someone dies in her household or someone's very sick or uh tragic accidents, car accidents on the highway, and they get mad at God for what's going on. And that's the very time you do not want to pull away from Christ. And yet, disciples, saved men, godly men, write our Bible. Matthew and John and Peter and so on. Sometimes we pull away, don't we? What a mistake to pull away from Christ when our life isn't going well We find in part of that story, after Christ is arrested, he's taken before Pilate, and the chief priests are there and the elders are there, and they're accusing him of all kinds of stuff, you know, blasphemy. And accusing him of telling them not to pay taxes to Caesar, all kinds of accusations. And it says in Matthew 27 and 14, he answered never a word. At the accusations. Now there was a conversation between him and Pilate at one point, but when all the accusations are coming in He answered not a word. And Pilate even said to him, Why why aren't you you you responding, defending yourself? And it says he turned to Pilate, and he answered him not a word. How many here don't like defending themselves? Someone's accused of you of something you want to defend yourself, right? You know what? Just let it go. Why wouldn't Christ Defend himself. The cat didn't have his tongue. We know that's not the case. And we know he could defend himself admirably. Uh they talked about Gamalia, how he could speak and he could teach. uh but you know that he would that was gamellia and they talk about the educated Herod that people just thought you sound like it was some sort of a god and we know that Pilate was educated and a good speaker and probably Caesar and you take all these other men like Gamalia and Herod and Pilate and Caesar Boy, they could defend themselves and Christ doesn't. Why? Never man spake like this man John 7 and 46. He could have tied them up in knots. He did it when he was a 12-year-old boy, didn't he? Why did he not speak? Why would not an innocent man, why would an innocent man keep his silence? And Christ was innocent in a lamb without spot or without blemish He was our sin bearer. Why did he not speak? Isaiah 53, 7 tells us why. Why? He's brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and his sheep before his shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. If Christ had opened his mouth to defend himself, he would have proved he wasn't the Messiah. And maybe the high priest and the elders didn't realize what they were doing here by accusing him and trying to get him to defend himself and say something that might put him in deeper water. But that they're trying all this, but the demons are probably in encouraging the priest Charge him with this, charge him with that, and encouraging the elders, you know, throw this claim at him and throw this thing, blasphemy, whatever you want. Let's get him to speak. And they maybe didn't realize it, but the demons They understood the scriptures but anybody else. They've been around six thousand years or four thousand years, I'm sorry. They'd been around for four thousand. They knew the scriptures and we can just get him to defend himself. Just get him to speak. He'll prove Isaiah 537 He is not the Lamb of God. He is not the Messiah. He is not the Savior. He is not the Redeemer. And so Christ opened not his mouth. What man in all the world, with all the false charges brought against him, would not have done it? But Christ had to fulfill scripture We read later on of Simon the Syrinian, the father of Rufus, Mark 15. Chosen of the Lord, we read with Simon in 1613 of Romans, the book of Romans. On him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus That cross wasn't light. And there had to be more ridicule and spitting and cursing and carrying on against the Lord as he he walked uh to the place of gall And Simon the Serenian is is carrying that cross. He may have gotten spit on and yelled at and they try to kill kick him in shape. What are you helping this guy for? He's supposed to carry it himself. And he may have gotten a lot of abuse as well. Must have been hard for Simon to carry that cross for Jesus. And all the ridicule he probably got too. You ever find it hard to walk with Christ? We live in the twenty-first century where it's getting harder and harder, isn't it? To admit you're a Christian, to stand up for the things that Christ taught. To say, no, Christ well what all Christ teached? Well he taught that whatever Moses wrote was in fact You believe not Moses, you know, you believe not one who's raised from the dead. Christ endorsed the whole Old Testament and everything else he said in the New Testament. It's hard to walk with Christ sometime times in this world. I suspect in the Roman world it was even harder for Simon to walk with Christ. Had to be a tough time for him. But it was too his everlasting honor, wasn't it? Because Simon's name is recorded here. Why? Because He walked with Christ. And we do the same. Our names will be recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life. In fact he already knows whether you're going to walk with him or not. They're already recorded there. Had Christ not been more than a man the scourging that he had taken before that crucifixion? would have been enough to put him in an unconscious state at that point. He endured it all fully conscious, including the nails in his hands and his feet. the crown on his head and the ridicule and the smacking and slapping him across the face, the punching him in the face, because he had unprecedented strength to endure it all. You talk about Samson in the Old Testament. Samson couldn't have taken the beating that Christ took. Samson couldn't have taken the scourging without crying out. Remember, he What must have really shocked them because it says he opened not his mouth and what man didn't open his mouth when he was being scourged? And I think every time they hit him he didn't say something, they said, Well then hit him harder the next time. Hit him harder the next time And he opened not his mouth. They drove the nails into his hands. And these Roman centurions and the guards that were there, they crucified many men when a nail was driven in the hand. That man screamed out in agony. And they drove the nails into Christ's hands. And he just looked at him. And they were shocked that this man could take that kind of pain. He opened not his mouth to his accusers and to his crucifiers. But on the cross he began to talk, didn't he? It's a book called The Seven Sayings of the Cross. The one thing that I think is most interesting is that we read in Matthew 27, 46, just before he died. Died. Now you've been scourged and you've been crucified. You've been hanging there for some hours and your bodies bleeding out and you're dehydrated and your tongue is sticking to the roof of your mouth. And yet he, with a swollen tongue, supposedly that's what should have happened to him and everything else, with a loud voice, said He still had all the strength before they ever arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane to cry out in a loud voice and yield up the ghost, it says in verse 50. Where did all the strength come from? He was not just a man, he was the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Those centurions looked at him, the centurion rather, the guards, and when this man didn't cry out, and when after those hours of the cross he could cry out in a loud voice to prove that he had a voice, he wasn't mute, he wasn't really dumb. Even the centurion said, truly, this must have been a son of God How can you convince a Roman hardened, battle-worn, battle-scarred centurion that this is true? And we have our people sitting in church all across this land and it it just doesn't touch the heart. Boy, if you can touch a centurion, battle-scarred individual with these words, how could it not? Touch us. What is wrong? It doesn't touch us. He stunned his executioners. Verse 54. Truly this was the Son of God. We talk about this being Good Friday. And it is sweet. It's not just a Good Friday, it's a sweet Good Friday. if we're saved, if we're going to die in Christ Jesus. I know some people think, oh, we die, it's like we're being evicted out of this out of this world. We're we're leaving this world and we don't know where we're going. And and they they think that there's this is the death and it is without Christ. It is an eviction. There's your eviction those. You're done you're out of here It's not an addiction notice for those who are in Christ Jesus, for those who love him and appreciate his death on the cross, and appreciate that he is the Lamb of God who was slain for the world It's not an eviction to us. It's an elevation as we die and go in heaven. It's not just an eviction. It's an elevation. It's a promotion. It's a coronation. We get crowns in heaven. It's a good Friday if we die today. It was a good Friday that Christ died. We have new homes in heaven. Forget about this old body and this old homes down here Jacob's ladder, we've read that story in Genesis, how it extended from the ground or the grave all the way up to heaven. Death is For the believer, not a hopeless end. It's an endless hope. Let me say that again. For the death of a believer, it is not a hopeless end It is an endless hope for us who believe that Christ died for our sins. And we're grateful for not just that we believe it, the devil believes it, but that we are grateful that he died for our sins. Oh death. Where is thy sting? No sting because of Good Friday. Oh grave, where is thy victory? No victory because of Good Friday. First Corinthians 15 and 55. We are confident and willing to be absent from this body because of Good Friday. We are to be present with the Lord someday, 2 Corinthians 5. 8, because of Good Friday Sometimes we think that it's going to be a long time between death and getting to heaven. It takes place in the twinkling of an eye, friend. Your eyelids close on this side as you die. And maybe a tear trickles out of your corn. Your eye the last thing to flow from your body. The blood has stopped and one tear you'll sometimes see from a person's eyes coming out of their eye. They're already rejoicing in heaven with loved ones and with Christ You're wiping away a tear. And they are where there are no tears. Where Christ promised to wipe away all our tears. He says in Psalm 22, when Christ mentioned on the cross, my God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? Do you ever feel forsaken of God? I think we've been there. But the scripture teaches us we're never forsaken. He will never forsake us or leave us. Never. Christ felt it because he represented all the sins On him on that cross and for a moment he was forsaken of God, or at least he was led to feel the forsakenness of God. God never forsook his son, but he was led to feel what it's like to be forsaken of God. God. You sometimes feel like God's forsaken you. You're praying you can't get through the ceiling, you can't get through with your prayers, He's not listening, He's not hearing, He's not responding, He's not answering my prayer, He's forsaken me. But scripture says He has nothing. He knew Christ did what a dreadful thing it would be to feel like you're forsaken of the Heavenly Father. In a world overrun by demons, Christ knew what that would feel like. He could see the demons around the cross. The truth is, he never forsakes or forgets us. The truth is, rather, that we Sometimes forgive him. That's the truth. That's why it's uncarved in most churches. Just do in remembrance of me. I need to remind you again and again and again To remember me, not to forget me. I never forget you, you think I do, I don't, but you do forget me How can we forget Christ who never forgives us? We do sometimes, don't we? We forget him who poured out his blood for us. We forget who has taken up his residence in our heart because too often, for hours or even days on end, some creature steals away our heart, our thoughts, and our mind, and our time frames and where we forget him. But he never forgets us. What sad creatures we are that we are we do some evil Someone does some evil thing or we do some evil thing and we just can't forget it. You know, we get fired by the boss at work or something. Something's happened. We never forget the evil things done to us. But we forget the blessing of the Savior and what He has done for us. It fades away sometimes. We forget it. All He's done for us He who never forgets us. We need to be reminded. And so tonight we remember, don't we? I'd ask if Elder Tim and Deacon Mike Hall would come up as we do this in remembrance of him. And we're going to do this until he comes back. And we're going to do it again and again because we want to remember and never forget what he has done. That's the blessing on the bread this evening.