Turning your Bibles with me, please, this morning, to the book of Nehemiah and to the eighth chapter. Nehemiah chapter eight. And I'm going to read the first twelve verses of the chapter. Nehemiah chapter eight. And we'll begin our scripture reading with verse 1. And let me mention before I read that this verse, this passage does include some names. And as you are well aware, I have a great talent at reading names. I have practiced these names in my study throughout the week. And I can safely assure you that I probably messed up at least one of them. Nehemiah chapter 8, verse 1. And all the people gathered themselves together. as one man into the street which was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and of women, and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood which had been made for the purpose. And beside him stood Matthah and Shema and Anariah and Eurijah and Hilkiah and Manassai on his right hand. And on his left hand, Pediah and Meshel and Malkaiah and Hanshun and Hashbad and Zachariah and Meshulam. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of the people, for he was above the people, all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads. and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. And Jeshua and Benai and Sherobiah and Jamon and Akbub and Shebathiah and Hojan and Messiah and Kil Kilitah And Azariah and Josebad and Hannan and Peliah and the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read the book of the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. And Nehemiah, which is the t is the Tirsahath, and Ezra the priest, the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto the people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. And he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy unto the Lord. Neither be ye sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy, neither be ye grieved. And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they understood the words that were declared unto them. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now open our hearts and our understanding to receive the glorious truths out of thy law. Bless our consideration of thy word this day. Grant us ears to hear, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I commented to the men that met for prayer in the garage this morning. that there are certain subjects, topics in Scripture that are somewhat dangerous to preach on. Because there are certain subjects and topics in Scripture that Satan seems to hate more than others. I remember in college being warned not to pray for patience, because the trial of your faith worketh patience. And I'm going to endeavor this morning to preach on the joy of the Lord. And if my wife were to be honest, she would tell you there's been a lot of things this week that have fought against the joy of the Lord. But what is the joy of the Lord? In this tenth verse, we're told that the joy of the Lord is our strength. But what is the joy of the Lord? We tend to think of joy as an emotion. But certainly the joy of the Lord cannot simply be an emotion. Because our emotions fly with the wind. Our emotions, it's raining this morning And on a rainy morning we wake up and we don't want to get out of bed because it's darker. That's an emotional effect. But the joy of the Lord cannot simply be an emotion. And it's interesting that if you look at the definition of emotion from Webster's, from Oxford, they all include one central aspect And that aspect, let me read to you from Oxford because I'll get it wrong. Oxford says that emotion is a natural instinctive state of mind deriving from one's circumstances mood or relationship with others. And that last piece is the piece I'd like to point out that all the dictionaries associate emotion with our relationship with others. Now, the joy of the Lord is our strength. And so the joy of the Lord cannot simply be a matter of our emotion, it's a matter of a relation. If the joy of the Lord is our strength, it is a reflection of our relationship with Him. And so with that foundation, consider this. The joy of the Lord is the determined assurance in the soul that God controls every detail of our lives. It's the determined assurance in the soul that God determines, God controls every detail of our lives. The joy of the Lord is the contentment brought about by knowing that God is omnipotent, He is omniscient, He is omnipresent, and He is all loving. In every other relationship of my life that may cause me bad emotions, God's in control. In every circumstance of my life that they cause me discouragement, depression, anger, fear, God is in control of those. And you consider the circumstances under which this verse was given to the people of God. The joy of the Lord is your strength. What have they been doing for the last months? They've been building with a sword in one hand and a trowel in another. And why were they building walls? Protection? Shall we say strength? They were building defenses. And when we come to the eighth chapter, the walls are completed. This is the celebration of the completion of the walls. And here they're reminded, the joy of the Lord is your strength. And this theme of joy is overwhelmingly predominant in Scripture. Joy and joyful, 180 verses. Rejoice and rejoicing, 211 verses. Glad and gladness, 136 verses. Happy, 25 verses in our English Bible. That's a lot of verses that deal with this idea of joy And just to very briefly give you a few, Psalm 5, verse 11 and 12, but let those that put their trust in thee rejoice. Wow. If I'm not rejoicing, am I trusting in him? But those that put their trust in thee rejoice. Let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them. Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. For the Lord will bless the righteous with favor. Thou wilt compass him about with a shield. And then again, Psalm 16, verse 11, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. In Isaiah 61, verse 10: I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God. Think about that. We don't have much to rejoice about in this world. We don't have much to rejoice about in current events. We don't have much to rejoice about in the things that are around us. But here Isaiah says, I'll greatly rejoice in the Lord. You see, all the things around us are constantly changing. They're good and they're bad. Elections affect things. They say elections have consequences. Oh yes, they do. But the Lord is the Lord of the elect, and that does not Change. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God. For He hath clothed me with the garment of salvation He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with jewels. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All you adds And so we know all these verses about joy, and we know that the joy of the Lord is our strength. And because it is the joy of the Lord of our strength, we would say that joy must be the natural state of the believer. But we also know that joy is very often absent in the life believer. We also know that I would venture to say every one of us faces a dark day. Or at least the dark hour. We all know that there are times when we do not, if we're honest with ourselves and honest with our Lord, we do not experience the joy of the Lord. And so, if the joy of the Lord is our strength, and that joy is absent, we by consequence are weak. Because we have lost our strength. And so it is vital for us as children to enjoy the joy of the Lord. Let me share just a few more verses with you by way of introduction, and then we will get into our outline. In Psalm 20, verse 7. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. And you're probably saying, Pastor, what's that have to do with the joy of the Lord? Well, that is verse twenty chapter Psalm 20, verse 7 But Psalm 20 verse 5, the context, says, We will rejoice in thy salvation. In the name of our God will we set up our banners. The Lord fulfill all thy petitions. In other words, the context of that verse that says, some trust and cherry, but we'll trust in the name of the Lord, the context is of joy. And then again in Psalm 33, verses 16 and 7. There is no king saved by the multitude of an host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength, and horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. What is the context? Psalm 33, verse 20. Our soul waiteth for the Lord, for he is our help and our shield, for our heart shall rejoice in him. And so we have this conflict here. The joy of the Lord is our strength. Our strength isn't in horses. Our strength is not in chariots. Our strength is not in kings and princes, we've seen from these two Psalms. You see, horses get old. Chariots' wheels come off. Kings and princes come and go. But the joy of the Lord is our strength. And so turning to this chapter, and we're going to try to focus here. I don't know if you all remember the Homer Price story of the um donut machine. D do you read that story as kids, any of you? I see a lot of blank looks because we've got a younger generation. I see some of the older folks saying, yeah, yeah, you remember it. Uh Homer Price and the Donut Machine. Something went wrong with the dough, and the donut machine just kept s throwing out donuts and there were stacks of donuts all over the whole whole village was eating donuts because the donut machine just wouldn't quit. Well not to be sarcastic, but that's kind of how I feel about this passage this morning. It's a donut And uh I have pared the message down a couple times because there's just so much here. So I'm going to move quickly through these points because Uh each one of these could be in itself a message. But the first thing I want to see from this chapter is that the joy of the Lord was preceded by repentance. The joy of the Lord followed repentance. Repentance of sin preceded the joy of the Lord. Look at verse 8. I'm sorry, verse 9 of chapter 8. And Nehemiah, which is the Tishhatha I messed it up that time. Uh Tireshatha and Ezra the priest, the scribes, and the Levites taught the people, Said unto the people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the law The people wept when they heard the words of the law. The law of the God is sweeter than honeycomb The law of God is precious. Why would they weep when they heard the law? Because these were people that were children of the exile. These were people who for generations they and their fathers and their families had neglected the law of God. And the reason that this passage is given weak not for the joy of the Lord is your strength. The people were weeping in repentance They were weeping over their sin. And if you look over to the next chapter, chapter 9 and verse 2, when the seed of Israel separated themselves from the strangers and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. You see, before the joy that is spoken of here came about, there was a time of personal and of national repentance. The people were weeping over their sins. And if we're going to have the joy of the Lord, which is our strength, It often begins repent with repentance. Because many things the things that are stealing and robbing our joy from us Are things that shouldn't be there at all? Lot vexed his righteous soul in seeing and hearing. In other words, he associated With people that were wicked, and association with wicked people vexed his own righteous soul. And remember what all the dictionaries say about emotions? It involves a relationship. You see, if our relationship with the world is strong and our relationship with God is weak, we're not going to have strength. And we're not going to have joy. But here we find that these people were brokenhearted over the failed law. And the greatest psalm of repentance, of course, is Psalm 51, David's Psalm after his sin with Bathsheba. And he says there, Purge me with Hyssop, in the next verse, make me to hear joy and gladness. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. When we find David totally lacking in joy, the key to the restoration of that joy was repentance. And we find the same thing here with Nehemiah and the people. They needed repentance before the joy could be restored. David prayed, Restore a right spirit within me. What's a right spirit? Oh, it's a spirit of joy in the Lord. And so, this joy begins with repentance. Paul said to the Corinthians, of course, Corinthians The Church of Corinth was the carnal church, where the name comes from. Second Corinthians seven verses nine and ten. Now I rejoice not that you were made sorrowful, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. You saw it to repentance. And so if we're going to have joy, joy often begins. The joy of the Lord begins with repentance. But then where did they find this joy? They found the joy of the Lord in the Word of God. They didn't find it in circumstances around them. They found it in the Word of God. Look at verse 1 of chapter 8 of Nehemiah. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. Then spake And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. They desired the word. Bring the book Book. Bring the book. Oh, yes, the book was what pointed out their sin. But they found joy in the Word. They delighted in the Word of God. Bring the book. It was the commandment of God that they desired. Bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord commanded unto Israel. The joy of the Lord is found in the Word of God. Consider the prophet Jeremiah in Jeremiah 15, where he says, Thy words were found, and I did eat them. And thy word was to me the joy and the rejoicing of my heart. Thy testimonies have I taken for an heritage forever, for they are the rejoicing of my heart. Psalm one nineteen, verse eleven. How sweet are thy words to my taste, yea, they are sweeter than honey to my mouth. When we are sad or discouraged, There's no other place to go than to the Word of God. You can go, don't do it. You can go to a counter of this world. And he will tell you that you were sad because in elementary school the kids were giving out lollipops and they didn't give you one. You're sad because your father spanked you. You're sad because of this or the other. You have had just everybody has been against you. And they'll give you all kinds of psychological mumbo jumbo that won't help you a bit. But when we are lacking in joy and therefore lacking in strength, We go to the Word of God for refreshment and strengthening. When it's dark and gloomy, the entrance of thy word giveth light. Psalm 119, verse 30. When we're worried and troubled, great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend thee. Psalm 119, verse 65. When we have lack, when we lack or have need, neither have I gone back to my commandments of his lip the commandments of his lips I have esteemed thy word I have let me read that verse properly. It's Job 23, twelve. Neither have I gone back from the commandments of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. Think about that. How are we going to make ends meet? Well, which is more important, making the ends meet, or esteeming the words of his mouth more important? You see, our focus gets wrong. Our relationship with the world becomes more than our relationship with God. And we lack joy. When we're sick, Proverbs 17, verse 22, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth up the blood. Bones. And so the Word of God is our source of encouragement. They found joy in the Word of God. And how often in the Psalms We find the first few verses of the psalm, David is down. If you read just the first five or six verses of a psalm and don't read the rest, you're gonna think, well that guy David, his life was awful. It was terrible. He's complaining about his enemies. He's complaining about conditions. He's complaining about all these things. But then you read to the end of the psalm and what do you find? David rejoicing. In Psalm 13, the first verse, how long would thou forget me, O Lord? Where are you, God? How long are you going to forget me? Six verses later, I will sing unto the Lord because he hath dealt bountifully with me. Lord, where are you? Well, I'll sing to him because he's dealt bountifully with me. And so they found joy in the word of the Lord. And down in verse 8 of Nehemiah chapter 8, so they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and cause the people to understand the reading. I remember in in Bible college that verse was pointed out as model preaching. Read the word distinctly, give the sense, and cause the people to understand what you've read But not only do we find that joy followed repentance, and joy was found in the Word of God, we also find that joy was found in corporate worship. I mentioned, I believe, last week that God is described as people as sheep, and sheep are flocking animals. We need one another. Iron sharpeneth iron. And if you look again at the first part of this chapter, verse 1, and all the people gathered themselves together. As one man, the congregation gathered together and they did so in unity. They weren't worrying about, oh, she's got a nicer hat than I have this morning. They weren't weren't worried about, well, you know, he didn't even shake my hand last week. He didn't even acknowledge me. They weren't worried about, well, I wish I had a car like that. I'm ashamed of Bumping here in this thing. They weren't concerned about anything external. They were joined together, and all the people gathered themselves together as one man. You know the face of a friend lightens the countenance. I don't have that verse in my notes, but uh you know the verse I'm referring to. They found joy in corporate worship. They bound themselves together for the purpose of hearing the word of God and worshiping. And Satan will do everything he can to try to drive God's people away from corporate worship. He'll bring divisions, he'll bring excuses, he'll bring all kinds of things in. And the very thing we need when we're discouraged and we're lacking joy and therefore lacking strength is we need to get together. We need to join together for prayer. We need to join together for singing. We need to join together for worship. Hebrews 10, verse 24 and 25. Let us consider one another. to provoke one another to love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as we see the day approaching. And you know, we we tend to think of that verse as joining together. But it's not just joining together. We're to be exhorting one another, we're to consider one another, we're to provoke one another. That word provoke doesn't mean provoke like my brother used to provoke me Yeah, when I was a kid, my brother really could provoke me. He could get me upset. But rather that provoke one another means to encourage one another, brother! Keep going. Brother, be not discouraged. Brother, watch your walk, because you're walking in a dangerous way. Don't vex your soul like Lot. That is what we as the children of God are to be doing, for iron does indeed sharpen iron. The believers should long for and love the place of worship. I was glad when they said unto me Let us go into the house of the Lord. Those that are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall bring forth fruit in old age. They shall be fat and flourishing. The believer should find fellowship in the place of worship. You see, many times when we're lacking in the joy of the Lord, it's because we've been finding our fellowship at someplace else. We've been finding our fellowship in the party at work. And that doesn't mean necessarily that you were involved in the iniquity. It's just that's the group of friends you hang around with. That's the people you talk to. That's the people that you fellowship with. And their conversation is not that which leads you in godliness. Their occupations, the things that occupy their minds, are not the things of the Lord. We should find our fellowship in the body of believers. How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing That there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Our adversary will do everything he can to try to take us away from the public worship. So joy was found in repentance. Joy was found in the Word of God. Joy was found in corporate worship. But then fourthly, the joy was found in the return to neglected duties. The return two neglected duties. I I didn't read the whole chapter because it is a a long chapter to read. But look down with me at verse 13 through 17. I'm not even going to read the whole passage now. I would commend it to you to read later on. But in verse 14, they found written the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses that the children of Israel should dwell in booths. And then verse 16, so the people went forth and brought them and made themselves booths. Verse 17, and all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captiv captivity made booths, and sat under the booths, for since the days of Jeshua, the son of nun, unto that day had not the children of Israel done so And there was very great gladness. You see, God commanded them in the Feast of Tabernacles that they were to build booths. And it hadn't been done since the days of Joshua. And they read in the law what they were supposed to do, and nobody said that's stupid. Nobody said, you mean I gotta go sleep under a bunch of palm branches instead of in my comfortable bed? They didn't say, well, you know, that wasn't really for our day. That was there. No, these people were reminded in the law of God of a very simple Commandment that didn't really make sense. But they jumped to it They went out right away and started cutting down branches. They went in the mountain and bringing this stuff back. And they made their booze. And the result, verse 7, and there was very great gladness. There was a great joy when they returned to neglected duty. And many times in our Christian lives We can look back to periods when, boy, our scripture reading, we never missed it. Our prayer time, we were on it. Our passing out of tracks, boy, our pockets were full. Our whatever duty it may be in the service of the Lord, we were on it. We were doing it. And the simple small commands of Scripture, we were there, but now those duties are neglected. And when those duties are neglected, the joy of the Lord begins to fade. And when the joy of the Lord begins to fade, the strength fades with it. But these people in Nehemiah's day, they found the joy of the Lord in the return to neglected duties. And then this one seems obvious, but they found the joy of the Lord in praise. You begin to praise the Lord, and you before long you're happy. And what's that had to do with well, remember, emotion is inseparably tied to relationship. When you begin to praise the Lord, you adore him. You worship him. That relationship is restored. Verse 6. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. There was true earnest worship inseparably linked with the joy of the Lord. I will hope continually And I will yet praise thee more and more. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusteth in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart will greatly rejoice my heart greatly rejoiceth And with my song will I praise him. The Lord is their strength. The Lord is the saving strength of his anointed. Save thy people. Bless thine inheritance. Feed them also and lift them up forever. Bless the people. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound. They shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy And so joy is found in praising the Lord, and you cannot praise the Lord with a sad face for long. Then finally, we find that these people found joy in their service to one another. Look at verse 12. And the people went their way to eat and to drink and to send portions. And to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. Verse 10 And he said, go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy unto the Lord. Neither shall we be sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. They found joy in serving one another and sending portions to those for whom nothing was prepared. Those that didn't have. Let's help them out as well. Okay, we've gone through six points quickly. I think we made it. But now let's take the next hour and a half rap. No. Now let's consider some practical application of this principle of the joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord is your strength, not man-made walls and defenses. They had just finished the walls They probably could safely lay the trowel and the sword aside because they have the walls. The gates are restored. But the joy of the Lord was their strength, not their walls. It does not matter what wall you build of wealth, health, or comfort, of power or position. Those things can never be your joy. Uh some of us have endeavored to build walls for old age for vision But those things aren't our joy. Some of us have built walls of reputation. But those things can't be our joy Can't be our joy. You see, our joy is the Lord. Our joy if our joy is uh if the joy of the Lord is our strength, then the joy of the Lord cannot be anything of this earth. Man-made walls will crumble, wealth and health will deteriorate, position and power will pass away, but the Lord is eternal. Another application. The joy of the Lord is always available. Boy, that's basic, isn't it? The joy of the Lord is always available. Health is not always available. Wealth is not. Power and position are not. Circumstances change day by day. But the joy of the Lord is always available to his people. The joy of the Lord is unlimited. Where do you find in Scripture how much joy in the Lord were to have? Oh, we'll be a little bit joyful. Well, I will rejoice greatly in the Lord. There's no limit to it. You see, everything in this earth is limited. Everything in this earth is deteriorating. Nothing in this world has any ability to go on and on and on and there or there are no perpetual motion machines. I saw a little video of one with a marble that swings around and goes back into the cup and it it's almost perpetual motion But all motion will deteriorate. Man has not been able to make a perpetual motion machine because everything in this world is spinning down. My father used to say he didn't believe in evolution. He believed in devolution. Because we're just getting worse and worse. We're not improving, folks. But the joy of the Lord has no limits. Oh, circumstances can nibble at the edges of it. But the joy of the Lord is inseparably linked to strength. There's no limit to the joy of the Lord. There's no limit to the strength of the Lord and the strength he gives And then, fourthly, under applications, the joy of the Lord is not of this world, therefore, this world can never give you joy. The joy of the Lord is not of this world, therefore this world can never give you joy. The world may make you temporarily happy. But the world cannot give joy. And then finally, and I've already touched on this already, ultimately, the joy of the Lord is a person. The joy of the Lord is the Lord. It's all about the Lord. The joy of the Lord comes from the Lord. The joy of the Lord is found in the Lord. The joy of the Lord is the love of the The joy of the Lord is the relationship we have with the Lord who controls it all. And if we have a relationship with Him, there's no No reason to be unjoyful because he is never unable, he is never unfaithful, he is never untrue, he is never unloving. There are no uns with God. And so indeed, the joy of the Lord is my strength. Finally, brethren, Philippians 3:1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Philippians four four, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Our Father and our God, help us to love you. Help us, Lord, to ever refine and defend our relationship with you. Forgive us, Lord, for seeking joy in the things of this world. But Lord, how could we find joy in our adversary? But Lord, may we find joy in our friend. And so, Father, help us, Lord, as your people, to overcome the temptations of this world. To walk joyfully with our God. Lord, not based in emotion, but based in the very facts of who you are. Lord, bless us, your people, that we might be what we ought to be. In Jesus name, amen