To continue in Hebrews and we're in our second chapter and we're looking at the perfected son. The perfected sun. Just to get it in front of us again, let's uh turn to Hebrews. And I'm going to cover two verses today, verses 9 and 10. The perfected son. Hebrews 2, 9 and 10. I think I should probably start in verse 7 Thou matest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet, for in that he put all in subjection under him. He left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death. crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man, for it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things in bringing many sons into glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. That ends the reading of Hebrews 2, 7-10. Um this is kind of an interesting story, and I'm story, what am I talking about? Interesting study. Story, study. They sound close, right? Because I'm really not going to tell you anything you don't already know, but I'm trying to have more question time, a little more Q<unk>A time, a little more open discussion time I tend to be one who likes to drone on and on and on. And I know I'm doing pretty bad when I see too many of your tops of your heads out there. No, that I'm really that's a that's a good indicator that says uh knock it off You know, compare verse 7 for the moment with verse 9. Because if you had any illusions that the man from Psalm 8 referred to mere men This makes it pretty clear that we're speaking about Jesus. Some have said, and you know, it's a reasonable thing to say that the psalmist to the first audience would be referring to man in general. What is man that God's mindful of him, the Son of Man, that thou visitest him, and he he's he he is uh uh He's made a little lower than the angels, you crown him with glory and honor, you set him over the works of thy hands. Everything's in subjection under his feet, and for the human race we pretty much find that we're kind of an apex predator. There's really not too much that's Scared of us. I mean that we're we may be scared of them, but they're far more scared of us in reference to animals and the things of that nature. But if you had any illusion that the Son of Man spoken of was anything other than the Lord Jesus, it's made very plain here. And then we get a little additional insight We see that in fact what it meant to be a little lower than the angels. What is that phrase that's then added in verse 9? Right after that, a little lower than the angels. For what? For the suffering of death. Yeah. I love the soft peddling that the scripture does. It speaks in undertones. He's made just a little lower than the angels. Well, he came down from heaven and went to tie And you know, also the thing that's interesting is this is the first mention in the entire epistle of the name of Jesus. This is the very first time you get to Jesus, not even by the second chapter. We've covered multiple sentences before you even get to the word Jesus. He's referred to repeatedly in the introduction as the Son. But the sun. But the sun. And by focusing on the sun, what an apt and fitting tie to Psalm 8, the Son of Man. It begins to usher the reader in that we're talking about a greater son here We're talking about someone more important. Now, when we say Jesus, the Godman, was made a little lower than the angels, not only from verse 9 does it imply how low he came, but it implies something else. Angels we tend to think of, and rightly so, as occupying heaven, the heaven of heavens, above that which we can see with the telescopes, wherever and however that might be or exist. So to be made lower than that implies something. It implies Jesus was above that. And he came down from that. He was above them in heaven. Look at your handout in the middle of your bulletin where you'll see some Verses all throughout the book of John, Jesus repeatedly mentions the fact that he came down from heaven It says, and no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. So here he's making it clear. He came down from heaven. John 6. 33, when all these people are following him because he's the ultimate uh feeder of people. He's handing out all sorts of food and multitudes are following him because of course if you're given a free meal you got lots of friends. And then he says, The bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven and giveth life unto the world. Verse 38, for I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will But the will of him that sent me. He keeps mentioning this, that he came down from heaven. Verse 62. What and if you shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before Again, implying that he was there before and he came down. In John 16, 28, he says, I came forth from the Father and am come into the world. Again I leave the world and go to the Father. Well, so now we have our questions. Why did Jesus come? Why did he come down from heaven? Just from what you know. To save us. Yeah. To save us? Yeah, he came. The text is says for the suffering of death. Um he couldn't die in the God form, he couldn't die if he became an angel form, but he gave a human form, a dying form. So we combine those two answers To save us and to die, uh, to save his people from their sins. He came to die. That was his whole purpose. I remember when that thought really finally sunk into my ears and I realized that Christ's entire purpose was, in fact, to hang on the cross and be a sin-bearer. He came, in fact, to die. That was really such an alien thought to me as a young boy growing up at Irving Bible Church and hearing lots of Bible teaching. Jesus is rightfully so put on a pedestal. He's high, holy, harmless, undefiled, and yet His whole purpose was to be made a sin offering. He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made the righteous of God in him. To see Jesus Come here with his whole purpose was to become utterly defiled. Well, he came to die. Well, let me ask the question, what did the Jews expect? of the Messiah. They knew a lot about the Messiah. That's how they referred to Christ. Christ is the Greek word for Messiah. What did the Jews expect of the Messiah when he came? What were their expectations before they saw Jesus? That he would be rich and powerful. He rich and powerful? Okay. Yeah. What else would he do? For himself? Was he just gonna be an Elon Musk of his day? Maybe. Yeah, who knows? Probably some of 'em did think that. Oh. They thought he'd be a king and a ruling king. Alright. Yeah. What else? Build on that some more. I like that thinking. Conqueror A conqueror. So a conquering king, a rich conquering king. Okay. They thought that they are going to live happily ever after. Yeah. They thought they'd live happy ever after, but but keep rounding that out, Saddam. Go ahead. Ah yeah, deliverance from the Romans. Tidy it up and put a bow tie around as a political king, as a great warrior. And for the Jews only. And for the Jews, yeah, that he would rescue the Jews. from all of their Gentile oppressors, that he would be the mighty one, that mighty David once again. A combination of David and Solomon, you know, the strength and the bravery of David to conquer uh Joshua to conquer all the nations, the Solomon who was so wise. And those are all correct terms to a degree You see, however, their thinking is very earthly centered. They had a very earthly-centered view of Christ coming down from heaven, the Messiah. as a king. For instance, and I've got again, John focuses on this quite a lot, almost to the exclusion of the other gospel accounts. So if you look at your handouts right underneath that first word question, which by the way I haven't given you your first fill in the blank just yet But we'll get to that. In John 1, the very opening chapter of John, he findeth first his own brother Simon. This is referring to one of the uh early apostles, and said unto him, We have found the Messiahs, which is being interpreted the Christ. Verse 49, Nathaniel answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God. Thou art the King of Israel. So they said, Ah, yes, you're the Messiah, you're the King of Israel. Right out the gate, they're saying, Yep, you're the king of Israel. So this was in their thinking. They very much were thinking Jesus as one who would be a king. And in fact, it bec it came to a head here. Look at John 6, 14 and 15 Where you read, then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, wow, this guy can do miracles? What more miracles will the Messiah do when he comes? He's going to be very powerful because he can do miracles. He can miraculously feed us. He can miraculously beat our enemies. When they saw that miracle, they That Jesus did, they said, This is of a truth, that prophet that should come into the world. When Jesus therefore perceived And Jesus, of course, understands their thoughts from afar off. He can just penetrate right through the brain. The tongue doesn't have to move, and he hears it. He perceived that they would come and take him by force to make him a king. He departed again into a mountain himself alone. This was the thought that was coming into their minds. Aha! This is the one? Quick! Let's get him into office. This is what's going to fix all of our problems. You see, uh in John nineteen, after Jesus had an encounter with Pontius Pilate, as Pilate is arguing with the people, do you want that I should release somebody to you? Or Or release Jesus. And John 19, 12, from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him, speaking of Jesus. But the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend. Whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. So here now they're kind of Pushing back. These are the people that really kind of didn't believe. And yet they say he's trying to make himself a king. So this whole kingly mindset This geopolitical king is front and center of their thinking that he would be one to come and rescue the nation. And so I ask you the question The Jews' expectation was that he would rescue the nation as a king. Did he do it? They were thinking that he is doing, but he wasn't thinking that he came as to be a king. Well he did tell Pilate and John uh you're you're you're not you're not entirely wrong, because again, you're reflecting what the Jews are thinking. But notice what Jesus says in John 18 as he's speaking to Pilate. Jesus answered Well, a pilot asked him, Art thou the king of the Jews? Jesus answered him, saying, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? I'm in John 1834. I'm now reading from John 1835. Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation, the chief priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world You go to verse 37. And we're actually going to read ahead here because this is exactly what we're going to get into. Notice what he says here-six. He says, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews, but now is my kingdom not from hence Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Twice Pilate asked him, Are you a king? Are you a king? Now there's a political reason why Pilate's asking that question Because if Jesus says, why yes, ah, well now he's competing for Pilate's job, he's competing for Caesar's job, that's called a uh uh a conspiracy to overthrow the government and that is in fact worthy of death. But Jesus is is totally aware of what's going on. He's not oblivious to all this. He knows his purpose is to die, but he's also going to tell the truth every step of the way. Jesus answered, Thou sayest, I am a king. To this end was I born. So indeed he says, Yeah, I was born to be a king. You better believe it. And for this cause came I into the world. I came into the world to be a king, in fact, that I should bear witness unto the truth. He doesn't say that I should rule Judah from Jerusalem and conquer all the nations. If he had been politically minded, this is what he would have said. This is the place to say it. He didn't. I'm a king to bear witness to the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Pilate said unto him, What's truth? So again I asked the question Did Jesus rescue their nation as a king? Did he do it? Not in the way that they wanted him to. Not in the way that he wanted them to, but did he do it? Very much so. He very much did rescue that nation. Good question. How did he rescue that nation? That he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. He came to die, but he also came as a king. So what does the death of what good does the death of the king do? How does that rescue anybody? Well Their real enemy was not the Canaanites and the Jews that were surrounding them. Excuse me, the Canaanites and the Romans that were surrounding the Jews. That wasn't their real enemy. Who was their real enemy? Theirself. God was. The law of God was their enemy. And they had violated the law of God. The law of God, like the ancient law of the Medes and the Persians, could not be changed or altered. The soul that sinneth, it shall surely die. And so yes, they were their own worst enemies because they were sinners, just like you and I And so how is a person going to be rescued from that enemy? And it's a very real enemy. And it's an enemy that fights very differently. It's an enemy that lies in wait until the time. And that time is the final judgment, or your death, whichever comes first. And then all of your sins are brought up, and all of your righteousness. And guess what? One pile is mighty small. And the other pile is mighty big. In fact, you could say if you were going to give it a percentage, it'd be a hundred percent on the sin side and zero percent on the righteousness side. And that's kind of the balance of it. You know, there's things are gonna weigh out in the balance. Oh, there'll be a balance, all right. There'll be a balance, you better believe it And you have no chance at tipping the balance. He counts all the nations as a small drop in the bucket. A conquering king leaves captivity captive. And that's his head point. Leads captivity captive. Okay. That spins my head, but we'll get to that. He conquered death, he conquered sin. So he did in fact come, and we're now going to talk about Jesus' crown. That's your first fill-in-the-blank, Jesus crown, because that's kind of what we're talking about. Jesus came as a king, but he's going to wear a different crown. And does anybody know what that crown was? The thorns. Yeah, a crown of thorns. Laid upon his head. He's under the curse, all the way back from the garden. It's so fitting that thorn should be put on his head, because that was the very first pronouncement of the garden of the curse. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth unto you. You have violated the very first And only commandment that man was under at the time, can you imagine a an earth Ape a time. When there's one law, I don't know if you've ever tried to figure out exactly how many laws you're under There's county level laws, there's city laws, there's school system laws with the bus. You see a school bus, man, you keep about 500 feet away from those crazy things. 'Cause a little sign pops out and you get the two hundred and fifty dollar ticket. Those are nasty. To county level, to state level, to federal I mean there's so many laws. I I honestly don't know even where to go to look up everything I'm under. I just honestly don't know. There's so many laws, and if something goes wrong, somebody pulls out a gun, somebody's shot in Baltimore, shock of all shocks, the answer is let's make another law. All right, like that's gonna fix it, right? That'll fix it Let's throw, let's go back to a law, because that's all men ought to do. So did Jesus rescue that nation? Yes, he did. He did. Which nation was that? Those Jews that are circumcised in heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, not in the flesh. He did in fact rescue a nation, a nation called his elect. Those that would believe. It says in verse nine back in our our text in in Hebrews. Hebrews nine That he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. And I I thought about that a lot because we don't tend to associate grace with tasting death. That word grace is that word caras and in the Greek, and it is commonly rendered grace. But it's also rendered pleasure, and I kind of think that's almost a better way to view that in here, that he by the pleasure of God should taste death for every man, because that's I think this is just Vince being a you know sophomore Greek scholar here. Um you read in Isaiah 53, it pleased the Lord to bruise him It was the the he shall uh uh see the the the the um see the travail of the soul shall be satisfied. Yes, see the travail of the soul shall be satisfied. This this pleasure of the Lord, you know, is kind of a biblical concept. That he by the pleasure of God, it pleased God to bruise him, should taste death for every man. I'm okay with grace as long as I think we understand it in that way This is a classic passage that people go to to say that, well, yes, Jesus' death was effectual for every single human individual on the planet. on on on the earth and they would extend it to, yeah, even those who have died and gone before, and it's just the entire entirety of the human race. And that does introduce some some interesting theological questions. It is that word, every man, is not two words in the Greek. It's one word pos meaning all. It's normally rendered all, but you can say every man in here because it is in the singular. And so that's perfectly fine to say everyman. However, we're talking about not all without exception. The Bible's very clear that Cain was called a wicked one. The Bible's very clear that Pharaoh had a hard heart against God. The Bible's pretty clear that Judas betrayed Jesus and was called the son of perdition. The Bible's pretty clear that Jacob have I loved and Esau have I hated. The Bible is also clear that when God sets his love on an individual, it's not fickle. It doesn't change. Nothing you can do to change the love of God. And so we put all these teachings together and we try to understand what does it mean that Jesus tasted death for every man? Well, I believe the way that the reformers rephrase this was very good. It's not all without exception But it's all without distinction. You see this language, for instance, in uh Revelation 5 and verse 9 This is a vision of the time when all Jews and Gentiles whom God has saved come together. And it says in heaven, they sung a new song. saying thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us. And that's a big word. We're going to talk about redeem. Redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Notice, out of every kindred, tongue, people, and nation, all people groups are represented in God's plan of salvation. Does that mean every single human being on the planet is going to go to heaven? That's what you'd have to conclude if Jesus died for every single human being on the planet, because his death is always presented as a complete victory, is always presented as success. It's always shown as having accomplished everything that it intended to accomplish You see, Jesus did not make a redemption pool. There's not this bank account in heaven that as soon as I pull on that chain, I appropriate some of it to myself. That would make man the kingmaker That would make man the one who does the final bidding, makes the final decision in the choosing. It would also mean that I can snub God. Hmm. Died for me? Nice try. Not gonna believe. Nanananna boo-boo. You paid for my sins. Now I'm fine. There's nothing wrong you can do to me. Your death on the cross was a tiny bit of a failure And you multiply that by the billions who will refuse to believe him, and that makes Christ's death on the cross to a very high degree a failure if he in fact intended to pay For the sins of every single human being on the face of the planet. And so therefore we talk about a particular atonement, that his atonement was particular. In fact, there's a whole study on that. You can go up to Holding Fast, search for the word atonement That word atonement only appears, oh, less than five times in the New Testament. But it's thoroughly anchored in the Old Testament. It is a rich Old Testament concept. And the atonement was always the priest laying his head, his hands on the head of the animal, confessing the sins of those people. over that animal and that animal then being sacrificed. That animal atoned for those sins that were laid upon that lamb's head. You never read about atonement for the Gentile nations around it It was those for whom the priest came forward. The priest laid his hands on that animal's head. And the priest, if he knew their sins, Converted to that animal, laying hell on of hands, imputation. He's imputing the sins to that animal. Blood of bulls and goats can't take away sin. These are all pictures. And then the animal dies, people are right once again with the uh with the nation. So you read in 1 Timothy 2, for instance. First Timothy two five through six There is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And he uses that word ransom You know, redemption is referred to as a ransom payment. What's a ransom? Do we use that word in English? I think we do. Every now and then we still hear about it. Well I guess the people in the Palestinians who are holding the Israelites that they want ransom. Yeah. So that's a good ex uh modern day example Someone who is strong and armed captures some other people. Maybe somebody has launched a cyber attack on your computer and has encrypted your entire hard drive and you have to call the number on the screen to get the magic code to unencrypt it to get all your data back. They're holding you hostage. So when you when you talk about a ransom, who is the rans who is it for? If you have to pay that money, who's the ransom money for? These hostages. The miscreants. Yeah. The person who was uh who was kidnapped. Yeah, there's somebody kidnapped And the one who gets ransomed, who gets ransomed in that scenario? You pay the Muscreans, you pay Hamas. Yeah, the innocents. The innocents get ransomed out, right? Now if I pay that money Does that tell Hamas that they can't capture anybody else? They're free to let them all go? No, they're not going to do that. That's how it works. A ransom is specific to those who are caught by the individual. So when we uh when we think about just that use of the word ransom, and it's an excellent term in the Bible, and it's one that's not focused on. But ransom basically is a complete payment necessary to release a specific set of prisoners. It's not releasing all prisoners across the world. It's that set of prisoners that are captive and held captive. Those that are ransomed already are possessed. You don't ransom somebody that doesn't belong to you. This is my child, I ransom them. These are our citizens, we ransom them. But uh but someone that's ransom there's already a relationship between the person who pays the ransom and the person who is ransom. Yeah, typically there is that relationship there. Either they're part of the nation or it's your uh child. Other comments? No. No, that was saying that Right. Mm-hmm. Right, you wouldn't care. Yeah. You you d certainly not that much. I would hope that you would care. Well, yeah. Well if I don't know them, I'm not gonna go pay for For those captured. So if if Hamas kidnapped ISIS Would you pay a ransom to a mosque or free ISIS? No, I don't like either one of those. Well there you go. So you would pay a ransom for a friend, but not for another. No, but I would if it were someone that They wouldn't have to be my friends. Right. I would be happy to pay if I had money. So did Jesus make a partial payment on the cross? Is anything about Jesus' death on the cross presented as incomplete You would have to say no. Yeah, you'd say he made a full payment. So we agree that everything that Jesus did on the cross fully and thoroughly uh executed everything it was designed to do. It was a complete a accomplishment. You know, what did he say it? What was one of the sayings that Jesus on the cross, it Is finished teleo. It's an accounting term meaning it's all reconciled and added up, paid in full, is what it means. Paid in full. There's no further debts. So he, in fact, was successful. He paid a ransom. He made a a ransom payment, and it was very successful in what it did And so we get then now in Hebrews 2. 10 to him being a successful captain. And that's your next fill-in-the-blank successful captain. We read in verse 10 that He brought many sons, he's bringing many sons into glory bringing many sons into glory, unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation. captain of their salvation, perfect through sufferings. That's uh that verse is a little awkward in in how it reads in the King James, so let me offer a uh a little different rendering I think it's helpful to perhaps consider it this way. It is most fitting for Jesus, who made it all and it's all for him, to also suffer, as the captain of salvation, to bring many sons into glory and honor. Now that's not a precise rendering of the Greek, but it's accurate. Okay, it's kind of on target. Well, the question, who are these many sons? In the context, who are these many sons that he's bringing into glory? Those who believe in him. Those who follow him. Yeah, his his children. Yeah. Those that he ransomed. Yeah. He ransomed a group and they're called his sons, relationship. So he's adopted them into his family. They're his elect. The Son of Man has come to seek and save that which is lost. The prodigal son left the Father's house, and the Father was waiting for him, and finally it came into the Son's mind, it entered into his mind I I perish with hunger here, but in my father's house is bread and enough. I will return to my father, and this is what I will say. He prepared in his heart, here's what I'm going to say. I'm no worth more worthy to be thy son. But he was a son And he was one that was in view, he was ransomed. And so Jesus is a successful captain. These many sons Or you. And that word many is interesting. It's the word poly. We use it like uh, oh, when you study geometry, there's a triangle try, one, two, three, there's a rectangle, rectang four And then when you get to too many corners, you just call it a polygon. It's just a poly. It's got a bunch of different sides. What's that word poly here? Poly. Many. Many sons. Polly. It's a wide variety. Right? Out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. So it's there here in the context. Many different types. He could have said if he was implying that every single human person gets rescued He could have said, as opposed to bringing many sons unto glory, he could have said, in bringing all unto glory, but he didn't use the word pos there. He's using the first one pos to indicate the scope But the specificity talks about many sons. For instance, look at this language here. I think that's very helpful to understand the atonement. This was a sticking point for me very early in my conversion How can you not say that Jesus didn't die for every single human being on the cross? That is heresy. How can you Don't you know God so loved the world? Don't you know the most common verse in all of Scripture? Well, uh, yeah. But how do we understand that? Because the very end of John 3 that says, he that believeth not is is damned already because he believes not the Son of God Never was told that verse and never read the whole chapter. You know when your theology has one verse, you know, the fortune cookie theology, you crack it open, you pull out the little thing, and that's your guidance for life Yeah, that's not enough information. You can't go from there. I want you to compare these two verses, and I put them in your handout because I think they're very useful. Just consider the language that the Apostle John uses here So this is Caiaphas, he says in John 11, 51, and this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. Caiaphas is saying, we've got to kill Jesus. It's better that he die than the whole nation be overrun because if we if everybody wants to make this guy a king, again they're thinking politics, they're thinking a physical king And Caiaph is also thinking a physical king of this earth. And so they're like, well, we we can't have this keep going. This is this is not good for us. It's not good for the nation. He needs to die rather than the whole nation perish. But being a high priest, he actually made an interesting prophetic statement. Now, the Apostle John picks up that same language in 1 John 2 and verse 2. He says of Jesus, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and that's a glorious word. It's not expiation, it's propitiation. And you heard me explain this before. Expiation means you take the sins, the debt is paid, the judge stamps, pay the court $400, case dismissed. You pay the court, it's done, you leave, judge goes home, everything's fine. Propitiation is And you've never seen this. You've never seen this. But propitiation is that debt is paid in such a manner that you are now fa that the judge is favorably disposed towards you. How favorably disposed is he? He's so favorably disposed he's going to invite you over to his house for Thanksgiving dinner. In fact, in God's handbook, he's so favorably disposed to the way Christ Jesus dealt with our sin problems that He is pleased to adopt us into his family. That's quite the payment for sins. So Bibles that use the word expiation, wrong. Propitiation? Right. It's a very big difference. And so we read in 1 John 2, he's the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, John speaking as a Jew, but also for the sins of the whole world. Notice the similarity that explanation you have in John 11, 52. Very similar concepts. When we say whole world, are we referring to every single human being without exception? In that context, some places you can, not here. The Pharisees were complaining as Jesus was doing miracles. They said, see, the whole world goes after him, but they themselves weren't going after him. So, whole world means all the Gentiles are following him. See, again to the Gentile mind, there's us and there's the world. The Gentiles, that was part of their culture, that was part of the tradition, that was intentional, to make a distinction between the people of God, the covenantal people of God, and others. We're getting back to these many sons that he brought in and the suffering on the cross, his death, as he's explaining in Luke 24 Listen to the explanation he gives. To the Larodilemaeus, he says, Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things? Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things? They didn't understand. We thought he would be a king. We thought he was the Christ. We thought he was the Messiah, the ruler. But Jesus says, ought he not? Shouldn't he have suffered these things? And to enter into his glory, then open he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day His whole purpose was to come to die. But as a king, he's got a different crown. He's got a different crown. And they didn't expect that, and they weren't anticipating that. It's interesting, I've got a prophecy in the book of Isaiah that fits this perfectly and shows Jesus fulfilling it. It's one that we maybe read over it quickly because there's so many other Great passages and verses in Isaiah 55. It's verses 4 and 5. It's right up at the front. And we read this: speaking of the Messiah. God through Isaiah says this, behold, I've given him for a witness to the people, a leader and a commander to the people. Again, that king language, a leader, a commander. Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and nations that knew thee not shall run into thee. Well, that sounds like Gentiles. Because of the Lord thy God and the Holy One of Israel, for he hath glorified thee How was Christ glorified? What was his hour of glory? Death. Yeah. Fellows at the cross. Glorify now thou me. Yeah, that was his glorious purpose. The cross of Jesus Christ is the centerpiece of all of Scripture. All prophecy aimed towards that direction, and everything going forward stems from that as a result. It's an amazing work that Christ has done. Now, what might that first audience think that leader and commander means? Isaiah's Day. Strong. Somebody strong What are they thinking? What would they be thinking? We've already said it Yeah, a great king, a great military leader, somebody who can rescue the first audience would certainly think that I have another question for you. I want us now to kind of describe in your own words Jesus' path starting from heaven down to this earth. And all the way back up to the throne. For the moment, try to put yourself in his shoes as a human. How would you describe your, his experiences? How would you describe that? Most the normal. He had the time with the priest That was not quite a bit. Well, gee so starting in heaven, Jesus' time in heaven, start with there. There weren't any priests in heaven. No, I'm talking about as Okay, look we gotta start in heaven. I want to take the whole soup to nuts. We gotta go from heaven. His time in heaven. Well what do we know about Jesus' time? What would you surmise about Jesus' time in heaven? A lot like the story of Joseph. A lot like the story of Joseph, okay? Favored by the father. Favored by the father, yeah. The favorite of the father. The favor of the father, no less, yeah. Betrayed came the lowest of the low. Lowest of the low. And then finally exalted to pretty much the highest. Second Second in command. Yeah, even greater than what he had before. Yeah. So that is an example. I mean if you just kind of walk your way through Jesus' experiences. Um It is an interesting thing to consider, just to put yourself in those shoes for the moment. Now Gloria's kind of wrapped a she's got a very she's got our one's got a good way of doing this. Just put a real short little bow tie on it and just in a nutshell. Don't you like that or nothing? Just a nutshell, boom, it's right there. Her entire thesis was submitted in a text of less than 200 words. It's incredible. I'm teasing. You know, when the Bible says that we are being conformed to the image of Christ, when the Bible says we're joint heirs with Christ, when the Bible says we shall reign with him, What does that say of our sojourn in this life? You with me? Or is we're just Passing through. Okay. Well was Jesus just passing through? In a way? Yeah. I mean He had to come, he had to die, but this was not the end. Right. There was eternity. Right. And there was he he suffered death for the joy that was set before him. Right. What was the joy, the death or something else? I think the salvation of his people. Salvation of his people? Yeah, and being exalted on the throne? Yeah. He came top down that we might go bottom up. Well that's the purpose Uh absolutely. I'm I'm trying to drag us through the experience set for the moment. You're you're not wrong. I think we are insignificant. We are, Victoria? Could you ask the question again? So I first ask, describe in your own words Jesus' path starting from heaven, coming down to this earth. And returning back. Gloria summarized it with, it's kind of like Joseph and Joseph's experiences, and we know the story of Joseph. Okay? Now, the Bible also says that we Christians are being conformed to the image of Christ. The Bible says that we're joint heirs with him. There's a union between the believers and Jesus Christ, and what I'm submitting to you is that when you look at the life of Jesus, you ought to be looking at your own life. There's going to be a whole lot of similarities between his life and yours. Not the starting up from heaven, other than We're ultimately elect of God. Look at this in 1 John 3, 1 and 2, just to cover one aspect of it. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, in other words, because we're Son of God, Jesus is the Son of God, the Son of God, therefore the world knoweth us not. How come Christians can't ever get a foothold in this world? How come we that we're we're speaking truth, we're speaking reason, and they just don't seem to get it? They just never seem to get it. Why is that Well, because the world knoweth us not. Why doesn't it know us? Because it knew him not. He came into his own, his own received him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Right now. We're right now, son of God. Right now. You don't have to wait. Right now, you're a son of God. But it does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as it is, as he is. So you see, if you contemplate for the moment about Jesus' purpose of coming down here, for now it's the Father's good pleasure that Our sojourn in this world that we should experience many of the things the Lord Jesus experienced collectively as a body of Christ. Some will die that ultimate death as a martyr. Others are set at naught for their contributions. Others are ignored blatantly, even though they speak great truth. Others face weariness and sickness. That is Jesus' sojourn in time through this earth. Yes, passing through, but oh boy, this is not like the long road of Texas trying to go across in your air-conditioned vehicles with the cruise control at 85 and you're just passing through That's comfortable. This is more like walking through the desert of West Texas on bare feet. Without water, snakes and scorpions and all kinds of stuff, it's a whole lot more difficult going through in this life. And so I just put that for your consideration. And yet we find in verse 10 it says that we're perfected through sufferings. were perfected through suffering. That's the closing part. It says, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. God is perfecting a people for himself, even as the Lord Jesus was perfected through sufferings. Did Jesus need to be made perfect? What is missing? What was missing that Jesus needed to be made perfect? You ever thought about that? It says he was made perfected by his sufferings. And I'm going to wrap this up with this question. Yeah, because he he is Uh he's taking our place. Yes. That's the reason why he is uh considered to be a sinner. Mm-hmm. And has Yeah, he in order for uh he's already perfect in the sense of eternal righteousness. We're not talking about a lack of righteousness. We're not talking about a lack of moral quality or standard But what we are speaking about in this sense is that he has fully experienced in space-time history all of the pains of sins. You can't ever say, I'm going through something that even Jesus didn't go through. Well, what about divorce? Oh, yeah, ask him about his bride national Israel. She was a beauty. Oh, sons going wayward and rebellious. Oh yeah, read Isaiah. He's got plenty of those. There's nothing you can say that I've gone through that Jesus hasn't. He has gone through it all. He's that ultimate brother. Older brother, who is perfected through suffering. Hebrews 5, 8, and 9 says, Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered, and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation to all them that obey him Well, again, you know these things, but it's just a reminder that we're being conformed to that image of Christ, but God has a good purpose in it all. And when we find ourselves set at naught, misunderstood, yep, so was the Savior. And it will be for you too, because you're made in his image. Alright, well let's wrap it up there. Yvonne, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, we do thank you, Lord, that Christ, by the grace of God, taste death for every man, yea, every man that believes on him. And uh Father, we thank you that by this uh glorious work your elect your saved Lord and positionally sanctified Lord immediately Lord and uh perpetually Lord Uh thank you for the reminder that we are uh perfected through our sufferings, Lord, and just pray that you would help us to keep this in mind and uh So to hold forth this thought as we contemplate the ever-increasing conformity to the image of Christ. And uh just pray, Lord, that you would Give us grace through our soldier and Lord. Ever keep us looking to Christ our Savior. In this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.