You know, it's easy to skip over Isaac in the phrase the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. We can focus a lot on Abraham. Because we talk about him as the father of faith. And you read that, for instance, in the 11th chapter of the book of Hebrews. That's our passage for today's Please turn to Hebrews 11. And I'm going to take you first at verse 8 where Abraham is featured, and then we'll spend some time in verses 11 through 17. and use that as a springboard to talk about this missing patriarch, Isaac, who brings forth great blessings and promises to us if we would but consider his life. Abraham is easy to focus on. He's known as the father of faith. Hebrews 11, 8 says, by faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a Place, which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out not knowing whither he went. See here, Abraham's faith has four components highlighted It's a faith that believes. He believed God, even without a preview of his destination. It was a faith that forsakes. He forsook Ur of the Chaldees. It was a faith that separated, separated him from his family at the command of God. And it's a faith that sought. He was looking for something. He looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. And so Abraham demonstrates a Christian's faith. In the New Testament, as well as in the Old, salvation's always been by faith through grace. And it demonstrates how we're righteous before God. How we walk before God. We walk by faith, not by sight. Abraham didn't see where he was going. That's what the Apostle Paul taught in the fourth chapter of the book of Romans. You don't have to turn there. It says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. I like that phrase that the apostle uses later in that same chapter speaking of Abraham. It says he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. Here we see his, and hopefully our walk of faith, one that believes God, that doesn't stagger at the promise of God. I like that phrase, he staggered not. Again, back to our passage. What about this phrase, the God of Isaac? So I'd like to use a passage that transitions from Abraham to Isaac. It's a little later in Hebrews 11. Turn to that in verse 17. We read here, by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Notice that phrase, in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, and from whence also he received him in a figure. By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, concerning things to come. Now I've highlighted, tried to verbally highlight three key phrases in that little passage. The promises. In Isaac shall thy seed be called That phrase is used a lot in reference to Isaac and in the New Testament. And concerning things to come, this implies there's a hope a trust in something of the future. These all relate to one theme, folks, and that theme is the message title for today, The God of Isaac. promises. Isaac highlights the promises of God, a multi-generational set of promises from God, from the God of his father. He inherited a great many, if not all, of these promises from his father. They were preceding promises. They were great promises. What are these promises? When did he receive them? Can we discern anything from Isaac's life in relationship to them? Well let's survey Isaac's life and get acquainted with his Old Testament patriarch, shall we? You don't have to turn to your Bible any passage. I've got about 25 or 30 points, highlights of his life extracted from the book of Genesis, and I'd like to survey those with you at this time. Through Abram, God promised him an abundant seed twenty-five years before Isaac's birth. There's the first promise. God told Abram, You'll be a father of a multitude. And certainly that implies starting with one seed, and that would be Isaac. When he was born, he was born to a one hundred year old father, as promised by God one year earlier, again reflecting a commitment. He was named directly by God. In fact, his name means laughter. You know, this promise came through the angel to Sarah, said at this set time, next year Your wife Sarah will bear the son. And she laughed. Of course she laughed. It was an impossible thing for an aged woman of that Advancement of years the bear child. His fourteen-year-old stepbrother Ishmael mocked him And then was driven away by Isaac's mother, Sarah, leaving Isaac the only child at home. When he was twenty-seven years old, he lost his mother. That's pretty tough. In fact As a result of that, shortly thereafter, his 140-year-old father sent a servant to Syria, who providentially found and brought back a wife, Rebecca, who happened to be Isaac's second cousin. At age forty, Isaac married Rebecca. who comforted him over the loss of his mother. They were a childless couple for twenty years until the Lord heard Isaac's prayer when she finally conceived and delivered twin boys. Though they were two very different sons. One became an avid hairy hunter. The other was a plain smooth man living in tents. Isaac favored his firstborn hunter's son, whereas Rebecca favored the clean cut homeboy When famine struck their land, God directed Isaac to Gerar in Philistine territory, rather than to depart to Egypt where his father Abram had departed in time of famine. God reiterated his promise to Isaac upon entering Gerar. In Gerar, Isaac gained a 9,900% rate of return. Scripture says a hundredfold. Insomuch that the Philistines envied him and sent him away. You have too much. Please go and depart from us. He peacefully walked away from several disputes. with the Philistines over some family wells at which time God reiterated his promises to him. And I would point out that's a pretty big deal. It's not easy to dig wells. This was before the days of hydraulic pumps and drilling equipment These are all hand dug deep into the ground, and just simply walk away from those implies a measure of character that is unusual even in our day. His firstborn son, the hunter, married two Hittite women, which were a grief of mind to both Isaac and Rebekah. He was a hundred years old when that boy married. When Isaac grew old and blind, sensing his days were ending and drawing near, he called his favorite son to convey God's blessing upon him But inadvertently blessed the younger who was secretly aided by Rebecca. Later that day, Isaac blesses his firstborn with earthly things. Upon hearing death threats from the older to her beloved younger son, Rebecca moved Isaac to seek a wife for her favorite son and sent him packing off to Uncle Laban. Well, this infuriated the firstborn, who permanently left home and married a third wife, an Ishmaelite, just to spite them. Hmm, what a grief of mind. And Isaac died in the city of Hebron at the age of 180 years, five years longer than his father. He was survived by two sons, four daughters-in-law, one who'd married Jacob, that would be Rebekah, and the three Canaanite women who married Esau, thirteen grandchildren by Jacob, and five grandchildren by Esau. These are the highlights of Isaac's life. But let's zoom in to discover when Isaac received his promises, these promises, and what they were. So let's turn now to Genesis chapter 17. We're going to look at these promises that he inherited, and we begin reading in verse 7 as God speaks to Abraham I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed. Notice thy seed, the covenant will be established with. after thee, in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee And I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. Verse 19. God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed, and thou shalt call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant. Here God is focusing specifically on Isaac. and with his seed after him. We go to verse 21. But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year. You see, Isaac had promises he received of God before his very birth. Even his name was ordained of God. Later we read in Genesis 21, that was part of our responsive reading earlier this morning, Hagar's son Ishmael begins to cause problems, and Sarah wants him evicted. And we read in verse 12 of Genesis 21. God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman. In all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice, for in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Isaac, even before he was born, received promises from God, very significant promises, even to the point of splitting up the family. What were these promises? Well, very simple. An everlasting covenant between God and Abraham's seed. For Jehovah to be his God. Yahweh, the God of salvation, that the seed, the promised seed, would come from him and to possess all the land wherein thou art a stranger from everlasting possession. You know, this thought occurred to me as I was meditating on this section of Scripture. If God gives you everlasting life, You need a place in which to carry out that life. Everlasting life also implies you'll have an everlasting place in which to dwell, an everlasting possession, an everlasting land. Very interesting. Later, in a distressful time of famine, Isaac received word from God that reminded him of these promises. These are the ones he received before he was born. He was a thought only in the mind of God, an impossibility in the mind of Abraham and Sarah, to the point of laughter. It's incredulous, God, are you kidding? Really? But years later, we turn forward to Genesis chapter 26. I invite you to turn there, Genesis 26 and verse 2. He had some inherited promises, and now these promises are repeated to him, repeated promises. Look at verse 2 of Genesis 26. And the Lord appeared unto him and said, Go not down into Egypt, dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of. Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee. For unto thee and unto thy seed I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I swear unto Abraham thy father. And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. Because that Abraham obeyed my voice kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. What were these promises that God reiterated? to Isaac. It was, God will be with him. God will bless him and all the nations of the earth, presumably through him. God will multiply his seed. And fourthly, God will give his seed all the land. And did you notice verse 5? It was all a free gift because Abraham was obedient. It was all conditioned on the obedience of his father. Now, I've kind of hit you with a fire hose, and that's a lot to process. And frankly, it's hard to summarize. But What would this have meant to Isaac and his life? How would he have processed this? How did these promises help him at critical junctures in his life? And more importantly, from that, what aid or benefit is that to us? Well, thankfully, we have a Hebrew scholar, a fellow named Saul Tarsus, renamed by God, the Apostle Paul, who helps us out, and he specifically comments on Isaac's life in two places. We're going to look at those now. Let's turn ahead to the New Testament to the ninth chapter of the book of Romans, Romans chapter 9 and verse 6. This prominent place is where the apostle to the Gentiles instructs us from the life of and of the promises given to Isaac. And both passages use the phrase, the children of promise, and apply that to God's elect. The first point is this, born of God. This is something that Isaac took from all this. He was born of God. Look at Romans 9, chapter 6. I'm going to start in the middle sentence of that verse. For they are not all Israel, which are of Israel, neither because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children. But in Isaac shall thy seed be called. That is, they which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God. But the children of the promise are counted for the seed. For this is the word of promise. At this time will I come, and Sarah shall have a son. Oh, I like verses eight and nine. You know, here God is highlighting a miraculous birth, and dare I say God is highlighting a new birth, a line of godly seed to be born whom God intends to save. You know, a man or a woman or child is not saved because they have religious parents, but because they've been born again. Salvation, like Isaac's birth, is nothing shy of a miracle. It's a miracle by God the Holy Spirit. That is the first teaching. Except a man be what? Born again, he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven. You've got to be twice born. It's got to be a miraculous change. And indeed, a miracle of change occurred in the womb of Sarah so that she could bear this boy. And second, remember Isaac's name? What does it mean? Laughter It's not so much a laughter of joy as it is a laughter of incredulity. It's one that says. God, you don't seem to understand. I could hear Sarah's argument now Lord, you don't seem to understand. I know I was a attractive woman, although Abram and I bore no seed. There's a lot of years left under the suns of the sands of the land of Canaan where I've passed. I've lost a lot of beauty. I've lost a lot of vigor. I've just lost a lot. Never had it, not sure I'm going to get it now. Never had birth to a child? You don't seem to understand. Shall an aged woman bear a child? from an even older husband. You know, I cannot help but to think of that application for the children of God today Because lo and behold, Isaac came forth. Isaac existed. From whence did the child come? He came from two very aged parents. And he's proof that God made good on those promises. Saints, what is your impossible situation? God's promise everlasting life, resurrection into a new body for all of his children for whom Christ died. These promises are to be available. Is your cry something like this, God? You don't seem to understand. My business is on the rocks. My family seems to be disintegrating before my eyes. My husband and I are on two different pages concerning the kids. You know, maybe Isaac cried out to the Lord about these things. Certainly there were times in his life when he could have. But brothers and sisters, what God wants, he gets Our limits, our restrictions, our shortcomings, our inabilities basically mean squat to God. He doesn't depend on us. He doesn't need our help. He never has, he never will. If he desires it, he makes it to happen. None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? So the first point about Isaac's life and his promises is that he's one born of God. But I believe there's a second application. The second application we find in the fourth chapter of the book of Galatians. Let's turn there for a moment, and we're going to begin observing verse 21. Born of God, and the second point, eternally righteous. Eternally righteous. Now, why would I say that? Well, let's hear the Apostle Paul's commentary in Galatians 4 and verse 21. Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh. But he of the free woman was by promise. It was by promise, which things are an allegory. That's interesting. For these are the two covenants, the one from Mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar. For this Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children. But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all Here the Apostle Paul is recalling Isaac's early childhood and the mocking treatment he received from Ishmael, much to the dismay and the horror of his mother, Sarah. The Apostle Paul says this historical account is in fact an historical parable. Really happened. Space-time history But it was teaching something far deeper. It had significance that transcended the moment as it was captured in Holy Writ. Paul says the historical account is an allegory about two covenants And that would be the law of sin and death versus the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. Well, that's interesting, Vince. That's a curious theological point. Who cares? You do. You do. Go to verse 28. Here's the money verse. It says, Now we brethren, as Isaac was, are. the children of promise. Huh! Bless my God, glory to my soul. The Apostle Paul says that we elect Gentiles are exactly like Isaac. Those who are born of God are children of promise. We are the children of promise. The same promises given to Abraham and to Isaac. An everlasting covenant. An everlasting land. No, I'm not talking about Palestine. Hardly. Romans 4. 13 says this, for the promise that he, that is Abram, and by extension Isaac, should be heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. Did you catch that? Heir of the world. Because God told Abram at one point to stand on a hill and to lift up his eyes and to look north and south and east and west. When you do that, you've got a full compass And he's lifting up his eyes and he's on a mountain. He's viewing, from his vantage point, the world. And that's what the Apostle Paul understands that to mean. He's going to inherit a new earth. It's a promise that God will always be with us. Don't we read that in the book of Hebrews? He will never leave us nor forsake us. That God will bless us, and God will multiply our seed. The psalmist says this. Psalm 127, 5, They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. Watch it now, bringing his sheaves with him. bringing his sheaves with him. Yes, there will be a great harvest that we can trace as our spiritual descendants. So when you read about Isaac's life and how he appropriated those promises, you're reading a parallel example of your life. Look at verse 28 again. Now we brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. The Apostle Paul funnels all of these promises into one thing, and that is eternal righteousness. If you continue reading in the chapter, you'll get down to chapter 5 and verse 5. It's been promised to us, though we don't see it yet, which is why Paul says in Galatians 5. 5, For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. You see, to have eternal life is to have eternal righteousness. God created Adam at the garden. He was good. Yea, he pronounced it all very good. Adam had a righteousness, but he had a mutable righteousness. He could throw it away. And throw it away he did. Son of man has come along and given us an eternal righteousness, an everlasting righteousness But if Adam had never sinned, if he had never thrown his righteousness away, there would have been no cause for him to die, because the wages, the paycheck of sin, is death. We all know that. God promised everlasting life to those chosen of God, born of his Spirit, promised before the world began, washed in the blood of his son, made a citizen of heaven and forever in the communion of saints. Our life now and at this time in this strange land in which we pass through looks like decay and death. And thus we wait. We wait upon the Lord. Who alone is faithful and who alone has the ability to make good on his promise. Like Isaac, we don't strive with men of this world for it's not worth it. Let them have the well which my father dug. I'm going to inherit this land, wells and all, some day. That's how he was able to be a peaceful man. That's how he was able to walk away from something which required a lot of toil and sweat to dig. Look at what the psalmist says in Psalm 37. It says in verse 9, For evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be. Yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be. As it were, you'll be looking where Where is this famous tower named after a famous man? Where is this city square that the wicked occupied? And you'll say, I I can't find it. It's gone The memory of the righteous is blessed, but the name of the wicked shall rot. Go to verse 28 of Psalm 37. For the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. They are preserved forever, but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell therein forever. I truly hope your mind is meditating on how this relates to you today. What problems do you seem to have which appear pretty insurmountable? A better question is what promises has God made to you that seem pretty incredible? Let me review a dozen of these promises and see if you can relate to the God of Isaac, the God of promises. You believe God has promised you eternal life before the world began? You believe God gave unto his people eternal life, and they shall never perish, and none can pluck them out of his hand. Do you believe God Almighty cares for you? A real, genuine concern? You believe God will deliver his people from every evil work. You believe God will not suffer you to be tested above what you're able to bear? Do you believe God has called you into his eternal glory? By Christ Jesus, and after you've suffered a while, make you perfect, and I like this end part, established and settled We're on a sojourn here. We're wandering around. This is a very strange place getting stranger by the day. Yet a time will come when God will perfect you, establish, and settle you. No more moving from rental to rental. One old house to another old house. No, no, no. He'll establish you. He'll find the best for you forever, that you will enjoy forever, and you will be planted there. and thrive and prosper there. You believe you can cast your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain you and never suffer the righteous to be moved? Oh, your flesh may have some affliction, as certainly Isaac did. His daughters-in-law were a grief of mine. Division in his family. He had troubles. But he was never moved. Oh no, his soul was resting in the Lord because of God's promises. Let me go on. Do you believe the very hairs of your head are all numbered, and that you're of more value than many sparrows? You believe goodness and mercy shall follow you all the days of your life, and you shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You believe God has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus? You believe you're seated as a king next to Christ, though your kingdom be not yet revealed to you, even as David was anointed a king? long before he actually took the throne. You believe that when you see Jesus, your heart shall rejoice, and no man can take that joy away. You believe that we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. either with us in loud hallelujahs of triumph, as we gather before the Lord, or in the jury box. Not the condemned, not the accused. There's therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus But we're gathered before him as that great judge. We're on his right hand. Come ye blessed, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Oh yeah, we're in the jury box. Do you not know we shall judge angels? The scripture says And when Jesus returns, do you also to believe there will be those who will depart from us, the wicked, with weeping and gnashing of teeth When the children of Israel crossed over the Red Sea, they saw the bodies of the dead Egyptians on the seashore. Yes, we will see the destruction of the wicked. We will take place, take part at that place of judgment I don't know how all that works out, but God will exonerate his people. They shall be brought before the feet of the saints. And why does God do this? Well, God promised Isaac many things for one reason. Because his father Abraham obeyed my voice, kept my charge and my statutes and my laws. Even so, God promises us many things, because the greater Abram, Jesus Christ, obeyed God's voice and kept his commandments. The scripture says, by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. There's all kind of movements going on out there right now that talk about certain kind of lives matter. Well I'm going to tell you right now, none of those lives matter, not even my own life matters. There's only one life that matters, and that's Jesus' life His life matters because by him you'll be made eternally righteous. By him, all these promises are secured. Him, God has respect unto. And so his life is the one that counts. May God bless you with a great hope and a trust in all of His promises. And join your hearts with me in this benediction. Ephesians 3, 20 and 21. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen