Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Psalms and to Psalm 84. The 84th Psalm this morning. This is a psalm that is probably familiar to most of you. It is a psalm that I have preached on numerous times over the last 30-some years. And yet it is a psalm that every time we approach it, we find diamonds and jewels and nuggets of gold that We've just never seen before. Isn't the Lord's word marvelous in that way that is always new and always fresh? Um I trust the word will be a blessing to your heart this morning as it has been to my I'm going to read the twelve verses of Psalm 84 as we begin this morning. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my fresh flesh cry out for the living God Yea, the sparrow hath found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will still be plea praising thee, Selah. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, in whose heart are the ways of them. Who, passing through the valley of Baca, make it a well. The rain also filleth the pools. They go from strength to strength. Every one of them appeareth Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob, Selah. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord God of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now open thy word to our hearts. and open our hearts to thy word. Father, we confess that as we approach Thy Word, we are but blind and deaf, expect except that thy Spirit speak truth to our hearts, and open our eyes to Thy And so, Father, bless thy word to us today. Protect thy word from the fumbling of man. And Lord, may it be a blessing to our hearts. In Jesus' name. Name. Amen. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord God of hosts Have you found that to be true? Have you found the tabernacles of God to be beautiful to be lovely. This morning we're going to consider what, where, and when are the tabernacles of God. That is our First point. And then our second will be who is it that we find is concerned with the tabernacles or the courts of God? And then finally, what are the blessings to those that seek? the tabernacles and the courts of God. But before we actually get into our outline, I would like us to look back at the Psalm and notice with me the multitude of references to God's house, to God's tabernacle, and the way it's expressed. In verse 1, how amiable are thy tabernacles And verse two, my soul longeth yea even fainth for the courts of the Lord. Verse three, yea they as a sparrow hath found an house, verse three, a nest, verse three, thine altars. Verse 4, Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. Verse 7, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. Verse 10, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand And verse 10, again, I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God. And so this Psalm from beginning to end is talking about the place where God's people meet. It's talking about God's house, but what is referred to in Scripture as these tabernacles, these palaces of God, these courts of God. Where are they? Where can we find them? And when is it that they are available to the people of God? Clearly, the tabernacles of God, the presence of God, is something that we as God's people are to seek after. And we find David frequently in the Psalms talking about his longing for the house of God. And that hunger, when shall I appear before thee? And so, briefly to give away the message at the very beginning, and then lay the foundation second, I want to mention to you that the courts and tabernacles, the temple of God are simply the place where the believers meet for fellowship and for the work of for the fellowship with God and the worship of God. Not fellowship with one another. But the temples of God are the place where we meet for fellowship with Him and to worship Him. Where are the tabernacles, the courts of God? Wherever the believer meets with God for fellowship. And when are these courts and tabernacles available? They're available whenever the believer meets in fellowship. with God. They're available all the time to the believer. Now, that's basically the structure of this first point, when we're and What? But to back that up, I would like us to go to Psalm twenty-three, which probably is One of the most familiar Psalms, but we find this what what the this what, where, and when in Psalm 23. So turn over there with me. I'm not turning because I have it Written out of my notes, but I would like you to look at it. Very familiar verses. But look at the first three verses. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in paths of righteousness. Those words, green pastures, still waters, the restoring of the soul, paths of righteousness, what are they talking about? They're talking about fellowship with God They're talking about entering into the presence of God. And that is what the tabernacle, the courts, the house of God are referring to. It is that time, that place, when the believer comes into fellowship with God, when the believer is truly in communion with God, is worshiping God. is learning of God's word. Now that certainly happens in the congregation, but the temples of God are not a building or a structure. But rather, the temples of God are God, the place where God's people worship God. But then the passage goes further. That's the what. What is the temple of God? It is the worship of God's people to give privately and publicly. Where is it? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, thy comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of my enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Where is the place that God's people meet with God? Everywhere Everywhere. In the presence of my enemies, in a time of joy, in a time of sorrow, God prepares a table before us. And then when is it? When does this take place? Well, look at verse 6. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And folks. You know, as Brother Vincent and I say, sometimes a duh moment. I have looked at Psalm 23, verse 6. All of my life. And saw it, well, I guess goodness and mercy follow me all the days of my life, and then when I die, I'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever. But that's not what the verse is saying. It's not saying that I live this life, and when this life ends, then I'm dwelling in the house of the Lord. No, I'm dwelling in the house of the Lord right now. And it will continue forever. And that word forever at the end of verse 6 of Psalm 23 is fascinating. It's found 95 times in the original. Seventy of those times, it means length. It means length. Twenty-one, it means long. Two, it means ever or forever. This is one of those two. One time it means as long as, and one time it means high. The first three times we find this word are Genesis 6. 15, which is the dimensions of Noah's Ark. The second time is Abraham walking through the length of the land that God is going to give him in Genesis 13. And then the third is the building of the Ark of the Covenant, Nexus 23. Thirteen times this word is used talking about the building of the tabernacle, the length and the breadth, and so on. Fifteen times is used talking about Solomon's temple. It's talking about a time. Now, I've probably thoroughly confused you, but think about it. this. What is truly an entrance into the courts of God? It is a worship of God It is walking beside the still waters and lying down in the green pastures of God's blessing. fellowship. When does that take place? It takes place. Or where does that take place? It takes place wherever in the world we are. In the presence of our enemies, in the presence of great blessing, and the presence of great joy. And when does it take place? It takes place at all times. We're to be doorkeepers. We're always to be in that worship and fellowship with God And so, dwelling in the house of the Lord forever is not something that begins when we get to heaven. That's just the culmination of it. But we, as the children of God, are to dwell in the house of the Lord now and forever. And so With that foundation, I would have us to consider this, that the courts of God can be found in a structure, but the courts of God are not a structure. When we talk about the courts of God, we're not talking about a building of brick, stone, and mortar, but rather we're talking about the communion, the secret places we're going to see that the believer has with God. It is not about where we are. It's about who we're worshiping. It's not about where we are. It's about who is there with us. And think about this. Jacob is fleeing from Esau. Jacob has left behind his father and his mother, who he will never see again. Jacob has left what he thought was his inheritance behind. Jacob comes to Bethel and he takes a stone and he uses a stone for a pillar. And that night God gives him a glorious vision of the angels of God ascending and descending on a ladder, and God himself at the head of that ladder. And when Jacob awakes In Genesis 28, and Jacob awoke up asleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other than the house of God. That was the tabernacles of verse one that are beautiful. That was the place where the co the sons of Korah would say we had rather be doorkeepers there than to dwell in the temple. You see, this concept of the amiability How amiable their tabernacles, O Lord. This thought of going to the house of the Lord is not a Sunday issue. And I think the fact that we try to make it a Sunday issue is why so many Christians are so weak, because they worship one day a week. And it's not a matter of the place we go to for this worship, but rather it's a the matter of worshiping the God we go to. The reason that his courts are amiacable is because he's there. The reason this place, that word dreadful, can throw us off the English word, how dreadful is this place? We think it's only dreadful as being awful But rather, when Jacob said, How dreadful is this place, he said, how frightened I must be in holy, reverent fear, because I am in the presence of God. And then we find David in the wilderness in Psalm 63, verses 1 and 2 That's a psalm of David when he was in the wilderness of Judah. He says, O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. To see thy power and thy glory, so as I've seen thee in the sanctuary. David says, I've seen you when I gathered for public worship, but oh God, I long to see you Oh God, I don't have to be in that place of worship to worship thee. And folks, don't worry, we're not going to start slamming on public worship. But I want to emphasize private worship because public worship is not enough. David said, I long to see you. Look back to our psalm there in Psalm 84 and verse. 5 and following. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them. who passing through the valley of Baika make it a well. The rains fill also the uh rains also fill the pools. They go from strength to strength. That's every one of them uh in Zion appeareth before God. What is it referred to in those three verses? Well, it is talking about the Israelite men. who were required three times a year to be in physical attendance at the tabernacle. Three times a year they had to come. Now some lived at great distance, and some had to travel a long way, and it was a long and arduous journey. But we read there in verse 5, blessed are they whose strength is in uh whose strength is in God. Who pursue God with all their strength, in whose heart are the ways of them. What is the them? This threw me for years. What is the them? What is the them whose strength or sorry, blessed the verse in total? Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee or is in God. In whose heart are the ways of them. The them are the tabernacles of God. Their strength is in the way of the tabernacle. When they are strong, they're pursuing the tabernacle. When they're strong, they're seeking the house of God. When they're strong, they're going to his courts. These were men who were traveling to Jerusalem and passing through the valley of Baka, a dry place, it became to them a well. It became to them a place where the rain filled the pools. In other words, these were men who were pursuing after God. They believed in God, and their strength was in him. And they pursued him with all their heart and with all their soul, and in so doing, the dry parched ground of their heart becomes pools of water. Every one of them, they go from strength to strength, and every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. You see, we are to seek after this place. We're to seek after the worship of God. And what is it that's going to hinder us? Oh, the dry and parched valley of Baca was a hard. And some men had to go a long way to get there. But they never gave up in their pursuit. They pursued on to Zion. And so we find that this tabernacle of God that we're pursue, it can be in a structure, but it is not a structure itself. But I've already hinted on this before. It is a secret place. It is a secret place. It's not a structure. It's a secret place. In Psalm 91. David said, He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. It's a secret place. A secret place. One thing I desire to the Lord, that will I seek after. For in the time of trouble he will hide me in his secret place. Where is it? What is it? And when can we find it? A secret place indicates to us that it's not open to all. This place of worship and fellowship With God is for the believer. The unbeliever cannot find this place. We read in our call to worship: Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and calls us to approach unto thee. Why? that he may dwell in thy courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house and of thy holy temple. What is it? Well it's it's The place where we worship God. Where is it? Well, it's in that place of worship of God. When is it? It is right now. And so in the Old Testament, the strangers could not enter into the tabernacle of God. But because it is secret, it is not open to all, and it is not found by many. It is not found. By many. And my my friend, there are many believers, true Christians who haven't been to the temple of God in years. Oh, they've been to church every week. But that secret place of worship, that place where their soul was gripped with the truth of God, and they found themselves crying out to God with all their heart. When their spirit was stirred within them, John Wesley, the great preacher, in his biography talked about being strangely warmed. When he knew that his soul had been revived and been touched with the fire of God, he had found the temple of God, he was walking in the courts of God, and it had nothing to do with the building. It was that secret place of God. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice, I will open the door and come into him and sup. with him and he with me. That verse of course is talking to the churches, but it's talking to the individual believer as well. God desires that fellowship. It is a not a structure. It is a secret place and it is a sacred place. It is the place where God's people And so the tabernacle of God is the secret place where the believer finds fellowship with God, regardless of physical location. It is a place of great joy, comfort, and assurance for the believer. It is where the believer worships Jacob found it at Bethel. David found it in the wilderness. Daniel found it in the lion's den. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego found it in the fiery furnace. Stephen found it in his dying moment. Paul and Silas found it in the Philippian jail. John found it while exiled on the Isle of Patmos. And my friend, I would ask myself and ask every one of us, how long has it been? How long has it been to essentially truly tread the courts of God? Oh, how cold we can become. How used to form of worship. How ready we can be to attend with the congregation on Sunday But then allow our soul to atrophy because we never really tread the courts of God. But then we come to the second question. Who is it that's concerned with this house of God? Who does this passage tell us that was eager to find it? And the key verse, of course, is verse number 10. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. But if you look at the introduction, the title of the song, it says To the chief musician, a psalm upon Giddh, a psalm for the sons of Korah. And that is so central to the fact that this psalm eight times mentions the place of worship, the secret place. It is a song for the sons of Korah. The sons of Kor were the chief singers, the chief musicians at the tabernacle. The sons of Kor were also the porters of the Old Testament. They were the ones that carried the Ark of the Covenant. They were the ones that carried the altar. They carried the holy furnishings of the tabernacle. But did you realize they were not allowed to touch them? And they had never seen the ark which they carried. They could not see it, they could not touch it. All they did was carry it. And the Gershites, who carried the tents, of the tabernacle. They had carts. But the sons of Korah didn't have carts. They carried it by physical labor. But before the articles were moved, the priests would go in to the tabernacle and they would cover the ark with the cloth And they would put the rods in, and only then would the sons of Korah come and they would pick it up. Their job was not the offering of the sacrifice, their job was simply physical labor. The strength of their back, the aching of their knees, the digging of the rods into their shoulders step by step, they carried. They carried the furnishings. That was the job of the sons of Korah. But they were the sons of Korah. And their father didn't like his lot. Their father didn't like the job that God had given him to do, and that is central to understanding this Psalm. Korah led a rebellion of 250 men against Moses and Aaron. I'd like you to turn over to number 16. And consider some of these verses to understand what this psalm is teaching us. Psalm number sixteen and in verse three speaking of Korah and the 250 men and they, that's Korah and the 250, gathered themselves together against Moses. And against Aaron and said, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation is holy. We don't get to offer the sacrifice. You're taking too much on you. We're all holy, every one of them. And the Lord is among them. Wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord. Moses and Aaron. The Levites, why do you think you're the only ones that can do that job? You're the only ones that can offer the sacrifice. All we get to do is carry the stuff, and we don't even get carts. You see, Korah began to rebel against Moses and Aaron, but Korah was rebelling against God. Look down to verse 9. Moses replies to Korah and the 250, Seemeth it a small thing unto you that the Lord, that God, that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel To bring you near unto himself, to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord, that's to carry the goods, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them. And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren, the sons of Levi, with thee. And ye seek ye the priesthood also. Are you trying to go above that which God has told you to do? Are you displeased with the service that God has given you? Look down to verse 23. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak ye unto the congregation, saying unto them, get you up. From the tabernacle of Korah and Dohath and Abram. Get away from their tabernacle. That tabernacle means their dwelling place. Get away from the place where Korah and these two hundred and fifty men live. Verse twenty four Speak unto the congregation that they get from about the tabernacle. Verse 26. And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart ye from the tents of these wicked men. He tells the rest of Israel, get away from the tents of Torah, get away from their tents, and touch nothing that is theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sin Verse 32, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up, their houses, and all the men that all that appertained unto Korah and all his goods. And so, because Korah was in rebellion against God, God refers to his tents as the tents of these wicked men. And so Korah and the two hundred and fifty men and all their goods and all their tents, everything that pertained to them, fell in to the earth, and the earth closed upon them. But we read in Numbers 26, verses 10 and 11. And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them together with Korah, with all that that company, and all that company died. What time the fire devoured 250 men, and they became a sign. Notwithstanding, the children of Korah died not. And so here, Korah, their great, great, great, great grandfather, had rebelled against God. The earth had opened and swallowed them up. But their children died not. And so, when the children of Korah in verse ten say, I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of God, I'd rather take the lowest job, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Referring back to their great grandfather. Folks had never seen that before. But it's glorious. I would rather have the lowest position. I don't have a cart to carry anything. I have to carry it on my shoulders. I will bear the hardest test. Passing through the valley of Baca. It will become a well to me because I'm there and my whole life, everything is poured into the worship of God. I will not leave this place until you bless me. As Jacob said when he held upon the garment of a man he wrestled with, and that man was Christ. What obstacle is going to stop me if I have to stay here at the door all day long? I would rather be here than to be in the tents of wickedness like my grandfather. And what a glorious truth here! That these singers of the tabernacle, these ones who worshiped God in song, they were the sons of sinners. And so I said, who is it that's concerned with these courts? The sons of sinners. Folks, we're sinners. And the sons of sons of sinners. And yet why didn't God destroy Korah's sons when he destroyed everyone else? Because they were elect children of God who would be the sinners. You see, when Achan sinned, his children were killed with him. But when Korah sinned, God in his loving mercy spared these sons of Korah. Because they had a praise for his name. Because they were ordained of God to salvation, as we saw in election this morning. had a job for them to do. How marvelous are the works of God that he saves the sons of sinners for his glory. And my friends, why are any of us alive today but that God has spared us? Henry Weil, a German Jew. Fled Germany in the late 1800s. He came to Baltimore. He married Annie Collison. Annie Collison had a daughter also named Annie. Annie Collison Weill had a daughter named Annie Weill. Annie Weill married Divers Thompson. Divus Thompson had a son named Thomas Thompson Thomas Thompson had a daughter named June, and she was my mother. Henry Wilde did not know the Lord. I don't know much about Annie Weill, but I know her husband, Divus Thompson, was a wicked man. Wicked, wicked man. He was my great-grandfather. My grandfather was an alcoholic If God had not brought Henry Weil from Germany, a German Jew, I would not be here today. But Henry Weill was spared from the Nazis and moved to Baltimore, and he's my great-great-grandfather. And he never knew the law. Lord. But I have been spared alive. I am a son of Korah. And my responsibility is to be a doorkeeper at the house of God. To declare how amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of God of hosts, because you have saved me, you have called me, and you have spared me to this day. And Lord, I don't care how menial the task Let me serve you, for I would rather do anything for you than to dwell in the tents of wickedness like my Father And so the first ones we find that are concerned with finding this secret place of God are concerned with the tabernacles of God, are the sons of sinners. But also in this passage we find that the sparrows, the sons of sinners, and the sparrows are those that are concerned with the house. Yea, the sparrow, verse three, hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself. Where she may lay her young. Even thine altars, O Lord God of Lord of hosts, my King and my God, blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will still be praising thee. Why doesn't it say eagles? Vultures? Pterodactyls? Birds of prey? Sparrows. Sparrows and swallows. The most insignificant birds The birds that offer no meat to man. The birds that are sold in the market, as Christ said, you know, five sparrows are sold for a farling. They have very little value. They have very little worth. And yet they dwell in the house of the Lord Their nest is there. They bring up their children in that environment. They're not driven out. They're not driven away. They're there in the house of the Lord. Behold, the fowls of the air, they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they, than many sparrows? Two sparrows of home for a farthing. One of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. But the very hairs of your head are numbered Fear ye not, ye are of more value than many sparrows. For ye see your calling, brethren Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble or called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And base things of the world and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence How many rich men of this world are seeking the courts of God? How many powerful politicians are seeking the courts of God? How many leaders of industry are seeking the courts of God? How many great generals are seeking the courts of God? My friend, we're but sparrows in this world. Our Heavenly Father is watching over us, but we have the great privilege of having a nest. And I don't know if you've ever had a bird with a nest in your yard, but try to drive them off. They'll come back. And they'll come back. And they'll come back, and they'll come back. They're tied to that place. The geese that we hear hulking and migrating year by year, they go back to the same place every year. The monarch butterfly returns to the same place every year. The trout returns to the place where its egg hatched. They all go back to that place. You cannot keep them away. The trout will go through every obstacle to get home. Passing through the valley of Baca, they make it a well. We are blessed to be sons of sinners who have been preserved to this day through all kinds of obstacles that we Could have killed us, could have destroyed our egg before our mother ever was born. And yet God has preserved us to this day that we might seek his courts. That we might sing his praise. And we are the weak off-scouring of the world, insignificant as sparrows to the world, and yet we find a nest in this place. Not a building, but in that continual present, dwelling in the house of the Lord, worshiping him. day by day, in a fiery furnace, in a lion's den, in a wilderness, in a prison with our backs beaten, as Paul and Silas. Exiled on the Isle of Patmos But we dwell in the house of the Lord. We seek that holy place. And so briefly as we conclude, what are the blessings of those who are doorkeepers in the house of the Lord? Well, verse one, how amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts, they know the presence of God. My friend, do you know what it is to be in the presence of God? There have been a few times in my life When I have felt the overwhelming presence of God. The first time The first time was in my dorm room in college as a sophomore, praying And we're just overwhelmed with the arresting presence of God. And I knew his tabernacles and his courts at that moment as I had never known them before. The second was a Wednesday evening prayer service up in the mountains over Cambridge at the Fern Evangelical Brothers Church. visit a few years ago. And God suddenly came down on that service. And I knew God's presence in an amazing way. Have you ever known God's presence that way? Have you ever sought His face with such earnestness That you were overcome with the glory of God and you could not cry out to Him and do anything but cry out to Him and worship. And I'm not talking about a charismatic Pentecostal experience. Don't understand me. But folks, dwelling in the house of the Lord forever is now. And the problem with Christians is we go years without ever being there. Because we read our Bible and we pray on the surface and we attend church. But we're never really waiting at the house. God were never truly doorkeepers at the house of the Lord. The first blessing of the doorkeepers is they know the presence of God. Verse 2. My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of my God. My heart and my flesh crowd to the living God. Does your soul truly faint for the courts of God? What's that mean? Or do you have your twenty minutes, two minutes? Half an hour of prayer in the morning and that's it? You're done? Can we go about our day? May we truly long for the presence of God because the court of God is not about the place we are, it's about the person we're meeting with. with. Verse 4, blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will still be praising thee. It's all about God. Secondly, the doorkeepers stay in the place where they'll hear God's word. They stay in the place where they will hear God's word. My soul longeth yea, and fainteth for the courts of God. Those who truly long for God's courts will hear God's word. The Word of God will speak to them. It will not be a dead, dry book. Even the begots will be a blessing. To those who are truly seeking God, because the Spirit of God will bless his word to our hearts. Why do you not understand my speech? Even because you cannot They wait for the temple temple of God. God. Doorkeepers are present are positioned to receive the blessings of God. Look at verse 4. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. Verse 5: Blessed is the man who strengthens in thee. Verse 9, Behold, O Lord, our short shield. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. And I read a dozen c commentaries on who the anointed was here. And almost to a one, they said it's a dual reference. This is before the birth of Christ. The anointed here was most likely King David in its original context. But we cannot fail to see this verse as also being prophetic, that the anointed is looking upon the face of Christ. And so as we pray this prayer in the courts of God, Lord, I am thy anointed, for I am a royal priesthood before you. I am your child. Look upon the face of Christ and hear my prayer, O Lord. Keep me in the place of receiving blessing. In the time of trouble he will hide thee in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle he shall hide thee, and shall set thee upon a rock. Number four, the doorkeeper's prayers are heard. Look upon the face of thine anointed. Verse eight, O Lord our God, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Verse eleven, for the Lord is the Son and the shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will withhold from them that walk. uprightly. Number five, the doorkeepers receive reward. Remember the sons of Korah? They were the sons of a man who was Jealous of others, was dissatisfied with the reward that God was giving him. Moses said to him, There isn't enough that God's drawn you near and made you servants in the house of God. No, no, we want more. The doorkeepers receive a reward. Look at verse 7. They go on from strength to strength. Every one of them appeareth before God in Zion. They make the trip. They make the trip. They come through the Valley of Baka and they appear before God in Zion. Zion there in the original context was of course the city of Zion, the city of David Jerusalem. We don't find God there anymore But we appear before God in this house. For we are the temple. How well it goes along with the Sunday school this morning, we are the temple of God. The temple of God is within us, for the Spirit of God dwells within us. Psalm 73, verse 23, Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me up in the glory. But speaking of the reward of the doorkeepers, look at verse 11. For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. Three G's, what are the rewards of the doorkeeper? God has promised grace. Grace for sinners and grace for sons of sinners. God has promised glory. Glory is the crown of grace, and God has promised good. Did Daniel have grace, glory, and good in the lion's den? You better believe he did because God sent his angel and God was with him in the lion's den. Did Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego have grace, glory, and good in the fiery furnace? Yes I see four men walking loose. They were in the temple of God. They were in this secret place that were to be seeking after. Paul and Silas with their backs bleeding and their feet in stocks. And a great earthquake shakes the prison, breaks off the doors, and looses their stocks. Did they know the presence of God? You better believe it. John on the Isle of Patenus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. See my friend, it's there. It's available. It's not a building or a structure. It's a secret place that we are to seek after But it is available to the child of God from this day forward. I'll dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. Surely goodness of mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house, O Lord, forever, for as long as eternity last. The Lord will give good. The Lord gives grace, glory, and good. Promotion cometh not from the east nor from the west. North and the south, but God is the judge. He putteth down one and setteth up another. Isn't that appropriate to the sons of Korah? He puts down one and he sets up another. It's his choice, but it's all good It's all good, as our our one brother says at prayer meeting every week. It's all good. It's all good. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will withhold from them that walk uprightly. The things of this world are not good things, folks. No. But we're talking about that secret place of God. He gives good in the fiery furnace. He gives good in the lion's den. He gives good. There's a reward to the doorkeepers. I'd like to close with the words of a hymn by Isaac Watts. That we're actually going to sing this hymn on April 2nd for the Lord's table. Watts wrote these words, How sweet and awesome is the place, with Christ within the doors, while everlasting love displays the choicest of his stores. While all our hearts and all our songs join to admire the feast, each of us cries with thankful tongues, Lord, why am I a guest? Why was I made to hear your voice and enter while there's room, while thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come? Twas that same love that spread the feast and sweetly drew us in, else we had still refused to taste and perished in our sin. Pity the nations, O our God. Constrain the earth to come. Send your victorious word abroad and bring the strangers home. We long to see your churches full, that all the chosen race may with one voice and heart and soul sing your redeeming grace. My friend, the courts of God are not a building of wood or stone But rather, the courts of God are anywhere that the people of God meet. What are they? It is the meeting of God's people with God, whether one or two or a thousand. The courts of God can be the middle of the woods. The courts of God can be out on a rock. The courts of God can be in the house of worship. But the courts of God are not a Sunday matter. What are they? It is simply God's people in worship. Where are they wherever God's people are, and when are they all the time? all the time. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I'd rather be a doorkeeper. Anna departed not from the temple. And so may God give us grace to seek his face, to know him as we've never known him before, to experience the glories of his presence. My friend, how long has it been since you've been to the house of God? Let us pray. Tell us to have. Father, we thank you for your mercy and your grace. We thank you, Lord, that the secret place of the Most High is available to the child of God. O Lord, how satisfied we are with the world, resulting in such little longing for the house of God. Lord, may you bless us to seek thy place, to seek thy fellowship with all of our heart, so One mind. Bless thy word to us this day in Jesus' name. Amen