First Kings chapter one, verses forty-one through forty-three, if you recall from last week, Adonijah was declaring himself king. And he was throwing a great banquet, the banquet feast, and so we picked up at the banquet feast of Adonijah, where he's declared himself king, contrary to prophecy that said Solomon would be king. Contrary to the word of God, contrary to David's wishes and his mother Bathsheba's wishes, contrary to everything, Agenias having his coronation feast, as it were. So verse 41. And Adonijah, who was the son of David, and all the guests that were with him, heard it as they had made an end of eating. Heard what? And when Job heard the sound, heard the sound of what? Of the trumpet, he said, That is Job, wherefore is the noise of the city being in an uproar? And while he yet spake, behold, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, the priest, came. And Adonijah said unto him, Come in, for thou art a valent man, and bringest good tidings. And Jonathan answered and said unto Adonijah, Verily our Lord King David, hath made Solomon king. The king has sent with him Zadek the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada, also a priest, if you recall from last week. And the Karahites and the Pelophites, David's private bodyguards, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule. And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gion. That's the pool of water outside of Jerusalem. Much is familiar from last week. And they come up from thence rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise you have heard. And also Solomon sitteth on the throne of the kingdom. And moreover, the king's servants came to bless our Lord King David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne. And the king David bowed himself upon the bed. He acquiesced. Yes, I hope Solomon's throne is greater. I hope his name is greater. And also thus said the king, verse 48, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which hath given one to sit on my throne this day, my eyes even seeing it. And all the guests that were with Adonijah were afraid. And they rose up and they went every man his way And Adonaijah feared because of Solomon. And he arose, and he went, and he caught hold on the horns of the altar. And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth King Solomon, for lo he hath caught hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear unto me today that he will not slay his servant with the sword. And Solomon said, If he that is of Ageni will show himself a worthy man or a virtuous man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth But if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die. So King Solomon sent, and they brought him, that is Adonijah, down from the altar, and he came, and Adonaiah bowed himself to King Solomon. And Solomon said unto him, Go to your house. I wonder how many here have been in a festivities of a birthday party exciting or maybe an anniversary, somebody's twenty fifth anniversary and all the excitement and hoopla. Or maybe as you recall just a few months back at the Democratic National Convention at the election, how the hoopline excitement as the numbers started to trickle in and how excited they were. And then a phone call comes and just upsets the party. Maybe it called is it grandma and grandpa were on the way to the birthday party and and they were killed Or maybe at the anniversary you get a call that uh one of the children, uh maybe the oldest child for the twenty-fifth anniversary has been in a car wreck. Uh Uh or as at the National Convention of the Democrats at the election, they got a phone call that they'd lost Pennsylvania, Michigan. in Wisconsin and you saw them dispersing across the floor that night. The rejoicing was gone and they were afraid of what what the So here we are at a banquet feast, and they are excited and they've been eating a long time because by the time the word comes to David about the feast And by the time they get the mule out and saddle and by the time he gets his bodyguard together and Solomon together and he gets the Nathan the prophet and and gets it all set up to go down to the pool. This takes a long time and then by the time they get down to a guy on the pool and and they correlate and they anoint him and then they take him back up. It's been a long time. This feast has been going on a long time. It's a big party And there's probably a lot of them are drunk by now. They are just as festive as they can be. And all of a sudden you hear the shouting and the carrying on and the roar from the city. And they can't imagine what it could be It was a dreadful sound to them when they heard that it meant Solomon was king and sits on the throne. The trumpet became a dreadful sound for them. It's just as it was in the days of Noah. They did eat also. They were festive, and the flood came and took them away. Christ tells us that in Luke 17. 26 and 27. And then they heard the dreadful sound of raindrops that kept falling on their heads. There's a song in there somewhere. But they weren't singing. Younger folks don't remember that song. Rain drop ski falling on my head. So the sound of the trumpets disturbed Adonijah and Joab and his people, the sound of raindrops. How about the dreadful sound of it raining fire and brimstone in the days of Sodom and the Gomorrah? Or the days of Lot. It did rain, fire and brimstone, and destroyed them all. Luke 17, 28 and 29. And I know that's true because Christ said it happened. My Bible says so. How about the sound of the seven trumpets of the angels that will blast? Christ tells us in Revelation 8, 9 and 10, or 9 and 11, those three chapters. Or in first Thessalonians five and three. In prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him, Job fifteen and twenty one. And here was Adonijah. They were in prosperity, they were having this feast As in Sodom and Gomorrah, as in the days of Noah, as in the latter days when the seven trumpets are blowing. There are you know people wonder what's gonna be like in the latter days. Talks about prosperity, talks about things that are great The city of Babylon and the ships coming and trading. Everything's wonderful. In prosperity, the destroyer came upon Adonijah. And it came on Sodom. It came in the days of Noah. And pilgrim, I wonder if you've really given deep consideration of your soul's eternal destiny. Maybe you're prospering. Maybe things are really going well for you. And you really haven't thought much about eternity and your destiny But we all need to, because the destroyer will come. Our bodies will die someday. And some of us will go very quickly without any warning at all. So have you given deep, deep, deep, deep consideration of your soul's eternal resting place, destiny? Verses 42 through 44, and behold Jonathan, if you remember Jonathan, he was kind of a hero in the days when Absalom was trying to overthrow the kingdom and kill King David. He was on King David's side. He was a son of Abiathar. And here Jonathan comes and he's he's a priest and he came and Adonijah said to him, Come in, come in. For thou art a valiant man, a wonderful man, a brave man, and bring us good tidings, right? Well that was his job to bring the good news. That's what a priest does, that's what a pastor does, that's what a Christian does, that's what you do if you share. To bring good news. And Jonathan said to Adonijah, Verily our Lord King David hath made Solomon king, and hath caused him to ride upon the king's mule. This was good news. But not good news for Adonijah. Not good news for him at all. There's one here this morning that the good news of the gospel of Christ is not good news. I mean you might be sitting here and you're not saved, but you oh yeah that's good news. I know he's saved just for a sin. He died on the cross. Yeah, I know that's good news. No, no, no. Is there someone sitting here right now that the gospel of Jesus Christ, dying for our sins, as a substitute for our sins, is there someone here sitting right now that that's not good? Good news. Oh man, is that good news? I don't mean oh yeah, that's good news. No, no. You're sitting here and it's not the best news you have ever, ever heard. Because you'll never hear anything better. If you're sitting this morning, it's it's good news, but it's not Oh good news. Ouch on your soul. Jonathan continues in verse 45. He says, Oh, not only is he sitting on the throne, but Zadek the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king. And this is the noise you've heard. And also Solomon sitteth on the throne. Solomon's about 18 or 19 years old here. He's a teenager. But he's the king of Israel. And the king determines who dies. He has sovereign control over his subjects. He determines who dies And Adonai's been in rebellion. Adonaijah's been out there to do what? We we read in the scriptures, he's out to take over the throne, whatever it costs. He's going to kill everyone. And here, Solomon has the right to take his life. And you might think, boy, that's a lot of power for a king to have. That's a lot of power for a sovereign king to have, that he could he can determine who dies Christ, the King of Kings, who sits on the heavenly throne, he determines more than that. You know what the heavenly King of Kings can determine? He can determine whether you are ever born. And he can determine when you die, how you die, where you die, and where you spend eternity. Solomon doesn't have that much power But the Lord Jesus Christ does. So shouldn't we give Christ in his words a little more attention throughout our day? But he's determined. You're here because Christ determined. In fact, he shed his blood as a Lamb of God before the foundation of the earth. He shed his blood For his sheep. He knew his sheep. He knew their name by name. He calls them by name. He knew you were coming because he determined that you would be born. There are no accidents Your mom and dad may have said it was an accident. We didn't want children for two or three years and you were an accident. No. Christ determined it was your time to be born. Determines when you're going to die and we're going to spend all eternity. We ought to get real familiar with him You know, they sing the song, What a Friend We Have in Jesus. He'd better be more than a friend to you. He needs to be your all and your all To take preeminence in your life, we need to be really, really familiar with his words. Give him more attention every day with our prayers. Not just read his words, we need to talk to him. Jonathan continues and he says in verse 47: Moreover The king's servants, that's the Karahites and the Pelotites, they're the bodyguards of David. They came and they blessed King David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and his throne greater than thy throne. Boy, there are some jealous kings out there that wouldn't want to hear that You tell that to Caesar, oh Caesar, I hope your replacement is better than you, greater than you, and Caesar will chop your head off Even if the one replacing Caesar is his son or a relative or a family, it didn't matter. Herod was killing his own family, wife and kids. David would have his son to be his replacement, and when David heard these things, it says that the king bowed himself upon the bed as the say Amen to that. He's fantastic. Let Sodom be a greater king than me. Let Sodom have a a greater rule than mine. Let him do a better job than I have done. We we find here that David would have his son to excel him in every realm. Excel me in a better name. That's okay, Solomon. Excel me in a greater throne. That's okay, Solomon. Have a greater reign. That's okay, Solomon. Have a greater reputation. Oh, please have a better reputation. That's okay, Solomon. Have a greater devotion to God. Oh, yes, Solomon. I want you to have all that in every realm. I want you to excel me Is there anyone here who wouldn't desire the same of their loved ones to excel yourself? Or would you say, well, I hope he grows up to be as spiritual as I am I would hope everyone here says, I hope they grow up to excel me in spirituality. I hope they grow up to excel me in every realm of life that they can. They have a better name, a good name, a good reputation. Is there anywhere who wouldn't desire their loved ones or their children to excel them in grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ? Why wouldn't you want them to excel you? Or would you just let them settle for second best or being as good as dad or mom? Some of the young people think we're hard on you. We're going to make you go to Sunday school a lot of time. We're going to make you go to church every Sunday. We want you to read your Bible. You didn't have to do this when you were your age, my age. No, I didn't. Why are you pushing this on me like this? I want you to excel in spirituality and grace. the knowledge of the Lord. The world's getting worse. You're gonna need it more than I did, young people. The world's getting worse. You're gonna need this. More mom and dad and grandpa needed it. And a better relationship. David says when he hears all of this That he might have a better name and a better reputation. David says in 48, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which hath given one to sit on my throne this day, and my eyes even seeing it. And David was so great and so gratified by this because 1 Chronicles 22 if you go back and verses 8 through 10, through the prophet Nathan had prophesied that Solomon would sit on the throne of David. David was promised that that's that your son Solomon, though that son comes in Bathsheba, and that's a whole horrid story in itself. But God had forgiven him, taken his first child, but when he gives him Solomon, he says David, you're forgiven. How do I know I'm forgiven? I've given you a child. How do I know you're forgiven me? He's gonna sit on your throne, David. You've got ten wives and concubines, but out of the loins of David and Bathsheba will be the man I will choose His name will be Solomon. It was prophesied, 1 Chronicle 22, 8 through 7. And David said, I believe you, God, but help my own belief. I believe you, God. God said, believe my promise, David, you're going to see it Most kings would die, and then you we read they slept with their fathers, and then Azar, Josiah, or somebody took over the kingship. David, you're gonna live long enough to see your son sit on your throne And that's why David says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which hath given the one to sit on my throne to stay, and my eyes even seeing it. Wow, what a comfort For the followers of Christ, when we are dying, to see that our loved ones are serving God as according to the promises of Scripture. No parent here wants to die with their children off out there in the world, serving the world, serving Satan, Lucifer, the devil. devil. We all want to die believing our children are saved, that they're following us in our footsteps, that they're reading the scriptures. That's that's if we have to die at any age at all, we want to die looking upon our children, serving Serving the Lord. The scripture promises in Proverbs 22:6. By the way, Solomon is a writer of made of Proverbs. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart. from it. That's what we think as we get older. We want to see as we get older our children moving in behind us, walking in in the way, following Christ And most many of us are going to die and not see that, and some of our children. But boy, what a blessing it is. And David was blessed long enough to see that Solomon sat on the throne. And there's more of the the blessing, the prophecy, that Solomon would become the man that God loved. David did not see that in his time. And then it reverts back to the festivities going on up there with Adonijah's banquet. And all the guests, verse 49. And Ajahnijah were afraid, rose up and went his way. Everyone went his way. You can just imagine it looked like you if you walked out in the kitchen in the morning and there was five roaches in the middle of the floor eating on a piece of cheese and you bring come down the slice water. They go all different directions. Well maybe that hasn't ever happened in your house. It hasn't happened in mine, but it's happened in grocery stores where I worked. You turn the light and woo! Looked like the floor was moving You don't get behind those glass cases and see what goes on back there, but it's it's a really uh it's a problem for food stores all the time. Stuff's coming in all the time. But these men scattered. They were afraid. Adonijah, they were all afraid. They rose up and they went his way. Every man went his way. And that's when the good news was shared with them, that the anointed king sits on his throne. The good news it I don't know if you've ever been to a family reunion somewhere and something comes up and you get a chance to talk about the Lord or the gospel and you start to talk about it The good news and several people hear you, it just puts a damper on the party, doesn't it? Oh man, what's going over in that corner? You don't want to go over there. Come back over here by the bar or whatever Or come back over to this corner and talk to Sally or Oh, you don't want to go over there. Oh, they're over there evangelizing. They're all preaching the gospel right now. You know, many times when you openly declare A good news, it puts a damper on the party. And the good news here was that Solomon, according to prophecies in 1 Chronicles, come true, he is sitting on the throne as God promised And as it was spoken to the prophet Nail, prophecy's been fulfilled. It's good news. God was right again. God declared, God controlled it, it really happened. And what God said really happened. Wow, that's good news. Here at this verse, the wicked. Every man it says in verse 49 went his way to preserve himself. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end of the ways of death, Proverbs 14, 12. I would have left that party and went up the hill to King Solomon and said, I was wrong, I was wrong, I'm really sorry, I repent, I I joined your son, you know please don't kill me either. I don't want to be found of that party. I was there. I was already there. Jonathan came in, the high priest son. He knows who was there. Oh boy, thought my name gets sent back to Solomon. But they didn't. They just all went their way. They dispersed Think about when it rained in the days of Noah. What did everybody do? They went every way imaginable. They didn't go in the ark, or they couldn't get in it by then anyway. Maybe some climbed on top of it and thought that'd help if they could But think about it. Well it started to rain in Noah's day. They'd never seen rain. They didn't know what rain was. It was like a sound of a trumpet. It petrified 'em. What is this stuff? Let's go ask Methuselah. Methuselah's name means when it comes, it shall or destruction shall come. And they thought, well asked Methushelah if he's ever seen rain. Let's go ask Methuselah. If you look at the chronology in the Genesis, you realize that Methuselah died at the same time. The flood came. And Methush. Hey Methusha, if you ever Methusha died this morning. He did what? We want to ask him. His name means when it comes he shall die. When he comes, it shall die. If he fell out of a tree, oh if he dies, something's coming, something dreadful. He's dead. The rain, what is it? They were they were panicking, and they also fled, everyone to his way. Some was to the tallest tree, some was to the tallest building, some was to the tallest mountain. But the end result of going your own way and every way was still death. Because there's only one way to avoid the flood And that was in the Ark with Noah. People have ideas of where to go Or where they are going. Well, where are you headed today, friend? Where are you headed? If you're headed in any way but Christ who is the way John fourteen six. You're heading for a dead end. There wasn't a tree tall enough, building tall enough, mountain tall enough There's only one way to avoid the destruction that's coming. Adonijah in verse 50, he was fearing Solomon. He arose, he went, he caught hold on. You thought when he got into the sanctuary? Where the altar was. And there was four horns that he said, oh good, there's one horn empty. You know, there's three other guys here, but I I came fast and I got here too There's no description of anybody else hanging on to one of the other horns. He's the only one that had a little bit of sense about him that I'm going to run to the sanctuary where I'll be safe. They don't have a sanctuary city, but they had a sanctuary where you could be safe. You could run in. Exodus 37, 2 talks about the four horns that and they were considered a place where well that was where the animals were sacrificed. We read in Psalm 118 and 27 That they were these animals were sacrificed. They were hung on the horns and the blood of the animals. This was the place of atonement. This was the place of forgiveness. And that's where he went. And there wasn't anybody else there. Nobody, we don't read anybody else who was standing in line wanting to touch the altar, wanting to touch the horns. But that's where Adam and Nijah went. It was regarded as a sanctuary. Exodus 21 14 tells us it was a sanctuary. It was a place you could flee for safety. There were the the six uh cities, or perhaps those seven or I forget right now of refuge, but also the sanctuary. And he fled there. He fled and he fled God's mercy, believing that Solomon wouldn't remove him from God's house. Hey, I'm in God's house. I'm in here. I'm turning my life over to Jesus, Adonijah, so to speak. I'm turning my life over to God. I want to serve God. Oh Solomon, you've got to understand I've I've I've had an epiphany I'm like your father David. I've seen the light. You're not going to drag me out of here streaming and kicking and kill me, are you? You wouldn't do that. I know you wouldn't do that, Solomon. You wouldn't remove me from God's house. It's a place I need to be. And you surely, Solomon, you wouldn't shed your brothers. I'm your brother, Solomon. Half brother, but I'm your brother. You wouldn't shed your brother's blood in such a sacred location. shouldn't would you? Would you, Solomon? For some people that wouldn't stop them. What a contrast to think in Christ's day that the priests Would shed the blood of Christ, an innocent man. And they would shed it during the holy week. And they would shed it in a horrible manner, crucified on the cross, and while he was dying to be mocking him, he saved others, save himself, Matthew 27. forty one and forty two. Oh, there are people that would kill you inside the sanctuary. You go over you go over to Lebanon, you go over to Syria, you go over to Egypt, these places, what are they doing? They're walking the church, they're burning the church to the ground, the people inside. They're going inside, they're butchering them. They're chopping up, they're killing him, they're crucifying him. They will kill you if you're found inside the sanctuary or the churches over in in the land of the Islams But it happens here too. Some of you know if you watch the papers, one of the pastors have been shot in their pulpits here in America. Down in the Carolinas, a guy walked in and he shot the people in the congregation that were sitting there for a I think it was a Wednesday night Bible study I mean the things that will happen in a church. I know of a pastor who committed adultery in his church office. People who've robbed the church, they break our church's been robbed two or three times. They rob the church. They'll murder people in the church, commit adultery in the church. It's supposed to be a place of sanctity But in this day and age, and even in the days of Christ, Adonijah was taking a chance even going there that Solomon at that point not what we call a died in the wool, saved, born-again individual. He's an 18-year-old teenager sowing his oats It was told Solomon in verse 51, Behold, Adonise the fear of King Solomon, for lo, he hath caught hold on the horns of the altar. This was probably an unusual place to find Adonijah anytime. You know, he wasn't a godly guy. He wasn't making the services, the house of the congregation of the Lord. We we don't read of that. So this is an unusual place for him to be found. Where would your friend say? What would your friend say if you told him that you're in church right now? I mean would your would your friend say church is an unusual place for you to be found And I I probably have my phone on right now and I shouldn't, and many many of you do also, but we forget to turn them off because everybody knows where we are for the most part, right? So who would call you at 1130 or quarter to 12 in the morning? They know where you are. You can't answer your phone. But some here I suspect they don't know you go to church on Sunday. You kind of keep that quiet on the slide, you know. Would your friends say church is an unusual place for you to be found? Here, Ad and Ijah, like many others, when found out, he found religion. You ever meet people like that? They go before the judge, oh Lord, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm reading my Bible now and I'm going to a Bible study and I just throw myself in the mercy to court, right? That's what you hear. All of a sudden, when they're found out, they found religion But not the Christ of the scriptures. You can be religious, carry a Bible, maybe even read it. But have you found Christ of the scriptures? This Adonijah, he he didn't need Nathan the prophet, remember when he threw the party And he didn't need Benaih the priest when he threw the party. He didn't need Zadok the priest when he threw the party. And he wanted to kill Solomon and his mother Bathsheba. He wants to kill Solomon and Bathsheba. Now he wants Solomon to just let him go and don't kill me and don't slay me. And I'm a good guy. I've dedicated my life to the Lord. I'm hanging on the altar I just can't get close enough to things of God right now. I mean, that's just the way it is, Solomon. You have to believe me. He declares Solomon as king. He says here he's his loving servant. He says in this verse 51 It's told Solomon that he feareth Solomon, for lo he has caught hold on the altar, and he says, Let King Solomon swear down to me this day that he will not slay his servants Let King Solomon, hear my king. Let him not slay his servant. Oh, I'm your servant. I'm your loving servant. Make an oath. Swear. Imagine telling the king, I don't trust your word, you've got to swear, you've got to make an oath, or I'm not going to trust you. Wow. And Solomon says in 52, if he will show himself worthy or a virtuous man, in other words, if his word is good, if he's a valiant man, a man to be trusted, there shall not a hair on his head fall to the earth. Oh, good. But if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die. In other words, Solomon says, okay, you're at the altar, you hang on the altar. Boy, it's an unusual place for you to be And uh hey, I'll give you credit, you you thought about the right way to go, I'm not sure if it's in your heart or not, but you okay. Well I'm gonna look for some spiritual growth, I'm gonna look for some spiritual sanctification, I'm gonna look for some character change And if I and if I see all that, good, I don't know, I should. But if you continue to meddle in the affairs of my kingdom, you're gonna die. You're gonna die. I'm gonna be watching you. That's that's the others. I'm gonna be watching you. You know, how do we know when someone says they're saved or not? How could Solomon know if Adoniza had saving faith or saying faith in Christ? For the most part, we don't know. Time will tell. You know, we see the guy that stops drinking, stops cussing at his wife. Uh w we see the lady that's uh no longer flirtatious, you know, and she settles down with one guy. I mean you you see some things that start to happen. You you see those those character changes and the character flaws going away. But it takes time. And Solomon said, I'm gonna give you time You know, if you're really a worthy man, a virtuous man, fine. But he said, if I see you continue to meddle in the things of my kingdom, you're going to die How do we know? Well, James 2, verses 14 through 26 helps us a little bit. He declares that saving faith will produce works. Faith without works is dead. James says someone says they're saved, that's saving faith. But if they really are saved, and not just saying faith, if he said, we'll see some works. We'll see some changes. Even a church mouse, someone born in a church, their father was a pastor, their grandpa was a pastor, well he's been born in a church, he's been a good kid all his life, there will still be some changes. And mom and dad will notice them. And King Solomon said, all right, we'll send for Adonijah They took him off the altar. He must have been trembling the whole way. Is he taking down to kill me? Or is he going to believe me? Oh, what's going to happen to me? And he brings him down to Solomon. He came and he bowed himself before King Solomon. And that's when Solomon said, you know, you you you're all right, but if you're if I see the mailing of my kingdom anymore, here you just try to take the crown. If you try anything else out other than uh in similar vein, you're gonna die In the morning, here's Adonijah. He's coming before Solomon now. He's been pulled off the altar, he's pulled off the horns. You can imagine prying his fingers off the altar horns. You know, he's just trying to hang on to them because he's not sure what's going to happen until he gets there. And then Solomon swears he won't kill him unless he meddles anymore. But here he comes, Adonijah, in the morning, Adonijah was grasping for Solomon's crown. And in the afternoon he was grasping for the horns of the altar. And now he's grasping for Solomon not to kill him and to swear that he won't kill him. Begging for his life and bowing before the Solomon whom he wanted to kill that morning. Begging and bowing before the man that he wanted to kill and his mother Why? The triumph of the wicked, it is short, isn't it? From morning till evening, how things can change in our life. Job 20, verse 5, the triumphing of the wicked is short. I'm going to save you a little time this morning. Was Adonijah's words and conversion genuine? Thirteen verses later, he's up to his old tricks to overthrow Solomon. Read it. His testimony lasts thirteen verses. How long did it take to read thirteen verses? He's up to those old tricks, and Solomon executes him in 1 Kings 2, between verses 13 and 23 by the hand of Benaiah, one of the mighty men and a priest. Pilgrim, is your faith genuine? Is your love for Christ genuine? Time will tell. I may never know. Your parents may never know. But God already knows. And some will some will figure it out. Matthew 24, 13 gives us this assurance. Some of you might wonder if you're saved or not. Well, here it is. The love of many show wax cold. Some of you who think you're saved right now, you'll prove 13 verses later or something. She never were. The love of many shall wax cold, but he that endureth on the end, the same shall be saved. Are you really saved this morning? You'll be there in the last day of your life, bowing on your deathbed, praising God. And everybody say, Wow, I was thought he was saved. Pretty sure he was saved, but man, that's Settles it. The love of many shall wax cold. Oh, I pray no one here is even lukewarm this morning. And that you will endure the end and you shall be saved. Let's pray. Oh Father, we look to you this morning. We're so grateful for the this history, true history Of the man David. All the struggles and trials and failings he went through, and yet you loved him. We find you even loved his son Solomon. We won't be studying his life. But it was worse than David's in so many ways. And yet we find in the end you loved him, used him to write scripture as well as his father. Father. And Lord, we just pray that there's someone here this morning that maybe they are lukewarm, maybe they are cold, maybe they think they're saved, maybe they think they're as good as anybody else. Oh Lord, I don't want to be good as anybody else. Anyone else Is not going on the way, is not heading for heaven, not heading for eternal bliss and joy. Lord, it's not good enough to sit here and feel we're comfortable because we're as good as everyone else. The weight and the balance will come out maybe even better than most of everybody else. Oh Lord, we need to be saved. We need to be so different. We need to be characters change our characters. Change the way we've been going, Lord. Oh, just bless us, we pray, with true, genuine, saving faith. And we ask this in the name of our great God and Savior, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, our Redeemer. Jesus Christ, Amen.