We're continuing in Hebrews 10, 31, and boy, there's a lot of things I'd uh like to talk about. I'd like to talk about the the mercy of God, the righteousness of God imputed grace and salvation. But you know the Bible also has another side of God that it discusses and it discusses it freely and it actually discusses it often And our passage for today is just one short verse, and it's found in Hebrews 10. 31. And it says this. It says, it is a fearful thing. To fall into the hands of thee, not a living God And so I did not want to just shoot past that and move on to happier targets. And we will certainly get to those when we get to the eleventh chapter and even the tail end of this one. But I'll open with a question. What do you know about the judgment of God? What do you know about it? Anybody. Does God even judge? Let's start with the basics. Yeah. Mm-hmm. God tells me. Mm-hmm. He definitely judges, okay. In your mind, what does that look like? What does the judgment of God look like? I just know after I ask him enough time Usually have to ask him more than once. Hmm, okay. But then I know. I see. All right. What else? What do you know about the judgment that you are? In this context I'm referring to the the thing that is fearful to fall into. A fearful thing. Yes. Jeffrey? It's final. It's final. Alright. In annihilation, just puff your gun. It's difficult. You won't stand there and and if you're standing there you won't It's fall fallen into his hand, but it's uh once once the gavel drops per se to be it's But I don't think that's the truth. Oh well I I think what Jeffrey's saying is once the final judgment when we're when the earth is done. Oh okay. Mm-hmm. Okay What else do we know about the judgment of God? I I I would say it's always just. It is it is a true judgment. Um the guilty are guilty. The the pardoned or pardoned. Um Yeah, that you know sometime on earth there are courts make mistakes. This m this court makes no mistakes. Okay, this court makes no mistakes. So in your mind, what does the judgment of God look like What does it look like in your mind as you envision how this plays out? What does the judgment of God look like? Any ideas Not good. Not good. Yeah. Okay. What else do you go? What else okay the casting into hell? What else would the judgment of God look like in your mind? Any other aspects to it? I've heard a gavel drop. I've heard maybe appeal, but maybe there is no appeal. Any other thoughts? These are all good answers. Just trying to get us to think through a little bit. It involves wrath. Okay. Wrath. What does that look like? Well scripture tells us God is angry with the wicked every day. Sin is an affront to the righteousness of God. How does this wrath play out in your mind? What does wrath look like? What what does wrath upon someone look like? Well, start to use the word judgment, which is the same word we're talking about. It is it is a wrath that involves a a punishment. Okay. A punishment, a retribution. Okay. Yeah. Well these are all good thoughts, uh and the broadcaster may have an input if you'd like to weigh in. to describe the judgment of God. There's a phrase that has been used before an eternal conscious judgment of God. Torment, excuse me. Yeah. Eternal conscious torment. Yes. Yeah, those are all apt phrases. Well, we're going to look today at this passage and um and uh and hopefully we'll be benefited some from considering it I'm really trying not to terrify everyone in the room, although if that is a side effect, I can't avoid that. But I am seeking to exalt and magnify how our God operates, because he operates very differently. He operates, he's not a man as us. He doesn't do things like we do. And so sometimes our view of how God operates is tainted by ourselves standing in the mirror, saying, what would I do? Well, I would do this. And God doesn't operate like us at all. He has a very different way. And I'm going to touch on that a little bit today. We're principally really only going to be in a couple of passages, and you will be opening your Bibles And you will be following along, uh, Lord Willie. I I I I believe I may have printed it out in your bulletin, but you might enjoy following along in your Bible. In our passage of Hebrews 1031, it comes as a conclusion, concluding statement. The concluding statement came on the heels of the passage that began in verse 26 that said, if we sin willfully after we've received knowledge of the truth, and so on. And in the prior studies, and you can look them up and listen to them if you'd like. I've even got the notes available. You can skim read through it if you'd like. But that audience there was who? Does anybody remember who that audience was? Who are those that sin willfully and there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins? Who are those individuals? Does anybody remember? It was the fallen angels. Fallen angel? That's pretty close. Yeah, I suppose they would be in that camp. Uh those that crucified him? Okay. Um the reprobate The reprobate. Reprobate are those that are in the covenant community. They know something about God. They've received some knowledge and understanding about Jesus Christ. And yet they size it all up, they hear the promises, they they hear the blessings, they think about prayer, and they go, nah. Now. And they turn away from it. They just they just take what Jesus did and kind of wad it up like a piece of paper and throw it in the trash can and move on. They don't think much of it. They just continue on. That's the reprobate Now you and I would just go, well, they're mighty mighty haughty. That's kind of rude. They're not going to invite them to my dinner again. God doesn't act like that. When you do that after what his son has done, when you do that when he converts messengers to come and deliver knowledge of the gospel to you, When you do this after you've actually received a measure of insight into what the Word of God is, God now holds you accountable And he holds you accountable for that action. And by that action, if you reject it, it says it's a fearful thing. to fall into the hands of the living God. What does that look like? So let's explore this. First thing we see it's a warning. It's a warning. Hey, heads up You've received knowledge of the Word of God and the gospel. Don't treat it lightly. This actually has very significant strings attached to it. Number two, it's assumed the audience understands God's ways. Look at it again. It says, we know, verse 30, we know him that has said, vengeance belongeth unto me. This is speaking to people who are in a covenant community, people who have a Bible in their hands. Maybe they've been raised with a Bible in their hands. They know something about God. And it's called a fearful thing. And the book of Hebrews is the only book in the Bible that uses this particular term, fearful It was in an earlier section of scripture of Hebrews 10. 26, it says there's a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery Indignation later in Hebrews 12 it says, and so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. That's that word that's used here, and it's own Paul ever uses it, John, Peter, Matthew, Martin, none of the New Testament writers use this particular term of fearful. And it is a condition that is said to be in God's hands. You know, the old Western movies you have uh the sheriff in town. He says, Boy, if I ever get my hands on that guy, I'm gonna really do something to him. We even use that phrase, to lay hands on somebody. We're gonna grab them. And uh The John the Baptist in Matthew 3 was speaking about Jesus, and he said, Whose fan is in his hand? He will thoroughly purge his floor and gather his wheat and the garner, but he'll burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. He says he has a fan in his hand. Let's think about this. It says it's a fearful thing to fall into his hands. And John says he's got a fan in his hand. What does the fan do? Multiply the uh air. Moves air, multiplies what? The if it's fire, it makes the fire or Certainly we've seen that in the Palisades in Southern California this particular year when a hundred mile an hour Santa Ana wind blew through and took a little spark and engulfed it into a raging fire that devoured 180,000 homes. Here it says his fan is in his hand. God is the one waving the fan. He's making the fire worse. We also have in Matthew 17 it says, Jesus said unto them, The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men. Now How did men use their hands against Jesus? Let's look at it the other way around. How does the hand of man work? How did men use their hand against Jesus? Yeah, they certainly physically hit him with their hands. They smote him, saying, Prophesy who who who beat thee. How else did they use their hands against Jesus? Is it just the physical hand? Was it just the apprehension at the garden? He was praying and they came and the soldiers took him and led him away? Was it just that? How did men use their hands against Jesus? They rejected the Messiah. Uh the Jews rejected him, okay. They gave him the Heisman. How else did they use their hands against him? Could you say the hand of Pilate was against him? He had the power. But the people, regardless of what Pilate was feeling, the people wanted to crucify What did Pilate do? Did Pilate was Pilate's hand for Jesus or against him? Does scripture record which? For him or against him? He washed his hands of the whole affair. He washed his hands of the whole affair? And what ended up happening? He did the will of the people. Yeah. He crucified him. Pilate was against him. He was a politician. He made it so that the written record sounded like, oh I don't have anything to do with this. But under the table, he's throwing him under under the bus. He's throwing him to the to the killers, the crucifiers. He offered him no protection. He that's not with me is against me You see how the hand of man works? It's deceptive. It's subtle. It's dangerous. It can take your life. They can literally beat you, apprehend you. But we're going to look at how the hand of God operates. Again, very different than how men operate. So that's the basic observations of this warning right here. Just looking at this business, it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. That's a intense phrase. There's some larger observations. And I want to consider now how the true and living God historically has in fact used his hands against the reprobate. That's our context. It's speaking about how God is going to take into account and deal with those who have heard the message of Christ, heard his prophets, heard the gospel, and yet have shunned it, rejected it, like a piece of trash thrown in the garbage, turn now to the book of Nahum, which really served as the spine for the discussion. Nahum is a very short book in the Old Testament. I did print out a handful of key verses for you in your bulletin insert. And Nahum comes at a time as a prophecy against Nineveh, and Nineveh was the capital of Assyria. And he is speaking first to the people of God against whom the Assyrians would come, and he is issuing a complaint against them. And so we read in Nahum, and beginning, I'm going to start now in the second verse. God is jealous. We read that earlier in Hebrews. He's a jealous God. God is jealous, and the Lord revengeth. The Lord revengeth and is furious. We talked a little bit about his wrath, eternal torment. He's furious. The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath. For his enemies. Now pay careful attention to this. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. and will not at all acquit the wicked. So I'm going to pause right there in the middle of that verse, because I want to stop and think about this for a moment. So consider verse 3, that first part. It says, the Lord is slow to anger. Question. Does verse 2 imply that? Do you see an implication of God being slow in verse 2? Well reserve it as we find. Yeah, it says he reserves wrath. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. Um There's two notice where he is emphasizing the fact that he will take vengeance quickly and that you just get the sense of a god who is very full of wrath and anger and fury and vengeance and it's just gonna come pouring out. There's that contrast You're correct. There's kind of a yes and a no, there isn't there. You see that word furious. And furious, when we think of a furious man We don't think of walking up to some individual who's calm. We think of somebody who's flying off the handle. They've just become unhinged, we would say. And that's a lot of his language you see in here. But as Lisa pointed out, it says he reserves wrath. And he's slow to anger. Is there a contradiction? Which one is it? Is the is is there a contradiction? We would say no, there's not. So in your mind, how do those two equate, Victoria? Like I think the way to resolve it is he shows vengeance toward his enemies. It's for the enemies that the Lord has the wrath and the darkness and the anger and the you know, wrath towards them but for his people he is very slow to anger, he's very very patient and often you find that comparison of him being like a father for his children where he doesn't just he's not always with the rod, you know he does have to use discipline but he's not gonna be very vengeful. So Victoria's opened up the scope that if the scope includes uh his elect, his children, then he would be slow to anger. He's gonna slow roll this because hey there's Imagine uh military operation, if I may. Special officers closing in. on a terrorist house, but they happen to have taken hostages. We don't want the good guys shooting up the hostages. They have to kind of slow roll it to make sure they extract who they want and preserve the wrath for when they separated and culled them out and then they can close in. That certainly is a a very good and orthodox way of looking at this I've also considered that that's not wrong. I've also considered that if you narrow the scope to just his enemies, could that also be said to be true? If we're just dealing with reprobates. He lets them live ninety, a hundred years old, whatever the age they may be, and they don't they may live not only wickedly but for a long time not yet receiving the wrath of God which will happen at the That's an interesting observation, yes. God in fact does allow sinners to go a long time Yea, he even allows the wicked to prosper in this world and do quite well, and seemingly get away with everything. Does God forget? No. No. Is He absent minded? Is He Is he just not going to be as angry about that a little later? Oh, it's water under the bridge. It's all good. I'm Santa Claus. I just love everybody. No, it says he reserves his wrath for his enemies. Well, and and your your broader context is that of Israel, who had the benefit of the law that many people were without, you know, and they um You know, in i in Hebrews, you know, we're talking about the reparates certainly, but Israel had had many benefits that that the those that were outside of that covenant did not have And um, you know, he has been patient with Israel throughout history. And his patience hasn't ended. You know, also uh combining Victoria's point about God is concerned about his people, his elect, chosen before the foundation world. What if that wicked person, man or woman, is going to have a son or a grandson that later might become saved? God's wrath will be towards that grandparent and in due time deal with them But he's long-suffering because there may be an individual later whom he cares about. Let's continue on here. In Nahum 1. 3, it says, The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all the rivers. Bashan languisheth, and Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon languisheth. Let me ask a question. It says, the Lord hath his way in the whirlwind. I believe the whirlwind would be an Old Testament Hebrew form, basically referring to something like a hurricane or more intensely a tornado. What kind of damage does a tornado, a whirlwind, produce? Complete. It's pretty complete. If it hits, it's you there's no missing it. Have you ever seen some strange things that tornadoes can produce? It can go around one house in the whole neighborhood. A whole neighborhood. It just dodges one house. Yep. And it gets everything else. What other strange things have you heard that tornadoes do? I've heard of a case where it hit a A ranch and the farmer had some chickens and a coop and it destroyed the coop, but it didn't take one feather off the chickens. There was nothing left of the coop. They couldn't find any remnants. Or a piece of straw was driven in several inches into a telephone pole. Tornadoes can do some mighty, mighty strange things, but it's an illustration of the way of God, that it can wreak complete havoc in some sections and other parts untouched. We continue. Nahum 1-5. The mountains quake at him, the hills melt, and the earth is burnt at his presence. Yea, the world and all that dwell therein Who can stand before his indignation? Who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him. Does this sound more or less intense than what we've just read? What are your thoughts? What do you think, Massaba? Is this more intense or less intense? There's no wrong answer. Sure. Certainly strikes me that way. In everything we've read so far, what's your impressions of God's capabilities? Infinite. Infinite. Yeah. Is there anything you can't do? Infinite. It's a good conclusion. We get to verse seven The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. And he knoweth them that trust in him. But with an overrunning flood, he will make an utter end of the place thereof and darkness. shall pursue his enemies. So it appears, folks, that the only way to escape such an overwhelming flood. And I don't believe God's talking about literal waters, though he certainly can do that. He proved that to Pharaoh and his army, that water can certainly do his will But the northern kingdom was destroyed with this overwhelming flood, this overrunning flood known as the Assyrian army. And God sent that Assyrian army, and that Assyrian army marched through and it hauled people away. That's what a flood does. When a flood comes, it tends to take everything in its path. with it. Trees, rocks, cars, your house, telephone poles, the bank of the river, and everything in between. There's nothing but mud and rocks and debris. That's what an overrunning flood does. So, all other paths other than trusting in Him will fail. The thing that struck me this week in contemplating the hands of God, it says it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. This passage in Nahum 1 says, and darkness shall pursue his enemies. And I want to spend some time talking about the pursuit of darkness. This is an ominous thing. All of our points earlier this morning were absolutely correct concerning the judgment of God and the final judgment. On that great day known as Judgment Day, that great final judgment, it is darkness, not good, it's final, it's complete, there's no appeal, etc. All of that was correct. But the judgment of God doesn't begin then. It starts a whole lot sooner. And I'll submit to you right now That we, if we look with spiritually informed eyes, can see the judgment of God occurring right now all around us. You better believe it's happening right now. It's called the pursuit of darkness. The pursuit of darkness. That's an ominous phrase. Darkness shall pursue his enemies. Maybe y'all are not like me where sometimes you have these strange dreams where you're being chased in the woods and and and you can't get away and and you reach for your gun and it's out of bullets or uh you reach for a club and it keeps falling out of your hands and and you're trying to get this thing off and and you wake up and you've been wrestling with your pillow. And because your arm is stuck and read something goofy. The pursuit. We all know what a pursuit is. The pursuer. God says darkness will pursue his enemies. And I want to consider what that looks like. And for that, we now turn to Romans 1. 18. Because I want us to see what the pursuit of darkness looks like. The Apostle Paul picked up on this and he described it in great detail. And it's all tied to this business of falling into the hands of the living God. Now, I have color-coded your bulletin handout with two different colors One is kind of a light grayish, greenish, more gray than green. The green kind of got faded. And purple. Those are two different things because as we read and survey Romans 1, I want you to pay a close attention to the difference between knowledge, that's the light gray-green highlight, knowledge, the benefit of having spiritual light, the benefit of having some good understanding, a measure of understanding. versus darkness, which is not having any such insight. What happens when The lights are turned off. Alright? And that's what we're looking to look at as we go through this. We begin now in Romans 1. 18. And uh I'll ask Anton if he could read 18 to 23, just so you hear something other than my voice and give my voice a break for a moment. It says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God hath showed it unto them. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like the corruptible man, and to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. If you've spent any time studying conservative Bible doctrine, you're familiar with Romans chapter 1. The entire Book of Romans is a very nice systematic teaching concerning the things of God, and if you've never really taken the time to consider it, I would highly commend it to you It may have some difficult language, but there are some clear things you can pull out. One thing we see here mighty clearly is that very first statement in Romans 1. 18, the wrath of God Is waiting. The wrath of God is on pause? No. The wrath of God will come? No. It says the wrath of God is revealed. It's that word apocalyptus, meaning the veil is pulled back. Let me show you how the wrath of God operates And it's a contrast between knowledge and darkness. Because again, God holds men and women and children accountable For any understanding he has given them concerning his son. This is not An ad hoc matter. This isn't this isn't the weekly ad from Giant. Oh, they've got tomatoes on sale this week. And if you don't want tomatoes, you can throw it in the trash, and Giant's not going to come back after you with a penalty This isn't an offer for used car insurance that you can say, I don't care about having Geico or lowering my insurance, you throw it in the trash. This is a message delivered to you from the King of Heaven And he demands a response. If you refuse that, if you reject it, if you shun it, if you think light of it, if you go your way This is not something you can toy with because it says the wrath of God is revealed. And let's see what happens. How did men get to this point? When does this wrath show up? It says they hold the truth and unrighteousness. That word hold is like holding down. They suppress it. Have you seen any suppression of truth in the news lately? Have you seen that in operation This is what's in the heart of the sons of men. They like to suppress truth. If they do it with dumb truth, man's truth, what do you think they do with God's truth? They really suppress that. That's that's Left and right politically suppress that. We're not going to talk about Jesus Christ. It's a miracle if anybody in any political camp mentions the name of Jesus Christ. It says God has showed it to them. It's clearly seen. It's understood. It says when they knew God, they glorified him not. All of those are emphasis, and now you see What happens? They become vain in their imagination, their heart becomes dark, and they become fools. Have you seen fools in the news of late? Fools? You look at it and go, well that decision was dumber than dirt Who thought that was a good idea? Who thought it was a great idea? Let's defund the police. Let's defund the fire department. Let's drain a reservoir of all of its water in fire season. That sounds like a good idea. Have you seen fools in the. . And it's not, these are just a handful of recent events this past week. I could dig up more examples. And I'm not trying to get political. But you see fools all around you, and you scratch your head and say, How did these people get so stupid? Because when they knew God, they glorified him not. Yeah. Yes, that's foolishness when you even vote for somebody like that and then your house is destroyed. How could somebody do something so personally self-destructive? God says he's pursuing them with darkness, because when they knew God, they glorified him not. I don't mean to get into the message, but one of the verses we're going to do this morning is Isaiah 45. I create evil. And it's not that God creates wickedness, but he creates judgment on the wicked. Right now. Right now. Let's keep going. So the Apostle Paul is declaring how God's present and active wrath is seen. You know, we don't expect a a lightning bolt to come down from heaven and zap people. Boy, I'd like to see that Right in the middle of certain things, God doesn't operate like that. It's a rarity what God would do something like that. The days of Elijah, the fire of God fell down from heaven. Elisha and the fifty men that came against him three times Had that. That's a rare thing. Sodom and Gomorrah, that's a rare thing. He doesn't always he can, he certainly can, but he does it as an example and he moves on. He has another way of dealing with it He falls upon the heart. He darkens the heart. And that's dreadful. He keeps going. And 24. Geoffrey, would you mind reading 24 through 27? Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, and change the truth of God into a lie, and worship and serve the creature. more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this cause God gave them up to vile affections. But even their women did change the natural use. into that which is against nature. And likewise also prevent leaving the natural use. of the woman, burned in their lust, one towards another, men with men, working which is unseen, and receiving in themselves the recompense of their error, which was me. So again, there's a whole lot more purple font in that section than there is the highlighted grayish-green. There was the truth of God, and then there's the darkness that sets in upon them. I perhaps you like me struggle to understand what is so attractive and I have to be careful here even speaking about these things which they do because it's shameful to even mention it What is it about the LGBTQ plus community that has any form of attraction to a normal human being? I just fail to see anything. I just fail. First of all, I don't even want to let my mind descend into the depths of such depravity. But here we see that this entire sodomite movement is clear evidence of God's present active wrath against his adversaries. Back to 18. The wrath of God is revealed. He will pursue them with darkness. Their foolish heart is darkened. How dark? So dark that a man will look upon another man and think that's more attractive than a woman. You could put The prettiest woman, Miss America, whatever you care to say, in front of an individual, and he goes, nah. And isn't that a fitting a fitting judgment against them. Because what was set before his eyes was the most beautiful, glorious message you could ever hear. The glorious beauties of the Son and the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. And he says, nah. He says, great. Okay. Try that on you. Try that on you. You will exchange that which is glorious to that which is inglorious and in ignomious. It leaves the natural use, and they receive in themselves the repayment, the recompense of their error which is meet the punishment fits the crime These individuals are under the active present wrath of God. Verse 24, God gave them up. 26, God gave them up. He's active. He's not asleep. If you see this around you, do you have you beheld any of this? Am I talking some strange things in your ears? Have you beheld this kind of activity in the news, in person? I have as far back as when I was handing out tracts at Balboa Park in San Diego, I had a sodomite come up to me and ask me, you know, did Jesus ever say anything against uh homosexuality. And I could tell from his effeminate behavior that he was a sodomite. And I said, Well the Apostle Paul, oh Jettison Paul, I don't want to hear about Paul. I said, Well Jesus said to repent from your sins. What do you think he said what do you what do you think he meant to repent from? And oh me moved on. And I'm sure they were around before then. When I was growing up in Texas, this kind of behavior was present, but it was with the nut jobs and California was always in the closet. They never came out with this sort of nonsense. But it was there. And it's been present all the way back to the Roman society because God's judgment has been active through all ages. There's nothing new under the sun. When men reject the knowledge of God, when men reject the information about God, When when men hear about God's ways and say, I don't want them, they're a nuisance, they're boring, they're also boring, I'm not getting anything out of this. All these nonsensical excuses that are heard God says, fine, darkness will pursue you. If darkness is what you want, then darkness is what you'll get. Jesus in Proverbs says that he is life and all those that hate me love death. It only makes sense. We continue in verse 28. It says, even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. Again, notice the connection to knowledge God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient, not fitting, and then your page is exploded with purple text. They're filled, hot, sprinkled, filled, it just gets worse, with all unrighteousness Fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness. It's hard to even read this. Full of envy. Full of murder. full of debate. Have you ever tried to even talk to these people? They just argue all the time. If they're just argumentative You will never win an argument with them because they'll jump to the next thing and keep complaining. They're full of debate, deceit, malignity, they're maligners. That's a big one you see today. You're misaligned If you say, oh, me want good thing, you ask question, how do you pay for good thing? Oh, he want bad thing, he want how how did we go from how do you pay to you want a bad thing? That's um that's malignity, you're maligned. You're being told, oh, you're oriented this way. That's malignity. That happens in spades today. Whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, they named the parade after that. Boasters and they brag about it. Inventors of evil things, they sit down and figure out a way to pull this evil thing off. Disobedient to parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affections, implacable, they cannot be placated You're never going to toss them a bone and they'll be happy. Not going to happen. Why? God's given them up. Unmerciful. who knowing the judgment now that word I think could be better rendered righteousness knowing the judgment the righteousness of God they know the right ways but they've refused it they s remember they hold they suppress the truth and unrighteousness, same root word up above, that they which commit such things are worthy of death. Not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. This is the pursuit of darkness. This is how the wrath of God occurs. So that, lo and behold, when that great final and last day shows up called Judgment Day. And they are judged for their sins. How many have they racked up Since darkness began to pursue them. God, as it were, put them in a slippery path To just go ahead, tack on more sins, keep adding them up, keep adding them up, keep adding them up, and they multiply. And it becomes such a tremendous weight that by the time they their case hits the docket of Heaven's Courtroom and the sentence is pronounced It is such a lengthy rap sheet, and they'll pay for every one of those. That is why Hebrews says it's a fearful thing. To fall into the hands of a living God. Because the living God is alive long before you were and long after you will be, and he continues to pursue. Pursue his enemies. Go ahead then. Fill you up the measure of the wrath of your fathers. So conclusion is means to falling in the hands of the living God is to endure a long and painful path of ever-increasing darkness. It'll envelop your entire being and it culminates in an eternity of hell at your death With a list of sins beyond what you can imagine. That's why Jesus says, I'll forewarn you whom you shall fear. Fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. So falling into his hands, folks, is not a once-and-done deal. He's very different. He operates very differently. He wages a deep and ongoing soul-crushing warfare against his enemies. That's why it's called a fearful thing. We'll close there. I leave that to your meditation and to, in measure, if you trust in him, he's a stronghold. He's like that whirlwind, it'll wipe out everything else, but it'll preserve one house. And it's a safe place to be, is trusting in him. That path never fails. It may get a little hard Oh, this tornado wrecking my neighborhood. It's hurting my ears. It's loud. Yeah, but your house is not being destroyed. It could be a whole lot worse, trust me. Just hang on. Just hang on. Well, that's our meditation for today. Pastor, would you close us with prayer? Thank you. Christian Father, we thank you that your word is yea and amen. Lord, we thank you that you prepare judgment, that you prepare wrath against the enemies. And yet, Lord, you prepare mercy for those that are in Christ. And uh there is therefore now no condemnation for them that are in Christ Jesus. Lord, we acknowledge that we deserve all this wrath and I I think it was D. L. Moody that said, but for the grace of God, there go I. Uh we could certainly be like the the fornicators, like the uh people so choked with their own iniquity. But your grace has rescued from us that judgment. And our judgment was was reserved unto Christ. And we now stand righteous before you. We thank you. We praise you. Lord, lift up our eyes. May we look and be warned. For your word is filled with these warnings to us. But him the thing that he stand take heed lest he fall. Thank you for brother Benson for his teaching. I thank you, Lord, for your sovereign leading in hand and coordinating the Sunday school in the morning message again and again and again, we rejoice in your truth. Father, may we not be forgetful here. May the lesson we've learned this morning continue in our hearts and the ears. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen