Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the twenty-second chapter of the book of Luke. Brother Vince asked me if I knew that tune and I honestly thought I did. And I honestly didn't. And it's not too bad when the Text is in the score, so your eyes can kind of bounce between the two, but when you lose the score on a tune you don't know, it can get kind of kind of rough. Or the song leader. I was following you. Didn't have like the blind leaders. And the deaf too. Luke 22. And I'll begin our scripture reading at the 31st verse of this portion of God's Word. Luke 22, verse 31. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death. And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. Let us pray. Gracious Father, help us now as we endeavor to study thy word together. Father, make us ever aware that we are one rooster's crow away from denying that we even know our Lord. Help us, O Father, for indeed we are sifted as wheat is sifted Father, bless us your people, that we might grow in grace and grow in thee. Open thy word to our hearts and open our hearts to receive the precious word of God in Jesus' name. Amen. Anybody get sifted this week? I think a lot of us know what it is to be sifted. I love Peter. I've often said that Peter is my favorite Bible character. You know why I love Peter so much? Because Peter tries so hard and falls flat on his face constantly. Because we see in Peter such zeal for truth and such determination and bold declaration, though everybody denies you, I will never deny. He ever said that. And yet we find Peter failing and falling. And yet at the same time we see Peter greatly used for the advancement of the kingdom of God I love Peter because I can identify with Peter. Because, folks, I can tell you from the bottom of my heart, I have an earnest desire to live in perfect righteousness. To serve the Lord with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my strength. And yet I must tell you that I fail in that pursuit constantly. And brethren, if you say that you never fail, you just failed because you told a whopper of a lie. I think we can identify with Peter, because Peter had such earnest desire to serve his Lord and Master. And yet Peter dwelt in a body of flesh just like we are. And Peter was subject to the passions that we're subject to. And Peter failed so often, and yet he was never cast out. God was able to use a broken vessel like Peter. And we can take great comfort that God still uses broken vessels for his glory. Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you, but he may sift you as wheat. He doesn't say Peter, Peter. Simon was his old man name. Simon was the name he was given at birth. Simon, Simon, the old man is subject to stumbling. The old man is subject to temptations Simon, Simon, Satan had desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. And yet, in spite of the fact that Christ calls him not Peter, not Petros, the rock, the stone, he calls him Simon, Simon. Yet he doesn't just say, Simon, Satan has desired to have you. But he says, Simon, Simon. It's doubled, and that's not insignificant. It's not by an accident. Because when the name is doubled, it shows a tender, loving compassion. Martha, Martha, thou art troubled about many things. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Simon, Simon And folks, I would imagine when Christ addressed him as Simon rather than Peter, Simon Peter was smitten at his heart. Why not call me by my new name? Because you're not acting like a new creature, Simon. Because you're not living in the Spirit of God, but rather you're walking in the flesh. Simon, Simon, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as weight. Look at the warning we find here. Satan has desired to have you. He doesn't say your friends are making fun of you, Peter. He doesn't say, you know, the world's out to get you. Doesn't say the IRS is breathing down your neck. He doesn't say anything about the conditions in which they live. He doesn't say anything about the mockings they were receiving. He doesn't say the Pharisees think you're wrong. No, Simon, your adversary, the devil, the one who you will later write about as a roaring lion that walks about seeking who may devour. Satan has desired to have you, whom we resist steadfast. He walks about But you know when we talk about Satan walking about seeking who may devour, it doesn't mean that he doesn't sometimes lie in ambush as well. Those of you that are hunters know what it is to stalk. And you know what it is as hunters to to ambush certain animals when you're hunting them you stalk them, others you lie in wait, you lie in ambush. I've seen a lot of uh hunting blinds in the fields this time of year for the geese. And the the hunter will lie in wait. He'll lie in ambush where he can't be seen, and when the geese come into land, then he pops up and he fires. But other animals you stalk. Satan does both, folks. He sets traps for you. He lay lies in ambush. He attacks. He walks about seeking whom he may devour This is the adversary of the child of God. This is the one in the book of Revelation, chapter 12 and verse 10, who's referred to as the accuser of the brethren. And that's exactly what he did to Job. Satan comes before God and he says, Doth Job fear thee for naught? Job fears you because you've always been good to Job. Take away some of those blessings. Satan says, Let Job see a few hardships. Let Job see us through trials, and then Job will deny you. And Christ says, no, I know my servant Job. I've chosen him. I'm paraphrasing. I've chosen him before the foundation of the world. No man can pluck Job out of my hand. Go ahead, Satan. You have leave To sift Job. You are permitted to try Job, and Satan, you will find that he is mine. And you can't have him. Simon, Simon. Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. Consider that word desired there. It's only used in this one place in the entire New Testament. When I started studying this I was thinking, okay, what else is talked about desired in scripture? And remember Christ says with desire I've desired to to eat this supper with you, but it's a totally different word. This word desire is only used in one place. And uh the the commentators in coordination with the Greek language of the day say that this particular word desire basically means to demand. And I thought, okay, what about when Herod demanded of the wise men where Christ should be born? No, it's a different word. This word means the demand, but it's a demand of one who expects that they have a right to what they're demanding for. In other words, if you have paid for something and the vendor has not supplied it, you demand, I paid for it, it's mine, you give it to me. That is the term that Satan here is described as using. Simon, Simon, Satan's demanded to have you as if he thinks he owns you. And if he thinks he has a right to you. You see, when Satan demands To sift the believer. When he demands to have the believer to sift him, Satan is demanding it that he owns you. What? Know ye not that ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Satan comes along. You ever hear somebody say that driver thinks he owns the road? Satan comes along as if he owns you and he demands to have you But he may sift you as wheat. You see, folks Only an hour or so before Christ is speaking this warning to Peter, Satan had demanded to have Judas. And he had him. Satan entered into the heart of Judas, which is called Iscariot. Peter understood that the danger was real. Peter, Simon, Satan has had Judas, and he wants you to What's the difference between Judas and Peter? But I have prayed for thee that thy Faith fail not. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of his hand. Simon, Simon, Satan, your adversary Has desired to have you. He has demanded to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you But folks, it's not just Simon that Satan is after. Look very closely at verse 31. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as weight, but I have prayed for thee. A lot of people make fun of scriptures and make fun of the King James for using these and thou's. And a lot of the modern translations just take them out because, oh, we don't talk that way. They're irrelevant. Folks, they're very relevant. Let me show you why. In That verse where it says, Satan hath desired to have you, you is plural. Christ is not just saying, Peter, you alone and not the other remaining ten, there had been 11, Judas is gone. Not just you, Peter, alone, or he would have said, desire to have the singular But Jesus says to Peter, I prayed for our Satan's desire to have you. He didn't just want Judas and Peter. He wanted the whole twelve. But Christ says, I have prayed for thee, and the thee is singular. And so when you hear somebody make fun of somebody that prays with these, we thank thee, O God, they are using the singular because we thank only one God, not all the gods of the universe, not all the gods of the heathen. And thou is the same way. It is a singular. And so they're retained in our King James because they're significant. Now that's not the point of the message. The point is this. Satan didn't just want Peter. He wanted James. He wanted John. He wanted Matthew. He wanted them all. And do you think he isn't out for you as well? Do you not think that Satan wants every one of us here to this day that he may sift us with wheat as wheat? But Christ prays for us. We find further here that Satan is at times permitted To sift the saints. Satan was permitted to sift Job. Satan in his tongues has been permitted to sift every one of us. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 2. And verse ten. I want you to see these verses. Revelation chapter two and verse ten. This portion of the second chapter of Revelation is written to the angel of the church of Smyrna. Revelation chapter 2 and verse 10. Fear none of those things which shall which thou shalt suffer. Behold. The devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life Okay, this was written to the angel of the Church of Smyrna. What do we know from history about the Church of Smyrna? Well, Polycarp was their pr their pastor. Thus joy point to the rocks of our salvation I don't know how that happened. It was it is muted. Satan sypticus is wheat. My apologies. Polycarp was the pastor of the church at Smyrna. He was burned alive. And the historical record tells us that the Jews brought the wood. The Jews carried the wood for the fire to burn polycarp Look at verse nine, the previous verse. I know thy works and tribulation and poverty. But thou art rich. I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not. But are of the synagogue of Satan. Who are the Jews? The blood of Abraham No, Scripture tells us in Galatians 3 that those that are of faith, these are the sons of Abraham. You see, it was those of the blood of Abraham that brought the wood. That brought the wood to burn Polycarp. They said they were Jews and they were not, because they were not of faith. But rather, whose synagogue were they worshippers of? Satan. Satan. Now with that background, go back to verse 10. Or verse 9, excuse me. Yeah, verse 10. Behold the devil. Shall cast some of you into prison. Doesn't say the Jews. Doesn't it say the Pharisees? Doesn't it say the Romans? It says the devil's gonna do this. There's a warning there. The devil's gonna cast you and some of you into prison. Why? That ye may be tried. That you might be sifted as wheat. And ye shall have tribulation ten days. Woo! That's the tenth day. Number 11's here. The tribulation's done. No, that's not what it means at all. That word ten there does not mean nine, ten, okay, eleven's here, we're free. But rather, it's a figure of speech that's used frequently in scripture that means often or continually. Remember Jacob said to Laban, You've changed my wages ten times. It didn't mean that Jacob was counting the score and Laban didn't hit eleven. No, Laban changed his wages continually, perpetually. Remember uh the children of Israel in the wilderness in Numbers fourteen, where God said, You've tempted me now these ten times. It doesn't mean they'd only tempted him ten times They tempted God perpetually. Job in Job nineteen, verse three, these ten times have ye reproached me, talking about his unfaithful friends. It didn't mean he was keeping score, and there was only ten and not eleven But rather it means a perpetual, ongoing, continual. Here God Warns the church of Smyrna and warns us today that Satan will cast you into prison and you'll have tribulation ten days. It will go on and go on and go on and go on Be thou faithful. The end of verse 10. Unto death, and I will give you a crown of life And so we find here that Satan is permitted to sift the child of God. But folks, Jesus knew what Satan was about to do. Jesus warned Peter about what Satan was about to do. And Jesus limited what Satan was able to do. Simon, Simon, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat But I've prayed for you that you won't be sifted? No. But I have prevented Satan from sifting you? No. Now I've prayed for you that during the sifting your faith failed not. Simon, you're gonna be sifted. You're gonna be sifted, Simon! He's demanding to have you. He has no right to you, but you're going to be sifted. But I have prayed for you. That your faith fail not. Let me answer this question. When we pray, does God always answer the prayer we want it to wait? Wait, we want it to answer it? No. No. When Christ prays, God the Father answers. There was only one time when Christ prayed, and God did not grant the exact prayer that Christ prayed, and that's when he prayed, if it be possible, let this come pass from me. That was necessary to our salvation. The sifting. Shifting. is a very agitating and tumultuous experience. First, the grain has to be trampled on the threshing floor Sometimes to sift the wheat they would have animals tramping over the grain. Other times, to begin the process of sifting the wheat, they would beat the wheat. In later days, they would use a millstone where the wheat would be put between the two stones, and the two stones would grind the wheat. You see, the first part of the sifting of the wheat is to crush the wheat, to break the husk away from the kernel, because the husk is nothing but trash. They don't sift the wheat to destroy the kernels. They sift the wheat to remove the chaff. After the kernel is broken free from the husk, then the grain is tossed into the air. Tossed again and again. You ever feel like you're just getting tossed around? You feel like you're getting ground between two stones, trampled on by the oxen? Trampled under feet, beaten with rods? It's all necessary to separate the kernel from the husk. And folks, if the kernel is never separated from the husk, you know what happens? Eventually the grain rots and it's good for nothing. The kernel left in the husk will perish. And so it is necessary. You cannot treat the grain Nicely. You cannot treat the grain softly. You cannot treat the grain with patience and care if you're ever going to remove the husk. Sifting is a very tumultuous, painful process. Folks, it's an agitating process. The grain is agitated, it is thrown up in the air that the wind might carry away the chaff. I deliberately used a very familiar psalm for our responsive reading. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Satan will agitate your heart. Satan will agitate your mind. Satan will agitate your spirit Satan will agitate your body. Satan will agitate your testimony. Satan will agitate your prayer life. Satan will agitate your study of God's Word. Satan will agitate your employment. Satan will agitate your friendships. Satan will agitate your family. Satan will agitate your fill-in-the-blank. Because there's not an area of your life where with God's permission Satan will not agitate you Satan will not sift you. But folks, sifting is essential. You will never have profitable grain until you sift it. You can't make bread with unsifted grain. Sifting is essential. Sifting removes an awful lot of trash. From the life of the believer. But folks, sifting's beneficial They don't sift the wheat because they don't like the wheat. They sift the wheat because they love the grain. Satan is allowed at times to sift the believer because our father loves the grain. Because our father wants the husks to be removed. You see, sifting is beneficial. And we considered last week Hebrews 12, 11, which says, no chastening. For the present seemeth joyous but grievous. And we observe that that word chastening we think of as punishment, but it's actually the word to nurture or to train, to instruct. No instructing Seemeth joyous for the but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby. Folks, the sifting that God allows the believer to endure at the hands of the adversary, the enemy, the wicked one, at the hands of Satan. Does nothing to the believer except bring about the peaceable fruit of righteousness. Glory. Sifting is very agitating, but it's essential, and it is beneficial to the child of God. Job 23, 10, but he knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. And so we're Satan is allowed to sift us. But you know what? Sifting cannot remove from the believer anything that should remain. Sifting cannot remove from the believer anything of value. When the grain is sifted, it is only the chaff that is carried away. The kernel remains. God may put us through sifting to remove that which should be removed. But Simon, I have prayed for you that your faith fail not. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff, which the wind driveth away. But in the midst of this stern warning, we find Peter's bold declaration. Look at verse 33. And he said unto him, I am ready to go with thee, both to prison and to death. Lord, I can handle this. Lord, I can stand up to any trial. Oh Lord, look at me. I thank thee that I'm not as other men. In the Matthew passage, Peter says, Though every though all forsake thee, I will not. Isn't that the words of the Pharisee? I thank thee that I'm not like other men. Lord, everybody else is going to fall, but I'm going to stand. Little servant girl. Weren't you with them? Weren't you one of them? Peter denies with an oath. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty look before haughty spirit before a fall. Wherefore let him that thinketh that he stand take heed lest he fall. Folks, we're not ignorant of his devices But we dare not think we have the strength to stand on our own. Our brother is very fond of saying God's got this, and I think that's the best way to put it. The only reason that Peter's faith didn't fail was because Christ prayed for him. He was in great danger. And so we had the reality of failure in verse 34. And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day before thou shalt deny me thrice. In Romans 7 verse 19, we read, For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil that I would not, that I. do. Paul also said, when I would do good, evil is present with me. Folks, we dare not trust our own heart. We dare not trust our own determination, but we must trust in the one who died for us. And so what is the hope of the believer in the midst Of sifting. I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. I've already said that Christ did not say, I'm going to pray that you're not sifted. He didn't say, Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you that he has sifted with wheat, but I put a hedge about you. He didn't say, Simon, Simon, Satan wants to sift you, but I'm not going to allow him to do it. Christ knew that Peter was about to deny. Christ could have put Peter someplace other than the fire. Christ could have given Peter the strength to stand the trial. But he said, no. Peter, you need to learn from this. Peter, there's there's sifting that's necessary. Maybe it was pride that needed to be removed, because Peter just said, I, you know, I can stand when no one else is Maybe it was self-will, self-confidence, Lord, I'm strong enough for this thing. But him that thinketh that he stands, take heed lest he fall. He does not say, I will not allow you to be sifted. He says, I pray that thy faith fail not. In John 17, verse 15, Christ praying to the Father, says, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world. But that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Christ could have prayed to the Father to take the disciples out of the world. He didn't Or rather, he prayed that they would be kept from the evil. 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 3. But the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and shall keep you from evil. Turn back to the previous chapter of Luke. We're in chapter 22. Turn back to chapter 21. Chapter twenty one and verse sixteen Chapter twenty-one, verse sixteen, and ye shall be betrayed both by parents and by brethren. And kinsfolk, and friends, and some of you shall they cause to be put to death, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake But there shall not a hair of your head perish. In patience possess ye your souls. Let's break that down. Christ is telling them that their family is going to reject them because of their faith. He's telling them that they're going to be hated for his sake. He tells them that some of them they'll put to death. Look at the last words of verse 16, some of you shall they cause to be put to death. But look at verse 718. But there shall not a hair of your head perish. Sounds like a contradiction, doesn't it? Does this mean that they're going to cause you to be put to death, but you'll lie there in the casket with perfect hair? Cool. You know, does this mean they're gonna cause you put to death, but but you don't have a hair fall out while it's happening? No, what he's saying is they can't really hurt you. They might put you to death. Polycarp? Think his hair didn't get singed off his head when he was burning to death? Guarantee it singed every bit of hair off his body. But not a hair of his head was harmed. You see, his body is nothing but chaff. Which someday must be driven away by the wind. But he has a new body for me. He has a better one. Even even heavenly. And folks, you know what? The baldest man among us will have perfect hair in heaven. Not a hair of your head will perish. Fear not him that killeth the body. But fear him that's God, who is able to cast both body and soul into hell. And so The hope of the believer is that Christ prays for us. He does not pray that Simon would not be sifted, but he does pray that Simon's faith fail not. And look closely again at the verse. He does not say, Simon, I will pray for you that your faith fail not. What's he say? Read it. I have prayed for you that your faith fail not. You see, Jesus was praying that Peter's faith failed not before Peter even knew there was danger. That weren't marvelous? If we were Baptists, we'd all shout Amen, hallelujah. And sometimes Presbyterians and Reformed people need to shout, Amen, hallelujah. He knoweth what things we have need of before we ask, folks. Christ doesn't say, Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan's desired to have you, but I'm going to pray for you. He said, Simon, Simon, Satan's desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have already prayed for you. And the prayer's already been answered, folks. In spite of his denial, Peter's faith is not going to fail. It's not going to fail. Peter is going to stand the test. And Christ knows that Peter's going to stand the test because he doesn't end the verse there. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brother. Now, this doesn't mean Peter was unsaved this time. That word converted is a word which means to turn again. Peter, when you're turned again from your denial. When you're turned again from your stumble, when you get back up, when your denial is done, your faith will still be standing. When you get back on your feet, when you repent of your backslidden condition that you're going to fall into this very night. When you're converted, strengthen your brethren. Peter have got work for you to do. Peter, there is a job ahead of you. Peter, there is much to be done. Turn with me to the book of 1 Peter and chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1. And I'm going to be reading from verse 3. I read verses 8 and 9 as our call to worship this morning, and I referenced then that we'd return to these verses again during our message this morning, and I would like to Conclude with this testimony from Peter. Verse 3 of 1 Peter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Which according to his abundant mercy hath gotten us again, born again, unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Peter's talking to the believers. He's talking to the persecuted brethren, and he said, There's a reservation made for you in heaven. Your faith fail not. Who are kept? And how are they kept? Who are kept by the power of God through faith? What did Christ pray that would not fail in Peter? That he would never deny? No, that your faith failed not. That he would never stumble? No, that your faith fail not. That he would never return to his nets and go fishing? No, that your faith fail not. What is the security of the reservation? It is faith. And who keeps the faith in place? It is God. Who are kept through the power of God. Who's more powerful? Satan or God? Who are kept through the power of God, is Satan powerful? Yes he is. But not as powerful as God. Can Satan sift the believer when God gives him permission to do so? Yes, he can. Who are kept to the power of God unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time Ah, we may not see it all now, but someday we'll see face to face. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, though now for ten times, though now perpetually, though now in this day, wherein we greatly rejoice, though now for a season If need be, if are there are those beautiful words, folks? If need be, if there's chaff that needs to be removed. If there's things that God is still working on and he allows Satan to sift me if n if if need be Ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. Again, remember that ten times we saw there in Revelation 2, verses 9 and 10. That the trial of your faith, the trial of your faith worketh patience, that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, Gold will stand all kinds of fire, but even gold can perish, but our faith cannot. You understand the contrast there? Gold perishes, but our faith does not perish. Though it be try with fire, might be found under the praise and honor and glory at his appearance at the appearing of Jesus Christ. In whom, or sorry, whom having not seen ye love, in whom, though now ye see him not yet believing You rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the beginning of your faith? No Receiving the end of your faith. That word end doesn't mean that faith ends. It means the consummation It means the purpose. It means the finality of your faith. It means the reward of your faith. Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your soul. Simon, Simon, not Peter, Peter, not just Simon. Simon Satan, the roaring lion, the adversary. He is desired. He is demanded as if he owns you. That he may have you, like he had Judas. That he may sift you with wheat, like he did Job. But I have prayed for you. That your faith fail not. And if Christ is praying that my faith fail not, my faith can never fail. Oh, it will be sorely tested. Why will he be put to the test? He will be agitated and trampled on and ground by the millstone that any chaff might be removed. But I have prayed for thee that thou faith fail not, because I still have work for you to do. When you turn away from this period of doubt When you come through the trial is gold. Comfort your brethren. You see, iron that is tempered is iron that is passed through the fire, and it is tempered iron that sharpens iron. And so when you are returned from your doubts, Peter, comfort my brethren. All that the Father giveth to me Shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out My father which gave them me is greater than all. And no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. You may be sorely sifted, but all to the glory of God. Let's stand up. Father, thou knowest all things. Lord, ye know the secret sifting of many of your people. You know the burdens that are so near to our hearts that we don't even share them with others. Father, you know all things. You know what must be removed from our lives, what must be removed from our hearts. Lord, you know how to keep your people from falling. And Lord, we thank you that you are, as as the the reformers used to say, you're too wise to error and you're too good to be unkind. Lord, we thank you that you do all things well. As for God, His way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust in Him. Father, help us, O Lord, for we find ourselves often sorely tempted, sorely sifted. But we thank you that we will not fall because Christ prays for us. Bless us your people that we might strengthen our brethren in Jesus' name. Amen