Father, this morning, we indeed thank you for the purpose for which we're gathered. We thank you for our nation. We thank you for our veterans. And thank you for those that gave the sacrifice of their own lives for the defense of our nation. But Father, we're not here today because of those. But rather, we're here today because one gave his life a ransom for our soul. And so, Lord, as we gather this morning, we do thank you for the multitude of temporal blessings we have received. But Lord, we pray that as we are gathered today, we will receive from thee a spiritual blessing, that our hearts will be convicted and stirred and pricked by the Word of God. That the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified, that Christ might be honored and glorified in us, that the fruit of our lips may bring forth praise to our God. And Father, we pray for the youngest here today, through the oldest here today, that each one would receive a blessing of thee. Lord we pray for those that are still on their way here. We pray, Lord, for those today that their heart is with us, but their bodies are unable. May they receive a blessing as well as they worship with us online. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship this morning from the last chapter of the Old Testament in Malachi chapter four and verse two. But unto you that fear my name Shall the sun, capital S, shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings, and ye shall go forth and grow up as calves of a stall Amen. Good morning, everyone. We are in 544 in our blues songbook, 544. How sweet the name of Jesus sounds. 544 in our blue songbook. There's four within the staffs and two outside of it. Now sweep the name of Jesus sounds and we'll sing all six stanzas. The sweet thumb name of Jesus. His sorrows heels his wounds and drives away his fears. It makes no one his spirit hope and comes to breath is that In angle rock on which I built I shield an hiding place, my never failing treasure with boundless stores of bread. Jesus my shuttle brother friend, my brother king, my Lord, my wife. My way by and I sat the raise thy brain weakness the effort of my heart and hold. My warmest on when I see thee as thou art, I'll raise thee as thy heart. Tell him I would thy love proclaim with every sleeping rest and make a music. Of thy name refresh my soul in death. Amen, amen. That's a song by John Newton, maybe one you don't recognize, but uh He did write a number of hymns, and so that's uh one of the more interesting ones. Please be seated, Brother Anton, if you would, bring your confession to us. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. saying about Christ being our prophet, priest, and king. And this morning we'll read from the Belgic Confession, the 21st article, regarding the satisfaction of Christ, our only high priest for us. This is part A out of uh three parts that I broke it up into for us to meditate upon. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe that Jesus Christ was ordained with an oath to be an everlasting high priest after the order of Melchizedek And that he has presented himself in our behalf before the Father to appease his wrath by his whole satisfaction. by offering himself on the tree of the cross and pouring out his precious blood to purge away our sins. As the prophets had foretold. For it is written, He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquity The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. He is brought as a land for the slaughter, and numbered with the transgressors And condemned by Pontius Pilate as a malefactor, though he at first declared him innocent. The message of this morning's article is clear that Christ is both our everlasting high priest. And he is the offering himself unto God for our sins, for the payment, for the atonement for sins. He uh serves that function of the uh the the typical high priest of the Old Testament. If you think back to the Old Testament uh role of the high priest, what it was that they did. That helps you understand what it is that Christ is doing for the believers. Yea, even today, he continues that work as our priest, our high priest. He's the one that's there confirming that there is a proper sacrifice, and that sacrifice is actually himself. But he's also the one that as the high priest would be the only one that could enter into the temple, that could go into the holy of holies to sprinkle the blood. He's the one that goes unto the Lord for us on the behalf of the believer. And uh he is unlike the priests that were in the Old Testament under the law because Christ is sinless. And he gets to live forever to intercede for his people. Unlike the priests of the Old Testament, they had to atone for their own sins, but Christ He was already perfect and righteous. He was didn't need any cleansing of his own. And we read in this uh today's article that he's a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, that interesting figure from the Old Testament. And the ties there are that he's never going to die, he's lives forever to intercede for his people And it is an interesting concept that, you know, even if it were possible for you to sin after death, there would be no way for you to be condemned to be cast out because Christ ever lives to be your intercessor, to intercede for you, to be your high priest. We know in the new heaven and new earth Once once believers receive that new glorious body, they can't sin with it. But even if they could, this is Christ's role. He ever lives to intercede. He fully satisfies, he fully makes sure that the believer is able to enter into the presence of the Lord without condemnation. And it's uh amazing this role of Christ's uh eternal priesthood. It's it's uh written out so well in Hebrews 7, verses 24 through 27. And it's really good to just listen to what the scripture says. Listen to how it describes it. I couldn't say it better. It says, uh, but this man, speaking of Christ, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. For such an high priest became us, who was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those priests, to offer up sacrifice first for his own sins and then for the peoples. For this he did once when he offered up himself. If you were paying attention you would have heard of Christ's eternal work as uh the priest, but also that Christ offered up himself He found the only offering, the only spotless lamb that would be sufficient to cover for the sins of his people, and that was himself. He offered himself up. And uh we read about the offerings that are necessary in the Old Testament to atone for sin. Those are all pictures and types of that perfect offering that would come in Christ. As we read in Isaiah 53, it pleased the Lord to bruise him, and by his stripes were healed. He was the one that actually satisfied that payment, that judgment for sin before God. And isn't it interesting that Pilate himself declared Christ's innocence, but yet then he allowed him to be crucified? And it's just as that spotless lamb was brought, it was checked. Is is there any spot in this lamb? Is it fully clean? Can it be sacrificed? It was confirmed, yay, this is a good one. And then let's go ahead and sacrifice it. In a sense, that's kind of what happened there with Pilate. He came, he tested him, he heard all the testimony. What what can you point out about this man? What's wrong with him? And he found there was nothing. He he couldn't condemn him. But then he said, I wash my hands, I leave him to you. You guys go ahead and crucify him And so Christ was found, even declared there on the spot, his innocency, he was declared to be that spotless lamb Well, we uh praise the Lord for the spotless lamb he provided, and we read in the scripture that it's even declared by John the Baptist, behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Thank you, brother. Well, we have much to be thankful for and much for which to pray. Let us pray. Gracious Father, Lord we come before you as beggars before a banquet For Lord, our souls are needy and our souls are hungry, and yet follow the depth of thy word is inexhaustible, and we can Come to this same banquet again and again, and always receive blessing of thee. And so, Father, may you today indeed feed our hungry souls Father, we come before you in this congregational prayer, bringing before you the needs of the congregation just as certainly as the Priests of the Old Testament came before you to plead the cause of the congregation. So we as a congregation come, and we remember in the sacrifices and the sin offerings that The hand was laid upon the head of the sacrifice, and the sins of the people were pictorally laid there as well. And so, Father, as I pray, all the hands of the congregation are involved. And Lord, we are joined together to call upon thee for these needs. And Lord, we so often come before you with a list of our needs and fail to come before thee first of all with thanksgiving. And Lord, indeed, you have done great and marvelous things for us. Lord, we have seen in the few years of our existence absolute miracles, the defying of the medical profession. The providing for the needs of this congregation in ways that uh seemed so impossible. And Lord, uh Brother Vince and I remember well the concerns over the financial needs of the of the ministry when we were first starting out and how were ends to be met And a budget design with a baseline and a middle and an optimal. And Father, this congregation has existed in the optimal. And this is just a simple token of your blessing, Lord, that we have have been so abundantly blessed, exceeding abundantly, above all that we can ask for uh Ask or think and as the other scripture pressed down and running over, O Lord. We thank you, Father, that you've enabled us as a congregation to uh meet the Needs of medical expenses for your people, to meet the needs of living expenses for your people, to meet the needs of moving expenses for your people, to again and again when there has been a need within this body Lord, you have provided for it. And oh Father, we rejoice in that. And then, Father, even more so, we rejoice in the miracles of physical healing we have seen. We have seen a brother who seemed to be at death's door, and yet, Lord, he is still among us. We have seen uh a sister who had suffered many years and Now we see in her a lightened countenance and a renewed vigor. And Lord, we thank you for that. And Lord, our dear sister who is unable to be with us today, and yet we have seen her come through these doors again and again and rejoice in that. And Lord, our sister who waited long for a transplant, even at death's door. And Lord, I believe it was seven false alarms for a transplant. And yet, Lord, today she is improving and gaining strength month by month. And Lord, in this we rejoice. And uh Father, it is it is Probably unwise for me to begin to count them because I'll leave someone out for sure. For Lord, we have seen so many miraculous works of thy hand in the physical well-being of thy people And so, Father, in this we rejoice. And yet, Lord, in all these things we we are not finished praying And Lord, as we we saw a few weeks ago when the barrels were brought empty and filled with oil, Lord, we're still bringing barrels We're still expecting more things from thee. And so, Father, we pray that you would continue to bless the physical needs of this congregation But oh Lord, it is heavy, heavy upon our heart, Lord, that we have a long list of unsaved friends, family, loved ones. And Lord, we continue to pray. Lord, we have not seen the harvest of souls that we desire. We have prayed, Lord, to be a nursery of souls, to be a place where newborn believers Are in our midst and are growing in grace. And so, Father, we continue to pray for the salvation of thy people. Lord, we pray for our young singles For our young college age and recent college grads. Oh Father, that you would bless them. Lord, that you would provide for them the employment situations that they need That you would provide for them godly help meets, Lord, that you would direct their paths, Father. We cling to those verses. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Father, give all of our young adults a way in which they may delight. We pray for our young families, Father. Bless them, encourage them. Strengthen them we pray. Bless them uh in their uh financial well being Bless them, Lord, in the birth of children. But O Father, more than that, may you bless them that they may be strong, godly homes That they might be homes that are overwhelmingly in love with the Savior. Lord, as my father used to say, may Christ be the guest at every meal. May Christ always be in their midst and blessing, we pray. Father, we pray for our working families. Lord, you know the needs. We have Several families that are uh sole proprietors or operating their own businesses. And Lord, the business climate today is difficult. But O Lord, may you open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing that they cannot receive. We pray for others that are involved in their careers, and Lord, some that are concerned over the state of their job Lord, whether it's time to to seek a new job, whether it's time to retire, whether it's whether their job in some cases could disappear because of government cuts Father, we pray that you would bless them, that you would direct, that you would help in those very needful concerns, Father, provide for them that which is necessary. Lord, we are so blessed by our senior citizens. Lord, I can look back through my life and see from my earliest childhood Through young adulthood, through middle age, and now even approaching my latter years, Father, I can see where there were always folks that were 30, even 40, 50 years older than me, that took an interest in a young child I took an interest in a teenager that prayed for a young married man, that prayed for a young family in ministry. And Lord, these that Our senior saints, as we call them, these that are seasoned in the things of God, their bodies do not have the vigor they once had. And yet, Father, their hearts are focused on thee more than ever in their lives. And they have become mighty prayer warriors in our midst. Oh Father, may you bless them May you answer their prayers on behalf of this congregation. May they know the joy of seeing children's children, as your promise is. Even into the gray hairs, O God, may you bless them abundantly. And Father, may they continue to be an example of the believers. Just as your word says that the older ladies are to encourage to teach the young, and the elders among us are to be guides to the young. O Father, bless our senior citizens. Father, you have given us a great trumpet. May we be faithful to blow it. We saw a few weeks ago the watchman upon the wall. The watchman's trumpet had to be ready at hand, and the watchman had to blow the trumpet to give warning. And Father, you have granted us today to live in an age. We remember the day of our fathers and grandfathers when radio was such an amazing tool for the proclamation of the gospel. But today the radio has been so eclipsed, Lord, by the Internet, by a device carried in men's pocket. Through which they can hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord, you have placed Mission Bible Church in this age, in this period in time, at this moment in history. And Lord, we will indeed give account of what we've done with the gospel. We will give account of how we have handled the Word of God. And so, Father, we thank you for the opportunity. But O Lord, with the opportunity comes a great responsibility. And so, Father, may Mission Bible Church always be faithful. to faithfully, truly, without delusion, without pollution, proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. Bless that ministry. And oh Lord, we we look around us and we see chaos in the world. We're encouraged by the current state of our government, but Lord, we put no faith in it. We pray for our leaders, Father, first of all, that you would save them. We pray that you would preserve unto us the liberties we enjoy. But, O Father, in the midst of all this we plead, even so come, Lord Jesus. O Father, even today, may you take us out of this vile world and lead us to heaven. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Isaiah 55 for our responsive reading this morning. Once you've located Isaiah 55, please rise We'll responsibly read all thirteen verses, Isaiah fifty-five. Ho everyone that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money, come ye, buy and eat. Yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labour for that which satisfieth not, harkenh diligently unto me, and eat that which is good. Incline your ear and come unto me, hear and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leader and commander to the people. Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not. And nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee, because of the Lord thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel, for he hath glorified thee Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. And let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but water the earth, and maketh it bring forth in bud That it may give seed to the store, and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please. And it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace. The mountains and the hills shall break forth before you in the city, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands instead of the horn shall come off the fir tree Instead of the briar shall come off the myrtle tree, and it shall be the Lord for a name, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Marvelous chapter, that 55th chapter of Isaiah. Let's turn to our sermon, Psalm number 54, forever settled in the heavens. Number 54, our Trinity songbook, Forever Settled in the Heavens. The tune is Duke Street. You know this from Jesus Shall Reign. familiar tune and we sing the Amen at the end. Number fifty-four, all four stanzas. I world thy paper. My word and were summoning I never took All things are I did all the time. I should have carried my woe and not my A wake was I truth this wet shore exceeding God is like Evans Thank you. Open your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the gospel is recorded for us in the book of Matthew in the 25th chapter. Matthew 25. I was thinking this morning as I was uh in my office, what a joy it is to preach to you all. Uh it it's it's a joy to preach to a a hungry group of people, to people that are are willing souls, that um are not concerned about slips of tongues and uh I I know a dear brother that I won't mention who Related to me that one of the elders in his congregation used to sit and make lists of all of his slips of tongue and give him a list from time to time of all the times he had slipped up. And a preacher in that setting comes to the pulpit with a degree of nervousness. And um I guess we're all a little bit nervous when we're going to speak in front of an audience. But I can come to this pulpit with joy and confidence. Thank you for that. And I pray for you all each and every day. And it is my great privilege to preach to you, but it is also an overwhelming burden because Brother Benson and I don't own any sheep. The Lord owns the sheep. And he commanded his disciples feed my sheep. And so it is it is the burden upon the the minister to ensure the feeding of the sheep through faithfulness to the Word of God. Well, I didn't mean to get into that, but I have Matthew chapter 25, and I'm going to read verses 14 through verse 30. Matthew 25, verse 14, for the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country. who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods, and unto one he gave five talents. To another, two, and to another, one, to every man according to his several ability, and straightway took he his journey. Then he that had received five talents went and traded with the same and made them five other talents. And likewise, he that had received two, he also gained other two. But he that had received one went and digged in the earth And hid his Lord's money. After a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. His Lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. He also that had received two came and said, Lord, thou deliverest unto me two talents. Behold, I have gained two other talents beside them His Lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. Then he which had received one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man. Reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strolled. And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth Lo thou there thou hast dot is thine. His Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sow not. And gather where I have not strolled. Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury Take therefore that talent from him, and give it to him that which hath ten talents. For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance But from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping. And gnashing of teeth. Let us pray. Father, now your may your Holy Spirit guide and direct us in thy truth. Father, we thank you for that. One of the promises of the Holy Spirit is that when the Holy Spirit comes, he would testify of Christ and guide us into all truth. Father, may you give us this morning by thy spirit the testimony of Christ and His gospel, his salvation in thy word. And O Lord, guide us into truth. Convict us, Lord. May not one of us leave this assembly as we came. But Lord, may we be convicted, may we be encouraged, may we be rebuked, may we be strengthened, O Father, may we be improved in grace this day, in Jesus' name. I preached this passage numerous times before. I believe I preached it in May of about 93. Uh May is the month of the Jamaican Labor Day, and it was an appropriate message then. The last time I actually preached this message here in the States would have been on May twenty-one of twenty seventeen. And I'm going to give you the outline I preached from this passage in May of 2017. Number one Christian, our Christian service is remembered. Hebrews 6. 10. God is not unfaithful to forget uh or unrighteous to forget our work of love. Number two, Christian service is rewarded. There in verse 21. Well done. Number three, Christian service is required. And there I went to Luke 18. No man hath left house. Uh uh Christian service is repaid, excuse me. No man hath left house or parents that shall not receive. Number four, Christian service is required. Verse 24 You shouldn't put the money to usury. Number five, our Christian service is reasonable. Present your bodies a living sacrifice, which is your reasonable service. That was a good outline. I came up with that one all by myself. That come from a sermon book. That was a good outline. Not the outline for today. You know, as we look at Scripture, we can look back at messages we preached in the past and think, you know, that could have been better. You know, maybe I missed an awful lot in that passage. There's not new scriptures And not new revelation, but even the preacher should be growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. And so I I was curious when I found that message. I'd actually done most of the preparation mentally for what we're going to consider this morning before I even looked back to to that old message. But I thought that was an interesting introduction to it because that is the way it's a good outline and it's the way we typically hear this passage preached that God has given to us talents And if God has given us the ability to speak, we should speak. If God has given us the ability to pound nails, we should pound nails. If God has given to us the ability to be prayer warriors, we should be prayer warriors. If we can play piano, we should play piano. Whatever abilities God has given you, you should use them for the Lord. So that's the way this passage is typically preached. And that's a good application of the passage. I'm not disparaging that at all. But folks, when we look at the context here, it's something totally different Christ is talking about. The talents that he's speaking about here is not the ability to go to a mission field and help build a church. It's not the ability to repair someone's vehicle. It's not the ability to play a piano or to sing. There's something far more spoken of here. But so if we look at the context, we find that chapter 25 begins in verses 1 through 13 with the wise and the foolish virgins. That's what immediately precedes this. Verses 1 through 13 is the wise and foolish versions. And then we have, starting with verse 14, the parable, the talents. Now what do we learn from the wise and foolish versions? Well, you better be ready because the master is returning. The bridegroom. And then 14 through 30 is the ta the talents. And then in verse 31 through the end of the chapter, it's the separation of the sheep for the goats. It's the division of the true from the false. And you remember the parable of the ten virgins, five of them entered, and five of them got shut out. And then the sheep and the goats, the sheep are his elect, and the goats are not. And in verse 46, we read there that the goats shall go away into everlasting punishment. And so when you look at the context, you find that Christ first said, Look, there's ten versions, five of them are saved, and five of them are lost And then there are three servants, two of them are saved, one of them is lost. And then there are sheep and there are goats, and the sheep are saved, and the goats are lost. You see, when you look at the context, I find nothing about how well you used the skills that God has given you. Or or how you were uh an excellent person at at computers and so you used your computer skill for the Lord as opposed to just using it for your own But rather than that, some are saved and some are lost. And so uh that viewpoint of this passage forced me to go back into the passage And to take another look. And so this is what I want to do. I want to go through verses fourteen through thirty, verse by verse, and just see exactly what the verses are saying. And then at the end, we're going to have our outline, and our outline is actually a bunch of questions. And those questions, I pray, will cause us to measure ourselves By the word of God. Not measuring ourselves by this fella is a big servant and this fella is a little servant. Well, well, God, you gave him five and you only gave me one. But rather measure ourselves in the Word of God. So let's let's go into the passage. In verse 14, we find for the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country. The man of course is Jesus Christ Himself. And he was here with us, and then he traveled back to his father, he is ascended to his father, who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. Who owns the servants? They're the masters. Who owns the goods? Well, those are the masters as well. No one here has any independence. No one here is at liberty to be a servant or not to be a servant. Rather, all are servants. He called his own servants. These things were made by God, or all things were made by God and for God, and for his pleasure they are and were created. Now, one of these servants is called unprofitable and is cast into outer darkness where there's gnashing of teeth and wailing. But folks, the unprofitable servant was created by God. And he was created for the glory of God and for the pleasure of God. We need to keep that in mind. The goods which are distributed, they are his as well. And we notice it's not talking about skills. That's the way I preached this pastor before, and as I say, that's not a errant viewpoint, but he very clearly says in verse 27, you should have taken my money and given it to the exchangers. So there's something of value That Christ is entrusting to his servant. There is something that is intrinsically valuable Some things are not intrinsically valuable. In fact, our labor is not intrinsically valuable. But there are some things that are gold and diamonds. There are some things which have worth within themselves. And that is the nature of the thing which Christ is entrusting to them. God has given skills, but the kingdom of God is not dependent upon our skills or labor. Rather, the kingdom of God is dependent on the gospel. And so, consider the things that God gave to us through Christ, who was here, and then went back to the Father. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Why? That whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but have everlasting life. Ephesians four, seven and eight, to every one of us is given grace, according to the measure of the gift of God. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. Psalm 68, 18 and 19. Thou hast ascended on high. Thou hast led captivity captain captive. Thou hast received gifts For men, yea, for the rebellious also, for the unprofitable servants also, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them Blessed be ye of the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even our God, the God of our salvation, Selah, for he is our God of sorry, for he that is our God of salvation, and unto God belongeth the issues. from debt from death. And so folks, the gift that God has given is the message of Jesus Christ. It is the gospel of Christ. That is the talents that were given, 5, 2, and 1. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Remember the woman at the well? When she started to ask her questions, what did Christ say? If thou knewest the gift of God, if you knew what this gift was. And so from the very beginning, we find that the goods here are things of value. It is the gospel in its entirety. It is the shed blood of Jesus Christ that is given. It is the message to be repeated that is given. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It doesn't say go ye into all the world and show the world how skilled you are. It doesn't say go into all the world and and use the talents that God has given you to build churches on the mission field and to do this thing over here. No, the the kingdom of God does not depend on any of those things. But the kingdom of God is advanced through the preaching of Christ. And so every servant of God, in some measure, is entrusted with this gospel. for its proclamation. He gave them the gospel. Verse fifteen And to one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to every man according to his several ability, and straightway he took his journey. Do you see the sovereignty of God here? Do you see how God is working his own will? The gifts are distributed according to the wisdom of God, to everyone according to his several abilities. God knows his servants. God knows his sheep. God will not burden a believer above that which is able, but God expects us to use the abilities He has given us. And God gave them according to his wisdom, according to their several ability. The master knows his sheep, but he distributes according to his will. There are some men that God has given great and deep insights into the Word of God. You have heard names mentioned in this assembly, where some of us have had teachers, mentors in the gospel. Who God gave amazing insights. And they were able to take a young baby believer and preach that young baby believer. And today we stand, my brother and I stand to proclaim the gospel, but those godly men that God placed in our pathway Stood out above all the men we knew. Because God had given them a particular ability with the gospel. They may have had many other skills, but with the gospel. Folks, the first responsibility of every servant is to receive Is to receive the gospel. You see, the one who had got five and reflect returned ten, and the one who got two and returned four, they received the gospel. They believed it for themselves. The other buried in the ground. He never received the gospel. The proof is in the pudding, folks. He was cast into outer darkness. The first two, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. They enter the kingdom. But the one, he did not enter the kingdom. But rather he was cast out into outer darkness. You see, God requires of his His people God requires of his servants when he gives gives them his gives them his word. The master chooses the measure or qualit quantity of his grace. And the measure the master chooses the location where his grace is given. Folks, you're blessed. If you were here in this country, which you're all here in this country, except maybe some of the folks online. You're in a place where you're hearing the word of God. There is a man who was born the day I was born who will live and die and never hear the gospel of Christ. And he will stand before the judgment just as responsible for his sin. But God did not give him the opportunity. And Christ in Matthew 11, verse 21 and 23, woe unto thee, Korus, and woe unto thee Beth Seda, for at the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire in Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and in ashes. And thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, Thou shalt be brought down to hell, for if the mighty works which have been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained unto this day. You ever think that God sent the angels to Sodom solely to rescue Lot? God could have sent angels to Sodom to do great works. God could have sent a uh Jonah to Sodom, but God did not. God chose not to. See, God gives his gifts, he gives his gospel according to his will And so to move along quickly, verse 16, he that received five talents went, and traded with the same, and made five other talents Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, teaching them to observe all things what's where I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the world. Henceforth I call you not servants This is John 15. I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth. We've even been given the privilege of knowing what this gospel is about. And so I don't call you servants anymore, I call you friends. Because I've given you the knowledge of what you're doing Yes, we're the servants of God, but we have a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, a glorious relationship. Verse 17, likewise he that received he that received two, he also gained two others. Verse 18. But he that had received one went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money. If our gospel be hid, it is hid to those that are lost. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Verse 19. And after a long time. And I've underlined that word long time in my Bible. Oh, how long the time seems. How easy it is to become weary in well-doing. We read that in the latter days men will say, Where is the sign of his coming? Ah, it's been a long time. After a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That everyone may receive the things done in his body, according to he hath done, whether it be good or bad Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. What do we do? Use our talents, play the piano. No. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. We're engaged in the proclamation of the gospel. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, this is 2 Corinthians 5. 11, if you're keeping notes, we persuade we persuade men But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also, and I trust also are made manifest unto your conscience. Verse 25, he that received Five talents brought in his five five more. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Verse 21 Verse 21 is well done, thou good and faithful servant. 22, he that received two, twenty-three, uh well done, thou good and faithful servant, verse 24. Then he which had received one came and said, Lord, I knew that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not. Strawd. Look what this man does with man does with the gospel. First of all, he blames God. Think about that. Folks, how many, how many young people have grown up in church? Have grown up receiving the gospel, have grown up surrounded by the truth of God, and today they blame God for all their problems Their accusation is against him rather than his accusation being against them. You see, when a man repents He knows the accusations against him. God's not the problem. I'm the problem But the first thing he does is he makes accusation against God. I know that you're a hard man. It is your fault. You know what he's absolutely lacking? Repentance of any form. This unprofitable servant is totally without repentance. The gospel has meant nothing to him. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. But he buries that message in the realm. It's too hard I don't want to be your servant. I want an easier master. You're a hard master. I see no profit in serving you. I will put this in the ground. I will put it out of sight. Don't bother me with the gospel. I don't want to hear about my sin You tell me there's judgment coming when I'm gonna dig a hole. My children have always complained about me making them sermon illustrations, so now I'm gonna do it with my grandson. Last night my son-in-law is a wise man rebuked my grandson. And his first response was to close his eyes. He had slopped applesauce off his tray and was told, no, don't do that. And he closed his eyes. You see, if I can't see you, you can't see me is the thinking of a child But folks, is not that what the unprofitable servant did? He took the gospel and he dug a hole and he covered it up. There's no judgment for me. You see, we find in this unpropitable servant a total lack of repentance and an accusation against the sovereignty of God. God, you're just not fair. You reap where you didn't sow. Well folks, even though the master says, yes, to your perception I do that, he owns the cattle on a thousand hills where God reaps. It's all his But this unprofitable servant sees none of that. Verse 25 And I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth. What do we know about the earth? Adam, the ground is cursed for thy sake. It's cursed. In the earth. Lo, there thou hast thine. I haven't done any harm to you. My sin is not an offense to God. God does not see its all hidden in the ground. Isaiah 29, 13, wherefore the Lord saith, Forasmuch as this people draw near unto me with their mouth, and with their lips do they honor me. But have removed their heart far from me, and their fear of me is taught the precepts of man. I was afraid Folks, we fear the Lord, but this man knows nothing of the fear of God. All he fears is that he might get caught Just as the burglar hides his loot, so this man is hiding the truth of God in the ground where it will be found. Just as Achan took the Babylonian garment and the wedge of gold and buried them in the floor of his tent. So the unprofitable servant has buried the truth of God. He's put his Bible in a hole. And covered it over and walked away as the a daughter's woman wiping her mouth and saying, I've done no ill Verse twenty six. His Lord answered. His Lord answered The people marching down the street, men dressed as women with their pride flags, he's still their Lord, though they may try to bury the truth in the hole But they'll kneel. He's still their Lord. His Lord answered and said, Thou wicked and swathful servant, thou knewest, therefore art thou without excuse, O man Thou knew that I reap where I sow not, and gather where I have not strolled. Luke 12, 47. That servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither according to his will, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But I say unto you, yea, have they not heard, verily their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. No man has excuse Thou oughtest to have put my money to the money changers, then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. Take therefore that talent from him, and give it to him which hath ten talents, for lo to every one that hath shall be given, and to him that shall that he shall have abundance, but unto him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. And cast, verse 30, the unprofitable servant into darkness, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So I hope folks I hope folks I'm not trying to convince you of anything here this morning necessarily. But I hope you see that there's far more here than just how we use the skills that God has given us. But rather there is in this parable the total response to the to the gospel. Do you believe it? Or do you bury it in the ground? Do you have oil in your lamp, or will you be shut out? Are you a sheep or are you a goat? That is the teaching of the kingdom, and this is all one sermon from the Lord. And so folks now, I'd like to ask some questions. I'm not looking for hands, but I want you to answer every one of these in your heart. What is your belief about Jesus Christ? Do you believe he is indeed the Son of God? Do you believe he is the master that is going into a far country? Do you believe he's returning? Or do you just take it all and dig a hole and bury it? Number two, what is the value that you place on the Word of God? Another way to put the question is this, how dusty is your Bible? How clean are its pages? We have a new version of the Bible this morning. Talking about the pulpit Bible It's the same Bible, but it's a new new version uh that our brother has put up here. By that I mean that that um Philip Burney's Bible was was put away because its pages are getting frail just from exposure. But If you've ever looked at that Bible, my it's born. Every page is stained and marked. There was a godly man who loved the book. Folks, is your Bible idol? Six days of the week. Or are his pages worn? Are you on your second or third or fourth Bible? That you just warn them out And because it was falling apart, this not not the Holmes example necessarily, but this one was rebound about three years ago because it was just It was falling apart and so I sent it off to a man who can rebind it and restitch a Bible put it back together because I didn't want to lose all my markings I have in here. And the Bible I had the Bible my mom gave me on my seventeenth birthday. I had rebound as well because it was falling apart. Folks, what value did he put on the gospel? What value did he put on the Word of God? When Christ returns, will you be able to show him that even in your own heart the Word of God has multiplied and multiplied and multiplied? That he gave you these little five truths of his word, and now you say, Lord, I've learned five more Can you say, Lord, these little bits of gospel were put in my way, and here are my spiritual children Here are the ones that have come to the gospel because I have proclaimed it. Lord, I'm going to give account of my service. You gave me the gospel, and I've multiplied it again and again and again. Or is your Bible in a hole in the backyard, like a deadbed? What value do you place on the gospel of the Word of God? Number three, what's your priority in prayer? Is prayer something that you do before you eat? And that's about it or do you place a great value on prayer? Do you begin your day praying and in the word? Do you indeed pray without ceasing? Do you pray driving down the road? Do you pray at work? Do you pray in your idle time? What do you do with prayer? Number four, what is your effort for evangelism? How important is it to you to spread this message Lord, I only have two. But here's four. Oh Lord, I took it and I buried it in the hole. Never told another soul about it. Number four or number five, do you believe the master's coming back? Or do you think well where is the sun of his coming? Do you believe that you'll appear before the judgment seat of the sun You know, we talk about the judgment seat of Christ, and we say there's no condemnation for them which are in Christ Jesus. And that means that the punishment of sin has been removed. But that does not mean that because I'm a believer, I will not give account of what I've done in the service of the master. It's not a contradiction in Scripture here. We must all give account of the things that are done in the body. And then finally, what reward are you expecting? What reward do you anticipate? Will you hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant? Or do you No, but you have hid the truth of God in the ground. It has never changed your heart, it has never affected your behavior, it has never passed your lips. Find the unprofitable servant and cast him into an outer darkness. Oh, may we We hear well done. Thou good and faithful servant, enter thou into the kingdom of heaven, into the joy. of the Lord. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the marvelous depths of thy truth. We thank you, Lord, that you have entrusted to us thy gospel, the message of Christ has reached our hearts. O Father, may we indeed be as a city set on a hill May our candle be on a candlestick and may it give light to all that are in the room. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen Amen, Amen. Is it time to quit so soon? What isn't there another page? More love to thee, O Christ. A fitting closing song. More love to thee. Still time to pray that It's one of the great statements that uh Ray Comfort makes. Oh, I'm a I'm scared to share the gospel with people. It says don't don't pray for less fear, pray for more love. More love for your fellow men That was a pretty good admonition. More love to thee, O Christ, all four stanzas. On red weekness by earnestly for love. I pray so be said I'll be Al I seek Where is that? Where my prayers shall be for love or right to me. Love to me, oh love to the let sorrow do its work And read and claim, sweet are thy blessed truth, sweet are we pray. Then they cancel with me for lovable price to leave Goody God to thee, and shall my great friend wish where thy grave is. My body, my heart shall break. Where's the prayer shall we for love? Amen, amen. Place me seated