Turn with me to First Samuel chapter twenty this morning. We left off last week with David and Jonathan conversing and David trying to convince Jonathan that The father of Jonathan, King Saul, wanted to kill him. And so they discussed how this might be revealed, if it were true, to Jonathan or to David, they realized uh who had the right uh the right uh feelings about king saw whether he really wanted to kill David or not. So in verses 18 through 24 they discussed how This information, if it was discerned by John, would be relayed to David. We're not going to read those verses because 18 through 24 is basically repeated in verses 35 through 39. uh when they one is telling you what we'll do to get the message back to Jonathan uh or from Jonathan to David if Saul really wants to kill him or not and then verses thirty five through thirty nine It's implemented. So we're going to skip verses 18 and 24. They're kind of redundant. And just follow with me on verse 25 to the end of the chapter. And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty. Nevertheless, Saul spake not anything that day, for he thought something had befallen him, that is, something befallen David. He is not clean. Now, surely he's not clean. Remember, they're sitting at the feast of the new moon. And it came to pass on the morrow, the second day, and these feasts lasted for three days, which was the second day of the month, that David's place It was still empty. And Saul said unto Joth and his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to me, neither yesterday nor today. And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem. He said, Let me go, I pray thee, for our family hath a sacrifice in the city. And my brother he hath commanded me to be there. And now if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king's table. So David's in the feast in Bethlehem, and the king's in the feast up in his city near Gibeah. But Saul's anger, verse 30, was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse and rebellious woman Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness He's accusing here Jonathan's mother of being a rebellious woman and having actually had an affair with somebody else. Verse 31: For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die. And Jonathan answered Saul his father and said unto him, Wherefore shall he that is David be slain? What hath he done? And Saul cast a javelin at Jonathan to smite him, whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David. So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger and did eat no meat that second day of the month. For he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame. And it came to pass in the morning that Jonathan went out of the field, as they prearranged the earlier verses, at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him, and he said unto the lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot. And as a lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him, way beyond the lad. And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot Jonathan cried to Athelad and said, Is not the arrow be on thee? And here is the message that was planned for David. And Jonathan cried Aphalad, Make speed, haste, stay not And that was what was pre-arranged in the early verses. If David heard that, he knew, get out of town. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows and came to his master. But the lad knew not anything. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter. You recall David was to be hiding out there in a cave or behind some rocks, and he'd hear the message to that lad. So the lad knew not anything. Only Jonathan David knew the matter that had just transpired. And Jonathan gave his artillery or his arrows, his bows, unto the lad, and said unto him, Go carry them to the city. And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times, and they kissed one another. That's common custom you see that sometimes over uh in France, that kissed one cheek and then the other. And uh that you see that over in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere, uh do not take this first to as the uh the gays do today, that prove that David and And Jonathan were uh gay. They were not. This is just a customary thing that was done at that time. And so David rose out of his place. They bowed himself three times, and they kissed one another and wept one with the other. until David exceeded her. He just he just couldn't even talk anymore. And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for as much as ye have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord between me is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed forever. And he, that is David, arose and departed. And Jonathan went into the city. Titled The Message This Morning, the Revelation. Or the revelations. There's about six revelations that take place here in these verses. Verses 25 and 26. David's place or his seat, he would sit next to King Saul. It was empty. And Saul thought something had to befallen him, that he is not clean. Surely he's not clean. I mean David's a man of God and he would come to the the feast of the new moons. He'd he would come to the feast and and he would want to give obedience to what God required of him. And the only reason he wouldn't come is if he was unclean Saul thought perhaps David touched a dead body or a grave. Numbers nineteen and sixteen, if you touched a dead body or a grave, you were unclean and you had to be made cleanse, had to be cleansed, and it would take uh about a day, and then you could come to the the three-day feast on the second day or the third day. Or perhaps he touched a pig, an unclean beast, Leviticus 7 and 21. And there again he'd be unclean for about 24 hours. And so Saul figures he'll come in on the next day That would prevent him from partaking only on the first day, but not the second or the third day of the feast of the new moon. And verse 5 of this chapter talked about it was the feast of the new moon, in which they would come for three days. But you had to come cleansed. Now here's a revelation, the first revelation we have here. Saul acknowledges that David believes every jot and tittle of the scriptures. uh Matthew five and eighteen. Christ taught that. We are to believe every jot and every title of the scriptures. And and so uh he admits here that David is the kind of a man that believes every jot and every tittle every word Every preposition, every adjective, and he abides by every word of God, and that's probably why he's not here. But so this is the revelation that Paul gives, or that Saul gives. I believe David's a godly man, and that's why he's not here He's done something that's made himself unclean. That was what he thought of King David. The man he wanted to kill. Think the man that follows God's word explicitly. I just wonder this morning, program, do you believe God's word explicitly? Explicitly, every jot and every tittle, and try to follow it like David. Now in verse 27, it's the second day of the three-day feast And David's place was still empty. And so Saul says unto his son Jonathan, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meet, neither yesterday nor today. I mean how unclean this it usually only lasts for a day. So the question arises, where is the son of Jesse? It's a subtle thing here. I think you'll see it. King Saul doesn't say, Where's my son-in-law? Where's the captain of the host? Where's the killer of Goliath? He says, Where's the son of Jesse? You know, the son of the shepherd. He's being demeaning here. It's beginning to dawn on Jonathan. There's a revelation here that Saul is belittling him. Where's the son of the shepherd? Where's the shepherd boy? Where's Jesse's kid? Saul begins to show his hatred for David by this good litany remark, calling him the son of Jesse. In fact, it probably was more like this. Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse? Have you ever been belittled by somebody The brothers of Joseph did it when he was approaching him out in the field. Oh, here comes the dreamer. Sarcastic. Here comes the dreamer. Joseph who has dreams, here comes the dreamer. Sarcastically said. We read in 2 Peter 2. 8 how Lot, when he was preaching down in Sodom and Gomorrah, that how the people down there vexed him day after day, belittling and ridiculing and attacking him. The scripture tells in Ephesians 5 and 3 that even to jest to poke fun at someone is wrong. In fact, when you look at the list of sins It's right in there with with adultery and it's it's in there with uh uh uh fornication. It's it's a it's a horrible sin. Jesting or mocking someone is a sin worthy of the wrath of God, according to Ephesians 3. 6. Did you ever think of that? Making fun of someone, picking, poking at someone, jesting, it's worthy of the wrath of God. You know, we don't realize, you know, we think we're pretty good people, and I'm not a bad I haven't killed anybody, I haven't shot anybody, you know, I I haven't uh uh cheated with somebody else's wife or something. You know, you read this and you say, wow, there's some other sins I d I do Here. So what do you do? Well, you ask God to forgive you. God will forgive you for poking fun at people God will forgive you for jesting and belittling people. See, that's the great thing about the gospel. The good news is that God will forgive you no matter what you've done Paul lists in Corinthians the sins of some of the people before they were saved, the sins of the people who God forgave, and amongst those sins are are drunkards. And sodomites. And they were forgiven of their sins because they asked God to forgive them. And they stopped drinking, and they stopped trousing around, they stopped acting in a sinful manner. But God will forgive you for anything And so, yes, jesting is worthy of the wrath of God, but it's forgivable, friend. You start today by not poking fun at people, making fun of people. They have big ears. Have uh one eye different color from the other eye. I mean people make fun of you for things like that. We finally made fun of Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Boy You know, you say, Well, I I can't see where jesting is is and and mocking some is worthy of the wrath of God. Well, can you see it when you're mocking and jesting about the things of Christ or mocking Christ? Because you find that there they bowed the knee, it says in Matthew 27 They bowed the knee before Christ and they mocked him, King of the Jews. They mocked him. They made a crown of thorns and they shoved it on his head. And they bowed to him. And the high priests, they were no better. They said, when he was hanging the cross, they said, He saved others. Why can't he save himself? And they laughed and they mocked. They admitted that Christ had saved others, had brought others to a believing faith in the gospel. And they mocked him. They led people to salvation. He said he saved others. Why can't he? Jesting and mocking, where it's mocking and jesting Christ You see that, well, I can see where that would bring down the wrath of God. But if you are mocking and jesting one of God's children, it also will bring down the wrath of God. It isn't a little thing to poke fun at people. How did Jonathan respond to that? How did Jonathan respond to him ridiculing David by calling him the son of Jesse? He reviled not. He says, He never even brings it up. Why are you calling him the son of Jesse? Why do you call him the son of a shepherd? Why are you doing that, father? He doesn't even Jonathan ignores it. And he said he asks, it says in verse 28 to 30, he says, rather he answered, he says, David asked leave to go to Bethlehem Uh for the family has a sacrifice of the city. He's gonna go down to Bethlehem for the three days of the new moon's feast. He's gonna go down there. And uh That was a revelation to Saul. He hadn't thought about it. He might not be unclean. He might be actually worshiping God during the new moon and and get the burnt offering down there in Bethlehem with his family And when he was when that was revealed to him, when he got that revelation, Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan. And he said, Thou son of a perverse and rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse? That is David to thy own confusion. You're letting him become king instead of you, is what he's saying. And the confusion of my mother's nakedness? As I said earlier, the implication here is that Johnson's birth is the result of an affair his mother had with somebody else. The perverse and rebellious woman talks about her nakedness. Why would anyone make such an outstanding revelation Public. We're at the feast of the new moon where the burnt offering has been sacrificed and the people are gathering there for three days of festivities and giving uh thanks to God, and in the midst of this crowd of people there at the court Why would Saul say something like this about his own wife, call her a perverse woman and and how she'd done something rebellious and and had exposed her nakedness? Why would you why would you make such a revelation in public to everybody else About your own wife and about Jonathan's mother It was really saying to Jonathan, you are really the son of a perverse, rebellious woman. In other words, my royal blood doesn't flow through you, Jonathan. It's obvious if my royal blood flowed to you, Jonathan You'd want to be king. You wouldn't be taking a back seat and saying, Well, I want David to be king instead. I think David should be king. Uh he just seems more prepared for it. And and you you've made him your friend and he's going to be king instead of you. It must be because royal blood doesn't flow through you, Jonathan. And the blood that flows through you is something that your mother did when in a perverse, rebellious moment with someone else And that's why you're willing to give up the crown to the son of Jesse. To give up the crown to the son of a shepherd. To give up the crown to a little shepherd boy. What's with you? Obviously no royal blood, my blood doesn't flow through your veins. To have a shepherd is the kingdom. Two things I want you to notice here. First, any problem with the shepherd being king? Christ is called the great shepherd, isn't he? Anyone here have a problem with a carpenter being the king of kings? Saul has a problem with a shepherd being the king. I don't have a problem with Christ, who's called the Great Shepherd, being my king, the King of Kings. Second thing I want you to note here is how do you respond when you were verbally assaulted? Because Jonathan has been verbally assaulted here. You accuse him of not having royal blood flowing through his veins. He's attacked his mother. How do you respond when you were verbally assaulted and your mother's good name is dragged through the mud or some member of your family? How do you respond? I mean there's many a man you say something about his mother, those fighting words, right? I don't know why it is you can say something about a guy's father, maybe nothing happened. Well, you say something about a guy's mother, and everybody's in an uproar. And everybody understands that's a worthy cause. But how do you respond when someone's dragging your mother's name through the mud? Jonathan holds his tongue. Oh wow. Can you control your mouth, Pilgrim? Hmm. Christ taught that which cometh out of the mouth defileth a man, Matthew 15, 11. I suspect Jonathan, the Holy Spirit, understood that. You can defile yourself by saying things. What comes out of the mouth will defile you while something going into the mouth does not defile you. That's what I I remember we were at a presbytery one time, they were having a debate on the floor about, you know, uh legalism, what was what was okay, what was not okay to do as a Christian. And someone said that he felt that uh it was wrong to smoke. It defiles the body And when the preachers go and say, excuse me, but what goeth in the mouth does not defile the body. Christ says, what cometh out of the mouth, what defiles the body? So they stopped debating smoking at that meeting. Jonathan understood that. I mean, he's attacked David as being the son of Jesse, the son of a shepherd boy. Now he's attacked Jonathan's mother is being a rebellious and perverse woman and and they've attacked Jonathan for not having the blood of royalty flowing through his body. And Jonathan is holding his tongue. Saul continues in verse 31. And he says to Jonathan, send and fetch him, that is fetch David, for he shall surely die. Saul is the kind of a person he's just unwilling to admit that his sin cost his family the crown and the royalty. Uh that it was his sin when he sinned against the Amalekites, or rather when he was supposed to kill off the Amalekites and he didn't And Samuel the prophet told him to kill the Amalekites, kill them all. He didn't. When Samuel told him to kill off all the Amalekites, all the sheep, from the goats, and the camels, and he didn't. And in rebellion, he kept all his things and make himself um richer and more prosperous. And it was that rebellion that Samuel said, the crown has been removed from you, King Saul. It's been removed from your family. It's going to go to someone else. And Samuel had said this, made it very clear to Saul, and yet Saul here, he he seems oblivious to the fact that it's his sin that has caused his family the crown. He blames David instead. David's been plotting. David's been subverting the hearts of the people of Israel. David's been subverting the heart of my daughter Michael. David's been subverting the heart of my son Jonathan, who should be the next king. It's all David's fault. It's not my fault. Do you ever blame others when you know that you're really responsible for the outcomes in your life? Do you ever look to try to blame somebody else? You know, you don't get that promotion. Well it's not my fault. That guy stabbed me in the back. It's not my fault. I had this great idea and somebody else stole the idea and took it to the boss It's not my fault uh we missed the exit. You know you're driving you start arguing with the wife or something. It's not my fault we missed the exit. You distracted me. Or it's not my fault we run out of gas, or it's not my fault I got a skiing ticket or a parking ticket. It's not my fault who got elected just because I didn't vote. It's not my fault that I didn't do well on the test just because I didn't study. It's not my fault that I didn't take any advice from anybody else. We always have to we want to blame anyone but ourselves So Saul gives the order David shall surely die. Because he's been trying to steal the kingdom. He's been trying to take the throne from my son, the crown Let me just say this real slowly. Saul makes the announcement that David should die. Where does he make the announcement? He makes it at a religious feast. He makes it at the feast of the new moons. All the godly people, all the people are supposed to be godly, they're there, gathered among a crowd of supposed the believers, and probably many of them were Amidst all the believers at a very sacred feast, the feast of the new moons, he makes the announcement that David shall surely die. Go get him. And by the way, the feast of the new moons where the burnt offering was burned. Do you know what the official meaning or the name of that feast was? Numbers 1010. He makes the announcement at the peace offering feast. Oh, here we are at the peace offering. David's gonna die. Talk about something so ironic and contrary. He doesn't make the announcement on a regular daily basis or on the Monday morning. He makes it during the feast of the peace offering. That we should kill David. Go get him now. Wow! What a revelation of Saul's heart. He can't wait till the feast is over. The feast of the peace offering. To order David be cut to pieces. Christ thought, You have heard thou shalt not kill But I say unto you, whoever is angry with his brother without a cause, be reconciled, your brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Matthew 5, 21. Through 24. Saul, okay, you haven't killed David yet, but you're angry with him. You want him dead. Saul, you should even be at this feast the way your heart is. You thought David might be unclean? You've got murder in your heart, and you've come to the peace offering and you've announced at the peace offering, I want David murdered or killed or slain. Wow, that was a revelation to Jonathan, wasn't it? Remember in the previous chapters and verses? John has said to David, My dad doesn't want to kill you. My dad doesn't want to slay you. My dad doesn't hate you. Yes, he does. No, he doesn't. Yes, he Well. Saul oring the death of David At the peace offering, Jonathan finally woke up. Jonathan finally stood up. And Jonathan finally spoke up. You can ridicule David's name. You can ridicule my mother. You can ridicule me. But when you want to commit murder of an innocent man, you want to kill an innocent, then we're going to talk. I'm not going to stand by and remain silent when you want to kill the innocent. And woe unto the Christian that would remain silent while they're out there killing the innocent. The abortion clinics of this land. There are pastors that will not touch such subject in the pulpit. The hardly talk about on the radio or in a conversation, they don't want to go there But that's a time to talk. That's a time to speak up. And Jonathan here, they want to kill David. You want to kill a man who is innocent? And he says in verses 32 through 34, wherefore shall he be slain? What have he done? He finally speaks, doesn't he? Remember I said John has the control of his mouth? Do you have control of your mouth? But there is a time to speak. There's a time, Ecclesiastes said, there's a time to be silent, and there's a time to speak. And now is the time to speak. Wherefore shall he be slain? Why would you kill David? What hath he done? And Saul's response was in verse 34. And Saul cast a javelin at Jonathan to smite him. Well. First, the public charges and humiliation of Johnson's mother and then the decree to kill David. And now Saul who wants Jonathan to be king. Remember, he wants his son Jonathan to be king. He is so angry, he wants his son to be king instead of he is so angry he throws the Jabrin to kill Jonathan Well that'll stop him from being king, won't it? I mean a fool is a fool indeed. He casts the javelin. He that is soon angry, Proverbs 14, 70 says, He who is soon angry deals foolishly. That's what they talk about road rage out there in the road? I mean there have been some crazy road rage stories out there One guy got out and yelling and shot another guy and pulled out his gun to threaten him and the other guy pulled out his gun and shot him. You know what we found out? They were both cops. There were two cops with a road rage. Or at least the one cop had road rage. The other cop was just trying to defend himself, but you know the guy jumps out with a gun, waving at some guy in another car, and he's screaming and yelling at him, and the other guy shot him. They were both cops I mean, he that is soon angry deal with things foolishly. Have you ever wished you saw where a conversation was going and you just kind of Wish he'd kind of backed away before it went too far. Have you ever uh left or wish you'd left the gathering sooner than you did? He said, boy, I wish we left earlier. I I remember there's a Patterson High School reunion and I think it was SK Meets. I forget now. There were two big reunions down down near the Sparrows Point, I forget the name name the place down. It's one of these big uh places where you can rent the hall for the whole evening. And um They got into a brawl. Uh the S is I think it was the S T meet people. I started fighting and poured out into the alcove and and the people coming out of the Northern High School uh graduation reunion, they poured in and both sides just started fighting each other. You know, I often wonder, how do you know who to punch when there's about two hundred people swinging? And and I discovered stuff. You don't. Everybody just says, hey, they're all drunk, the elder start swinging And I thought to myself, I wish we just left ten minutes earlier, you know? You ever felt like you wish he'd left someplace a little earlier? John, I probably wish he'd gotten out there a little earlier that night They're sorry the conversation was going before the javelin comes flying at him and almost kills him. Or have you ever wished you broke off a relationship earlier? Jonathan probably thought, David's been telling me my dad wants to kill me? Rather your dad wants to kill me? And Jonathan said, No, he doesn't And Jonathan now the the jab was sticking in the wall has just missed him and and Jonathan has to be thinking, My relation, my father and I well Talk about a dysfunctional family. I wish I'd broken this relationship off my father a little sooner. And I hope I can get out the exit before he throws the second javelin at me There were people who wish that they'd broken up a relationship a lot sooner than they did. Think of Abigail and her husband Nabal the Fool. Yeah, we won't go into the story, but some of you know it. How about Samson and Delilah? That would have been a good one to break off that relationship early, wouldn't it? Before she shaved all his hair off and had him in prison and his eyes burned out I mean there are relationships that we ought to see ahead of time. This is not a healthy relationship and and break it off. How about Sarah and Hagar, the concubine? That's a relationship that ought to probably broke off a little sooner, right? Well at least the revelation here as Jonathan had was that Saul does want David dead. I figure with the announcement of his mother being a perverse, rebellious woman, the javelin that just misses Jonathan and the orders for David to be killed and so forth. Popical three things maybe not one item but all three together probably put a damper on the festivities you think? You think that was kind of the end of the party that night You think all the religious people come to the the in fact are you wonder if anybody showed up on the third day of the feast? I mean after how would you come back to the third day of the feast and there's a javelin still sticking in the wall and David's not here and Jonathan's not here and uh and and Saul's wife, she's off hiding out somewhere, she's so embarrassed by the things she said about her. I mean, it it probably probably people start drifting out pretty quick The revelation here was that Jonathan knew for sure, and in fact it says here, Jonathan knew it was determined of his father, verse 34, to slay David. And he was grieved for David. I love what you often find in the scriptures, how uh the men of God, uh things are happening to them, like the Apostle Paul, Paul's being stoned, Paul's being beaten, Paul's being, you know, tortured, Paul's being imprisoned. But Paul has never grieved until he sees what's happening to Silas, you know, or what's going on with Peter's life. Really a person when you're really grieved is how what's happening to somebody else? You grieve for others Not for just what's happening to yourself. And so there he says he's grieved for David. That Saul wants to kill him. What's it going to take, people to believe that Satan is out to kill us? That Satan really exists I mean he he was created by God. He's he's as real as any other angel. In fact he was the highest angel in all of heaven. And some people they don't even believe he exists. I mean if someone's out to kill you, do you want to know who it is and where they are? Would you want to know if someone's out to kill you? Would you want to know that? I'd want to know that And you try to tell people that there is a devil, there is a Lucifer. His name is Satan, and he's really out to kill us. He wants us dead. We are made in the image of God. And Satan cannot Stand God the Father Almighty in heaven. Cannot stand him. And so he's been cast out of heaven. And for in some way he's probably glad he's no longer in the presence of God. He can't stand him. And he lands down here on earth. And oh my goodness, he's surrounded by all these images that that remind him of God. We're made in the image of God. And so what do you do? You you ever meet somebody you just didn't like because they reminded you of somebody else that you I can't stand that person. Why? He reminds me of, you know, poor guy. He might be a real nice guy. But here's the devil. He hates us because we're made in the image of God And you can't beat up on God, but boy, he can beat up on us, can he? He'll have us dead if he can have it. You want people to know that Satan really exists. And some people think he just runs on the little red pajamas with a tail and pitch for it, and it's kind of a ha-ha thing, but Satan can appear as an angel of life. He goeth about like a roaring lion. Job 18 and verse 14 describes Satan this way. He is the king of terror. Think of that. There's people out there, they make movies that are supposed to frighten you, and TV shows are supposed to scare you. I can't watch any of them, they give me nightmares. But I'll tell you what, you let Satan produce a film in Hollywood. Maybe that's what's going on, you know, come to think of it. I mean you got Omen and 666 and the Anti-Christ. You got all these all these ungodly films and movies being made that are so satanic Exodus, this all this stuff. You've got all this going on. And he is called the King of Terrors. If anyone can frighten you, so do you really want to die and go to hell and be spend the rest of your eternity with the King of Terror? I'd for a second, not me. And all you gotta do is ask God to forgive you of your sins. And ask him to put a love in your heart for the Lord Jesus Christ. Just that I this in the time it took me to say that is all it would take for me to do and say the same thing. To avoid the king of terror. Who is eager to destroy us? He's the enemy of Christ. He has his fiery darts, Ephesians 6. 16 tells us. So what will it take for us to understand that there really is a devil out to kill us? It will take God's revelation, it will take God's word. Read His Word, you'll find out who your real enemy is. It's not your neighbor, it's not your mother, it's not your father, it's not your brother. Well, they may be being used by the devil, but we need to read the Word of God, the revelation of God. And when you do, you'll do what Jonathan did here. Jonathan chose David. over his father. Jonathan told chose the son of Jesse. Jonathan chose the shepherd boy over the king of Israel. I think Jonathan understood what the Lord Jesus Christ often taught. In Luke 14 and 26, if any man come to me, Christ said and hate not his father, mother, wife, children, brethren, and sisters. Yea, his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. Now he doesn't mean you have to hate your parents to and love me, but what he's saying is that uh if you re that you may come to a point where your your parents They they hate Christ so much and they reject Christ. They don't want you to be a Christian. They don't want you to go to church. They don't want you to read the Bible. Uh that you need to You need to back away from them. And some will say he hates his father, he hates his mother. Well, so be it, if that's what you think, but I love the Lord, and if I want to be a disciple of Christ, I can't follow some of the things that my mother, father, brother, or so forth is telling me. Christ's revelation to his disciples was this, follow him, though it costs you the dearest of your relationships. It doesn't have to, but it might cost you a dear relationship. It might cost you a brother, a sister, a father, or a mother You know, many start out following Christ. They say, I want to be the King of my life, I want to be the ruler of my soul, I want Jesus to be my everything, my all-in-all. And then the smirks of a sister, or the belligerence of a brother. Or the whining of a wife, or the harassment of a husband, or the pouting of the parents, or the crying of the children, something causes us to draw back and stop following Christ. And Christ said, if you run into that situation, you need to set them aside if you want to be my disciple. Hard words. The Bible's full of them. That's why some people don't read it. One fellow said, I used to read the Bible. I said, You stopped? Yeah, I stopped. I said, Why'd you stop? He said, I came to the part about me. That's why people stop reading the Bible. They know it talks about them and what they need to do. They need to repent. Ask God to put a love in our heart for what He's done for them on the cross at Golgotha. So maybe you're tempted to go astray this morning because of a brother or a sister, a father, or a mother, a wife, or a husband, child, someone in your life, you're tempted to go astray. Let me remind you: if you're tempted to go astray, just a brief reminder. Of what happens to your pets when they go astray out on the highway. Flattened. Destroyed. Smacked. down. We don't want to go astray from Christ because the devil's out there waiting to run right over us. Now as it was planned in verses 18 through 24, we didn't read those, but as it was planned, verses thirty-five through thirty-nine, Jonathan went out with the little lad with him, and they did planned it ahead of time. I will shoot the arrows and if everything's okay, I'll say, That's it, son, you got the arrow. That's good, that's good, son. Come on in. But if it's bad, I'll shoot the arrows beyond the son, or beyond the young lad, and I'll be shouting to him that, you know, you must go further, you must go further. Keep on going. Run, run, get out of here. And that was a that was a signal for David who's hiding and listening in. And the lad knew nothing about anything. He's just out there wherever the arrows land. There are people like that. They are so oblivious to what's going on in the world as far as the spiritual world goes, they don't understand the spiritual warfare that's going on. They don't understand how the fiery darts of Satan are coming into their life in the light of somebody else. They're just oblivious. They don't know anything. They're just moving along to the field of life. And this lad was like he had he had no idea that the fall of every arrow was predetermined And he had no idea of the importance of the moment of him out there collecting the arrows. We can be a rocket scientist, we can be a brain surgeon, but unless we know God's revelations of Christ, the Word. Through the word, we know nothing of importance. Rocket scientist? Fray surgeon? You know nothing of importance if you don't know Christ. Dr. Ben Carson, Johns Hopkins, he's a brain surgeon, but he also knows the scriptures And he was so renowned that he would give tours down there at Johns Hopkins, and the grade schools, the public schools would bring them in, and he'd give them tours to Johns Hopkins, they'd have slideshows, and he would speak to them, and before he closed, he'd practically give an altar call. Dr. Ben Carson. He uh thinking about running for President of the United States And yesterday, he finally hit the list. He has been now declared that he is on the watch list As an extremist. Wow. So if you're spending time with Dr. Ben Carson, I've got a couple of his books and I've got his photograph, been around him at the pro-life meetings, he's now an extremist. No good deed. How's that go? No good deed not rewarded, no good deed goes unpunished. Thank you. So the lad's out collecting the arrows. And he knows nothing. Knowing the revelation of Scripture helps us to endure. Helps us endure the bumps of life, the detours in life, the catastrophes in life. This doesn't mean that because we know the Lord and we know the scriptures that won't cause us to weep, we'll find here that Jonathan and David wept with one another and then they departed in verses 41 and 42. And they will meet but one more time in their entire life. You think you're guaranteed this morning that you'll see everybody here one more time? You think you're guaranteed this morning you'll see anyone that you really appreciate, anyone you really love, anyone you really care for, you think you'll see them at least one more time, it's not guaranteed. Not on this side of the world, not on this side of life. So use today wisely, use today faithfully, and say something, share something with someone that you may never, never see again. David mourns at their parting. We will find that he will mourn later. He'll he will mourn sooner So much more later. In first Tampa twenty six nineteen he says, They have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go and worship other gods I don't want to go and worship other gods. I want to go down to Gidea. I want to go down with the tabernacles. I want to go to the Nob and be with Samuel and the prophets. I want to worship my God. And they said, No, get out of here. Go and worship some other gods. And he says They have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go and worship other gods. He said, At this point I'm not free to worship anymore. I can't go where I want to go. I can't worship the God I want to worship I can't go before the tabernacle anymore. I'm isolated. I'm running from King Saul. I'm in the woods. I'm in the caves. I don't have freedom to worship like I used to have. Oh, pilgrim, do you appreciate the freedom we have here in America today You can worship in the Lord's house. That can't be said of those in Iran and Iraq and Sudan in Libya and Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Is this hour here today important to you? Not everybody has an hour like this. Do you appreciate the freedom to worship in the Lord's house this morning? David did. I trust you do too. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the revelations of Scripture. We thank you for the revelations that David had, that Job had. Even the king Saul had that he recognized David was a man of God. Oh Lord, may these revelations open our eyes, open our hearts. The importance of Scripture, the importance of the history of Christ, and the future with Christ. any of this uh just reveal uh to us, to our souls the importance of even this hour here today and and may we May we have someday eternity in heaven with Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.