Dear brethren and friends, turn with me in your Bibles again to the one hundred and third Psalm, Psalm one hundred and three Where we've been studying the last several weeks. And I will be reading this morning verse 1 through 6 of Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment. For all that are oppressed. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's Word today O gracious Father, now open to our hearts this glorious passage of thy word Father, what treasure is found here? What reassurance to the oppressed! What joy to the sorrowing heart To the fearful believer, we find great comfort, great blessing and edification. O Lord, exalt thy truth before the eyes of thy people this morning And may we rejoice in it in Jesus' name. Amen. You will remember that we have emphasized that. Portion there in verse number two, which says, Bless the Lord, O my soul And forget not all his benefits. And we observe that David would not have given this exhortation under understand under inspiration. If we were not prone to forget those benefits, though God has so greatly blessed his people, yet we forget. This morning we're going to focus our attention on that sixth verse. The Lord executeth righteousness And judgment for all that are oppressed. I'd like to begin by taking the verse apart and examining the individual words And then make application as to how this righteousness and judgment is executed on behalf of the believer. First of all, notice this It says the Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed And of course, as we look there at the scriptures, we see that our translators have placed Lord in all capitals, indicating that it is Jehovah, the God of heaven, that is spoken of here. It is the Lord that executes righteousness and judgment for his people. And we find this throughout all scripture Remember in Genesis chapter 18 in the 25th verse where God was ready to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah because of their sin. And yet Abraham was concerned about the possibility of righteous there, righteous people there, and Abraham pleased with God, would you destroy everyone? And destroy the righteous along with them And there Abraham in calling to God says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And this theme is carried throughout all scripture. Jehovah executes righteous judgment, righteousness, and judgment for his people. In the ninth Psalm we find these words in Psalm nine verse eight. He shall judge the world in righteousness. He shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness. And again in Psalm 67, verse 4, O let the nations be glad and sing for joy. For thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon the earth. Psalm 72 is a Psalm of Solomon, but it's a psalm that foreshadows Messiah. It foreshadows Christ. And there, looking forward to Christ, we find these words in the first two verses of Psalm 72. Give the king thy judgment. O God, and thy righteousness under the king's son, he shall judge thy people righteously, and the poor with judgment And we know that Solomon was a very wise king and he endeavored to judge rightly. But oh my friends, it is Jesus Christ who judges the people righteously and the poor with judgment. And this same theme of righteousness and judgment coming from the Godhead is found again in Isaiah chapter 11. In the first verse we find this There shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots And then verse 4 of Isaiah 11, but with righteousness shall he judge the poor and reprove with equity. And of course it's Jesus Christ, the Messiah, that's spoken of there. We come to the Old Testament or New Testament, and we find the Apostle Paul preaching on Mars Hill And in Acts chapter 17, verse 31, Paul preaching says, but he that is Christ at the point of the day in which he will judge the world by or in righteousness. God is the point of the day when he'll judge the world in righteousness. And then again, the Apostle Paul before his death committed himself in 2 Timothy 4, verse 8, to the Lord, the righteous judge. Jesus Christ and God the Father, the Godhead, judge in righteousness. And so the first thing that we notice in this verse by way of introduction is that it is that it is the Lord. That executeth righteousness and judgment. But then folks that word executeth It is the Lord that executeth righteousness and judgment. We know what a CEO is, a chief executive officer. And many times in a company, the CEO, the chief executive officer, actually has more power than the president The president in some cases is more of a figurehead. The executive is the one that does the action. The president may say something, but it's the it's the others that carry it out Well, here we find that it is the Lord Jehovah that carries out the righteousness and judgment. He is the executor. We understand that word executor also when we have a will. Someone writes their last will of testament and they appoint an executor of the will. And it is the executor that carries out, it is the executor that makes everything go to where it was supposed to be. Folks, the Lord Jehovah is the executor of righteousness. And judgment for his people. But folks, this word executor is also the word executioner In fact, in uh previous centuries of English, the what we call an executor of the will or the executive of a company was called the executioner. The executioner of the will. Now, we know today an executioner is the one who carries out the sentence upon the unjust. But folks, that's what it's saying here The Lord Jehovah is the executor of righteousness and judgment for the oppressed, and the Lord Jehovah is the executioner of judgment on the oppressor. And so he is the executive He is the one that executeth righteousness and judgment. Folks, if it is the Lord Jehovah. That executeth righteousness and judgment on behalf of the oppressed. Folks, it's not going to fail. It's not going to be left undone. It will be completed. But then the third thing, and still by way of introduction, it is righteousness and judgment that he executes. And all those two words need our attention. The word righteousness here in this verse, the Hebrew word, is also translated justice. We we think of righteousness as the righteousness of God, and God does indeed execute the righteousness of The sun upon his people, the imputation of that righteousness, that is a true biblical fact, but that is not what is being said here. But rather, these two words, righteousness and judgment, are linked together. It is righteous judgment. It is justice judgment. That is executed for us. Again, that passage we've referred to there in Genesis Chapter 18, verse 25. In the 19th verse, before the proclamation shall not the judge of all the earth do right. We find God talking with the angels and questioning, the question is asked, should we reveal to Abraham that which is about to take place? And there in the 19th verse, God says of Abraham, for I know, this is Genesis 18, verse 19, for I know him. That he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. And folks, the word justice there in Genesis 18, verse 25, is the same word that we find here in Psalm 106 Psalm 103, verse 6. It is this word righteousness that God brings about. And again, uh We ask the question: why do the righteous suffer? Well, the righteous may suffer temporarily here, but God will execute justice, righteousness, and judgment on their behalf. David in 2 Samuel 8 verse 15 is said that he would execute judgment and justice, and it's the same word, righteousness. And again in Isaiah's prophecy of Christ in Isaiah chapter nine, verse seven, we read, Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice. And that justice is the same word, righteousness And so we see that the Lord Jehovah is the one who in an unfailing fashion will execute justice. Justice, righteousness, and judgment for all that are oppressed. But then, finally, by way of introduction to this passage We notice that the Lord executes righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. And folks, that word all means all. My dad used to say all means all, and that's all that all means, and that's true. And yet we know that the alls of Scripture are a covenantal all God does not plead the calls of the ungodly. God does not plead the calls of the unbeliever. If you look at the passage, it is all talking about a covenantal relationship. Look back up to verse 3 and follow with me. Notice the personal pronouns. Who healeth all thine iniquities, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness, who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles It's not a universal all that is being spoken of here when it talks about the oppressed. But rather it's talking about those within the covenantal relationship Those who are the children. I've often thought about my mother leaning out the back door of the house and yelling, supper's ready! And My friends that I was playing with, they ignored it because it called was not for them. It was for me. I was the only one who ran into the house for supper. And so it is within these passages. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all of his elect For all of his covenantal children that are oppressed. And we find this not just in this passage, but also in other scriptures. Psalm 72. Verse 4 and 5. He shall judge the poor of the people. He shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor. They shall fear him. He oppresses the poor of the people. That phrase of the people is Old Testament code word for the covenant relationship. And we find this in Galatians as well in the New Testament. Galatians 6 verse 10. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially those of the household of faith. And so, to take this verse on its surface and look at the words, we find, first of all, it's Jehovah Jehovah executes this righteousness and judgment. Righteousness and judgment, justice, are what he executes, and he does it on behalf of his own people who are oppressed. But with that foundation, let us begin to make practical application and see just how it is that this execution of righteousness and judgment comes about And the first thing that it would have us to consider is that the Lord executes righteousness and judgment for his oppressed people before men. Let me say that again. God will execute righteousness and judgment on behalf of his oppressed people before men. Have you ever been falsely accused? Have you ever behaved yourself in a way that was biblical and honorable? And yet you were accused of being unbiblical and dishonorable. And you knew that what you did was in agreement with God's word. You knew that what you said was from his word, and yet you were slandered for it. Have you ever spoken words? And spoken them in sincerity and honesty, and yet you found that someone had taken the words you spoke and twisted them and given them a meaning which was so far from what you had actually said Have you ever been the victim of unrighteousness and judgment? And folks, I believe every one of us at some time or another have. And those that are in the ministry of the gospel seem particularly to be the targets of this kind of thing. Folks The Lord executeth righteousness, judgment, or justice righteousness, and judgment for his oppressed people before the eyes of men. I very deliberately had Brother Anton read that seventh Psalm for our reading this morning, and I'd like to return to it because that seventh psalm is a beautiful example. Of a godly man who is being oppressed by the slander of the wicked. So I would invite you to turn back to that seventh Psalm with me and Under this heading of the Lord executes righteous judgment, righteousness and judgment before men, I want to consider this psalm. You'll notice, first of all, the title of the psalm. There it says, Shigeon of David. which he sang before the Lord concerning the words of Cush the Benjamite. Shigeon literally just means a wandering song. It's a song that has high notes and low notes. It's a song that is varied in its singing. And we find that in the Psalms where we find often David begins a psalm and he's very low and very depressed. By the end of the psalm he's rejoicing. He be starts on a low note and ends on a on a high note. But this is a song of David When concerning the words of Cush the Benjamite. Now, who was Cush the Benjamite? Well, Cush the Benjamite apparently was a close advisor of King Saul and very likely actually a blood relative. We know that Saul was of the tribe of Benjamin, and Cush also is a Benjamite. He's from the tribe of Benjamin It appears that Cush was one who, when he advised the king, the king listened. He was a trusted advisor. In fact, If Cush the Benjamite brought an evil report to the king about one of the king's subjects, that man could be put to death on the word of Cush the Benjamite The sense we get from this passage is that Cush the Benjamite has gone to his relative King Saul and has accused David of slander. Has accused David, has slandered David, accused David of treason, has accused David of plotting to kill King Saul and to take the kingdom. Now we know from scripture that that's not the fact, that's not the truth, because on two separate occasions, David had opportunity to kill Saul. And on both occasions, David's servants encouraged him and urged him on to kill Saul, and even said, The Lord has delivered Saul into your hands. And yet David refused, and David said, I will not put my hand to Saul, for Saul is the Lord's anointed. And so what Cush the Benjamite is accusing David of is the exact opposite of the truth. David obviously been has been slandered here. So look down at what it says there in verse 1 O Lord, my God, in thee do I put my trust. Lord, you're the executor of righteousness and judgment. I'm not going to kill Saul. I can't make this right. How am I going to refute the word of this trusted advisor? Lord, I'm going to trust in thee. And do I put my trust? Save me from them that persecute me and deliver me. Lord, I'm the oppressed. He's the oppressor. O Father, execute righteousness and judgment on my behalf. Verse 3, O Lord, if I have done this, if I am guilty, verse 4, if I rewarded evil to him that was at peace with me. If I've delivered him that was without my cause my enemy, then let the enemy persecute me. Lord, if I deserve persecution, I'll take it But Lord, you are the righteous judge. Verse 6, arise, O Lord, thine anger. Execute your righteous judgment. Verse the end of verse six, awake for me to judgment that thou hast commanded Lord, awake to the judgment you've commanded. Lord, you are the one that executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. In verse 10. My defense is of God who saveth them that are upright. God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. God is indeed the executor, the executioner. of judgment upon the wicked. And so we read in Psalm 19, verse 9 the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous all together. Folks, we may be slandered. We may be lied against. And often when we are slandered and lied against, we forget. We forget that the Lord Jehovah executeth righteousness And judgment for all that are oppressed. And so here the psalmist, after saying, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me bless his holy name, bless the Lord, O my soul. And forget not that even when Cush the Benjamite comes on me Even when all men oppose me, when there are piles of lies against me, when I have done that which is right and had done that which was just, and I have been rewarded by man, even in the presence of man Even in the presence of man, God will execute righteousness and judgment. And that's what he says there in verse 10 and following of Psalm 7. By defenses of God, which saveth the upright, God judges the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked. God is angry with the oppressor. God executes justice and righteousness and judgment on the oppressor every day. If he turn not, he that is God will wet his sword. He has been his bow. He hath made ready. God also hath prepared for him the instruments of death. Folks, men may seem to get away with their evil deeds, but don't forget it Don't forget it. God executes righteousness and judgment for his suffering saints before the eyes of man. When the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it. In Luke chapter 18, verses 7 and 8. We find, and shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Don't forget, be patient, faithful saints But folks, not only does God execute righteousness and judgment for his oppressed before the eyes of men, folks, O wonder and O glory. God, the Lord, Jehovah, executeth righteousness and judgment before his own throne. For all that are oppressed. For indeed, Satan is a roaring lion. Satan is the accuser of the brethren. We find in the story of Job that it was Satan who came up and made accusation against Job. And Satan had all kinds of slander against him. He will deny you to his faith, face, your face. The only reason Job loves you and serves you is because you've made him wealthy. God said, okay, take away his wealth, take away his children, take away his health. And yet in all this Job did not curse the Lord. And in the end, what happened? Well, God meted out his judgment and his rebuke upon Job's friends. But folks, now we're talking about the throne of God. Satan, before God, was making accusation against Job, but God vindicated his child. And so it is, folks, that the Lord will execute righteous judgment. for me before the throne. Satan will make his accusations, but the Lord knoweth them that are his. If you're returning in scripture, turn with me to Matthew chapter 25. These are very familiar verses. But turn over to Matthew 25 if you would like to see the words, and I imagine they'll be on the screen for you as well. Matthew 25, and I'll start reading in verse 31. Verse 31 of Matthew 25, when the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all his holy angels with him. Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another As the shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. Okay, his sheep are those in that covenantal relationship which we saw that is enumerated, is emphasized in that all that are oppressed. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Now what do we find there? Well, the Lord knows the sheep, and the Lord knows who the goats are Satan will come in and make accusation against the sheep, but they are sheep. They are blood bought. And we find that there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And so when Satan makes his accusation before the throne of God, God executes righteousness and judgment on behalf of his oppressed children. We find That Jesus Christ has made unto us the righteousness of God. And in 1 John 2, verses 1 and 2, my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And so Folks, God executes righteous judgment on behalf of his people before mankind. And God executes righteous judgment on behalf of his people before his own very holy throne. But folks, the Lord Jehovah executeth righteous judgment, righteousness and judgment, for me before my own soul But folks, this must be maybe the most blessed one of them all. For guilt is a terrible enemy. Fear hath torment. And oh, how easy it is for us to begin to look at our own sin rather than looking at the Savior. How easy it is for our own conscience to begin to eat away at our joy, because we're all sinners. We have all broken God's holy law. We have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. But hallelujah! The grace of God has conquered our sin. The blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. And folks, my own conscience and my own guilt will eat at my soul. But the Lord Jehovah executeth righteousness and judgment before my own heart. When I'm oppressed. First John chapter three, verse twenty and twenty-one 1 John 3, verse 20. For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Let me read it again, folks. For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Okay, first of all, if my heart condemns me, if if my conscience, if my soul is weighed down by sin that is under the blood, we're not talking about unconfessed sin, obviously. But sins that have been confessed and been forsaken to the best we can, though they are besetting sins that keep coming back and coming back. If our heart condemns us, first of all, God's greater than our heart. Okay. I feel guilt of sin that God has already forgiven. Well, God's greater than my guilt. He executes righteous judgment, righteousness and judgment on my behalf when I'm oppressed by the guilt of my own sin. But I'm oppressed by my own conscience. First of all, God is greater than their heart, and secondly he knoweth all things, the last part of the verse, and knoweth all things Folks, when we confess our sins, we're not telling God something He doesn't know about. We can't hide it. He knows all about our sin. He knows our sin past And Christ died for it. He knows our sin future. For as long as we live in this body, we groan and travail, we find in Scripture, we do not want to sin But oh, there are sins that beset the soul. God is greater than our heart To read the two verses together. 1 John 3, verse 20 and verse 21. For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, Then have we confidence toward God. Folks, when men are oppressing you, don't forget. That it is God that will execute righteousness and judgment for you. When you stand someday before the throne of God, don't forget that it is God that will execute righteousness and judgment for your suffering soul. And folks, when your own conscience weighs heavily upon us, the things whereof now we're ashamed that are described in Scripture When my own conscience weighs me down, when my heart condemns me, God is greater than my heart, and God knows all things, and God will give me that confidence that I might that um God will give me that freedom from condemnation verse 21 that I may have confidence toward him how is it That our heart can be free from condemnation and we have confidence before God. It is only Because God executes righteousness and judgment on our behalf. Because, folks, we know we're sinners. We know we're unworthy of mercy. We know we deserve the wrath and judgment of God. And Satan can keep us sometimes bound up in that, in that torment. But God can even break that through, that we might have confidence toward Him. The psalmist said in Psalm 38, verse 8, I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. The roaring of the heart. Oh, how that could destroy our prayer life. How that can destroy our witness. How that could destroy our testimony. But forget not, folks. And the remembrance of his blessings, and the remembrance of his benefits, remember that God is greater than my heart And God even executes righteousness and judgment for my own conscience that is weighed down with sin. In Psalm 130, David cried in verse 1 and following, out of the depths of my cry to thee, O Lord, Lord, hear my voice. Let thine ear be attentive to the voice of my supplications If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee. That thou mayest be feared. Even the Apostle Paul cried, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death Herein is our love made perfect that we may have boldness in the day of judgment And so, folks, God executes righteousness and judgment, righteous judgment, justice judgment, on behalf of all who are oppressed before man. before his throne and before our own soul, our own guilty conscience. And so indeed we have cause to bless the Lord, O my soul. It is before the soul that we find this relief, and so the soul blesses the Lord, and all that is within me bless the Lord. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all of his benefits Look down to the last verses of the Psalm, verses twenty, twenty-one, and twenty-two. Bless the Lord ye angels that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. Bless the ye the Lord, all his hosts, ye ministers of his that do his pleasure. Bless the Lord, all works in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord, oh my soul. Folks, do not forget his benefits. For being forgetting the benefits of God, there is torment, there is backsliding, there is failure. But when we remember the benefits of God, then indeed we can bless the Lord with our whole soul, heart, mind, and strength Let us conclude our consideration of God's Word with prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for these glorious truths Lord, we thank you for these benefits that you've poured out upon your people. Father, I thank you, Lord, that you will make it right before men. That you declare our righteousness before the throne. But O Lord, what a personal blessing it is to my own heart. O Lord, that our sins and our iniquities will remember no more, as far as the east is from the west So far hath ye removed our transgressions from us. Father, may we not forget it. But may we be mindful of the fact that it is Jehovah God. That executes righteousness and judgment on our behalf. O Father, bless these truths now to our hearts we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.