I'm going to read in Luke chapter 1, starting in verse 26 through verse 35, and then we're going to go over to chapter 2 of Luke as well. Luke chapter one, and we'll begin our reading in verse number twenty-six of Luke one. There we read, and in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever and ever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. And then go over to chapter 2, and we're going to go down to verse 8. I believe your bulletin actually says verse 1, but for the sake of time, we're going to start at verse 8. So in chapter 2 of Luke and verse 8, and there were in the same country shepherds, abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there were with the angels a multitude of heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Let us bow for prayer as we approach the Word of God this morning. Heavenly Father, now we thank you for your precious word. We thank you for the glories of it. We thank you, Lord, for the birth of Christ, the Incarnation. Lord, as we look at numerous scriptures today, I pray, Lord, that your Spirit would bring great blessing, encouragement, and edification to our hearts. But may we rejoice in Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hymn the Carol, which we just sang, Heart the Herald Angels Sing, has a fascinating history and a fascinating story behind it. It was written by the prolific hymn writer and co-founder of Methodism, Charles Wesley. We have a lot of Wesley's hymns in our uh hymn book and Wesley, Charles Wesley was far more of a theologian than his brother John, who was the preacher. The Carol first appeared in 1739 in a collection called Hymns and Sacred Poems The lyrics, however, were somewhat different than those that we sing 281 years later The original first line was, hark, how all the welcome rings. Glory to the King of Kings. And that term welcome is a Old English or actually Middle English term which refers to the heavens. And of course we can think of uh the nineteenth Psalm, the heavens declare the glory of God. So it was originally Howard How the Welcome Sing, and it was sung to the tune Landfair, which is one of the two tunes to which we often sing Christ the Lord is risen today. Um the common one is Christ the Lord is risen today. Hallelujah. The other one is um And I can't think of it. I knew if I thought of one, I wouldn't think of the other. But it's not wasn't originally sung to the tune to which we sing it. But uh In 1855, Dr. William Cummings, who was a tenor, he was an organist by trade, and also an educator Took a version of Mendelssohn's uh hit song, which was written for the 400th anniversary of the Gutenberg Press And he modified it. And so that's the tune that we sing today. So it's a little bit different tune than was sung. And then further Uh in 1754, George Whitfield got a hold of it. Now Whitfield was another one of the great Methodist preachers and uh was a was a fabulous theologian and he modified the words And from what I've read, he didn't get Charles Wesley's permission to modify the words, and Charles Wesley wasn't particularly keen on the modification we've seen today. And actually, if you look in your a little uh song booklet there. I notice as we were singing that it says I get to the right page. It says um text, Charles Wesley, and then it says altered after after the text. So even if even our text point out that the words that we sing are not exactly what uh Charles Wesley wrote. But there's one more interesting thing. The tune we sing was written by Felix Mendelssohn. Mendelsen was a German too. His grandfather was an Orthodox Jew, but somewhere along the line Mendelssohn's father had been confronted with the truth of Jesus Christ. And Mendelssohn grew up as a Protestant Jew. Acknowledging his Messiah to be the Savior, to be Christ Jesus the Lord. And so these four men Charles Wesley, who originally wrote the text, George Whitfield, who altered it closer to what we sing today, uh William Cummings, who Applied a version of Mendelssohn's tune, and Mendelssohn, who wrote the tune, these four men, all of them ardent followers of Jesus Christ. Combined to bring us this song that we sing today. What a glorious hymn of praise it is. We preach from the Word of God. The Word of God is our book. We don't do book reviews and call them sermons. We we don't preach on current events. We preach from the Word of God. And yet, in any study, it is always good as an aid to memory and an aid to learning to outline. And uh those of you that are in school know what it is to take a chapter from a book and then kind of divide it down and get the highlights so when it comes time for the test You have the highlights. And so I had determined early in the week that we would use this fourth verse of Hark the Herald Angels Sing as sort of an outline because it's packed with marvelous theology about the birth of Christ. And then I realized to my horror that the fourth verse, which I was using as the outline, was not in our hymn book. And so I called Brother Vince in a panic and I printed this out and apparently didn't quite get the meter right because it didn't quite fit fix fix her song. So that's how we got to where we are. Hark, the Herald Angels sing. They were in the same country, shepherds in the field. And the angel of the Lord came on to them, and they were frightened at this great thing. They weren't expecting angels, they were ready for wolves. They were looking out for the enemies of the sheep, but the angels come with this glorious news. The first line of this fourth verse is come, desire of nations, come. And in your bulletin, along with with uh the other materials, you have a little outline paper. Uh mine's somewhere around here. which will give you most of the scriptures we're going to look at today because we're going to pack in a lot of scripture and I didn't want you to have to turn to all of them and also I wanted you to have them so you can take them home with you and contemplate them during the during the week. So the first thing we need to consider is what does it mean when it says, come, desire of nations, come? Why is Christ called the desire of nations? Well in Haggai chapter two in verse seven. The prophet Haggai says, And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord. Did the Roman Empire desire Christ to come? What about Herod? When Herod heard the king of the Jews had been born, he responded by killing all the babies that were baby boys that were two years old and under. But here, this one whose birth is announced, he is the desire of nations And yet, we read in Isaiah that there is no beauty that we desire should desire him. He's despised and rejected of men. And so why is it that here we find in Heggai he's the desire of nations? And when this hymn was written He's called the desire of nations. Well, the answer is found in Genesis 22, and I'll give you the passage there. I'm not going to read it, I just have it there for your reference. But there we find Abraham, who has finally had a son of his own body. Ah, he has a son that is of his body, but not of his wife, it's of a concubine. But now God has given him the promised son. And he's so delighted with his son. He loves his son as a father loves a son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. But God tells Abraham: Take your son, thine only son Isaac, and go up into the mountain that I will show you. And they're sacrificing. Abraham takes his son Isaac. Is this part of the Christmas story? Yes, it is. He takes the son Isaac, and they go up into the mountain, and he's ready to sacrifice Isaac. And God gives him a sacrifice. And God says to Abraham there in the 18th verse of Let's start in the seventeenth verse. When God makes a promise, when he sees that Abraham has not withheld his own son Isaac. God says that in blessing I will bless thee. In multiplying I will multiply thee. Thy seed shall be as the stars of the heaven and as the sands which are upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of his enemies. And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed. Jesus Christ is the desire of the nations. What do the nations want? Well, if you listen to the UN, there's some nations that want food, and there's some nations that want relief, and there's some nations that want want military and there's some nation What does the world need? What is the true hunger? That man should have. It is Christ. It is Christ. He is the desire of nations. And so at this Christmas season we We sing, come, desire of nations, come. There in the manger of Bethlehem, announced by the angels, was everything the world really needs. He is indeed the desire of nations. The scripture, Galatians 3 and verse 8 and 9, seeing or foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith. Faith preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed And then again in Malachi three in verse one, Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant. But then the hymn goes on to say, Fix in us thy humble home. Can God dwell with man? Well, he did there in Bethlehem. But can God dwell in man Well, and John records Christ's prayer following the Lord's table, following the Lord's Supper when it was first instituted, as Christ is in the garden there of Gethsemane. And again, I'm not going to read the entire passage, but in John 17 and verse 23, Christ prays, I in them and thou in me. And again in verse 26 he says, I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it, that the love wherein thou hast loved me may be with me, and I in them. Jesus Christ came not just to be in the world, but rather he came to live in the hearts of his people. Fix in us thy humble home. We read of God that His hand spans the universe. He spoke it all into existence. And yet God dwells with us. And I've given you some other verses there in John fourteen, verse twenty-three. Jesus answered and said to them, If any man love me, he will keep my commandments And my father will love him, and we will come unto him and make our abode with him. And in first John four and verse fo uh yeah, first John four and verse four Ye are of God little children and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. How great a humility this is Anybody ever crush an ant? Yeah. Yeah. In Jamaica we had some big ones. Did you ever want to dwell on a cockroach? Want to trade places with him? Imagine the God of the universe. As a helpless little baby in a manger. He came in human flesh. What great humility who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and being found in his fashion as a man, he humbled himself But then we sing rise the woman's conquering seed. We don't think much about Christ's conquest at Christmas, and yet he came. as the conquering seed of the woman. In Jeremiah we find words of great comfort to Israel in a time when they were backslidden In a time when national Israel was rebelling against God, and yet God says, Is not Ephraim my dear son there in Jeremiah 31 and verse 20 Is he a pleasant child? God says, I still love him. I am angry with Jerusalem because of their sin, angry with Israel because of their sin. But they are still my people. And in verse 22 of the passage I've given you there, the prophet says, How long wilt thou go about, O thou backsliding daughter? The Lord has created a new thing in the earth, a woman shall compass a man Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, as yet they shall use the speech in the land of Judah and in the cities thereof, when I shall bring again their captivity, that is, when the victory shall come The Lord of hosts bless thee, O thou habitation of justice and mountain of holiness. The Lord says he's going to do a new thing in the earth. A woman shall compass a man. How many of you are mothers? A lot of you have had children. Uh it's not an unusual thing for a woman to be with child. And so when it says a woman shall compass a man, there must be something unusual about this If the prophet was just saying there's going to be a pregnant woman, we wouldn't think much of that. But all the prophecy here is of a woman encompassing the God man And a virgin birth. This is an astounding thing. Rise, the woman's conquering infant The woman's conquering seed. And there in the prophecy he says, I'll bring again the captivity, that which has been lost because of your rebellion against God. It will be restored. It will be brought again. And so in Malachi chapter 4 and verse 2, But unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness rise with healing in his wings. He's coming to conquer. What is Christ the conqueror of? When Christ came, did he conquer Rome? When Christ came, did he conquer uh uh Pharaoh? Did he conquer? No, he wasn't coming to conquer those things at all. But oh, he is the conquering seed, for Christ has conquered Satan. He has conquered the evil one. As Brother Vince was mentioning in Sunday school this morning, we learn of the prophecy that the seed of Judah When Shiloh comes, his he'll have the necks of his enemy. He will be the conquering one. Christ has conquered Satan. Luke chapter 22 In verse 31 and 32 we find Christ speaking to Peter, and he says, Peter, Satan has desired to have you. Satan wants to steal you away. He wants to sift you as wheat. But what is the solution to Peter's danger? I said, but I've prayed for you. Satan wants to have you. But I've prayed for you. I have victory over Satan. And then again, we find that Christ has conquered death. I've given you the passage there in John 11 And that is the account where Martha is speaking with Jesus about her brother Lazarus, whom Christ loved, and Lazarus has just died. And Christ says to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. I've conquered death. And so as we approach this Christmas season, we sing Rise, the woman's conquering seed, the one who has come to conquer Satan, the one who has come to conquer death. But oh, how glorious he's conquered sin on my behalf. For we read in Romans 6 and verse 14, sin shall have no dominion over you. For you are not under the law, but under grace. And in Romans 5, verse 20 and 21, moreover the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. He's conquered death And then you don't have the verse in your notes, but in Romans 7, we find Paul decrying his own sinfulness. We think of the Apostle Paul as as the righteous preacher. And yet we find him groaning within himself He says, that which I allow not that I do. Can't we all agree with that at some time? Boy, I d I said that and I didn't want to say that. I was unkind and I didn't want to do that. I thought those things and I didn't want to think them. I looked at those things and I didn't want to see them. The things I don't allow, I do And he says, for that for the good that I would, I I do not. The the good things I want to do, I look at my life and I say I I don't live the way I want to live. I say that what I don't want to say and I do what I don't want to do. And finally, Paul says, Oh, wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? But then he says, I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Christ. Christ is the one who has defeated sin on my behalf. Can I just not sin because I'm strong? No. Let him that thinketh that he stands, take heed lest he fall. But Jesus Christ is the woman's conquering seed. He has conquered sin on my behalf. And through him I am made righteous. My sins are not accounted to my state. And that doesn't mean, as Paul said, that we can continue in sin that grace may abound. But the woman's conquering seed has conquered sin on my behalf. And then if you're following your sheet there, the next phrase of that song that we use by way of outline is Bruise in us the serpent's head. Isn't that glorious? We think of Christ bruising the serpent's head But the serpent's head needs to be bruised not just worldwide, but it needs to be bruised in me. Oh Lord, in me, bruise the serpent's head. God told Eve in the garden, Adam in the garden, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and it shall bruise thy heel, and thou shalt bruise his head. Christ has bruised the head of the serpent. He has this defeated Satan. But oh may he bruise Satan's head. May he defeat Satan in me Now give you there the glorious verse in Micah seven and verse nineteen, which is the answer, I believe, in full to Paul's cry in Romans chapter seven. In Micah 7 and verse 19, we read, He will turn again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities, and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. Because Jesus Christ was born there in Bethlehem. He will subdue my iniquities. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I cannot stop sinning on my own. But he will subdue my iniquities. Christ in me is the hope of glory. And it is Christ in me that subdues the wickedness. What What sin am I incapable of committing? Not a one. Could I rob a bank? Sure. Could I murder someone? Certainly. There's no sin that I am incapable of committing. But through Christ, sin shall not have dominion over me. Because he subdues our iniquity. And it is because of his working in my life that I'm not a murderer and I'm not a bank robber. But if he had left me to my own self, oh what sin I would be in. Bruise in me Isn't that a prayer? Lord, in my life defeat Satan. Within my body, bruise the serpent's head. To me personally. Philippians 3 and verse 21 we read, Who shall change our vile bodies? That it may be fashioned like unto his own glorious body, according to the working of his mighty power, whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself. And then again in Isaiah 38 and verse 17, Behold, for peace I have great bitterness, but thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption. For thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back. Where are my sins? Well, they're cast behind the back of Jesus Christ. Can you see the portion of this picture that I'm standing in front of? No. Why? Well you can't see through me. My body is blocking the view. And here we find the description of our iniquities being cast behind the back of our Savior to be remembered no more. Um during the big snowfall this week I was driving my loader tractor and I've I'm stiff in the neck anyway because I'm getting old and my back doesn't twist like it used to, and then I've got a big old hood on that's out to about here to keep the wind out, and I'm backing up towards Penny's car Doing this and I can't see a thing. It's behind my back. I know it's back there. And I'm I'm driving a five thousand pound tractor rolling towards it and I thought, you know what, I better hit the brakes. So I actually stopped and turned completely around. So what's behind your back can't be seen Bruise in me the serpent's head. O Lord, cast behind your back all of my iniquities. Isn't that glorious? Isn't it bl precious what he's done? And then again in Isaiah 43 and verse 25, I even I am he that blotteth out thy transgression for my own sake. and will not remember thy sins. They're blotted out. And the reference there is a legal reference. It is a reference to a writing of accusation. In um Uh what is the passage? Mm, it doesn't doesn't come to me all right off hand. It's in it's in Genesis Or maybe it's an Exodus where a woman is is caught in adopt adultery and the curses are written against her. But if she's found to be innocent, the curses are blotted out It's obliterated. And uh we read in the New Testament in Colossians that he's blotted out the handwriting of ordinances against us Nailing it to his own cross. The accusation of my sins was written against me. But Christ with his own blood has blotted it out. It's obliterated. It can't be read anymore because he has bruised the serpent's head. But then the theology here uh becomes even more pointed because it next talks about Adam's likeness. Adam's likeness now a face. And I've given you there in your notes, Genesis 5, verses 1 to 3. And these are very important verses to contemplate. In Genesis 5 and verse 1, that is in your notes, correct? There's some verse I didn't put in the notes. I'm going to make sure because we do need to look at this one. Genesis 5, verse 1, this is the book of the generation of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him. Male and female created he them. and blessed them and called their name Adam in the day that he c that they were created. And Adam lived 130 years and begat a son in his own likeness. After his image, and called his name Seth. God created Adam And Adam was in the image of God. Adam had a son, and his son was in the image of Adam. But what has taken place in between? What do these three verses not tell us about the fall? Because you see, Seth is after Cain and Abel. Seth is after they've been kicked out of the garden. Seth is after they've eaten the fruit. It is very common today to hear, oh, we're all made in the image of God. No, we are not. We are all made in the image of Adam. We are all made in the image of Seth. Because Adam was created in the image of God, in the perfect righteousness of God, in the perfect holiness of God, and without sin. Adam didn't look like God. God is a spirit. God does not have flesh and blood as we have. He had to come into that form in Bethlehem. But God is a spirit. And so when we say that Adam was made in the image of God, we're not saying Adam looked like God. Because God doesn't have ten fingers like we have and a head like we have and arms and legs like we have. But rather Adam was in the spiritual image of God. Adam was righteous and holy as God. But when Adam sinned, he lost the image of God. And so we find that Adam was made in the image of God, in the likeness of God. But when Adam had a son who was our great-great-great-great-great-grandfather, the son was in the image of Adam. And so from my grandfather Seth and my great-grandfather Adam, I received their image, but their image is the image of sin. Not the image of righteousness. And so there's amazing theology in this hymn Adam's likeness now effaced just as we saw, but the iniquities were blotted out. So if I am ever to have peace with God, the image of Adam The sin of Adam has got to be blotted out. Adam's likeness. Now efface Oh God, take from me the image of Adam. Take from me the sin of my father. Take from me the sin of my flesh. Adam was created without a sin nature, but Seth was born with a sin nature. And so in Romans five and verse twelve, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men. For the awe of sinned. Adam was created immortal. Adam was not to die, but he lost that image of God. And so Adam died, and Seth died, and my own father in the flesh is with the Lord now. He died. And before long I'm gonna die too, and so are you. But I will live forever, because Adam's likeness is in this body and not in my soul. And so all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 5. 19 For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, even so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. And so Adam's likeness now effaced, stamp thine image in its place. Take away the image of Adam that I received by the flesh and stamp the image of Christ in its place. What is different about Christ? He was sworn to a virgin. He did not have the image of Adam, but rather he was the Son of God. He had the image of the Father, just as Abe Adam, when he was created, had the image of God, which was lost in the fall. And so, O Lord, take from me the likeness of Adam. Take from me the sin with which I was born. And replace it with the likeness of Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation, a new creature. He's made like Adam was before the fall. A new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And in Ephesians 4 and verses 21 and following, if so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus that ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man which is corrupt according to deceitful lust, and that ye be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Isn't that a a description of Adam before the fall? Created again. And then again I've given you 1 Corinthians 3 5 17, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. And Romans 8, 29 and and following, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. To be made again in the likeness of Christ. And so Adam's likeness, oh God Crush it out of me. Remove it from me. And replace it with the likeness of Christ. Second Adam from above. The first Adam Was born in, was created in righteousness and died in sin. The second Adam was born in righteousness and died for sin. He died to give his life a ransom. And so in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45, and so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul, and the last Adam a quickening spirit. Genesis 2, verse 7. And the Lord God torn man to the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Let me ask you a question. God breathed into the nostrils of Adam the breath of life. Were the cows breathing? Were the sheep breathing? Were the birds breathing? Yes, all the animals were breathing. And so when it says that God breathed into Adam the breath of life, it can't just be talking about H2O, you know, air. But when God breathes into Adam the breath of life, he breathed into Adam eternal life, immortal life. Which was lost in the fall. Because God told Adam and Eve, Thou shalt not eat of the fruit of the tree in the midst of the garden, for in the day thou eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Adam and Eve ate of that fruit. But then we find them in the evening hiding from God. They're still walking around. They're still alive, aren't they? No. They were dead. And they didn't even know it. Because that spiritual life that had been breathed into them had been killed within them. They were dead. We are born dead in trespasses and sins. But by faith in Jesus Christ, that life is restored. Second Adam from above, the new Adam that has come. The replacement Adam that has come and done that which Adam the First could not do, for Adam the First could not live without sin. He was born without or created without sin, but he sinned. The second Adam was born without sin, and he succeeded He lived without sin. Second Adam from above, reinstate us in our love in thy love. That's a kind of interesting phrase. Does God love us at all times? Well he God does love his his children He has loved us with an everlasting love. And yet I think most of us that have had children, have had a child, just couldn't stay beside us in the store. I know my mom used to threaten to get a harness and put it on me in stores because I was always wandering. But I think most of us at some time with our child have seen our child wander away in a store for the gazillion time And we could see them, but they couldn't see us. And so we thought, you know what? I'm just gonna wait a while I'm going to let him look around for 20 seconds in terror before I let him know where I am and that he's okay. Because if he doesn't learn soon to stay with me, he's going to get in the trouble. He's going to hurt himself. He's going to going to be in true danger And so the child's not in danger. The parent knows where they are and they're watching him. But the parent's kind of standing on the other side of the shelf, just letting him look around. That's what we're being referred to here in Reus Reinstatus and I love. In Isaiah 54, God says, For a moment have I forsaken thee, but with great mercies will I gather thee. In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee. Oh Lord, I was born in sin. I was a sinner the moment I was born. I have sinned from the womb. But Lord, thy grace has brought me to see that I am a sinner. And to see that Jesus Christ is the only solution for my sin. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among women whereby ye must be saved. O Lord, restore me in thy love For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that if I would believe, I would not perish, but have everlasting life, for surely he has borne our griefs And carried our sorrows. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so indeed, hark, listen, heads up, pay attention. The herald angels are singing. The long-awaited Jesus, the Hope of all nations, the desire of all nations, He has come, hark the herald angels sing. And here we find There in Luke 2, the account of how the angels burst forth in the praise. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest on the earth, peace, goodwill toward men. And understand what Charles uh what um George Whitfield was saying when he changed it to hark how the angels sing But I think maybe the first version was better. The whole creation sings. The heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Hark how the angels sing, glory to the newborn King. My friend, what is Christmas to you? It's a holiday. Time for family. Time for gifts. It's a fun time. I have very fond memories of of uh Christmas as a child, and I can can remember specific Christmases with my grandparents. Christmas is when I got a particular toy on uh Christmas Day in nineteen eighty four. I asked Penny if she'd marry me and she said yes. Well she said are you serious, but but then she said yes. Christmas is a special time. It's a joyous time. We enjoy the lights, the sights, the sounds. But what does Christmas really mean to you? There's a desire of nations. Christ, the Son of God, was born in a manger. He was born without sin. And Scripture calls him the second Adam. What a picturesque description. For the first Adam created in sin could not maintain his purity. He was in the image of God, sinless and perfect per and perfect, but he lost that image because of sin, and therefore he could not give me that inheritance, because he no longer had it to give. And so all that Adam I could give me was his own likeness. And I received his sin through Seth. But God sent another Adam, Adam the Second, Jesus Christ. Born in a manger, born the Son of God, circumventing the curse of Adam, because he was born not of man, but of the Holy Ghost, born of a virgin. And he lived a sinless life and died a perfect sacrifice for my soul. That's what Christmas means. Let us stand for prayer.