There are many controversies in the world today. We see controversies in politics. People will even get into massive arguments online over who's going to win a ball game or which which team is supposed to be better than the other and it makes no difference at all. Who cares Ah, I'm sure there are people that are very financially invested in it, but the world is so full of trivial conflicts And trivial controversies. And even the political turmoil that goes on today is trivial. What difference does it really make? Ah, the world will be changed by it. Who cares? My God holds the universe in the palm of his hand. He sets up kings and he takes down kings. And so ultimately, what difference does it make? But there's all kinds of controversy over it. But without controversy, you can't argue about this one. Great is the mystery of godliness. This is a mystery. It's past our finding out. And as Zophar, one of Job's unfaithful friends, but as Zophar said there in Job 11, verse 7 Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? Can you really understand God? Can you really come to a full knowledge of who He is And as Paul said in his great hymn of praise there in Romans chapter 11, oh the depths of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counselor? Without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. I'd like to take us to a secular definition of mystery And yet the secular definition of mystery belies the faith of the man who originally wrote it. The Webster Dictionary says that a mystery is something not understood or beyond understanding and enigma. That's definition one. Number two, profound and explicable, or secretive quality or character. But then number three, in Webster's de definition of a mystery, is A religious truth that one cannot know, or that one can only know, only by revelation, and cannot fully understand. Webster wrote that a mystery is a religious truth that one can only can one can know only by revelation and cannot fully understand. Marion Webster, who wrote, I'm sorry, Noah, Noah, not Marion Webster, Noah Webster, who wrote the Webster's dictionary. Do you know how he learned to read? He learned to read from the King James Bible. That's where this man got his education and fell in love with words From the King James Bible. He was a devout believer. And it's no wonder when you're coming to what is a mystery. He says, oh, yes, a mystery. It's a religious truth that is only known by revelation. Great is the mystery of godliness. The world today celebrates Santa Claus. Oh, it's Christmas! Ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching. It's time to make up the shortfall in our business that we've had through the years. A sale is on. You can save $13,000 on a Chevy Silverado. But my friends here we are here gathered today because of the mystery of godliness. And the only reason we understand anything about this mystery is divine revelation. The Spirit of God has opened up the truth of God. Oh, hallelujah! No credit to us. But the pure grace of God who has taught us that Jesus Christ is Emmanuel He is God with us. He is God in the flesh. And he has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Indeed, peace on earth, good will toward men. And so it's a mystery. And in Matthew 13, the disciples came to Christ and they asked him, Why speakest thou to them in parables? And Christ's answer was, because to you it's given to know the mysteries of the kingdom. But to them it is not given. Therefore I speak of them in parables, that seeing they may see and not understand, that hearing they may hear and not perceive. Blessed are your ears, for they hear, and your eyes, for they see. You see, Christ was teaching, Christ was preaching, and some said this is nonsense. You're mad And others gladly received the word. What made the difference? God revealed the mystery. God showed them the truth. Indeed. Great. Is the mystery of godliness, and I love that word great. You know what the Greek word there is? Mayos. It doesn't need any explanation, does it? Megas is the mystery of godliness. It's it's mega. It's great. We understand what it means. Great is the mystery of godliness. Great is the mystery of the Godhead. Great is the mystery of God. How can we understand anything that pertains to God? And yet God has, by inspiration, given us in this verse a glorious exposition of what this mystery is. He explains it to us. God was manifest in the flesh. That word manifest means to set forth or to demonstrate. That word there is the same word that's used when it talks about Christ being delivered up by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God. It's something determined. He was manifest, he was determined unto us. Behold, a virgin. Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son. And thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted, is God with us. Did you ever stop and think about that? Behold a virgin. This doesn't happen, folks. This breaks every law of nature. Virgins don't conceive. I worked in an apple orchard as a teenager. And in this apple orchard, we had over a thousand polyred apples, apple trees But any direction you went in this orchard, it was row after row after row, but anywhere in that orchard you went, every fifth tree in any direction was a golden delicious. Why is that? Well, because it needed cross-pollination. And two polar reds could produce apples, but you needed that other little bit of Pollination to increase the flavor and to multiply the fruit. And if you have one apple tree, You have zero apples. I have a holly tree in my yard. It is beautiful with red holly berries this time of year. I only have one tree. But my neighbor has one too. And his tree is filled with hollyberries. You see. Every fruit requires a seed. There must be a seed. There must be that fertilization of that seed. And you can take an apple tree and you can create an apple tree that will bear fruit on its own. but you've got to grasp some other apple trees into it. And so even there the laws of nature are static. They do not change. Right Behold, a virgin shall conceive Great is the mystery of godliness. But that's not the great mystery. A virgin shall conceive? What is that to God? He didn't start with Adam and Eve. He started with nothing. And he created some dust. And then out of the dust he created Adam. Evolution can't do that, folks. And then out of Adam's side, he created Eve. And so is it a big deal for God to make a virgin conceive? Not at all. It's a mystery to us. But is anything too far impossible for him? A virgin shall conceive and bear a son. Emmanuel, God with us. There, indeed, my friend, is a great mystery. It's a mystery that a virgin conceives, but how much greater a mystery that God dwells with man. Moses, don't look No man can see God and live. But Noah said of his wife, we shall surely die because we have seen God. Woe is me, for I am undone For I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, and mine eyes have seen. God, the King, the Lord of hosts. Isaiah 6, verse 5. And yet, Mary The virgin, probably only 14, 15, 16 years old. And there in Bethlehem, she clutches a newborn baby. To her breast, Emmanuel, God with us. That's not just a great mystery, folks. That is a mystery beyond comprehension. Do you believe it? You only believe it by the grace of God. Without the grace of God, it's only a story. Without the grace of God, Christmas is kaching. Ha, but to the child of God. Hallelujah! The mystery is understood. The revelation has Pulled back the curtain of heaven, the veil is rent, and we say, there in the manger is my savior, and we know it's true. Because when he bringeth his only begotten son into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. Hallelujah. What a mystery. And then we think of King Solomon when he dedicated the temple. And he prayed, But will God indeed dwell on earth? Behold, the heaven and heavens of heaven cannot contain thee. Much less the house that I have built, and yet God is tabernacled in human flesh. God, whose hand spans the universe. But now he has the tiny hand of a baby. Did you ever hold a baby's hand? Ah, so soft. Tiny little fingers, so delicate, with perfect little fingernails. A tiny baby's hand. It's so precious it can barely wrap its fingers around your pinky. God exchanged the hand that spans the universe. For the hand of a newborn babe. Great, great is the mystery of godliness. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. And the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. And the Word Became flesh and dwelt among us And we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father. And yet Philip says to Christ in John 14, Show us the Father, and it suffices us. Philip, I've been so long a time with you. And hast thou not known me? Ah, it's only by revelation that the mystery is known. Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh But then we find that he was justified in the Spirit. And that's fascinating to me because we think about this word justified. And we know that the term justified is an accounting term. The accountant will justify the books. In other words, he does this reconciliation. He takes the debits and the credits and counts payable, counts receivable. He brings everything into line and he justifies the books. It comes out to an even line. And we think about the justification of man, that we are justified by the grace of God. And in that we we say that it's not that I am sinless, but rather that that I am declared to be sinless by the grace of God. I am made in just relationship. And also the term justified has with it the idea of a Mason's line. that lays out the line and he lays all the bricks according to the line. Everything is perfect in alignment. It's justified. It's reconciled. But there's another aspect of accounting that's involved here. Every accountable business at some point has an outside accountant come in. And that accountant reviews the books. We call it an audit. And if that accountant finds the books to be in order, that accountant will give his approval to the books. And that is what justified means here when it's speaking of Christ. It's not that he had to be have sin removed by the Spirit of God as we are washed by the washed of the water of the Word. He had no sin. But rather, when we say that Christ was justified in the Spirit, the Spirit gives a reconciliation. The Spirit, not a reconciliation, but an accounting. He indeed is who he says he is. He's authentic. He's justified in the spirit. Oh, we find Christ at his baptism. And John had been told, the one upon whom you see the Spirit of God descending and remaining. And so John could rightly cry, Behold, the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Why is that important? Well, before the birth of Christ There had been others who came along claiming to be Messiah. And since the birth of Christ, there have been many coming along claiming to be Messiah. But there's only been one who was born of a virgin. And there's only been one who was declared by the Spirit of God to be authentic. Christ alone is justified by the Spirit. And so In Romans chapter 1, verses 3 and 4, Paul is talking about Christ and the Spirit of Holiness. And he says there, concerning his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord, which was made of the seed of David concerning the flesh. and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection of the dead. And I've already mentioned the baptism of Christ when the Spirit of God descended on him like a dove Jesus said that the Holy Spirit would continue to bear witness. And how is it today that I know that Jesus Christ is the virgin-born Son of God? Because somebody told me? Because the church says so? No. Because the Spirit of God today bears that same testimony. Yes, I know it's true. I need no proof from man. Because the Spirit of God in the Word of God testifies of that. Turn with me over to John chapter 15. Christ said that the Spirit of God would continue to bear this testimony. John chapter 15, and we're going to consider verse 26 and 27, and then jump over to chapter 16 as well. John 15, 26, but when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth. Notice how he describes him there, the spirit of truth. Paul describes him as the spirit of holiness. Here he is the spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father. He shall testify of me. And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. Christ declares that when the Holy Spirit has come, he would testify. of him. Now go over to chapter 16 of John, the next chapter, and verses 13 and 14. Howbeit, when the Spirit of truth is come, He will guide you into all truth. How do I know that Jesus Christ is the virgin-born Son of God? Because His Spirit guides us into all truth. He will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. He shall glorify me. For he shall receive of mine, and he shall show it unto you. Keep your finger there in John 15. We're going to come back to that in just a moment. But the third thing that we find here In 1 Timothy 3, verse 16, is that Jesus Christ was seen of angels. He was seen of angels. And every event of the life of Christ We find angels attending him. Consider this. In Luke 1, verse 30 to 33, the angels predicted his birth. Luke 2, verses 10 to 14, angels announce this verse. Matthew 2, verses 19 and 20, angels warn his parents of Herod's plot. Matthew 4, verse 11, angels ministered unto him after the temptation. Luke 22, verse 43, angels strengthened him in the garden during the betrayal Matthew 26, 53, angels were at his call when he was arrested. He could have called 10,000 legions. Matthew 28, verse 2, an angel rolled back the stone from the tomb. Matthew 28, verse 6, the angel made the first announcement he was risen. Acts 1, verse 11, at the ascension of Christ we find angels Matthew 25, 31, angels will attend Christ as return. Matthew 13, 39 to 40, angels will carry out the judgment orders of Christ, and we could go on. That's just about a dozen of the instances in Christ. He was seen of angels. The angels always accompanied Christ. But there's more here Because that term angel means witnesses or ministers. The angels are the ministers of God. And when Christ was seen of angels, it's not simply talking about celestial beings, though it is speaking of celestial beings, but it's talking about ministers. It's talking about witnesses. He was seen of angels. I said to hold your place there in Matthew and John 15, verses 26 and 27. Let me read that to you again. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. Christ was seen of witnesses. He was seen of ministers. He was seen of those who would carry forth The message. And many of the instances we I made reference to of the celestial angels, they were bearing witness. Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here. He is risen. Behold, in the city of David is born a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. The angels were the ministers, they were the announcers. And Christ was seen of them. And many of those same announcers, same witnesses were used by God to record the message. And though I have never seen the baby in the manger as did the shepherds, and though I did not see Christ ascend to heaven, as did the disciples, I've seen him myself. Because the Holy Spirit reveals Christ in the Word. And I too am to be a minister. And you too are to tell the great news. We have seen the Christ. We have seen this one. And so he was seen of angels. This mystery has been revealed to us by the Spirit of God. In 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled the word of life. So the word was made manifest, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. And all this agrees with John 1. 14. And the Word was made flesh and dwell among us. And we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. You know what? It's a great mystery. That we, the ministers of Christ, have seen this. For the world doesn't see it. The world doesn't get it. The world thinks we're nuts. The world is satisfied with Santa. And I would ask you, my friend, are you satisfied with the Savior? Is Jesus Christ enough for you? Have you seen him? Do you know him? If you don't, if you don't know this mystery, ah, how sorry is your existence And how sad your life will be till the bitter end of your days here and an eternity without Christ. But oh what a mystery. That Christ was seen of the angels celestial, and he is seen even today. By we who are the witnesses of these things. And that brings us naturally to the fourth thing that is mentioned here. He was preacher unto the Gentiles. I know some of us have pets, some of you have dogs, some of us have cats, I have a fish, and I have a snake. Can't preach to them. That's right. Oh, they know when you call them for supper because of habit. The Jews referred to the Gentiles as dogs. They were dogs. They were not worthy. Of the message of Messiah, and they had no capacity to receive the message of Messiah because they were not God's people. And yet, in an amazing Token of grace. Christ said, Other sheep have I which are not of this full For God so loved the world, those outside the bloodline of Abraham That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever those outside the bloodline of Abraham believeth those outside the bloodline of Abraham to whom is revealed this mystery That whosoever, regardless of their race, beardless of their heritage, be guardless of their family, that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. Christ was preached the Gentiles He was preached to those outside the mis the the family of Abraham. And Paul in Ephesians 3 talks about this great mystery. How but um Hebrews, oh sorry. Ephesians 3 and verse 3, how that by revelation was made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote in a few words, and in verse 4 of Revelation 3 3. He calls it the knowledge of the mystery of Christ, and then in verse 6 he tells us what the mystery is: that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the same body. Oh my friend, this is a great mystery. For all through the history of the scriptures, there has been a Rahab. There has been one here and one there that were brought into the family of God. Oh, but now the doors of heaven are thrown open, and anyone to whom the mystery is revealed Come unto me, come unto me, all ye that labor All ye who by the Spirit of God have been brought to mourn for your sin, to struggle, to labor in your soul, because you've been brought to see I'm a sinner. I have offended the righteousness of a holy God, and my only hope is found in this baby the man. In this Christ who gave his life a ransom for many, who gave his life a ransom For my soul. Remember in Simeon's words with the Aged, righteous, Simeon came to the temple, and there he encountered the Messiah. And Simeon said, For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to the Gentiles. Ah, what a great mystery that God would save a wicked Gentile like me A Philistine. But the mysteries just keep growing in this passage, don't they? Because not only was he preached to the Gentiles, but he was believed on in the world. I read in our call to worship this morning, who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord Revealed mystery, you see the connection. To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow before him as a tender plant and as a root and a dry ground. When we shall see him, there is no form nor comeliness that we should desire him. But he was wounded for our transgressions, and he was bruised for our iniquities and the chastisement of our peace. was upon him and with his stripes were healed. What a mystery that I would believe on this one, that I would be redeemed. That he would give his life a ransom for me Scarcely for a righteous man would one die. Peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. But while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. What a mystery! What a wonder that he disbelieved on the world. And so Christ rightly said, No man can come unto me. Except my Father which has sent me, draw him. It was that grace verse there in John 6. 44 that the Lord used in my own heart as a young preacher earnest for souls and preaching week after week to a congregation where I knew that my wife was a believer and possibly one Sunday school teacher and the rest were lost. And I would preach and be so discouraged because stone faces and cold hearts and I would go back to my house thinking, Lord, how can I reach these people with the gospel of Christ? How can I explain it better? How can I make known the mystery? And God used John six forty-four to teach me that I can't make known the mystery. I can preach the gospel of Christ as God gives me grace, but I can't make you know the mystery. But here's a great mystery. He was believed on the world And how is it that any man believes, no man can come unto me except my Father which has sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up at the last day. As is written in the law of the prophets, they shall all be taught of God. Everyone therefore that has heard and has learned of the Father, there's the revelation of the mystery, cometh to me. And verse 65 of that chapter, and he said, Therefore I said unto you that no man can come unto me except it were given him my Father. And from that time, many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Ah, my friend. Has nothing to do with your church membership or your baptism or being confirmed. I preached a message several months ago with the repeated frame refrain, Are you dead yet? What a great mystery that any man believes in Jesus Christ. What a great mystery that any of us have ever responded to the call of the gospel. It is all of God and of his grace. And so many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. It's a hard saying, who can know it? Nicodemus answered and said to them, How can these things be? And John 6. 52, the Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? Who hath believed our report? But then we find one more great mystery in this passage. He was received all the glory. He didn't stay here. He completed the work that God gave him to do, and he was received up into glory. You know why? Let not your hearts be troubled. Ye believe in God, the mystery. Believe also on me. In my father's house or many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place. for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also Whether I go you know, in the way you know, Thomas saith of him, Lord, we know not the way. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. He was received back into heaven. He went back where he came from. And he's preparing a place for us. My friend, great is the mystery of godliness. Probably most of you have read a mystery book at some time or another. Not that I recommend, but you waste a lot of time with it. But is there any satisfaction in a mystery book that never reveals the mystery in the end that just leaves you with it? It's like That would not be a satisfying book. For the child of God, the mystery solved The mystery is solved. Just as Noah Webster says, a mystery is a religious truth that can only be known by revelation. Ah you know that's the greatest mystery of all. That God has revealed Himself to my heart. Has God's truth been made known to you, my friend? Do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Young people, children, teenagers, glad you're here, glad your family's here, but that's not Enough. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Seek Christ, whom to know aright, to know the mystery, whom to know aright is life. Eternal. Let us stand for prayer