Open in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of Hebrews and the second chapter, Hebrews chapter 2 And I will read the first four verses of this chapter as we begin our consideration this morning. Hebrews chapter 2. And I'll read verses one through four. Hear the inspired word of God. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard. Lest at any time we should let them slip. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast And every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with diverse miracles. and gifts to the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Let us stop a prayer. Gracious Father, now as we approach Thy Word, we pray that Thy Spirit would be our guide and our teacher. We pray, Lord, that you would open our cold hearts and our blind eyes to thy truth. And Father, that you would open thy glorious truth to our cold hearts and blind eyes. May we see thy truth this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. I love those words therefore and wherefore in Scripture. They are not incidental. The therefore ties us to what has gone before. And in the first chapter we find that God, who ad at sundry times and in diverse manners Spoken to us by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son. The Son has spoken Therefore, verse 1 of chapter 2, we ought to give the more earnest heed to those things which we have heard, lest at any time we let them slip How should we escape if we neglect so great salvation? I want to talk about those two words as we begin. This word slip is a very interesting word The word slip is the idea of a leaking vessel, not a boat with water leaking in. But rather it's the concept of a pot or a vessel that is leaking. I'm sure most of us at some time or another have gotten something to drink and we've set a cup down and then realized that the liquid was coming out of the cup and going everywhere. We put good into it Mmm, but then it has slipped out, it is it has drifted away, it has fallen. Uh this word is used of a leaking or a cracked vessel, it's also used used of something that falls. It it has no stability. It slips. And we know what it is to slip on the ice. We think we're walking along well and then suddenly we're looking at the sky And our backside is hurting. We have slipped. It also carries in Scripture the idea of falling from honesty. In fact the the Latin Vulgate um that's the way it puts it, so the the fall from honesty In other words, we still look like we're serving the Lord. We still look like we have a good testimony, but it's all just a facade that covers a backslidden condition. And so that's the first word that we want to emphasize this morning. We need to give the more earnest heed to these things, lest at any time we let them slip, lest we let the truth of God. Just leak out of our vessel. Now consider the promise in the Old Testament, the declaration, my cup runneth over. But when we find ourselves as Christians and we don't feel like our cups running over, maybe it's that we've let something slip. And the blessing that should be ours is basically just leaking out of our vessel. It is not remaining. But then we find also in verse 3, how should we escape if we neglect so great salvation. And we often hear this verse applied to the unbeliever, and that is a good and apt application. How shall we escape if we neglect it? But if you look at the context here, it's talking to believers. It talks in the latter part of this church, this chapter, about Christ being made like unto his brethren. It's talking about the believers here. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Have you ever seen someone who moved into a beautiful new house and two months later the grass was growing on mowed? And a year later the gutters were falling off and the bushes were overgrown and it was once beautiful, but now it's neglected. It's overgrown and full of weeds. And these two concepts here, given to us one upon the other, should give us great cause to stop and think and be careful. Because we are the bloodbolt children of God, our eternal destiny is secured. It will not be lost. It cannot be lost. And yet, we are responsible for our daily walk with the Lord. And it's very easy to be earnest at one time But as time passes on, we realize that our commitment, our devotion, has begun to slip. Our vessel has begun to leak. And we have become negligent of so great salvation. I love to tinker with cars. And the vehicles I like to tinker with most are the older ones that need to be tuned up from time to time. One of the first things you used to learn about a vehicle is how to gap a spark plug and how to set the points and how to time the engine You see, our spiritual life is the same. It goes on, but it needs to be tuned up from time to time. I'm sure most of us have dealt with some kind of a fine measurement instrument. I have a little scale that I use. But from time to time you have to re-zero the scale. I have a caliper. And you have to make sure that it begins at zero, or the fine measurements will not be correct. We understand what it is to defragment the computer. Okay? I remember the first time I encountered a fact file. That's a great name, a file allocation table. But if the computer is not maintained, it too will begin to run slower and get confused. You see, if these things get our attention How much more should we pay attention to the soul, lest at any time we should let them slip? Turn over with me to 2 Peter 3. And I want to read there a few verses, still by way of introduction, and then, as God allows, hopefully make some practical applications of how we have to be careful of this slipping. But turn with me to 2 Peter chapter 3. And I'm going to read from verse 11 in that chapter. Here Peter, again, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, says this. Chapter 11, verse 3 of 2 Peter, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, all these things we pay attention to in this life. What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace without spot, blameless. And then down to verse 17. Ye therefore beloved, seeing ye know these things, beware lest ye also being led away with the air of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to Him be glory both now and forever. Amen. We read in our responsive reading this morning, there in the fifth verse of Psalm 17, hold up my goings. in the path that my footsteps slip not. Isn't that a great short prayer for the new year? Hold up my goings in thy path. that my footsteps slip not. Every one of you can memorize that one. Write him a card Put it on your mirror. What a great verse for the new year. And so to make practical application, how is it in what areas of our Christian life Are we prone to slip? Where is it in our Christian life that we neglect so great salvation? The first, I believe, is in our devotion. And we think of our devotion as opening up God's Word in the morning and reading and praying. But actually, our devotion is our central All-encompassing love of God. What is the first and great commandment? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Folks, we get to loving many things. And we're cautioned, love not the world. Neither of the things are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. The two are mutually exclusive. And yet it is so easy for us as Christians to let that love slip, to neglect so great salvation to the point that the things of this world begin to be a little bit too important to us. And our love for the things we can acquire in this life begin to cloud our love for God. And it doesn't happen overnight. We don't go from loving the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength to loving the things of the world in one afternoon. But how easy it begins to slip. And that love of God begins to drain from the crack in our cup. And we find ourselves in a situation where the love of this world has taken over the love of Christ. In 2 Corinthians 5, the 14th and 15th verse, for the love of Christ constraineth us Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then all were dead, and that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves But unto him, which died for them and rose again. The love of Christ constraints us though. We don't live for ourselves, we live for him. The love of Christ constrains us in that the love of Christ prevents us from fulfilling the lust of the flesh. But also the love of Christ constrains us in that we love Him, and therefore we have no desire to fulfill the lust of the flesh. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. But when that devotion begins to slip, Then we find ourselves far from where we began. And how often I've thought about dear Peter. Simon. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? And I love the third time when Peter says therein John 21, verse 17, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Uh how often we find ourselves in a situation where our love for the Lord has been allowed to slip, where our devotional life with Him has deteriorated And if he asked us, if he asked Peter, Peter, do you love me? We could only answer, Lord, Thou knowest all things. Thou knowest I love you. Lord, I don't love you as I should. But you know that I love you. Before we move on, consider David the man after God's own heart In Psalm 42, 1, as the heart paddeth after the word of broke, so paddeth my soul after thee, O God. In Psalm 63, 1, O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee, my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is And again in Psalm 84, verse 2, my soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Brethren and friends, I believe every Christian at some time or another has been honestly able to say, I feel those verses. That is my longing, my desire for God. But I also believe every believer has had a day when they said, you know what, that's not where I am. I have slipped. I have neglected so great salvation. And so first of all, we need to be very cautious and take heed lest our devotion slips. But a second area in where it which I believe we slip is our desires. Our desires In Psalm 27, 4, the psalmist said, One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire at His temple. Folks, what do you want? Well The desire of the Christian is the things of God. The desire of the Christian is the sincere milk of the Word. But how easy it is for us to begin to look at all the world's dainties and all the world's treasures and all the world's rusting and malt-eaten goods. And we begin to desire all these things. But the one desire of the believer is Christ. How easy our desires can slip. The Apostle Paul warned young Timothy. In 1 Timothy 6 and verse 6 and following, but godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therefore be content. Man's life, what is the verse? I don't ha have that one in my notes, but you know the consistent the man's life consisteth not in the things what he possesses. How easy it is for our Desires to get out of whack. To get out of good fellowship with God. And our brother reminded us in in Sunday school this morning. I'm not going to belabor this, but when the disciples were sent out without purse and script, Christ said, Lack ye anything, and they said nothing They lacked nothing. God will supply our needs. My cup runneth over. I've already uh mentioned that verse In Psalm 34, verse 90, Fear the Lord ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear them. Psalm thir fear him. Psalm 37, 3, and then verse 25. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Verse 25 of Psalm 35, 37. I have been young And now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. But one that just really stood out to me this week In Genesis 48, we find Jacob blessing his sons before his death. And Jacob in blessing Joseph said these words in Psalm 40, sorry, Genesis 48, verse 15. And he blessed Joseph and said, God, before whom my father Abraham and Isaac did walk. God which fed me all my life long unto this day. Here the dying Jacob is saying to his son, God, that fed me all my life long unto this day. Oh, what a testimony of a dying man. God fed me. God took care of me. But folks, when we begin to desire the wrong things We're guilty of letting slip and neglecting so great salvation Seek you first the kingdom of God. Folks, we slip in our daily living. We slip in our daily living before the Lord. It is so easy. To be so busy that the first thing we neglect is our walk with the Lord. It is so easy to have so many appointments for the day That, well, we just won't have time to pray. To pray. I read many years ago the journals of John Wesley. And uh he would get up early in the morning, David Brainerd as well. Those men would get up early in the morning and uh it was either Brainerd or Wesley one that had a very busy day and so he needed an extra four hours of prayer. Folks, that's not me. You know, when our day's busy, we shorten our prayer time We let our daily living slip. And here I'd like us to go to Luke 10, where we have the account of Martha and Mary, and Luke 10, uh starting in verse 38. Now it came to pass as they went, they entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him unto her house. And she had a sister named Mary, which sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about. Much serving, and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful. And Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Martha, many things are needful. And yes, our appointments, and yes, the broken lawdoer, and yes the the this around the house, and yes This about the business. And yes, all these things are needful, but they aren't the most important thing. The most important thing for the believer is to pay attention to the soul. Not to neglect this great salvation and not to let those things slip. Job said in Job 23, 11 and 12, My foot hath held his steps. His way have I kept and not declined. Neither have I gone back from his commandment the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. We're reticent to miss a physical meal, but how easily we can miss the spiritual food. Number four. We let our duty slip. We let our devotion and our desires and our daily living slip, and we let our duty slip. I knew a man several years ago who was a witness and a testimony who happened to be a truck driver. How do you describe yourself? Oh, I'm a plumber. I'm a carpenter. Or I'm a machinist, or I'm this or that and the other. We have a duty. We're called to be the sons of God in the world. We're called to be lights and a testimony. This man, by the grace of God He was an evangelist who just happened to be a truck driver. And he left tracks at every truck stop, you know, along I-95. You know, he he was just a constant witness and a testimony We have a duty, folks. We're ambassadors of the King of Heaven. And here I'd like to go to Luke 12. And start in verse 32, where Christ is talking, he says, Luke 12, 32, and following, fear not, little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell that ye have and give alms, provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure in heaven that faileth not, where no thief approach, neither moth corrupt For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Let your loins be gird about the truth, and your light burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for the Lord when he will return from the wedding. And when he come cometh and knocketh, that they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those those servants whom the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching. Uh if if you logged on to the uh Wednesday service, our brother mentioned How dreadful it would be if the Lord came back and found us involved in that which was not wholesome, that which was not right. Folks, we are in this world, but we're not of this world. And we have a duty. The old hymn says, to serve this present age, my duty to fulfill. Paul left inspired word by the grace of God, but Paul's not here preaching. It's left to us. We are today the evangelists. We have a duty. But how easy it is to let the things of this world intrude upon our real purpose. And our duty is not what it should be. But folks, the final one I think is probably the most important of all. We let our delight slip. We let our delights slip, our devotion and our desire, and our daily living, and our duty. But those things begin to slip when we fail to delight ourselves in the Lord What truly thrills our soul? There will be people packing stadiums in the cold today that will scream to their horse for some stupid game. And they will consider themselves to take great delight in it. There are people today that got some trinket for Christmas And they are out today using it and exercising their delights in these things, but they all pass away. They have no lasting value. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. Isaiah 58, verse 13 If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath from doing thy pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight the holy of the Lord, honorable, and shall honor him, not doing thy own ways, nor finding thy own pleasure, nor speaking thy own words. Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord. And I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. What a powerful declaration. This is God's declaration. If we delight ourselves in Him and delight ourselves in His Sabbath and delight ourselves in His law. Will ride upon the high places of the earth. We will have all in abundance. Because God will control our dot desires. God will control our devotion. God will rule our duty. When we delight ourselves in the Lord, our daily living will be conformed to his image. Let me conclude With two verses, one from Joel and one from Lamentation. In Joel 2, verses 12 and 13, we find this. Therefore also now saith the Lord, turn ye even to me with all your heart And with fasting and with weeping and with mourning, rend your heart and not your garments Turn to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. And then Lamentation 3, verse 39 and 40. Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins Let us search and try our ways and turn again to the Lord. Folks, we are saved by the grace of God. That will never be taken from us. But we have a responsibility to the God who has saved us. We are to occupy two he comes. And so never may we never let the truth of God just kind of leak out of us like a cracked cup. May we not be guilty of neglecting this great salvation. Stand with me for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for thy word. And Lord, this morning I pray that I have not been heard, but thy word has been heard. For Father, it is thy word which is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. Lord, we thank you that you've not left us without instruction. You've not left us without directions. We do not have an instruction manual that's written in A language that we can't understand, but you've given us thy word. You have preserved it to us this day. Father, I pray that you would bless it to our hearts. O Lord, may we not be negligent of the soul. But Father, may this coming new year be a year on which we can look back when it is done and say, and I being in the way, the Lord led me. Indeed, may the steps of good men be ordered by the Lord And may we delight in that way. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen