Our gracious Father, as we gather this morning for the express purpose of the study of thy word. For the aim of bringing honor and glory to thee, with the desire that we might be edified and challenged and encouraged and strengthened and rebuked by the Word of God. Father, we do pray that you would free our hearts and minds from all the cares of this world, from the thoughts of the things that so occupy us six days of the week. But Father, we thank you for the seventh. We thank you, Lord, that you've given us a day of rest. And so we gather on the first day of the week. We gather on the day of the resurrection. Celebrating the fact that our God is not dead and that our faith is not in vain. We come before the very God of heaven who spoke all things into existence and yet delights to hear the words of his creatures. As we sing unto the Lord a new song, As we read the Word of God together, and as we call upon thee in prayer, your ears open to our cry. And for these things we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Hear the word of the Lord from the sixty-first Psalm. From the ends of the earth will I cry unto thee, When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy. I will abide in thy tabernacle forever. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Good morning everyone. Uh your bulletin hem direction is incorrect. You need to turn to 381, blessed assurance, number 381. in your blue songbook, 381 Blessed Assurance. Apologies for the typo. Holdout from last week. 381. Blessed assurance in your blue songbook where we sing all three stanzas. For us, Jesus is right, who was a force days of glory divine Here of salvation, precious of God, born of his spirit, wash in his car. This is my story, this is my son, praising my Savior over the law, this is my story. This is my song, praising my stage, perfect, perfect. Visions of mention elders from my side. Angels dispending from above Echoes at mercy. Whispers of God. This is my story. This is my song. Crazy my savor over the law. This is my story, this is my story, raising my name only to be. Why am I saved all I'm happy at last Watching and bravely looking upon? Filled with his goodness, lost in his law. This is my story, this is my song, praising thy name. Amen. May uh at least be seated. And this time we have our confessional reading. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we'll be reading from the thirteenth article of the Belgian Confession. This is the first part of it, and it's regarding the divine providence Christian, then what do you believe? We believe that the same God, after he had created all things Did not forsake them, nor give them up to fortune or chance, but that he rules and governs them according to his holy will So that nothing happens in this world without his appointment. Nevertheless, God neither is the author of, nor can be charged with the sins which are committed. For his power and goodness are so great and incomprehensible that he orders and executes his work in the most excellent and just manner. Even then, when devils and wicked men act unjustly, and as to what he doeth, surpassing human understanding We will not curiously inquire into it further than our capacity will admit of. But with the great humility and reverence, adore the righteous judgments of God, which are hid from us. Contenting ourselves that we are disciples of Christ, to learn only those things which He has revealed to us in His Word without transgressing these limits. Today's confessional reading goes well in line with the Sunday school teaching about God. Providence, God's creation, the way He upholds things, and even the way He's appointed all things from the beginning of time You know, some people in their philosophy, not from what they see from Scripture, but in their own false thoughts, see God as a clock maker or a watchmaker. He set it up. He put it on the wall and now it's just unfolding. It's going in its own order. And he has his hands off of it. It's just moving on its own. He has no more working with it. It's just left to itself. But that's not what we read of in Scripture. We read in Scripture that God worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. He's in charge, he knows. and there's nothing that can move beyond his hand, that he can't stop it, can't control it. God is in charge. He's sovereign. He's he's uh yeah, this is the the teaching of his divine providence. He knows and he's ordained every event. We read in the scriptures that God rules over and he's appointed the things that are in nature. Even things like the waves of the ocean, we read in Psalm 104, thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over, that they turn not again to cover the earth. The Lord's in control of that, even the waves We see that the Lord is sovereign. He has his providence even over politics. In Daniel 4. 17 it says, the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men. and giveth it to whom uh whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men. God's even in charge of putting those uh weak and foolish leaders uh into place. He knows about that. He's appointed us He is sovereign over human life. In Deuteronomy 32, 39 it says, See now that I even I am He and there is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. God's o in charge of that. We see as well that God is sovereign and he controls and appoints even the turning of hearts in the wills of men. Yeah, truly men do have their free uh will in the sense that they do the things that they desire to do, but at the same time God is in charge of that. He's the one that allows them to go off into their own wickedness, they want to do it, he'll allow it. Or if anyone wants to do good, he's the one that will sovereignly turn it. We read even of the kings, that the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. And even about uh those that do wickedly, we read about the Egyptians that enslaved Israel, that it was God that moved their hearts. In Psalm 105 25 it says, He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtly with his servants. And of course the Lord would bring judgment upon them for that, but he was sovereign over it. He allowed their hearts to grow into wickedness and to hate his people. And so some people are conflicted with that. Is God really even in charge? Is he really even sovereign over the evil deeds? How how could that be? Is that really the case? Well Amos is very clear. In Amos three verse six it says, Shall there be evil in a city and the Lord hath not done it? The Lord's in charge. He's sovereign over that. And of course some people will think there must be some flaw in God then. He must be unjust. That's not at all the case. We read in scriptures that God never tempts man, but they're drawn away of their own lust. And that sinful men are all due God's wrath. It's it's a it's a right thing for the Lord to allow men to fall into their own wickedness, to allow men to fall into the evil that um their th they're do, the thing that's just and waiting for them, God will punish the wicked acts that take place place. He's sovereign over that. And we won't know all of God's purposes. Why at this time did this difficult thing happen? Why am I facing this trial and all of that But we know that God is just in doing it. He's righteous in all of his deeds. And the confession points us uh to say that we're not to inquire further than what God's word has revealed. Truly, we're not to uh seek to find fault with God. We're not to seek to try to understand the things that aren't revealed. There's some things that are hidden for us and it's for a good reason, for a good purpose. We wouldn't be able to receive it But we know that he works all things together for good to those that love him. That should be a comfort to you. In the end, it's to the good of the believer. And we know that he's working all things for his glory. And so that should give us great comfort. This doctrine about the divine providence of God, it ought to keep you content in your situation. Whatever difficult trial you're facing, whatever uh struggles are there day by day. You might be wondering why But it is a comfort to know that God in His providence has ordained that event to happen. That God is sovereign over it. And it should also give you great hope that whatever your struggle is, God's able to help He's not just one that's outside and can't do anything. He just sees it and there's nothing he can do, but no, God is in charge of it. He's able to turn it around. He's able to extend somebody's life if there's a health condition going on. He's able to provide necessary provisions, whatever the needs are. He's even able to convert an unbelieving heart When we deal with individuals and we think they're so stubborn, they're so difficult. But the Lord's able even to convert an unbeliever. That should give us great hope. I'll leave you with Psalm one fifteen, verse three. But our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Thank you, brother, for that excellent exposition. Father, we thank you that nothing is too hard for thee. Lord, we thank you that that with man this is impossible. With God all things shall be possible. Father, we thank you, Lord, that that we have seen you do the impossible. We have seen the hand of God perform that which man said could never be. Lord, we we believe that you uphold all things by the word of your power. We believe that this universe is kept day by day by your hand, and therefore it does not matter that some scientist says, oh, there's an asteroid going to hit the Earth. Catastrophe. We do not care that some man of this world says the world's getting warmer, and therefore we're supposed to do this, that, and the other. Rather, Father, we trust in the great God of heaven. We trust in the one who controls all things. We trust in the one in whose hand is the heart of the king. And so, Father, we thank you that though this world rages, though the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing, Though we certainly see cares and dangers around us, though there are things which cause us distress, yet we know how it's all going to end. And we know that the end is good for thy people. And so, Lord, we thank you for this confidence we have in thee. Lord, we thank you for the word that we've heard thus far today. both in the Sunday school and in the confessional reading. And Father, we pray that as we open thy word for our discussion, our consideration this morning, that your Spirit would continue to bless And then, Father, we pray that as your word will be proclaimed at the only memory care today as well. May the word of the Lord have free course and be glorified. May your word go forth with the anointing of thy spirit. unhindered by man. Father, we pray that you would continue to do a great work within Mission Bible Church. Lord, we are small, we are insignificant, the world does not recognize us Many would say we're not even a church because we don't have bricks and a steeple. But Father, we know thy truth. And we thank you for the sweetness of the fellowship that we have. We thank you for the abundant gorging upon thy word. Father, you know the hearts of the people here, the hearts of the men who gather for prayer. It is that we might be fed, O Lord. We do not desire to snack on truth. Lord, we want a buffet. We want to gorge ourselves on the truth of God. And so, Father, we pray that you will continue to bless us to those ends. Lord, we do thank you for the answers to prayer we've seen in recent weeks regarding the physical condition of many of your saints. And Lord, we continue to pray. Lord, that you would raise up your people, that you would grant healing and strengthening. Father, the list of unsaved loved ones, unsaved co-workers. unsaved uh Uber drivers, etc. , that have been brought before thee by this congregation is a long list. And Father, we thank you that you are able to save. And so, Father, we pray that your Spirit would work in hearts, breaking down hearts of stone, breaking down the strong resistance of thy truth. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God, but your word makes fools to be wise. And so, Father, we pray that your word will break through to our unsaved loved ones. Father, we pray for the financial concerns of the congregation. Lord, we pray for those that are engaged in business, that you would bless and provide for them, that you would give them good transactions, Father, which would be profitable. Father, we pray that you would correct great financial ills that have taken place, Father, that you would bring these things to a speedy resolution. Father, we uh pray for our young adults that are employed, that you would prosper them in the workplace. May their employers see that these Christian young adults are different from their other employees. May they observe a work ethic within them that is a product of Christ within them May they observe in them an integrity that their co-workers do not have because the Spirit of God has taken them from vile people and made them into new creatures in Christ. Father, we pray for those that are in their extreme busy season at this time, that you would help and bless them, Father. Carry them through, we pray. Father, we do pray for those in our congregation that are not suffering the ongoing illnesses that some have, but are just dealing with the the current flus and colds that are going around that are unable to be with us today. Father, may you strengthen them and restore them to health right early. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have granted to this fellowship a far-flung group of people Lord, that are with us online this morning or who engage with our services in a delayed time that are unable to find in their geographic regions a faithful gospel preaching church. And Father, we thank you that in your providence you have made them a part of us as well. And so, Father, we pray for their blessing, for their edification, and for their encouragement. Father, we do pray that you would continue your work here at Mission Bible Father, may we always be faithful to you. May you give us many open doors of ministry. May you expand the cords, lengthen the cords of the tent. And Father, we pray always that you would make us a nursery of souls. And Father, that you would enable us to edify, to bless, to encourage. to correct your people according to thy word. And Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn in your Bible to Psalm forty-five for our responsive reading. Once you've located Psalm forty five, please rise. We will responsibly read all seventeen verses of Psalm forty-five. To the chief musician upon Shoshannim for the sons of Korah, Maskil, a song of love My heart is indicting a good matter. I speak of the things which I have made touching the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips. Therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty with thy glory and thy majesty. And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of the truth and meekness and righteousness, and the right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right sceptre. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Therefore, God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows All thy garments smell of myrrh and aloe out of ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad. King's daughters were among thy honorable women Upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear, forgive thine own people and thy father's house So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty, for he is thy lord, and worship thou him. And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with the gift. Even the rich among the people shall entreat thy favor. The king's daughter is all glorious within. Her clothing is of wrought gold. She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework, and the virgins, her companions that follow her, shall be brought unto thee. With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought. They shall enter into the king's palace. Instead of thy fathers thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the time altogether. I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations Therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this holy word. Very much like that psalm. It's a wonderful psalm. And uh we turn now to um Our sermon psalm for today in our red song book, Psalm 8, an adaptation of the 8th Psalm, number 8B, is in Baker. To the tune of Amsterdam. You might have sung this before. Praise the Lord Who Reigns Above is that song. It'll be familiar to you once you hear it. Number 8b in your red songbook, and we sing all three stanzas and conclude with the Amen. For our Lord employee over God's journey to the When I knew the skies are Papa fingers play when I see the blue and startup in order to day. Lord is man so clearly that you should remember him. What can be a son of man? You should care for him next to God you have made men look like another crowd. Waste him off of your worst needs in all this time For since he find no wild beast were thy fish Ocean space for our Lord in all the expelling your name. Thank you. Open with me this morning in your Bibles, please, to the thirty-second chapter of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 32. And I'm going to read as our scripture reading the first four verses. And the focus of our consideration will be the second verse. But I'd like to read these four verses as we begin because we, Lord willing, will reference all four of them. Isaiah. Chapter thirty two, verses one through four I love to hear the sound of pages turning. I was blessed to see a picture of Bible conference from the Christian college where my son is attending. And a picture of young people well dressed sitting in a worship service with a Bible in every lap. That's an encouraging and blessed thing to see. If you have your place now in Isaiah 32, verse 1. Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment. And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest. as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land. And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim. And the ears of them that hear shall hearken That the heart also of the rash shall understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers shall be made ready to speak plainly. Let us pray. Great God of heaven, the Creator God, the God of the universe. Open now your word to our understanding. Open our blind eyes to see thy truth. Open our deaf ears to hear thy word. Take the stammering lips and make them speak plainly. Bless us through thy truth today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Our text will be that second verse, a man shall be as in hiding place from the wind. And a covert from the tempest, as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock. In a weary land, and we sing the hymn, Jesus is the rock in a weary land. But the first word of this chapter, behold. Behold, it's an arresting term. It's a divine call to order. Behold is a word that often precedes a great warning. Today we might yell, look out. Be careful. Behold. Something important is about to be said. Behold is a word in scripture that often precedes a prophecy. Behold is a word that always indicates that that which is to follow is important. We don't find in Scripture a behold that doesn't have any meaning. When Christ said, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. He was giving a very vital message that would determine the salvation or the eternal destruction of souls. Behold, the sorrow went forth. The first time we find this word, behold, in Scripture is found in the third chapter of Genesis. When after the fall, God, speaking within the Godhead, God the Father, speaking to God the Son, says, Behold, man is become one of us to know good and evil. And folks, mankind has never been the same since the first behold. Because God says, therefore, let us cast an outward work. And so this glorious chapter begins with this arresting word, behold. But then let me look what it says. Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness And of course, in the contemporary translation, the contemporary application of this prophecy, it was speaking of the righteous rule of King Hezekiah But just as David is often referred to as a type or a foreshadowed of Christ, so here Hezekiah, though he was a righteous king, was only that. But we are called by the Spirit to look through Hezekiah to the coming of the righteous King, which is Jesus Christ. In Malachi 4, verse 2, we read these words: But unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness rise with healing in his wings. But not only does the introductory verse tell us that a king will reign in righteousness, but princes shall rule in judgment. Oh, but a glorious truth. This passage, of course, is speaking of Christ and his church. I have been blessed in my lifetime to know some of these princes. I've been blessed to know some of these princes that shall rule in judgment. And I am blessed today to know a few of these princes. But folks, wonder of wonders. I am one of these princes by the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ, our great King, rules in righteousness, and he has so ordered his church that his people have become a royal priesthood. We are made princes unto our God. Psalm one thirteen, verse five, and verse seven and eight Who is like unto the Lord our God who dwelleth on high? He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifted the needy out of the dung hill that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of the people. Folks, we the children of God are looked upon with scorn. But we're the princes of the earth We, the people of God, the church of God, is ridiculed, and yet God has set within his church his princes His ambassadors, his prophets, his proclaimers of truth And so, what a glorious introduction to this second verse, behold A righteous king has come. His name is Jesus Christ. And he has sent his princes throughout the earth to proclaim the message. He has sent forth his ambassadors You're a royal priesthood. In Revelation 1, verse 5 and 6, the last part of verse 5, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins with his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. And so, this second verse, a man shall be a hiding place, it's talking about Jesus Christ. It's talking about the very Son of God. And the first thing that we find about Jesus Christ is that Christ shall be as a hiding place from the wind. It seems pretty basic until we get into it and begin to dissect it. What does it mean that he is a hiding place? Well folks, this word hiding place is only used two times in Scripture. You hear Brother Vincent and I mention that a lot, these very significant terms That we read across that we've seen before, and yet there's a volume of truth and blessing. He's a hiding place. The only other time that this word occurs is when David was running from King Saul. And in 2 Samuel 23, verse 14 and 15, and then verse 23 of the chapter, and David abode in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the mountain in the wilderness of Zif. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not. Saul looked for David every day, but God delivered him not. God was keeping him back. God was protecting him. God delivered him not into his hand. And in verse 23, Saul sends out his his minions to find David. And Saul says, see therefore and take knowledge of all the lurking places That word lurking places is the only other time we find this hiding place. You see, you had all the land of Judah. But David is in a cave protected by a spider's web. You have all the army of Saul and David and his little band. But God delivered him not into his hand. God sheltered David in the hiding place. God protected him. And folks, here we find that this king who will reign and prosper, this king who will reign in righteousness, he shall be a hiding place. A lurking place with nothing but a spider's web to protect the people of God. But hallelujah, a spider's web protects the people of God. Just a spider's web. It's a lurking place. You see, the world is rushing headlong to hell. The world is rushing to their own destruction. The world is concerned about so many things, but Jesus Christ is my hiding place. Jesus Christ is my lurking place. The devil is a roaring lion, but thy price does not deliver me into his hand. Because I'm hiding in him. A wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord. A wonderful Savior to me. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock where rivers of pleasure I see. He hideth my soul in the depths of his love and covers me There with my his hand, he hideth my soul in the clefts of the rock in the shadow of a thirsty land, a dry and thirsty land. He's a hiding place But it says that a man shall be as a hiding place from the wind. How many of you had heavy wind last night I have a big old poplar tree that is as big as this pulpit with the you know you two two of me as fat as I am couldn't put my arms around it. Huge poplar tree And every time we get that kind of wind I start praying. Lord, don't let that thing fall in the neighbor's house. Because it's a old it's been there I've lived that house all my life. It's been there Was there when I was born? And um it's they say it's gonna cost close to four thousand dollars to get it taken down because it'll take a crane. It's that big of a tree. We've seen a lot of wind here. It says that a man shall be as a hiding place from the wind. But folks, this is the only time this word is translated wind. It's breath. God breathed in the man, and he became a living soul. He hideth me from the breath. In Job chapter 4, verses 8 and 9, even as I have seen they that plow iniquity and sow wickedness reap the same. By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils, and that's the word wind. Remember when we find Jonah in rebellion and God sent a vehement a vehement east wind. He hideth me from the breath. God breathes out his wrath upon his enemies. But Christ is a hiding place. This is also the word spirit. This word wind here is often translated spirit. And listen to this. Turn with me if you'd like to to 1 Samuel 16. In 1 Samuel 16, verses 14 and 15, we find that Saul has rebelled against God. We talked a little bit earlier about David hiding from Saul. Saul has rebelled against God, and God has removed the Holy Spirit from Saul. And in 1 Samuel 16, verse 14. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul and an evil spirit. It's the same word wind. An evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And Saul's servant said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit, an evil wind, an evil breast. From God troubleth thee. But Jesus is my hiding place. Jesus is my protection And then over to chapter 18 of 1 Samuel. Chapter 18 and verse 10 And it came to pass on the morrow that the evil spirit, same word, from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand as at other times, and there was a javelin in Saul's hand. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice. You see what you have here? You have a man whose God is breathing upon in judgment. And he's trying to kill David. But David is the very man that we read of that God wouldn't give him into his hand. Jesus Christ is a hiding place from the wind. The wrath of Saul cannot reach David. The breath of God is not upon David. David is delivered because Christ is a hiding place. Folks, I should be in hell. But Jesus Christ is my hiding place. The wrath of God's judgment shall be upon me. But Jesus Christ is my hiding place from the wind. I should have an evil spirit rather than the Holy Spirit. But I have a hiding place in Christ. This word wind is an illustration of the wrath and judgment of God. Christ is the hiding place from the judgment of God. In Ezekiel 21, verse 31, we read this: I will pour out mine indignation upon them. I will blow against thee with the fire of my wrath. and deliver thee into the hand of British men. God declares his judgment, I'm going to blow against you. But to the child of God, rather than God blowing against us, he blew against Christ. He was wounded for my transgressions. He was bruised for my iniquity. The chastisement of my peace was upon him and with his stripes. I am healed. I changed the pronouns there to to personal, it's weak. But it's talking about me. That's right. Folks, the unbeliever If you do not know Christ, there's no place to hide. You have no hiding place. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath Of God abideth on him. Revelation chapter six, verses fifteen through seventeen And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men And every bondman and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains. And said unto the mountains, fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? In the end of the world, the wealthiest men of the world will hide themselves in caves. And say, may the caves fall on us to hide us from the wrath of God. Folks, I have a hiding place. I have a place of safety. But not only do we find that Jesus Christ is as a hiding place from the wind, he is as a covert. Covert from the tempest. And the word covert again means a hiding place. It is a shelter. It is a covering. Jesus Christ shelters me from the tempest of this life. Folks, is your life a tempest? I think a lot of our lives are tempest. Seems like there's always something Awry. There's always some trial, there's always some frustration. We we just can't seem you know the the there's there's light at the end of the tunnel, but the tunnel gets longer every day. Jesus Christ is the covert from the tempest of life. I read this morning our call to worship from Psalm sixty-one, verses two through four. And I've prayed these verses, and I believe some of you have as well. 61 of Psalm verse 2: From the ends of the earth will I cry unto thee when my heart is overwhelmed. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. Lead me to that rock in a weary land. Lead me to that place of safety. For thou hast sheltered me and a strong tower for mine enemies. I will abide in the tabernacle in thy tabernacle forever. I will trust in the covert of thy wings. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Almighty, or the most high God, shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. But folks, Christ is a covert. Christ is a covering for my sins. He's a covert for my sins. He covers my sins. My sins are covered by the blood. The parallel passage is also in Isaiah chapter 4, verse 6. And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime from the heat, and a place of refuge, and a covert from the storm and from the rain. He's my covering. My sins are covered in him. He has clothed me in the garment of salvation. Isaiah 61, verse 10. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God For he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness. A covert from the tempest. Shelter. It's a covering. He covers my sin. Remember Adam and Eve in the garden? Adam and Eve had walked with God in the cool of the garden. They had enjoyed sweet fellowship, but they sinned, and when they sinned, they knew that they were naked. And they heard God walking in the cool of the garden, and Adam hid himself, and Adam sewed together fig leaves for a covering. And the Lord calls to Adam, Adam, why are you hiding? And Adam said, I'm naked. Well, wait a minute, Adam. He had fig leaves. Adam had a covering, but Adam did not have a suffering. Those that call for the rocks and the hills to fall on them, they cannot hide You see folks, man cannot make for himself a covert. Man cannot make for himself a covering. But here in Isaiah 32, we have the prophecy that there will be one who is a covert from the storm. But then we find also that Jesus Christ has rivers of water in a dry place. John 7, in the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink. He that believeth on me, as the Scripture saith, out of his his belly shall flow rivers of water. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters He that hath no money, come by and eat, yea, come by wine and milk. without money and without price. But turn to me with me to the first Psalm. I'm sure you have it memorized. I'm sure you know it. But turn with me to Psalm 1. Psalm one and beginning at the beginning of the psalm Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in this law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be as a tree planted by the rivers of water. That bringeth forth his fruit and his season, his leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drive us. away. You see it folks? You see it? One is by the rivers of water. The other is being blown about by the wind. He has no protection. He has no water. He has no hope. The ungodly shall not stand in the judgment. What do we say the wind is a picture of? It's a picture of judgment. The ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the right righteous The ungodly have no shelter from the wind of God. The ungodly have no cover from the tempest of his blast. The ungodly cannot stand, because they are indeed naked. Before the judgment of God. For God knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. The woman at the well. Whosoever drinketh of this water, the water in the well, will thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Remember the rock in the wilderness? The people were without water, and God told Moses, go strike the rock. And Moses struck the rock, and the water gushed out of the rock. Rivers of water in a dry place. And we read in the book of First Corinthians that that rock was Christ. Well folks, we come to the latter part of the verse, and we find to to read our text again, and a man shall be as in hiding place from the wind And a covert from the tempest, as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land. And folks, here we come to the true application of this verse. What is the significance of a rock in a weary land? Well, first of all, a rock in a weary land is a place of shelter. The sun is beating down and it is hot. And you find no trees, but there's a big rock and you can get in its shadow. You're in the wilderness in the cold. You realize the best place to camp is right up against a rock where you can have a fire. It's a place of shelter. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. Christ is my shelter every day in this life. And Christ is my shelter through all eternity. It's a place of shelter. When David was fleeing from Saul and hiding in caves, David prayed in Psalm 57 and verse 1. Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful to unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge until these calamities be overpassed. Oh shit, your wife full of calamities? I'll rest in Christ until these calamities be overpassed. A great rock is a place of shelter, but also a great rock is a place of security. The best place for an army to be is on top of the rock. When the bullets are flying, the best place to be is behind the rock. I visited Gettysburg recently my grandfather three b three greats back uh climbed up the hill, Culp's Hill under fire. And there are these huge boulders. There's actually some famous paintings. that were made of men hiding behind a particular rock. I went there and stood behind that rock and walked the path where my ancestor walked. It's a place of security. 2 Samuel 22, verses 2 and 3. And he said, The Lord is my rock and my fortress My deliverer, the God of my rock, and him will I trust. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, my refuge, my savior. Thou savest me from violence. Folks, Jesus Christ is a rock in a weary land as a place of shelter. And Jesus Christ is a rock in a weary land as a place of security. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. Psalm 62 and verse 2. But not only is a rock and a weary land a shelter and a security, it's a substitute. You see, when the winds are blowing hard, there's dead air behind the rock. When the wind is blowing sand in the desert, you get behind the rock to get out of the sand. And the rain beats the rock. The wind pounds upon the rock. The sand wears away the rock. But those that are under the rock are not touched. They are in safety. They're a substitute. Jesus Christ is my substitute. He was beaten for me. He was crucified for me. Yea, the winds of the wrath of God were poured out on him for my soul. He was wounded for my transgression. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. But then not only is our rock and a weary land our shelter, our security, our substitute, it's our salvation. Anywhere else, and we are lost. Oh come, let us sing unto the Lord, let us make a joyful noise under the rock of our salvation. Folks, many years ago now, I was, when we were in Jamaica on Mondays, I would spend Monday, my day off, as a scuba guide Thoroughly enjoyed it. And one Monday we had a big group. We had about 30 tourists. And there was only four staff there at the resort that day. And so it was my responsibility to take seven of them. And we rode off the boat, knowing that we were in heavy current And we were going to dive what is called the tugboat peat. There's a tugboat shipwreck uh there that that we dove. I dove that shipwreck probably thirty or forty times I can navigate without a compass around it because I know my way. But we dropped off our groups. A good distance from the tugboat because we could tell from the surface that there was a current, but it wasn't bad, but we thought, okay, we'll we'll do it as a drift, and the boat will pick us up on the other end. It's 90 foot depth, which is significant depth. You know, you don't take new divers there. I had a few fairly new divers and I had some older divers And by the time we got down to the 60-70-foot level, the current was a torrent. It was raging on the seafloor. The ocean bottom was churned up. You could barely see. You could not use your visuals for navigation because you were limited to about 10 foot. And there was bits of seaweed and we'd actually see fish flying past us and fish swimming as hard as they can and not moving because the current was ripping. And I could tell right away that I was getting fatigued. And I looked at these seven people that I was responsible for, and now they are spread out. to I can't see the ones at the end. They're following the one in front of them and we are getting rushed out to sea. We're going to be carried out to sea and lost. But I knew a rock. I knew that between where we were In that area that I had swam before, I knew that there was a big head of coral about the size of this house. And I knew if I could get there, I could get my whole group in the sand behind the rock. And we could catch our breath. I could communicate with them. I could let them know they were okay. They were safe. I could calm them down, and then as one group, all linked together, I could take them back to the surface, I could get them back to the boat, but only if I could get them to the rock. And when we got down behind that piece of coral, there wasn't any current. Because the current was hitting that piece of coral and going around it. And when we got behind that piece of coral, we could see Because all the sand and junk and bits of seaweed that were getting carried out to sea by the ocean, it was all going around us. And we got down there, we got calmed down, and then very closely, even a lot of them holding on to each other, we began to slowly head for the surface And yes, we were still carried by the current, but now we were safe. We were together. And we got back to the boat. And the whole group was safe. The current of this world is moving very fast. It doesn't have long to last. There's all kinds of junk and trash being carried with it. The fish of this world are swimming as hard as they can, but they can't keep up because it is too fast. We cannot see what is around us because of all the clutter. But Jesus is a rock. He is a shelter. He is safety. He is security. And he is salvation. Folks, you will either get swept along with this world to destruction, or you will find yourself in the safety of the rock. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we repeat the words from Psalm 61: When my soul is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ is the rock of our salvation. Father, we thank you that you have led us to Christ by faith. And Lord, we pray for any who know not Christ, who are still fighting the storms of life on their own. Father, may they find shelter. May they find a hiding place. May they find a covert in Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We turn to our closing hymn, two hundred and eighty-four, beneath The cross of Jesus Number 284 in our blue songbook. Very tired and weary. Tired of struggling upstream. Song is for you. 284, all three stances. Take the cross of Jesus, I made the take my Will earnest for rest of our way from the burning of the new type and the bird. Jesus I see. Very dying for no one who suffered there for me and from my spirit. Worth this year to one design The water. I'm worthy. Oh, I say of course I shall for my new way. I have to all the function and the sun shine on the stay. Well I to the game along this thing. Amen. Please be seated.