Today's message uh has three parts to it. Maybe you're familiar with Thomas Kincaid, the painter of light. He's very unique in his painting style. He has a very interesting way of crafting his art so that you focus on a little beam of light. And he's very very clever and creative at doing that. And in similar fashion, I'm going to endeavor to do the same today. There is a very dark backdrop. There is a bright light called Elijah. But that light shines on a precious gem. It is a timeless truth of God, and that's what I want to get to, is that timeless gem. So like an explorer who can't fully appreciate the jewels in the cave until you descend down into the cave, we're going to have to do some of that here this morning. Just so you know where we're headed, our main verse of consideration is 1 Kings 19, 18, and I'll reread that for you Yet I have left me 7,000 in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. There's a mystery here which needs to be, I think, unpacked. And to unearth this gem, we're going to have to survey Israel's history and get a sense of how the nation is faring. And then we're going to look at Elijah in chapter 19. And all of this, Lord willing, provides a nice little jewel box, a nice jewel box for the gemstone of God's response concerning the 7,000. The historical setting of 1 Kings 19. For those of you who bemoan the state of Christianity in general, this message is for you. For those of you who are in deep distress and despair for various things in life, this message is for you. It can be very hard, you might say, to find fellowship with even one soul. Any fellowship at all, frankly. It may be very difficult to find several faithful churches in your city, county, or general drivable region. Put out of your minds for the moment all of the modern technological innovations and transport yourself back 2,900 years ago. That's a mighty long time. No phones, internet, electricity, plumbing, none of that stuff. Nothing moved faster than three miles an hour. long time ago. And you find yourself in the land of Israel. Because the book of the Kings preserves the main events in Israel's history. specifically about those ten tribes that have been split off into the northern kingdom. The book starts with King David, who, in our timeline, is on his throne in around 1011 B. C. That's a mighty long time ago. He had a united monarchy, and our book begins there. It records his magnificent Canaanite conquests over some 30 years And then we read about his son Solomon, his 13-year construction of the temple and the tabernacle in 960 B. C. Under his wisdom, Israel is a regional powerhouse. King Solomon negotiates treaties that actually favor Israel. He makes other nations pay tribute to Israel. They send him talents of gold and he sticks it in the temple. He also marries many wives from those nations, and they make him pay a spiritual price. After King Solomon concludes his 40-year reign, approximately 80 years after David's ascension to the throne, we get five kings who don't improve Israel's lot. We learn about Solomon's wise servant named Jeroboam. He divides the monarchy and he rends ten tribes away. Worship of God and rule of the king come not from Jerusalem, but out of Shechem and later in Samaria. God's name is not supposed to be there. After the nations split, there was near constant upheaval. There was twenty years of civil war between Jeroboam in the north and King Rehobam, Solomon's son, in the south in Judah. The next set of kings, Israel's King Basha and Judah's King Asa, continue fighting for another twenty-five years Can you imagine living in a land with 45 years of civil war? That's a long time. Israel was so distracted that Solomon's treasures in the temple were sacked by a weakened Egyptian pharaoh named Shishak. The entire household of Israel's popular founding ruler, the house of Jeroboam, was slaughtered by his successor, King Basha. And after 24 years of his rule, he died. His son Elah took over, but unfortunately the captain of his chariots, that would be equivalent to our modern secretary of the army, staged a coup, took over the throne. And killed Elah's household as well as that of Basha. Entire households of former political rulers are murdered. He also burned the king's house down. It seems that his wrath knew no end. Cities were torn down, the land was further defiled, his false idols sprang up like weeds, and sodomites spread like cancer. Strong godly men like David create strong freedoms that lead to prosperity, which in turn creates weak men and losses of freedom. We see this in King Omri, who makes a hard turn for the worse, followed by his son Ahab, who is our king in Elisha's day in 874 B. C. Ahab was a particularly weak man whose strength came from his wife, Jezebel She was a very evil woman out of a conquered pagan nation. She pushed her power through her puppet husband Ahab. One of her first royal decrees was to kill many of God's prophets. And no murderer has eternal life. This woman's not a child of God. She has no interest in the things of God. She has no fear of God. If it weren't for the swift actions of a God-fearing government worker named Obadiah, a hundred other prophets of the Lord would have perished. He hid them in two caves and fed them with bread and water. Suddenly, our great prophet named Elijah, his name means God is Yahweh. makes his appearance. And though Jehovah did send other named prophets, Ahijah is one, he's the one that anointed Solomon's servant Jeroboam as Israel's king And Jehu, who approved King Basha, forewarned of the demise of his household. Though these prophets undoubtedly pumped the brakes against Israel's swift decline, it did not seem to be taking effect. And here is where Elijah begins to excel. His first prophecy, he declares, climate change. Three years, no rain. That's a catastrophic curse that affects the righteous and the unrighteous alike. He eventually flees to a city of Sidon where he ministers to a Gentile widowed woman keeping her alive during the famine, and later he resurrects her only son who had fallen ill of an unknown grievous disease. But back in Israel, Jezebel is feeding 450 prophets of Baal and 400 prophets of Grove at her table, all sponsored for and paid by the government. God ordered Elijah to speak the truth to power, to directly confront Ahab and all 850 pagan yet royal advisors and Confront he did. You know the ending score of his magnificent performance. God and Elijah, 850. Ahab's prophets, zero. And then the rain returned to the land. And then the word returned to Jezebel, who places a death warrant on Elijah's head. So, what do we sense from this historical context from King David to Ahab? You know, this is a mighty rough time for a kingdom which at this point is only 165 years old, that is, having a king rule over them. We have a nation split in two. We have a spirit of division that continues and grows. Israelites might ask Where is the glory of God's promises? Where is Jerusalem as a city on a hill showing strength and prosperity to the world? Those promises seem lost. God's grace and peace under David and Solomon have turned to chaos and confusion. It seems that God's message to Samuel was right They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. We'll turn now to 1 Kings 18 and verse 36. And follow along as we enter into this glorious 19th chapter to pull out some jewels for our time. 1 Kings 18. 36 is where we will begin. Elijah's retreat. I'm sure you recall the account of Elijah's spectacular victory on Mount Carmel, 450 prophets of Baal, 400 of the grove. They're gathered to face Elijah's challenge, who prompted them, he's the one that came up with the idea. And though Elijah's opponents were fully supported by the government, yet God was fully in support of Elijah. And God gave Elijah an immediate and visible answer to a two-sentence prayer. And that's what I want to focus on. He had a two-sentence prayer. Let's look at that prayer together. It's in 1 Kings 18, 36, where we read this. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near and said Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant. And that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know. that thou art the Lord God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again. This prayer reveals Elijah's intentions, his desires, his hopes. And frankly, that set of intentions, desires, and hopes remain the same for all of God's faithful ministers. Jesus is Lord, O God, turn their hearts to thee. Elijah wants men to repent and worship God's great name. God's fiery answer drove all the waffling onlookers to exclaim, The Lord, He is God. You can see it in verse 39. A stunning example of a public answer to prayer. I can only think of a few others who have had such stunning answers to public prayer. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego's deliverance. We heard about that last week from the fiery furnace. Daniel's rescue from the Den of Lions. Again, all centered around public prayer. Well, enter Jezebel. She just lost all of her dinner guests. 850 advisors gone. Her response, please now look at 1 Kings 19, verse 2. 1 Kings 19 2. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more so also if I make not thy life as the life of one of them. By tomorrow, about this time. One man is to blame, he must die. She vows to her gods with her own life as the surety. That Elijah must die within twenty-four hours. Surely, as we would all do, Elijah flees to escape her wrath. And it's at this point I have to stop and start to make applications as we move forward. Christian, servant of the Lord, ministry worker, pastor, have you experienced a great vindication from the Lord? And at that time, did you feel quite invincible? Were you surprised that right after that another great trial came upon you? Take heart. God may be preparing your heart and mine for an even stronger blessing. But let's look closer at Elisha's death-wish prayer to the Lord. in 1 Kings 19, 4, and moving ahead to verse 4, speaking of Elisha, he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree And he requested for himself that he might die, and said, Now here's the point, here's the thing to consider. It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life for I am not better than my father's. Elijah's prayer is revealing a nationalist zeal Other prophets have come. They didn't seem to turn things around. I have come and things are not turning around Scripture records that great men desire death when they're overwhelmed, or when they can't get what they want, or when they uh strongly pursue even a good thing. Even a good thing. I can think and I find actually four others in scriptures. You can follow along with me in your insert if you'd like. The first is Moses in Numbers chapter 11. Consider these men who likewise were overwhelmed In ministry. In Numbers 11, 14. I'm sorry that part is not in your bulletin. I apologize. That was a late edition. You can follow in my notes, they're up here at the pulpit. Just listen here, Moses, Numbers 11, 14. I am not able to bear this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. That's Moses. Moses did that. Job, of course, we know Job. Job chapter 3 verse 20 Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in soul, which long for death, but it cometh not, and dig for it more than hid treasures. Which rejoice exceedingly and are glad when they can find the grave. That's Job's plea. Here, Jeremiah, another mighty prophet In Jeremiah 20, verse 14, quite a graphic one actually. He says in Jeremiah 20, 14, Cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed. Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man-child is born unto thee, making him very glad. And let that man be as the cities which the Lord overthrew and repented not. Let him hear cry in the morning. And the shouting at noontide, because he slew me not from the womb, or that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always great with me Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labor and sorrow that my days should be consumed with shame. Such piteous words, such depth of depression in the soul You know, in the New Testament, even our beloved Apostle Paul was not exempt from this, for he said in Philippians 1. 23, For I am a straight betwixt the two. having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Even he too sought departure. So Elijah does as we might do, as depressed people often do, turn a new page, run away, look somewhere else. And then we arrive at his complaint at the cave. And now we find Elijah alone at a cave on Mount Sinai. Yes, Sinai has a cave. If your choice of Mount Sinai doesn't have a cave, you got the wrong mountain because Elijah went to it. And God inquires of him why he's there. Follow along now as we look at Elijah's answer in verse 10. 1 Kings 19. And he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant. thrown down thine altars, slain thy prophets with the sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. The Lord then utilizes a real-time object lesson which I believe illustrates Israel's history up to this point. For instance, read the next two verses in verse 11 and 12. He tells Elijah, go forth and stand upon the mount before the Lord, and behold the Lord pass by. And by a great and strong wind rent the mountains and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire a still small voice. What's going on here? Well, I don't believe God is trying to impress. He's giving insight to his prophet. So what could the Lord be saying? Well, for starters, we know from later prophecies, such as the Book of Daniel, and of course the Lord Jesus in the New Testament Often a mountain is a picture of a nation. Think of King Nebuchadnezzar's undisclosed dream and Daniel's interpretation of King Nebuchadnezzar. Elijah saw the mountain rent, just like Solomon's kingdom was rent, and rocks were broken by wind and earthquake, just like civil war shakes the foundations of a nation. And political coup might tear apart the land. God even illustrated the burning of the king's house. Now Elijah knows God caused those calamities. For example, it was the prophet Ahijah who predicted the division between Israel and Judah. Our text says the Lord was not in that. And why? Because the Lord, L-O-R-D-Jehovah, God's covenant salvation name, doesn't rescue by those means. Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Zechariah chapter 4. Can God do that? Oh yes. Does he do that? Oh yes. But that's not Jehovah. That's Almighty God. God, apart from Christ, is wrath. God in Christ is love. It's a still small voice. The Lord still rescues by a still small voice, though only a few will hear. God repeats his same question to Elijah, a fellow who is mighty when you consider his he has been, as it were, fasting practically for 40 days, climbed a mountain. And after all of that, Elijah gives exactly the same answer. If you scan verse 14, it's identical to verse 10. Let's summarize Elijah's answer and consider it for a moment from God's perspective. His answer has four points. The children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant. That was true. The children of Israel have thrown down thine altars. That was true. The children of Israel have slain thy prophets with the sword. That was true. I only am left and they want to kill me. Partially true. Yes, they want to kill you. Christian, have you ever felt very lonely? Elijah feels obviously very lonely. Are you looking for other believers and other saints? You feel it's impossible to find any? That maybe there just aren't any others out there? Does it drive you to despair Well, I'm not asking for a show of hands, but maybe Elijah doesn't seem so weird to us now. It seems very understandable. What is God's answer for Israel? Well, the Lord's going to answer Elijah's prayer, and the Lord, with that still small voice of God, comes with comforts to his servant, a faithful man zealous for God And we find those words in verses 15 and 16. Follow along. The Lord said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus, and when thou comest, anoint Haziel to be king over Syria. Jehu the son of Nimshe shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel. Elisha, the son of Shaphat of Abul Meholah, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. Permit me some liberty here for a moment. As it were, God is saying to Elijah, hmm, can't find anybody else with some zeal? I'll give you three. Haziel, Jehu, Elisha. Whether they know me or not, they'll be jealous and very zealous for my cause. Again, paraphrasing God's answer to Elijah. So, children of Israel forsake my covenant. Anoint a ruthless man, Haziel, king over Syria. He will, and I'm quoting from 2 Kings 8, he'll set Israel's strongholds on fire. And their young men he'll slay with a sword, and he'll dash their children, and rip up their women with child. You think Jezebel's tough? Wait till he meets Haziel So the children of Israel like to throw down my altars. Anoint Jehu, king over Israel, he's going to throw down all of Baal's altars, and he's going to destroy all the Baal worshipers. What else, Elisha? Oh, so the children of Israel like to kill my prophets. Oh, Jehu knows something about that. He knows how to seek men's lives. He's going to kill Jezebel. He's going to kill Ahab's 70 sons and Aziah his brothers. And speaking, Elijah, of taking you away, Elisha will wear your mantle and continue as my witness. As our brother in text is often spawned to saying, God's got this. Observe that God acts specifically to our prayers. But perhaps not in the time frame we desire. It may be our descendants who have the honor of a victory. And it could be pleased for the Lord to give you someone to run with. until then, as God did for Elisha. But God had an additional answer specific to Elijah in his very personal request And it's in verse 18. And he focuses on that word only. Because have you ever felt lonely? Lonely in your service to the Lord, lonely as a Christian, trying to do the will of God? It seems perhaps all is against you. Maybe there's very few to actually help. We can and surely do fall into seasons of distress I don't think it's weird that the people of God become depressed. Scriptures records them. Mighty men of faith. It happens to many of God's choicest servants Just stop for a moment and consider the greatness of this man, Elijah. Moses hid in a cave in a cleft of a rock when God passed by, but Elijah was told to stand outside and look. Elijah was a kingmaker, both in Israel as well as other nations. Go anoint Syria's king, Haziel, to be ruler. Elijah was one of two men who did not physically die. You know the story, was taken into heaven by chariots of fire and a whirlwind. The patriarch Enoch was translated. Elijah's zealous spirit of ministry was revived in John the Baptist to fulfill prophecy concerning his reappearance to announce the Messiah. And Elijah, along with Moses, appeared on the Mount of Transfiguration with our Lord in the presence of three apostles and, doing his job, prophesied of Jesus' death at Jerusalem to these apostles and returned to heaven. Observe that even men of great spiritual stature, with a legacy of enduring accomplishments, can and often do endure deep distress and depression. Also observe that Elijah doesn't confess his depression as sin, nor does God ask him to repent. Rather, God encourages the prophet with prophecy. Did you catch that? Isn't it ironic? I'm no better than my father's. I've been prophesying. Nothing has happened. Got it. Here's some more prophecy. Christian, God may lift you up out of the depression of your ministry with more opportunities to execute your ministry. If your ministry seems fruitless, hang in there. If round one and the boxing ring of life didn't work out, round two may fare much better. But back to Elijah. How does God address his fourth point? I even I only am left. It seems that God picks on one word only. God's answer is worth repeating. And look at it with me again in verse 18 of 1 Kings 19. Yet I have left me 7,000 in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. Let's consider the 7,000 by way of a few questions. They're intriguing to me. Where, why, and who? Where are these 7,000? Well, all we know is that they're in Israel, not in Syria. They're in a theocracy that's in open rebellion against their God. Their capital is not the place where God chose to place his name. Their land is full of false religion, insomuch that it far outnumbers the worship of Israel's true God And Elijah doesn't see them. He apparently can't tell you, and apparently doesn't know about them. Which leads to my next question. Why doesn't a prophet know about these 7,000? Oddly enough, even this great man of the Old Testament doesn't know. He's a prophet. God gives him information. Do you remember Obadiah's complaint about Elijah, how the Lord can do great things through him, when it was time for him to confront the truth to power? He goes to Obadiah and says, Tell your king we want to meet. And Obadiah says, Oh no, no, no, no. It shall come to pass as soon as I am gone from thee, Elijah. The Spirit of the Lord shall carry thee whither I know not. And so when I come and tell Ahab he can't find thee, he's going to slay me. And Elisha's answer was, again paraphrasing, no that won't happen. Just go tell him Amazing. Elijah knows how a king is going to respond. And furthermore, Obadiah hid 100 of the Lord's prophets in two caves. Wouldn't Elijah's discourse with these hidden prophets Men of fellow profession give him some indication of who is listening to God's messengers? Observe, folks, that even the most spiritual among us don't have all the answers access to all the right people, the right sources of information, the right sources. If a prophet can't tell where all the spiritually minded people are, how are the ministers of God to know? And my last question, who are these 7,000? Well, we're not given any names, but we are given some clues. Because the Apostle Paul, under divine inspiration, identifies their species, if you will. So turn with me now to our closing passage in Romans 11 and verse 1. The eleventh chapter of the book of Romans. It's also in your bulletin. Writing under inspiration, the Apostle Paul says this I say then, hath God cast away his people, God forbid. For I also am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. God if not cast away his people, which he foreknew. What ye not, know you not what the scripture saith of Elias? How he maketh intercession to God against Israel, saying, Lord, they've killed thy prophets, dug down thine altars, and I am left alone, and they seek my life. But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved, keyword, to myself, 7,000 men. In kings that said knees, who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal. Even so that at this present time also there is a remnant, another key word, according to the election of grace. The 7,000 are the people whom God foreknew they are the election of grace. Further insight comes from two words, and they give very colorful insights to these 7,000. These words are remnant and reserved. Let's start with remnant. The sense of the word means, and I love it, to lack. To lack. You know, you want to make ladies a skirt and you go rummaging through your leftover fabric and you find a piece that's the right color and texture and oh it's just it's in fashion now and you just don't have enough it's lacking It's a remnant. The opposite word means surplus. You know, you have a whole bolt and then some. I think that's a really interesting description of the remnant because they lack. When you look at them, they're lacking There's no vibrant youth ministry with golf outings. There's no grand music team with a deep bench of musicians that rotate their duties. They're the soccer team with all the last picks. Frankly, none of them seem to have it all together. That's a pretty good description of the elect. First Corinthians one, he says, For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. Not many. Thank God didn't say not any. At least there's a few that have something together. They're lacking. They're just lacking. And a remnant means small It's not for me to calculate just how small this remnant might be. You know, you have an engineer up here, so you've got to have some numbers, right? David's getting excited here. To start, we need to know how many people were in Israel in Elijah's day. Well it turns out 100 years prior to this, King David took a census of the people. You can read about it in 2 Samuel 24 And Joab, his servant, counted 800,000 valiant men in Israel and 500,000 in Judah. This is when it was a United Kingdom. Now, assuming a growth rate of 2% a year, the population would double every 36. If it was a 3% growth rate, it would double every 24 years. This means that in Elijah's day, Israel's male population just focusing on Israel would be around 3. 2 million If only 7,000 knees refers to elect men, that's a rate of . 21%, or 1 out of 500. If the 7,000 knees are a mix of men and women, and likely it is, Then that's more like one out of three thousand at a ratio of. 033%. Let's put that into perspective. The last census for the state of Maryland had our population in the year 2021 as 6,165,219. At a rate of . 033%, that yields 2,055 people. According to Sermon Audio, the entire state of Maryland has 90 churches. You divide that up, that means about 22 elect per church. Kinda sounds about right. We're in the ballpark here. And again, not all churches are on sermon audio, but it's an indicator. I think we're on track. And what that means is there's nothing new under the sun. God's people are still a remnant. Always have been. Our second word is the word reserved. It's nearly always translated leave as in leave behind, as in forsake, as in abandon. 1 Kings 19:18, God says that He left me. 7,000, the Apostle Paul says, reserved. It appears that God has left He has abandoned the 7,000 to himself. They are abandoned to the world while others move ahead. They're bereft of political benefits, maybe even creature comforts, but they are abandoned, they're left to the Lord They find that their lot is cast entirely and solely and completely on the Lord God. He has reserved them for himself. They are his priests. They are his people. abandoned. He's left them to himself. These are God's elect. They are abandoned to God alone. They lack in this world and they lack the worship of Baal too. They're committed to the cause of Christ and his promises, no matter the earthly circumstances. They're the apple of his eye. They're the objects of his mercy. They're his adopted children, and he is jealous over them. No man can pluck them out of his hand. Jeremiah 29, 11, For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you, the elect, those whom he foreknew, an expected end. Well, folks, you've been patient. So let's wrap this up with some lessons learned. What we learn from this. Number one, salvation is exceedingly rare. God's elect true Christians, born-again believers, are exceedingly rare. And so true fellowship is also exceedingly rare. Not impossible, but it's a rare thing. Number two, God's people can in fact be displaced from each other for a season. Without true fellowship, Christians can feel very depressed. You know, a a preacher needs an audience just as much as you need to hear the preacher. It just doesn't work the same preaching in front of a camera. Just by yourself and no one else. I don't know how these internet only Preachers do it. It doesn't work for me. When you find a body of believers, you must do all you can to hang on to them. And number three. When we feel isolated, and that time will come, or perhaps has for some of you, and Ministry just doesn't seem to be going anywhere. Your Christian service seems to be flat. Not sure where you could serve the Lord. God has the answers. He may just not give the answer right now, or it may not even be through you. Paul planted. Apollos watered. God gave the increase. Or just a tool in the shed Number four, though Christians have the solutions to any nation's failures, yet implementing those solutions requires divine ordinance, not kinetic ordinance, meaning prayers, not projectiles. Overthrowing the government isn't going to work because the Lord is not in those things. He causes them, but that's not his method of redemption. Number five, even when you think you're a complete failure in God's eyes, it very well may be a tremendous success. We read 1 Kings 18 and go, wow! We give the stories to our kids and rejoice with them. Isn't that amazing? And yet Elijah looked at him and said, I'm no better than my father. Let me give you an illustration of that. Imagine if I took this tapestry off the wall and turned it around. What would you find? You'd find a jumble of threads all knitted up back there that come and go in different disparate colors and you couldn't really tell what's going on with the scene and it looks like a jumbled mess But you turn it around and there's a beautiful portrait. So it may be in your life, all you see is a jumbled mess of different colors. But on the other side of eternity, you turn it around, look at what God has wrought. That's beautiful. Some parts God hides, some parts he lets come forward. You just don't know which part he's doing what with. And last, and number six, don't seek death when in despair. Stay alive to see a better day. Your greatest moments may be just ahead. Let's stand for closing prayer. O Father in Heaven, may we be counted. as one of those 7,000 who refuse to bow to all the dead pagan gods of this world. Thank you for hearing our prayers. Lord, may you be pleased to encourage us with tokens of your love and care for us while we await your answers to our prayers in your time. In Jesus' name. Amen.