Good to Samuel as we continue our pilgrimage through that book. I guess if you take anything away from the days of the message you might see this that here was a man, King Saul, man with with uh great talent of great opportunities and he turns his back on God and he never reaches his full potential. And for those of you thinking about turning your backs on God or or not following the Lord for the rest of your life, you will never reach your full potential And Saul does not, and we see here his decline in First Samuel chapter fifteen. We'll read the story's twenty-three verses long. I think it would uh you'll hold your attention though as we look at it. Chapter fifteen or first Samuel beginning at verse one. Samuel also said unto Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore, hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way when he came up from Egypt. He's talking about when they came up out of the Pharaoh's bondage into the wilderness and through the Red Sea. Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not But slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass And Saul gathered the people together and numbered them in Telim, 200,000 footmen and 10,000 men of Judah. And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and he laid wait in the valley. And Saul said unto the Kennites, this is a body of people living there among the Amalekites, He says, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. For you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Canaites departed from among the Amalekites, and Saul smote the Amalekites from Habilah until thou comest to Shur, that is over against Egypt. And he took Agog, the king of the Amalekites, alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with all the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agog. And the best of the sheep. And they spared the oxen, and they spared the fatlings, and they spared the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them But everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly. And then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel, saying, It repent of me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he's turned his back from following me. He hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried unto the Lord all night. And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set him up a place, or he set himself up a monument. And he's going about and passed on and gone down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul. And Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in my ears and the lowering of the oxen which I hear? And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice them of the Lord thy God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed. And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on. And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thy own eyes or thy own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed king over Israel. And the Lord sent thee on a journey and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed or annihilated. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord, but didst fly upon the spoil, or you plundered, and didst evil in the sight of the Lord. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord. I have gone the way which the Lord sent me. And I have brought Agog, the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people took of the spoil. The people took the sheep. The people took the oxen. The people they took the sheep of things which which should have been utterly destroyed But to sacrifice on the Lord thy God and yoga. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord his great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? As in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, the Lord hath also rejected thee from being king. Those verses 1 through 3, he says, Now hearken unto the words of the Lord. And I trust this morning that everyone here will also hearken unto the words of the Lord. And Samuel continues and he says, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel when he came up out of Egypt. Now I have to tell you that this was four hundred years ago. It's four hundred plus years have transpired Since the Jews came out of Pharaoh's bondage, crossed to the Red Sea, and now we're set up here with the King Saul. It's been over 400 years. And yet God says to Samuel, I remember that which Amalek did 400 plus years ago to Israel when you came from Egypt. Go smite Amalek, utterly destroy all, spare not man Woman, infant, suckling, ox, sheep, camel. This gets thrown at us a lot by the ungodly and the atheists that our God would tell his people to kill babies. Although they don't mind aborting babies, but it just seems unthinkable that our God, our loving God, the wonderful God The Lord would instruct us to kill the babies of the Amalekites, even not just infants, but sucklings But if you go back to Exodus chapter 17 and again in Deuteronomy 25 and 18, you find that when Israel was coming out of bondage and crossing to the Red Sea in the midst of this miracle, or as a miracle is completed and they arrive out on the shores and they're going into the wilderness, Amalek, in in the very presence of this wonderful miracle that God has performed the parting of the Red Sea, they begin shopping away at the edges of the of the people of Israel. In fact what they do is they they they catch the stragglers The old and the feeble men. We read of that, uh it says in Deuteronomy twenty-five that Amalek smote the hindmost of thee, the stragglers, all those that were feeble. the old men and and women and and the the women were were with child or the women who had just had babies and they were straggling behind that said that they the Amazon came in they didn't dare confront the Israeli army or the people, but they would I At the back end, the stragglers they would kill the hindmost of the all that were feeble, and they that were faint, and they that were weary. And yes, the Amalites, the Malachites were killing the babies and the infants. of the Israelites after they crossed the Red Sea and came into the wilderness. And then we finally, we're going to go ahead today in this chapter in verse 33. That's been 400 plus years, and the Amalekites are still making raids and sorties into the land of Israel, and while they're in there, it says they're still killing the babies and the infants and the sucklings of the Israelites So they've been doing this for 400 plus years, killing the babies and their children. Makes you think of today how the Muslims go into a marketplace and they blow it up and it kills women and children and babies, and they don't care But God remembers those who kill the infants and the babies. Although it's been 400 years. God remembers the women who lose lose their children and make Israel's women childless. And so he gives the order, after four hundred and some years of putting up with this, God gives the order to utterly destroy them all. Their women. You killed the Israeli women, their infants, their sucklings, for they had done the same. to Israel. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Galatians 6. 7. So don't just think this is the Old Testament God. In the New Testament, under the gospel of grace and the loving Jesus Christ, we find that there is still the props the logic that follows in all of Scripture that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap It aligns with the New Testament, does it not? What here Saul is told to do to the Amalekites. 400 plus years. 400 plus years. Sometimes God's justice moves slowly. And when it does, it often, when it does come, comes severely. Does the Lord Jesus Christ remember some of your sins that you've committed a long time ago And you've never repented of. If you did something 20 years ago and you're not saved and you haven't repented and you haven't asked God to forgive you for sins, does he remember those things you did 20 years ago or 40 years ago? God says here, I remember. We need to repent of those things we've done. We can't say, well, I'm saved now and everything's okay and God loves me. We still need to go back and repent if we're saved of those things we did 20 and 30 ago. Bring them up and talk to God about them. Ask the Lord Jesus Christ to cleanse you of those sins as well. Because he does remember them. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Hebrews 10. That's not an Old Testament verse. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. That's a New Testament verse So God destroys these sinners, these Amalekites And their women, and their children, and their infants, and as harsh as that may sound to some, when God destroys such sinners, such reprobates, it does sweeten the world up a little bit, doesn't it? So we note in verses four and six that Saul At least appears to attend to do what he's asked to do. And he arrives there in the valley of the Amalekites in verses four through six and he knows that the Kenites are there. And if you were to go back into Exodus and read chapter 17, you find how the Amalekites Treated Israel, killing all their women or children or babies. And in chapter 18, that says you find the Kenites, they were of a Moses family, his father-in-law. They treated the Israelites very well. And so here he says, Saul says that can I separate from among the Amalekites? He shows them mercy, lest I destroy you, for you showed kindness unto Israel 400 some years ago and ever since. Christ taught in the book of Revelation that there is a danger in abiding with, accompanying uh rubbing elbows, sitting down, walking with the sinners, sitting with the counseling God, that there is a a danger of abiding with God's enemies For he says in Revelation 18 and 4, the Lord Jesus Christ teaches there, come out of her that ye be not partakers of her sins and her plagues. Let's talk about the end times. That's not talking about what the Kenites did then or the Malachites, but talking about in the times we're living in now that we need to be very careful that we not fall into the hands of the living God. We need to be very careful that that we are are not living with the partakers of the sins and the plagues of the of the world. We need to be separated from them And so this is what Christ taught and that that God He judges the world and He's going to judge the world someday and we may not get the warning, you know, like the Kenites got here from Saul. It says that the Lord will come back in the twinkling of an eye. There may not be much warning. The Kenites got a warning here. But we're not to be partakers of the sins of the world and their plagues. I I suspect as we reach towards the end times, we probably should be avoiding Washington DC as much as we can. Now Saul here he had his instructions and the instructions were very clear. There was no question of what he was supposed to do. God says, you know, kill he says to kill the women and the infants and the sucklings. It's almost like repeated twice there of the infants. But Solomon verses seven and nine it says he spared the king a gog. Some people pronounce it a gag. What this king this king would do. It did gag people. I mean it was it it's disgusting what he did. But Saul spared Agog, the best of the sheep he also spared, and the oxen But anything that was vile or you know that that he destroyed. You know, that that he got rid of. That he he understood that. It wasn't worth tearing off. Might as well destroy those things. But he rejected the words of God. Some of them. Didn't reject all of them, but he rejected some of God's words that just didn't suit him. There were words that just didn't suit him. Have you ever heard people say, God's word doesn't mean that? See, they're rejecting some of God's word. Or they say, well, you know, you can't believe everything is in the Bible. I mean there's some scribal errors there, so they reject some of that. Or they say, you know, that's not really a part of the originals, you know. We don't think that's a part of the original, uh the the autographs, the original Hebrew, the original Greek. So they reject that also. Isn't it funny? There's the same ones that say, well we don't have the originals But they know that that wasn't in the originals. How do you you know how you can't have it both ways? We don't have the originals. Well, I don't think that versus in the originals You know one of the verses that a lot of the Bibles reject, a button of verse that says, take not from or add to this book. And they take that verse out. They don't think that's in the originals. I want you to think about because when you look at the verse they they reject sometimes, I want you to think about this. You read the new I hope you're all familiar with the New Testament In Christ he's there, and he's slamming the Pharisees, he's slamming the Sadducees, the Herodians, he's telling them what's wrong with him in their lives. But you know, the Lord Jesus Christ never says to them, Oh, by the way, uh, you can't trust the scriptures You know, Christ never says he never raised any of the questions like, well, there's some scribal errors in that Old Testament. Well, he never raised the question, oh that part's not in the original. Because you know Christ didn't have the originals in the synagogues either He never raises those questions. I suspect that those who raise those questions are very much like the apostle, or rather, very much like Saul. the king. I suspect that those who raise a question about scribal errors, it's not in the original, and it doesn't mean that. I suspect that those people, they're much like Saul, and some verses just don't suit their tastes. And you know what some of those verses are. They don't like the verses about hell. That doesn't suit their taste. You know the Ten Commandments, some of them are okay, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal. You know, that's okay, that's That's pretty vile, isn't it? Okay with that, but when it says thou shalt not covet, oh come on. That's not what do you mean thou shalt not covet That doesn't suit. Or remember the Sabbath day he keep with the holy. Oh come on. God can't be that strict ours, can he really? He wants one day A week from or one hour a day from a week from us? So there are people like that. Some things in the Bible just don't suit them. Some things that God said just don't suit their taste. And that's where Saul was here. But that's not where the Lord Jesus Christ was or his disciples. We read in John, John the beloved, John 2 and 22, the Lord loved John, and John writes, the disciples, they believed the scriptures. They had no qualms about anything in the scriptures. They didn't question anything. And the apostle Paul says, I confess, believing all things which are written in the law and the prophets. Paul says, he's an educated Pharisee Very educated man, and he says, I believe all things which are written in the law and the prophets. Acts 24 and verse 14. He believed all things that God had said. But Saul didn't. King Saul didn't. He rejected some of God's instructions And he is eventually rejected by God. Is that where you want to be, pilgrim? You want to toss out some things in the Bible you don't like that they don't feel good to you? Is that where you want to be? And then someday God rejects you. Depart from me, I never knew you. Or do you want to hear when you die and the gates of eternity open up? This is well done, thou good and faithful servant. Verses 10 through 12, the word came from the Lord, the word of the Lord, onto Samuel, informing Samuel that Saul had not done what he was told to do. saying, it repenteth me that I set up Saul to be king. For he hath not performed my commandments. And Saul cried. Preachers cry. Prophets cry. Men of God cry. Men cry over souls, over loved ones. Over children that are lost, that are off the path and out of the way, not on the straight and the narrow. God's people cry when people are rejecting God's ways. And so Samuel cried onto the Lord all night. And it was told Samuel, Saul came to Carmel. And behold, he set him up a place where he set himself up a monument. And then he said he went about as he walked around the monument. It was a monument to him. It was a monument to King Saul. It was a monument to King Saul's victory. And it didn't give God any glory. It was just all to him, all to him. And when Samuel came to Saul in verse 13, I don't know if Saul felt guilty or if Saul thought he probably doesn't know what's going on. He probably doesn't know about the monument that I set up and He probably doesn't have any idea that I didn't quite do everything right. I've got a prisoner, I got one prisoner. Only took one prisoner. I mean God says, kill 'em all utterly You know, just destroy them, annihilate them all. Well, I I got, you know, maybe 156,791 of them. Dead, dead, dead. And I I just kept one. The king And that's pretty good. That's following God's commandment pretty close, isn't it? I just kept one back. So Saul he greets Samuel with a lie. Maybe you do that sometimes too. You haven't seen something in a long time. Oh wow, you really look great And then the back comphers say, Oh my goodness, what's happened to him? He's lost so much weight, he's put on it. You know. Do you ever greet somebody with a lie? Well, this is a bigger lie that Saul told, but it was still a lie. Saul said, Blessed be thou the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And he hadn't. Saul doesn't comprehend the importance of obeying God In every jot and tittle, what Isaiah says, precept upon precept and line upon line, Isaiah 28 and 10, we're to obey God in every precept, every line, every jot, every tittle No exceptions. Saul doesn't comprehend that. He doesn't see the importance of obeying God completely and totally. He's kind of like that rich young ruler that comes the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember that? And he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and he says, you know, all these things have I kept from my youth. You know, Christ is going through the Ten Commandments and reading them all up. All these have kept from my youth. Luke 18 and 21 And then the Lord said, well, go and sell all that you have. Let's see if you've really kept thou shalt not covet or not. And he hadn't kept all, had he? You know, none of us have kept it all. We're all sinners because we haven't kept it all As as Saul's a sinner here, and as a rich young ruler is a sinner. We we haven't kept all and we can't keep it all. But what we can do is admit that we haven't You know, start with truth, and then repent of what we haven't done, and ask for the blood of Christ to cleanse us of what we have done that's inappropriate in sin. But Saul would not admit to that. And many of the people, the righteous Pharisees, would admit to being sinners. Christ came not for the righteous, but he came for sinners, didn't he? And so he says here, like the rich young ruler, he we find here that Saul is pleased with his spirituality. I mean I I talk to people all the time that, you know, you think you're going to heaven? Oh yeah, I'm as good as anybody else. I'm going to heaven. Uh you you think you are you pleased with their spirituality? And they'll say, well yeah, generally, yeah, basically.