Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the thirty-second chapter of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy thirty-two. Did you ever go to a family reunion? And all of your aunts and uncles have brought food. Plus, your grandmother has already made enough food for everybody before the aunts and uncles brought food. And there's not room to sit at the table to eat it because the food's covering all the tables. And you know that there's just far more than could ever be consumed Well that's Deuteronomy chapter 32. Every verse in this chapter could be a sermon in itself, and I had originally chosen a shorter scripture reading. And then realized that I'd cut the scripture reading off in the middle of a verse. So I added a few verses to that and then realized, well no I'm cutting the scripture reading off in the middle of the thought. And I'm tempted just to read the chapter and say, folks, that's the sermon, because it's all inspired here and it's not inspired here. But let's look into this glorious chapter. And my prayer is today that some verse that I don't even touch will preach a sermon to your own heart. We're going to start reading in verse one and read down through verse 38. That is longer than our tippers typical scripture readings. But it is the word of God. Let us read together. Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak, and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. My doctrine shall drop as rain, my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass Because I will publish the name of the Lord. Ascribe ye greatness unto our God. He is the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They are perverse and a crooked generation. Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not He thy father that hath bought thee? Hath He not made thee and established thee? Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show thee. Thy elders, they will tell thee When the Most High divided the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bonds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. For the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. He found him in a desert land. And in a waste and howling wilderness he led him about. He instructed him. He kept him as the apple of his eye. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. So the Lord alone did lead him. And there was no strange God with him, that is with Jehovah, Jehovah. There was no strange God with him. He hath made him to ride upon the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the fields. He hath made him to suck honey out of the rock and oil out of the flinty rock. Butter of kine, milk of sheep with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats with the fat of the kidney of wheat, and thou dost drink the pure blood of the grape. But Jeserun waxed fat and kicked. Thou art waxen fat. Thou art grown thick. Thou art covered with fatness. When he forsook, then he forsook God, which made him, and lightly esteemed the rock of his salvation. They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods. With abominations provoked they him to anger. They sacrificed unto devils, not to God. To gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not. Of the rock that begat thee, thou art unmindful, and hast forgotten the God that formed thee. When the Lord saw it, he abhorred them because they provoked provoking of his sons and of his daughters. And he said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what theirin shall be For they are a very froward generation, children in whom is no faith. They have moved me to jealousy with that which was not God They have provoked me to anger with their vanities, and I will move them to jealousy with those which are not a people. I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation. For a fire shall kindle in mine anger, and shall burn under the lowest hell, and shall consume the earth with their increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountains I will heap mischief upon them. I will spend mine arrows upon them. They shall be burnt with hunger and devoured with burning heat. and with bitter destruction, I will also send the teeth of the beasts upon them with the poison of serpents of the dust. The sword without, and terror within, shall destroy both young man and the virgin, and suckling also with the man of grey hairs. And I said, I would scatter them under the corners. I will make the remembrance of them to cease from among men. Were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should behave themselves strangely, lest they should say, Our hand is high, and the Lord hath not done all this. In other words, lest the wicked should claim the victory for themselves. For they, that is the heathen, are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them Oh, that they, the second they there, is Israel, God's people. Oh, that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end How so w should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their rock had sold them, and the Lord had shut them up For their rock is not as our rock, even our enemies themselves being judges. For their vine is the vine of Sodom, and their fields of Gomorrah, their grapes are grapes of Gaul, their clusters are bitter. Their wine is the poison of dragons and cruel venom of asp. Is not this laid up in store with me and sealed up among my treasures To me belongeth vengeance and recompense. Their foot shall slide in due time, for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste For the Lord shall judge his people, and repent himself for his servants, when he seeth that their power is gone, and they are there is none shut up or left. And he shall say, Where are their gods, their rock, in whom they trusted, which should eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drink the wine of their offerings? Let them rise up and help you. and be your protection. See now that I, even I, am He. And there is no God with me. It's the second time God said there's no God with me. There's no strange God with me There is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. For I will lift up my hand to heaven and say, I live forever. And we're going to stop right there. Let us go for prayer. Oh God help us. Father, for the passage before us is more than our Failing human minds can comprehend. But O Lord, we thank you that the Holy Spirit has promised to guide us into all truth and to testify of Christ Father today, open this word, this chapter to our hearts, and cause us to rejoice in our great rock. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Folks, there is more judgment and more rejoicing in this psalm, this chapter, than any other I can think of. It is a chapter full of God's condemnation on Israel for their sin. And yet it is a chapter that rejoices in the greatness of our God. It is a chapter that, as we will endeavor to see, is filled with Jesus Christ. This chapter is often called the Song of the Rock. And that title actually comes from verse 44 that we did not read. And Moses came and spake the words of this song in the ears of the people. And in the book of Revelation, where we find that the saints sang the song of Moses, I believe it is probably this chapter, which is called the Song of Moses, the Song of the Rock. I'm sure in our discussion after the message today, many of you will bring out verses that I didn't even touch, because it's just impossible to cover them all. But the verse I would like to take as our focus this morning is that 31st verse. Look back to verse 31. For their rock small are. That's the gods that were not with Jehovah. That's the gods that were lately come up. That was the new gods that we read about that they chose. For their rock is not our rock. Capital R. Even our enemies themselves being judges. Even when the heathen look at their gods and then look at Jehovah, they say, Oh, our gods Are not like Jehovah. Now, if you're reading this morning from the eviscerated Standard Version Which initials are ESV, the eviscerated standard version, you would find that the eviscerated standard version says Their rock is not is our rock, even our enemies being by themselves. Yeah. It doesn't say much, does it? But I'm not going to get off on that anymore this morning, Lord willing. Their rock is not as our rock. Even our enemies themselves being the judges. What glorious truth we find. Throughout Scripture, we find Jehovah and Christ, who is Jehovah, under the figure of the rock. Look at verse 4. He is the rock. His work is perfect. For all his ways are judgment A God of truth, and without iniquity, just and right is he. Isn't that a sermon in itself, that one verse? In 2 Samuel 23, verse 3, the God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake unto me. Psalm 18. 2, the Lord is my rock and my fortress. Psalm 18. 31. For who is a God save the Lord? Who is a rock? save our God. Psalm 18, 46, the Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock. Psalm 118, 22 and 23. The stone which the builders refuse to become the headstone in the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. And in Matthew 21, Christ quoted that same verse to the scribes and Pharisees. Isaiah 18, or 28, verse 16 says Therefore, thus saith the Lord, Behold I lay in Zion a foundation stone, a tridestone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation And he that believeth shall not make haste. Matthew seven, twenty-four. Therefore, whosoever heareth these things of mine and doeth them I will liken him into a wise man that built his house upon the rock. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not For it was founded upon the rock. Their rock isn't like our rock because their rock is sand. Right? As it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone, a rock of offense, and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. Romans 933. But I believe the most pertinent comparison from the New Testament for this chapter we're reading today It's that which we find in 1 Corinthians 10, the first four verses. Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and the sea, and did all eat of the same spiritual meat meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Folks, who is the rock? Who is the rock of Deuteronomy thirty-two? Is it not the Lord Jesus Christ? And so I'd like to see, show you first of all, from this chapter, that our rock, that is totally unlike the rock of the heathen. Our rock is the God who created us. He is the God, our maker. Look down to verse 15 of the chapter, Deuteronomy 32 and verse 15. But Jeshran waxed fat and kicked. Thou art waxin' fat, thou art grown thick, thou art covered with fatness. Then he forsook God which made him. He forsook the God that made him. And verse six Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not He thy father that hath bought thee? Hath He not made thee and established Thee? And verse 18, of the rock that begat thee, thou art unmindful. Who is the creator God but Jesus Christ? He is the one who spoke all things into existence. He is the God that hath made us. Jesus Christ is our origin. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that it was made. But it's not just a physical origin that's being spoken of here. God not only made this body, but when we read in the one hundredth Psalm in the third verse, It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. Psalm 100 verse 3 is not talking about making us physically. We know we didn't make these bodies. It is he that hath made us his people, and not we ourselves He is our spiritual origin. And that's what the passage is talking about when it says they forgot God that begat them. They forgot the God that gave them being. We read in Psalm 119, verse 73, Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn thy commandments. God, your hands made me. Your hands fashioned me. That happened in creation. But oh God, give me understanding. That I may learn thy commandments. That is the spiritual making. Folks, I did not make this body I live in. And I did not make myself a child of God. And that's what we saw there in our confessional reading this morning. No man makes himself God's son. Rather, he is brought in to God's family. Ephesians 2 verse 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. But here we have a comparison of two work, two rocks. You see, we joyfully acknowledge that our rock Our God made us. He created this body I live in. He gave me a soul. And he opened my dead soul to his truth. He made me his child. The unbeliever who trusts in his small R rock has to come up with evolution. He has to come up with something other than God. Because there cannot be a God. Because if there's a God, I'm responsible to that God. Folks, it's been said, I don't know the age of the rocks, but I know the rock of ages. And folks, even when the evolutionist begins to compare all his foolish theories with Jehovah, he has to say, that just doesn't work. And so they try to come up with intelligent design as an intermediator. Or they try to come up with theastic evolution. Well, God started it and then he just let it go. Because their theories are nonsense. And I don't want to spend too much time here because we have so much for us to cover. But I watched a documentary this week. about a lizard research project, the the the Caribbean Annolls, um that was done in the Turks and Caicos. And I I love anything about the Caribbean. I uh I always think of the Caribbean as home. I was communicating on Facebook this week with one of our young ladies from from one of the churches there and she asked me if I was in Jamaica and I said no but I wish I was home because that's always home to our family. But this researcher who has a PhD in lizards Think about that a little bit. As a PhD in lizards, did a survey on two islands in the Turks and Caicos before a hurricane. And then he did another survey after the hurricane. And he found that the anoles that had survived the hurricanes had bigger toe pads and smaller femurs. Okay. So they had evolved, yes, they had evolved the ability to have bigger toe pads and smaller femurs. And they were able to pass this evolutionary trait on to their offspring. And so it proves evolution. So another documentary about these same Anoles, where they put some Anols on a stick, took a leaf blower, and blasted him with 100 mile an hour wind from the leaf blower And they found that the anoles with bigger toe pads could hold on better. Right. And they found that the anoles with bigger toe pads and smaller fevers were more wind Streamlined, like an airplane. They would tuck their femurs in, hold on with their paws. They didn't get blown out to sea, folks. So they survived the hurricane. So after the hurricane, most of lichens they found still there had bigger toe pads and smaller femurs. Had nothing to do with evolution. Just simply, God made some of them that way, and they survived the hurricane while the other weaker ones got blown out to sea and drowned. Folks, their rock is not as our rock, even our enemies themselves being judges. Our rock created us. But secondly, it helps us to see that our rock tenderly possesses us. And I don't mean possessed, yes, he lives in our heart, but he possesses us. Has his own. Look at verse 9. No, let's go to verse six. Let's back up. You can't pick and choose here. Verse six. Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not he thy father that hath bought thee? He it hath uh uh hath not he not made thee and established the Remember the days of old, consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show thee the elders, and they will tell thee. When the Most High divided uh to the nations, their inheritance. When he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bonds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. Here's the verse I was heading to For the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. He found him in a desert land, in the waste and howling wilderness. He led him about, and it goes on to talk in verse eleven about how an eagle carries for his children and flutters over them. He possessed them. But notice what it says there in verse number eight. When the Most High divided the nations, their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam. When he separated the sons of Abraham doesn't say when he separated the sons of Jacob, does it? Doesn't it say when he separated the sons of Abraham? It doesn't say Abraham and then Isaac and Ishmael. It doesn't say Isaac and then Jacob and Esau. It doesn't say Jacob and then Judah. When he separated the sons of Adam. Now again, if you're using the eviscerated standard version, it'll just say one of these by the sons of men. But folks, Adam's significant there. Right. Adam's important there. The Hebrew word is Adam. It's not sons of men, it's Adam. And it's not talking about when he divided mankind in general, but rather it's pointing out that all the way back to Adam, the elect of God, were separated unto God. It's talking about a division here. When God divides up the nations, this is long before the sons of Na Noah, Ham Shem, and Japheth. This is long before the sons of Abraham, because we were chosen in him before the foundation of the world. That's right. And so The Lord's people, verse nine, the Lord's portion, his possession was his people Jacob was the lot of his inheritance. What is important about Jacob? We just started in verse 6 with Adam. Now we're down to Jacob. Why Jacob? Because it's the line of Christ, folks. Because it's the family of the Messiah that was protected by God, that was his portion, was his elect people from the days of Adam. From the Garden of Eden and before. And so the Lord tenderly possesses his people Verse eleven, as an eagle stirreth up her nest, floodeth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them beneath her own wings, so the Lord alone did lead thee. No strange God again alone did lead thee. And there was no strange God with him. There was no small R rocks anywhere to be found Those of you that have small children, those of you that have grandchildren, those of you that have a heart in you know what it is to tenderly care for the protection of a child. We would jump in front of a car for them. We would take the bee sting to push them away from the nest. We would take any harm or any injury. We would lay down our life for them Greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. The story is told about a barn fire. After the fire they were going along and there was a a burned scorched dead hen in the middle of the barn, and the farmer kicked it with his toe and out popped the heads of the babies. The hen could have flown out of the fire, but she covered the chicks and they survived while she was cooked alive. And so Jehovah tenderly possesses his people. Jacob. Jacob was his portion. Because Christ was coming. Because remember where the promise of Messiah was given? Not to Abraham, but to Adam. And so the text begins with Adam, not with just the sons of men. And so in Psalm 139, verse 13, For thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me out of the world They are thine, and all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. John 17. Folks, this is a glorious story of love. I am my beloved's, and my beloved's is mine. Our wrath tenderly possesses us. What the heathen say, I'm free. No one is my master. No one is my boss. No one tells me what to do. I make my own decisions for myself. If I think I'm a woman, you better call me her. But for the child of God, we joyful acknowledge I am not my own, for I am bought with a price. And so we find that Jehovah tenderly possesses his people. I belong to the rock. Thirdly, we find in this chapter that our rock supplies our every need. Think about that. You're gonna have your needs supplied by our rock? By a rock? Command these stones to be bred. Oh, he can do that, can't he? Look at verses 13 and 14 of the chapter. He made him to ride upon the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the field. He made him to suck honey out of the rock. milk and oil out of the flinty stone, butter of kine, and milk of sheep, with the fat of ram lambs, rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats with the fat of kidneys of wheat. And thou dost drink the pure blood of the grapes. The children of Israel were sent out into the howling wilderness. There weren't streams there. There was not water sufficient for six million people. There was not food sufficient to feed the people of God, and yet they ate honey out of the rocks, the beehives of the crevices. What is Christ? But the sweetness of his people. Who do we read there in 1 Corinthians was that rock that followed them? It was Christ. And folks, no matter what we're lacking in this world, we suck honey out of the rock. We receive the sweetness of Christ in the darkest of circumstances. We have all known a godly believer in the middle of a horrible trial and yet we found in them great joy and peace and rejoicing and we stand back and say how can this be if that were me I'd be going nuts But in the hour of their need, they sucked honey out of the rock. And that rock is Jesus Christ. oil out of the flinty stone. The commentators tell us that the olive trees seem to grow best in rocky soil. where a lot of other trees wouldn't thrive, but the olive trees in the rocky soil seemed to to to thrive and do well on soil that could not sustain an oak or or another tree But folks, that's not the answer here. Christ gives to his people the oil of gladness. Christ is indeed a sweet oil, an olive oil to his people. Butter of kine. The abundant blessings of Christ, the fat of lambs, and so on. In Nehemiah 9, verse 15, we read, Thou gavest them bread from heaven for their hunger. Thou broughtest forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst. Thou promised them that they should go in and possess the land which thou has given hast sworn to give to them. And folks, as we walk through this life, God gives us water out of the rocks, out of the most unlikely places, as we travel to the land that He has sworn unto us. And that land is not here. My home is in heaven just waiting for me, and when I get there, how happy I'll be. My home is in heaven, no rent to pay. Jesus paid it, paid it all for me. That's one of the little Jamaican courses that we loved in Jamaica. God supplies all of our needs. Take no thought for tomorrow. One of my favorite verses is Luke 22, verse 35, and I'm skipping over a lot here just for sake of time. Luke twenty two, thirty-five, and he said unto them, When I sent you without purse and script and shoes, lacked ye anything, and they said, Nothing. Nothing. I sent you out, no pocketbook, no credit cards, no stash of food. I sent you out and you didn't have a script with you, you didn't have a a letter of IOU. I sent you out and you didn't even have shoes. But did you lack anything? No, not a thing. God supplies the needs of his people God is the salvation. Our rock is the salvation of our people of his people. Look at verse 15. 3215 But Jeshuan waxed fat and ticked. Thou art wax and fat, thou art grown thick, thou art covered with fatness. Then he forsook God which made him, and lightly esteemed the rock of his salvation. That term Jeshuan means the upright one. Jeshuan. God had made his people upright, but they lightly esteemed the rock of their salvation. That term, lightly esteemed, means to wear away or to become insensible. We talk about spoiled children who grow up in a home where their parents have everything and give them everything and they appreciate nothing. Well that's the way God here describes Israel. God gave them the they did did they have to work for bread? No, they went out and picked it up. God gave them everything. And they just, what meaneth this light bread? Our souls loathe this light bread. We want the leeks and the garlics of Egypt How quickly we become that way as Christians. How quickly we begin to lightly esteem the rock of our salvation. But folks, how do we get here? Because he's the rock of our salvation. Because he has made us Jehovah is the salvation of his people. Look at the verse 18. We read this earlier, but look at it again. Of the rock that begat thee, thou art from unmindful, the rock that gave you birth. The new birth. We're born of the rock and have forgotten the God that formed the. Look in verse five through seven. They have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They are a perverse and crooked generation. Do ye thus requite, or or thus argue against, dost require of the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not He thy father that hath bought thee? Is not he that made thee and established thee. Their spot is not the spot of their father. Folks, do we remember or do we resemble our father? Uh my brothers and I got together for one of my brothers' birthday this week. We do that three times a year. There's three of us. And I posted a picture on Facebook and we look alike. I guess it's because we had the same mother and father. But here we find that these children of God who had been made by Him and bought by Him and provided for Him, their spot was not the spot of their father. They failed to resemble their dad. Folks, he's the God of our salvation, and so we should look like our Father. The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. A rock is the rock who works perfectly. Look down to thirty-two and verse four. He is the rock. His work is perfect. That word perfect, of course, is the word complete. His work is complete. He is the perfect worker on behalf of his people. God does it completely. God does it completely Perfectly. Here they are, and they're lightly esteeming their rock, and they're fight trying to find some other rock. But even our enemies, when they look at the two rocks, say, our rock is not like their rock Boy, I'd like to have that rock rather than my own. God works perfectly on behalf of his people. The Lord's my rock and my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength in whom I will trust, my buckler and the horn of my salvation and my high tower. Psalm eighteen verse two. Psalm eighteen verse thirty. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tried. He is a buckler to all those that trust. in him. God works perfectly. Our rock works perfectly on behalf of his people. But then finally We have here the heathen comparing the two rocks, and they say our small R rock is not like their big R rock. The last thing it happens to see among the many that we've passed by is our rock is the incomparable rock. I remember when I was in college and I bought my then fiance a a rock. I bought her a diamond to put on her finger. And There was a faculty member at the university whose family happened to be in the jewelry business and the best place to buy rocks was In his office. So I went to his office and he opened a s safe there. First thing he did is walk in the southern guy. I walked in, to told him and said, I I need to buy a diamond. He said, Are you in love? But he spread on his desk probably fifty rocks, diamonds, that he had in a little safe there on campus. And I could compare them. And he showed me a great big two carat rock that was y as yellow as the as these walls. It was amber. He said, This this I can sell you very cheap, but you don't want it. It's big, but he said, I have one. I have one that's beyond compare. He said, look at this one. See and he showed me under under the a microscope eyepiece. See how this one the cut on it is just extraordinary The color is so brilliant. He said, this one is much smaller than some of the others. But he said, this is the best one I have. He said it's marvelous. Folks, our rock can't be compared to the other rock. And even when our enemies try to compare it, they say, Ah, we lose. Because our rock is not as their rock. Listen to verses 1 through 4 again. If you want good Hebrew poetry, give ear. O ye heavens, and I will speak and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. The heavens declare the glory of God, but listen, O heavens, to these words. My doctrine shall drop as rain, my speech shall be still as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and the showers upon the grass, because I will publish the name of the Lord Oh folks, what else do we have to talk about? Right. Why do we talk about sports and cars and the weather? And the economy and politics. Ah, may we publish the name of the Lord. He is the rock. His work is perfect. All his ways are judgment, a God of truth, and without iniquity, just and right is he. There can't compare another rock to this rock. Verse 32. Oh, that they were wise and understood, that they would consider their latter end. How shall one chase a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight? Except their rock had sold them. Israel in all of your sin and your rebellion When you flee through your enemies, remember the only way that one of your enemies could chase a thousand of you is if your rock, Big R, has forsaken you because of your sins. There's none that can be compared to our rock. Look at verse 39. See now that I, even I am He, and there is no God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hands. You can't compare another rock to that rock Exodus 15, 11, Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders 2 Chronicles 6 verse 14, and said, Oh Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee. He's the incomparable rock. But look down with me to verse 44, which we did not read earlier. And Moses came and spake all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea, the son of Nun. And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel, and he said unto them, Set your hearts unto all the words which I testify among you this day. Which ye shall command your children to observe to do all the words of this law. For it is not a vain thing for you Because it is your life. You see what the next chapter of this book is? Is Moses going up to the mountain and dying. This is the last words of Moses. This chapter, this song of the rock, is his last admonition to Israel. You realize that most of the things that he's talking about, the strange gods sacrificing the devils and so on, it hasn't happened yet. It's prophetic. He's talking about things that happened when they were in the land. When one chased a thousand and two chased ten thousand, it's after they're in the it's long, long after Moses is gone. It's a warning to the people. And so it is not a vain thing for you to take this rock to heart, because this rock is your life. Teach it to your children and live by it. Through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land whether ye go over to Jordan. to possess it. Folks, the God of this world is not like our God, even our enemies being the judge Let us stand for prayer. Oh Father, this marvelous chapter, which is so full of truth. So full of images and pictures of Christ, blessed to our hearts. Help us to teach it to our children and our grandchildren. May we not be negligent of it. Father, may we live under the rock. Lord, may we love the rock. May we suck honey from the rock all the days of our life. In Jesus' name. Amen