Father, indeed, our Lord Jesus Christ told the disciples, Come yourselves apart and rest awhile. And indeed, that is what we do when we gather for worship. We have in our congregation those that are involved in business. those that are cumbered with employment, those that have cares for loved ones, those that are caregivers. Those that are engaged in many things in this world that weigh very heavily upon us, and most of which are very good and needful pursuits. And yet one thing is needful. As we saw last week, Mary had chosen the good part. She had chosen the feeding of the soul. And Lord, we come apart now from the world to seek the good part. We come to sit at the feet of Jesus We come to learn of thy word. We come to worship thee in song and in the reading of the scripture. Father, do indeed free us from the cares of this life, from the thoughts of other things, that we may have communion with our God this day. Lord, we commit this gathering to the glory of Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. If you're able to stand, stand with me, please, as I read our call to worship, reading from the 14th verse of the third chapter of 2 Peter. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things. Be diligent that you may be found of him in peace, without spot, blameless. Amen. Amen. We turn to our opening song today, number 70, in your blue songbook, number 70, Praise My Soul, the King of Heaven. one of these great reformed tunes. We very much love the hymn as well as the the uh the song itself Number 70 is our our opening hymn and we sing all four stanzas Who is my soul nothing up there? Lord him, who like me his gracious sing. Praise him, praise him, praise him, praise him, praise me ever. Praise him for his grace and faith to our fathers in distress. Praise him till the same forever. So the joy does with last. Praise him, praise him, praise him, praise him. For your mighty tenderness. Well our people bring he knows in his hand heavily mess us refuse us from all our food. Praise him, praise them, praise him, praise them widely as his own. Take thou first to our Him, maybe hold him face to face, Sun and Moon. Praise him, praise him, praise him, praise him, praise with us. Amen. Amen. Very good. Please be seated. That was a uh good song, it would have been a good one for the uh end of Sunday school, Ashley. It's uh tied in with the uh excellence of of God our Father. At this time we have our instruction from our confessional reading today. Antonio Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we'll begin looking at Article 28 of the Belgic Confession. The title there is that everyone is bound to join himself to the true church. Christian, in what do you believe? We believe, since this holy congregation is an assembly of those who are saved, and out of it there is no salvation that no person of whatsoever state or condition he may be ought to withdraw himself to live in a separate state from it. But that all men are in the duty bound to join and unite themselves with it, maintaining the unity of the Church. Submitting themselves to the doctrine and discipline thereof, bowing their necks under the oak of Jesus Christ. And as the mutual members of the same body, serving to the edification of the brethren, according to the talent God has given them Ephesians 5. 25 says, Husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Christ died for the church. That's his bride. And so you can't claim to be a Christian yet not want to be a part of that very church which Christ has died for. His salvation is only for her. So it would be a very odd thing for you to say, I love Christ, but I don't want to be a part of this church. That was his whole mission. It was set out to save the church to call out these people, to gather them together. Why would you not gather? And uh in Hebrews we receive even in Instruction about those that are the elders, those that are the rulers that God's given in the church and the whole purpose of them to watch over your souls. Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith followed, considering the end of their conversation. And later on in that same chapter it says, Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief. For that is unprofitable for you. God commands for the members of the church to be in submission to faithful church leaders. And how are you supposed to do that if you're not actually a part of a church, if you're not regularly gathering with saints? It's not because these church leaders are infallible, but it's because God has sent them to take care of his sheep, to teach those very same things that the Lord has put forth in his word. This never implies that we're required to follow a teacher even if they're teaching something ungodly or something unbiblical simply because they're a leader, I have to submit to them. No, we always obey God rather than men, but yet we are to obey them wherever they bring us the word, wherever they bring us the scriptures. And there's a great blessing to being under the teaching and discipline of a faithful church. It's like following road signs while you're driving. You know, the road will tell you, hey, if you want to get to your destination that you're going to, stay on this highway. This highway will lead to this city. So it is, the faithful teachers will tell you, hey, this is the way to eternal life. Make sure you're following. Make sure that you're in Christ. Make sure that you're walking with him. And they'll warn you about the other things. Hey, there's a train coming, stop here, don't cross. Same thing, there's these Serious sins or these serious false teachings that are going on around. Don't go there. You need to stop. Do not cross that road And also warnings from elders are like rumble strips. You know, as you get sleepy on the road or you're not paying attention, you might start veering off of the road and there's these rumble strips. They're uncomfortable as you drive around. You're like, what is this loud noise? But yet, this is an important thing to wake you up to warn you, hey, you're about to go off the road, you're about to go into destruction And so it is with the uh faithful warnings from elders. They'll they'll warn you, or even a a faithful brother or sister in the Lord, they'll warn you, hey You know, the the the the course that you're going in, your spiritual walk is getting sleepy. You continue veering off and it will lead to destruction. It's going to be uncomfortable to hear that. What are you saying about myself? I might have to change something. I have to look into something that I've been very comfortable with. But this is a helpful thing for your soul And the last thing I want to point out from this confession is that command that we have to serve the church. Especially if you're in a local church, why not serve that one? Listen to these uh verses from Ephesians four. It says of the Lord that he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. In that same chapter we also read, from whom the whole body fitly joined together and compact it by that which every joint supplies, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. There's if you were paying attention to that language there, it's talking about the church and how the Lord has given it, how the Lord's given even different members there to supply and to edify one another You don't just come to church thinking, well, what's the church going to do for me? I'm a member of it and I'm looking for benefits for myself. Well the Lord's also commanded you to go out and to serve the church, to also be a an active member that's edifying and encouraging the others. You so you ought to seek the Lord, asking yourself, how can you serve the church? What's the where's the need? What talent? What gift has he given me to serve him with? Mm-hmm. God doesn't call us to be idle parts of his body, but rather lively ones that will support the rest of the body. You know, God doesn't have any dead limbs. Our God is a living God. We're called His Body. All of His members are alive and working. He enlivens them. So may the Lord keep us faithful in gathering with the saints and intending to His body. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Uh our brothers' expositions from the confessions are always edifying and uh very well prepared and pointed. Thank you very much. Um hearing his references to road signs and rumble strips and driving, you'd almost think he and his family had driven to Maynard back last week. Hopefully he wasn't too drowsy and encountered those rumble strips often or followed the wrong sign. As we gather this morning, we see some very prominent empty seats. We know that some of our dear ones are not with us this morning. We need to keep them in prayer daily. We know that we have those in our congregation that are grievously beset with ongoing illnesses. And so Let us join together in prayer for they and for us as well. Let us pray. Gracious Father, though we thank you. That you are the great physician, the healer of the sick. And Lord, we are a small congregation, and we have several within a small congregation of small gatherings that are grievously ill. Some with very, very long-term illnesses, which they have borne with the grace of God upon their countenance. and have been an example of the believers in their suffering and in their faithfulness and patience in suffering. And Father, we pray for their relief. Lord, we pray for their healing. We pray for the strengthening of the body. And Father, we thank you that you know what things we have need of before we ask. Or the doctors may look at a body and say, this is what you need. But we understand that the great physician, the healer, the sick, who created the body. looks at our bodies differently than man. And so, Father, we pray that you would be glorified in our bodies, whether by life or by death That you'll be glorified in our bodies, whether by strength and vigor or by suffering. Lord, as we think of Job, Lord Job's suffering was largely for the confounding of Satan. You allowed your servant Job to suffer in large measure that Satan might be put to shame, because he thought he could shake Job's faith, and Job's faith stood by thy grace. And Lord, there are times when our faith is gravely shaken by great physical, financial. Personal, family trials. Lord, these things assault us. But we are to stand and having done all to stand, we find that. And so Father, bless your people with physical health, with spiritual health above all. Which with fiscal help, health in their finances. Father, in all these things, bless and help we pray. Father, we often see on our prayer list, every week we see on our prayer list, prayers for our nation. Father, we freely confess that there is no judgment too heavy Of which this nation, this secular state, is not worthy. We call ourselves one nation under God And yet, Father, we, the Church of God within this nation, confess that this is no longer one nation under God. That this is the people that have rejected God. And Father, if you were to pour out judgment on our nation, your people would suffer, but we would have to say, Lord, we have received that which was our due. But Father, we know that you would have spared Sodom for the sake of ten righteous. And so, Father, we pray that For the sake of your church, your people that dwell within this secular nation, Lord, may you spare us your judgment. May you hold it back. Well, Father, may you hold back that judgment for the sake of the dear children in our midst, for the sake of our grandchildren that we love so dearly. For Father, those of us of my age will probably die in a nation with the relative degree of freedom that we enjoy today. But we fear that our children will suffer persecution for their faith as we have never seen. And so, Father, we pray for their sake, may you spare the judgment we deserve. Father, this morning I pray for Pilgrim Presbyterian Bible Church, O Lord, as I pray every Sunday. Father, I pray that in that place your word will faithfully be preached. And Lord, I pray that those that gather there will be blessed by thy Spirit. Lord, I pray the same for uh Marcus Hook, Bible Presbyterian Church, and thank you for the years that I was privileged to labor there. Father, I pray the same for the Smithfield Evangelical Methodist Church in Jamaica and thank you. For the years that I labored there, and pray for those that gather in that place, O Lord, may their spirits be fed. May the loss be reached for Christ Lord, I pray as well for the Crowder Evangelical Methodist Church and thank you, Lord, for the years that I was able to be the pastor there. And Lord Fern, where I was not the pastor but was an overseer, Lord, I thank you for the privilege I've had to labor in those places. And Father, I thank you that today I stand in the pulpit of Mission Bible Church. Oh Lord, what a great blessing. What a great privilege. Oh Lord, what an awesome and fearful responsibility. For Lord, Brother Vence and I do not own any sheep. The sheep belong to the shepherd. And we are to take heed to ourselves and over the flock over which you've made us overseers. And so, Father, may we operate in godly fear. And Lord, may your sheep not be spiritually malnourished to the fault of the shepherds. But O Lord, we pray that the Word of God may have free course and be glorified. O Father, in this place may your truth be faithfully proclaimed. And Lord, if we would proclaim it in error. O Lord, stop our threats, stop the word. May your people be protected from false doctrine, but may they never be lacking a message from the And we'll replay these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Isaiah 53 for a responsive reading this morning. Once you've located Isaiah 53 in your Bibles, please rise We'll read all twelve verses of Isaiah fifty three responsibly. Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground He hath no form nor comeliness. And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and He was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who should declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people was he stricken And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. He hath put him to dream when he shall make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seeds, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities and altogether. Therefore I divide him a portion with the grapes And he shall abide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And he bear the sin of no many, and made intercession with the transgressors. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Classic text, Isaiah 53. It's worthy of reading oft and committing to memory. And if you have any Jewish friends, you can share that with them because they don't read scriptures in the synagogues. We turn now to s number thirty-seven in our song book, number thirty-seven. God is our refuge and strength, and you should recognize the tune as O Beautiful for Spacious Guys. Number 37, where we will also sing the Amen. We sing all four stanzas. And therefore. We will not be afraid No mills on his or seas we cast no holy waters more The mountains of the shore. The holy place where in the world. Since God is in my source, I never was shall sing. For God will be the world without thank God Damn three are kingdom of when this morning was still. Before his mighty work, the war of host is on our side, our safety to safety. The God of great place for us our refute strong and strong He only has caused to hunt the sense of all the causes for sea. All weapons are strong destroyed, he makes a light meet We still know that I have all exalted was the technical. My name shall merge the Lord of Moses all safety. God of Jacob is for us the strong man. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the Old Testament Book of Psalms And the 130th Psalm, Psalm 130 this morning. I do indeed love singing from the Trinity Hymnal. It is my favorite among all the collections. However, it is pitched high. Did you ever notice that most of the most of the uh songs of the Trinity are in a in a high key So I hope it's not too high for you to sing. I have to drop down to the bass line, but then sometimes. Psalm 130 This morning, I'm going to read all eight verses of this glorious psalm. The 130th Psalm. Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord. Lord, hear my voice. Let thine ear be attentive to the voice of my supplications. If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. I waited for the Lord. My soul doth wait for the Lord, and in his hand do I hope, in his word, sorry, in his word do I hope. My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning. I say more than they that watch for the morning. Let Israel hope in the Lord For with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plentious redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from all his enemies. Let us pray. Father, I thank you for thy word, the beauty of thy word. Father, thy word in itself is sufficient. There is no lacking in the Word of God. And yet one of the declarations of thy word is that you have chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them to believe. And Lord, you have entrusted the proclamation of thy word to your servants. And so, Father, this morning I so desperately need your aid. That I might be able to correctly, effectively, and efficiently expound upon thy word, preach thy truth in the hearing of thy people. For their admonition and for their edification and for the glory of Christ. O Father, accomplish these aims this day. Not because a preacher is present But because thy spirit is present. In Jesus' name. The title, if you like sermon titles, the theme of our message this morning comes there from verses three and verse four. If thou Lord shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? An emphasis upon verse 4, but There is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. We can probably come up with a long list of reasons why God forgives. He's a merciful God. He's a gracious God. He has ordained for himself a people. But this morning, to begin our outline, I want us to consider what is the purpose of God's forgiveness. And we're just going to focus on one. I'm sure you could come up with a list of others. But I believe the purpose expounded to us here in verse 4 is the most important of all God's purposes. In forgiving. What is God's purpose in forgiveness that thou mayest be feared? The purpose for which God forgives is that he might be feared. Think about this. If God did not forgive our sins, all we would be left with is hatred for God. All we could do without forgiveness is despise him and rebel against him, and we find the wicked, the unforgiven, in hell gnashing their teeth at him. They have nothing but despising and hatred for God And if God had marked my iniquities, I could not stand. But with thee there is forgiveness that thou mayest be Fear. Oh, folks, God has forgiven his elect that our hatred for God might be transformed into the fear of God, which is the beginning of wisdom. Into the fear of God, which is such a joyous thing. For the word Engl our English word fear does not really convey to us the meaning. The fear of God that we talk about with the elect is not a trembling of judgment because there's no condemnation But rather, it is a joyous, reverent adoration. I fear disappointing him. I fear grieving his spirit. I fear walking apart from his word. I reverence and fear him, because he is all holy and I am as unholy as I could possibly be. Apart from the fact that he has forgiven me. And because he has forgiven me I have no choice but to prostrate myself before him in reverent, repentant fear of God. Why did he forgive me? That he may take the hatred of God out of my heart That he might subdue my rebellion against him and transform a rebel into a child of God. Oh, hallelujah. He has forgiven me. And the purpose for which he forgave me is that I might forgive. Fear him. Folks, the forgiveness of God is the greatest demonstration of his deity. We fight it twice in Mark 2 and in Luke 5. 21. Mark 2, verse 7, Luke 5. 21. In both times We find the scribes and the Pharisees making accusation against Christ. And what do they say? Who can forgive sins but God alone? The greatest demonstration that Jehovah is indeed God is that He forgives sin. Because he has forgiven me, I have the privilege of fearing him. You see, if you look there at verse 4, the word but is an exception If thou Lord shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? If he marked iniquities, no one could stand. But It's an exception. Here is the rule: if God marks iniquities, no man can stand. But with thee there is forgiveness. The but is an exceptional word, and the that is a causational word. But for the forgiveness of God, I would have nothing for judgment. That, because of the forgiveness of God I am brought to reverent fear. There are other passages of Scripture which support this same concept that God's Mercy. God's forgiveness is brought about that we might fear Him. Another one is found in Jeremiah 33 and verse 9. Let me read that text for you. In Jeremiah 33 and verse 9 we find this. And it shall be to me a name of joy and praise and honor before all nations of the earth, which shall hear of all the good that I do unto them That is God saying, All the world will hear, and they'll be to my testimony, to my name, when they hear the good that I do to Israel, my elect, shall hear of all the good that I do to them And they shall fear and tremble for all the goodness and for all the prosperity that I procure unto it. Here God says, all the Jewish Gentile nations, they're going to see my mercy on my people They're going to see the goodness that I do, the pardoning of their sin that I bring to Israel. And when they see that, they're going to fear me And folks is talking about the Gentiles, for that verse originally was written to the seed of Abraham. But we have seen How God blessed and provided for Israel, how he brought them through the Red Sea, how He gave them manna in the wilderness and what those things done But caused us to say, yes, that's God. Yes, I want the God of Israel. And because of his goodness to them, we have been brought to fear. Jehovah. And then again we find this same principle in Ezekiel chapter sixteen, the sixty-second and sixty-third verse. Here, God says, and I will establish my covenant with thee. And thou shalt know that I am the Lord, and that Lord is all caps, it's Jehovah. Thou shalt know that I am Jehovah, that thou mayest remember And be confounded, and never open thy mouth anymore, because of thy shame, when I am pacified toward thee. For all that thou hast done, saith the Lord God. Here, Jehovah says that you're going to remember My goodness, my forgiveness, my mercy. And you're going to be confounded. And you're never going to open your stupid mouth again. Amen. And why? Because God has been pacified for me. Folks, what accusation could I bring against God? What anger, what wrath, what rebellion could my soul, redeemed by his forgiveness, find against him? We sing that song, My God is reconciled, His pardoning voice I hear. It almost sounds like this verse, doesn't it? When he's pacified. When the fierceness of his wrath, the fierceness of the anger of God, the righteousness of God against sin is poured out on Christ. And Christ declares it is finished for my soul. And so The first thing we find about the fear of God is the purpose of divine forgiveness is that we might fear God. Number two, the price of divine forgiveness Look again at our text in verses 3 and 4 and verse 7. If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. Verse 7, let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy. And with him is plentious redemption. With thee there is forgiveness. With thee, verse 7, there is mercy. With thee, verse 7, there is plentious redemption. Forgiveness is a part of thee. It's a part of Jehovah. Forgiveness is like Jehovah. Forgiveness is in the very nature of Jehovah. But wait. Is not Jehovah a God of wrath? Is not Jehovah a God of retribution? Is not Jehovah angry with the wicked every day? Do we have a contradiction, folks? No, not at all. For with thee there is forgiveness. And old brethren, let me Read to you and hear with me the words of our Lord Jesus Christ With thee there is mercy. With thee there is forgiveness. With thee there is replentious redemption. John 17 Verse 4, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with. The before the world was. In the beginning was the word, and the word was God, and the word was with God The forgiveness, the mercy, the redemption that was with Jehovah Is Jesus Christ in Jehovah? It was with him. It was him And so our second point, first, what was the purpose of forgiveness? Second, what was the price of forgiveness? The price was his son. The price of my forgiveness is Jesus Christ, the one who is with God in creation, the one who was God. The same who was together with God, the one who is with God when he declared, There's forgiveness with me, because Christ, the second person of the Trinity is with me. And with him is redemption. With him is mercy. With him is forgiveness. Hebrews 1 verse 3, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high But folks turn over to Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 30. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 30. Here, just a simple verse that taken alone does not have a whole lot of context, a whole lot of meaning, apart from our daily working in the fields. But let me read for you Proverbs 20 and verse 30. The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil. So do stripes the inward part of the belly. Read that verse again. Plant that in your mind. The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil. So do stripes the inward parts of the belly. What is Solomon talking about? Do you remember our responsive reading? But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised, the ballueness of the wound. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes the inward parts of the belly are healed. With his stripes we are healed. Solomon may not have been aware of the glories of what the Holy Spirit has instructed him to write. But folks, what is the price of this forgiveness? It is the blueness of the bruise. It is the stripes that cleanse the the inner belly, the inward parts of the belly. And folks, think about all the scripture that talks about the heart and interchangeably uses the belly and the heart Folks, what was the price of this glorious forgiveness? The blood of Jesus Christ. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without spot and without blemish. For without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. Folks, the price was the glorious blood. This Hebrew word that we find here in Psalm 130 and verse 4, but with thee there is forgiveness, is only used three times. There are a multitude of other words translated three times, but this particular Hebrew word is only used three times. Those of you that are are faithful regulars, you know I love to focus in on those obscure words because they have so much to teach us Three times. Here in Psalm 130, verse 4, but there is forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared Daniel 9, 9. To the Lord our God belongeth mercies and forgiveness, though we have rebelled against him. And then the third one I want you to turn to, Nehemiah chapter 9. And this will take us into our third point Turn with me to Nehemiah chapter 9. And in the last part of verse 17, we find these words, but thou art a God ready to pardon. And pardon there is this same word forgiveness. Thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookest them not. The purpose of forgiveness is that we might fear. The power of forgiveness, I'm sorry, the price of forgiveness is the blood of Christ. But number three, the power of divine forgiveness. I showed you there verse 17 of Nehemiah 9, where the verse is found. But now I want to back up and get the context. To understand the power of this forgiveness in Christ. Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 9 and 2, and then um 9 verse 1 and 2, and then I'll drop down further. Nehemiah chapter 9, verse 1 Now in the twentieth and fourth day of the month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and with fatcloth and earth upon them And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. A great revival is taking place with Nehemiah. The people are returning to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. Drop to verse 13. The people recounting the work of God, verse 13, thou camest down upon Mount Sinai, and spakest with them from heaven, and gavest them right judgment and true laws. good statutes and commandments, and made us known unto them the Holy Sabbath, and commandest them precepts, statutes, and laws by the hand of Moses thy servant. And gave us them bread from heaven for their hunger, and brought us forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst and promised them that they should go in and possess the land which thou had sworn to give to them. So here in the midst of this confession and revival, they're recounting that God has given them everything they need for spiritual life, the law of Moses, and everything they need for physical life. He gave them bread, he gave them water in the wilderness. Now we drop down further to verse 16, the next verse. But they There's an exceptional word. Just as we have an exceptional word in Psalm 130 and verse 4, No one could stand, but with thee there is mercy. God has given them all these blessings. But they and our fathers dealt proudly. That doesn't sound like the fear of the Lord, does it And harden their necks. That's definitely not the fear of the Lord. And hearken not to thy commandments. And refuse to obey. Neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them, but hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage But thou art a God ready to pardon. There's our word. Gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookest them not. God gave them everything they needed for spiritual life. God gave them everything they needed for physical life. But something was still missing. Forgiveness. Forgiveness. Because you see, there's not a one here this morning. Who would have repented before God, who would have not hardened his neck, who would not have still been in rebellion if it wasn't for the forgiveness of God that brought you to fear, and brought you to fear at a great price Folks, that's powerful forgiveness. That is mighty forgiveness. I may forgive somebody for something they've done, but that doesn't make them my friend. I might look past some offense I've received, but its value is minimal. Its effect is might like the nothing But folks, this is powerful forgiveness. This is one who is, to quote Scripture, mighty to save. The power of his forgiveness that not only remits the sin of the rebel, but makes the rebel his child. Brings the rebel to fear him and to fear him mightily. Verse 18 Yea, when they had made a molten cap and said, This is thy God, they made a cap and said, That was their God after all Jehovah had done for them. That brought us up out of Egypt and has wrought great provocations. Yet, verse 19, yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsook them not in the wilderness. The pillar of the cloud departed not from them after all the rebellion, day by day to lead them in their way, neither the pillar of fire by night to show them them light And the way wherein they should go, thou gavest also thy good spirit to instruct them, and withheldest not thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water for their thirst They rebelled. They made attacks. They were doing everything they could against God. And he forgave them anyway. Are you any different? Can you claim that you would not have looked at the golden calf when Moses wasn't around up on the mountain? Can you claim that you would not have complained because all you had was manna day after day after day after day? Would you complain because you brought us into this wilderness to perish? Yes, you would. And so would I. But powerful forgiveness doesn't give up. Powerful forgiveness. Does not give up. I would have cast me off a thousand times. But his forgiveness is more powerful than my sin And folks, to go back to our text, this forgiveness is the power of protection. If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquity, who shall stand? This forgiveness has protected me from the wrath of God. And this forgiveness is standing forgiveness. If thou Lord should mark iniquities, who shall stand? But with thee there is forgiveness. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. So folks, I would commit to you that the Father cannot Mark the iniquities of the elect because the Son has paid for those iniquities. That is powerful forgiveness. Look at verse seven. And he shall redeem Israel not from his iniquities, but from all his iniquities. Psalm 24, verses 3 and 4, who shall ascend up into the up to the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity. That sounds like somebody's forgiven, doesn't it? Psalm 122, verse 2, our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drove the way. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand. The judgment. The Lord's marking their iniquities and they shall not stand. Folks, God has forgiven my sins that I'm might fear him. God has forgiven my sins at the great price for the blood of Christ. And God has forgiven my sins so powerfully that Satan cannot plump me out of his hand. Number four, the permanence of divine forgiveness Or to use another P, the perpetuity of divine forgiveness. Look again at our text there in Psalm 130 and verse 4. But there is forgiveness with thee. It is. Doesn't say, but there was Doesn't say what there shall be. It's a present reality. But there is forgiveness You see, God has forgiven every sin I've ever committed. He's also forgiven every sin that I ever will commit. Though they are a grief to him, and I wish they were as much a grief to me as they are to him, yet they are forgiven in Christ. If you look down at verse eight, and he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities, past, present, and future. Micah 7 verse 18, who is a God like unto thee that passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He retaineth not his anger forever, because he delighteth in mercy. Hebrews 8. 12, for I will have mercy on their unrighteousness. and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. But folks, 1 John 2 verse 7. Just impress me this week in a way it never has before. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son Cleanseth us from all sin. Folks, the Spirit did not direct that he says cleansed. It is true that the blood of Jesus Christ cleansed me from all sins. It does not say shall cleanse, but rather the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth, which is a word with continuation. It continues to cleanse. It is a permanent cleansing. All my sins are forgiven. They are all washed away. And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. He gave me this for this forgiveness that I might fear him. He gave me this forgiveness through the shed blood of Christ. He gave me this sinner, this powerful forgiveness for the vilest of sinners. He has given it to me forever. But the final P is the peace. The peace of divine forgiveness. The purpose, price, power, permanence. And the peace of divine forgiveness. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Folks, there's a lot of politicians that offend me. Drivers cutting me off in traffic offends me. That nothing shall offend thee cannot be the things of this world. And there's a lot of things in this world that intrude on my peace. Folks, what Psalm 119 verse 165 is talking about is peace with God. I have great peace with him. Peace that the world cannot give. Peace that the world cannot take away. And nothing shall offend me. Nothing will be between me and God. Folks, that's peace. I know some believers that continue to agonize over sins that are past. continue to grieve over their past sins. And wherein that may be a warning not to do it again, just as our brother in Sunday school was talking about a Spanx child that thinks I better not do that again. Our our past sins, the grief and regret over our past sins, which Paul said, you know, he was unworthy to be apostle because he persecuted the church, we remember them in our minds, and they stand as a warning to us. The folks past sins should never intrude on our peace with God. Because to allow those past sins to take away our peace with God is the doubt that they're truly forgiven. It is to doubt the power of forgiveness which has overcome them. It is to doubt the precious price that has purchased them It is to doubt the very reason that he saved us, that we might fear him. If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee. Oh, what peace that brings. Folks, we read the people of Nineveh in Jonah chapter 3 and verse 9. Jonah had come to Nineveh and he entered the city and he said, Yet forty days Nineveh will be destroyed. We find a great revival where the people from the king all the way to the servants put on sat, salt, and ashes. They even put uh ashes on the animals. And in their repentance, they said this in Jonah chapter 3 verse 9. Who can tell if God will turn and repent and turn away his fierce anger that we perish not? They ask it in the form of a question, who can tell if God will repent and turn away his anger? Folks, they had very little knowledge of God All they knew was that judgment was coming. Who can tell? Maybe if we repent, God will forgive. But folks, we live in the day of the full gospel. We live in a day of assurance. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. sins and to cleanse us from all right. You see, we have more gospel than they have. And their question was, oh, we've got to repent because maybe God will forgive But we can say, yes, I must repent, for he will forgive. Hallelujah. That brings peace. That brings peace. And so I've repeated the outline often, but let me repeat it yet again. The purpose of divine forgiveness is that we might fear. The price of divine forgiveness is the precious blood of Christ. The power of divine forgiveness is that the vilest sinner is made righteous before God The permanence of divine forgiveness is that my sins are removed as far as the east from the west, and the peace of divine forgiveness is great peace. Have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Peace I leave with you My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. But the wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest. Whose waters cast up mire and dirt, there is no peace, saith my God to the wicked. If we confess our sins, he is faithful. Or if we say that we have no sins, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Hallelujah. What a Savior. Stand with me for prayer. Oh Lord, we thank you that though we were rebels against God, though we hated you. You forgave us to teach us the fear of the Lord. Oh Lord, what blessing. Father, help us, your people, to live in light of that fear. Help us, Lord, to hate sin and self and love the Savior. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's turn in our hymn book to number 402. Sing a fitting closing hymn, Amazing Grace, sweet the sound. I trust and hope that the sound of amazing grace never really gets old in our ears Amazing grace, how sweet the sound. We sing all five stanzas. That single rest like me, I want lost, but now I'm found Twas mine, but now I see 'twas pray I taught my body to hear. Praise my dear How Christ thou speak that praise of I first became dangerous for them. And when this worship and heart shall fail, and more light shall see. I shall test with the milk. A light of joy and please when we thousand years.