Well yours says I get ten extra minutes. I like that. Okay. First Samuel this morning. First Samuel chapter twelve. If you look at the first fifteen verses, Sammy has brought the people together and it's pretty much the passing of the baton. He's been the judge of Israel, he has governed Israel, he has ruled over Israel And now he's passing the baton on not to another judge, as has been done before, but being passed on to Saul, the first king of Israel. And just because it's going to become important later on in the in the reading of the message If you go back, we're at chapter twelve, but go back to verse fourteen and fifteen, and you'll see that then Samuel to the people said, Come and let us go to Gilgal You want to remember that. So let's go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there or coronate the king there. And all the people went to Gilgal. Okay, so I want you to remember This is all taking place in Gilgal. It's a little city very close to the Jordan River, and we'll find out more about those as we proceed. So in verse chapter twelve, verses one through fifteen, and after they arrived at Gilgal, Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice and all that you said unto me, and have made a king over you And now, behold, the king walketh before you. Saul was there, he must have been pointing out to him as he walked by. He walketh before you, and I am old and grey-headed. And behold, my sons are with you, and I have walked before you from my childhood unto this day. So they well they know who he is. I've been here since I was a child, you know my children He said, But behold, here am I, verse three, witness against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Now that term anointed there in the Hebrew means the Messiah. Witness between me, though before the Lord and before the Messiah. So they people say, where is Christ mentioned in the Old Testament? He's mentioned here that in the Hebrew it says witness before the Lord and before his Messiah Or if it was in the Greek, it would say before his Christos, or before the Christ. So Christ is mentioned in the Old Testament, but it's often by a term that we're a little more not as familiar with, like Messiah or Christos. So he said, Witness before the Lord and before his anointed or the Messiah, whose ox whose ox have I ever taken? Of whose ass have I ever taken? Or whom have I befrauded? Who have I oppressed, or of whose hand have I received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? He was the judge of Israel. Has I ever been bribed? Have I ever taken anything from anybody? He said, And if I have all restored to you. And in verse 4, they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither has thou taken aught of any man's hand. And in verse 5, Samuel responded, and he said, and he said unto them, the Lord is witness against you and his Christos or his Messiah. Is witness this day that I have not found aught, that you have not found aught in my hand? And they answered, He is a witness. And Samuel said unto the people, It is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. He begins to talk to them about the history of Israel and where they come from before they had a king. Before they had a king, they had judges. Before they had judges, they had Moses and they had Aaron. And so he says there that it was the Lord that advanced Moses, just as the Lord has advanced Saul to be your first king. And so is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. Now therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of the Lord. which he did to you and your fathers. And what he's doing is laying a case here for God always took care of you. You had Moses, you had Aaron, you had the judges. Now you want a king. Why? And so he says your look at your history. When Jacob was coming to Egypt, verse 8, and your fathers cried on the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place. And when they forgot the Lord their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazar, and into the hand of the Philistines, and in the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them And then they cried on the Lord and said, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord, and have served Balaam and Asaroth. But now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee, or serve thee again. So there's been this pattern with Israel, in and out, in and out with God. And verse eleven, the Lord sent Jeroboam and Bedan and Jephah and Samuel, these are judges, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side. And you dwelled safe. Without a king, is what he's really saying here. And when you saw that Nahash the king, remember the word Nahash means serpent, and when you saw the serpent, the king of the children of Ammon, come against you, you said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us. When the Lord your God was your king. So though he's passing the baton, he's letting them know he's not for it. He's again it, all right? He's against it. In verse 13, now therefore behold the king. whom you have chosen and whom you have desired, and behold the Lord has set a king over you. Verse fourteen if you will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice And not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall both ye and also your king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the command of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. So you think by getting a king, no matter what happens, you'll be okay. Well, you weren't okay under judges, you weren't okay under Moses and Aaron when you rebelled, and you're not going to be okay under this king that you want so badly if you the people of Israel rebel again So beginning at verse 1 and 2, Samuel said unto Israel, Behold your king, he walketh before you, and I am old and gray-headed. Samuel was one who could say, as we read in Psalm 119, 99, I have more understanding than all my teachers, for thy testimonies are my meditation. There's many a man who's gone and done well in this life and in this world, who meditated on the Word of God, and he was smarter than all his teachers, and went well beyond what his teachers could ever have taught him. Samuel was a man that could say that of himself. Yet now Israel is is trading this man off. They're trading him off for an this old Samuel, and they're getting themselves this young King Saul. And this old Samuel was a man filled with wisdom. Just to the point where Samuel's got all this wisdom and knows the Lord so well that just when he's ready to become valuable, they want to get rid of him and come in with this new king. It says a multitude of years teaches wisdom. Job thirty-two and verse seven. Samuel had a multitude of years with his gray hair. He was so valuable to the people of Israel, and it was at that point that they decided They wanted a young king, a young Saul who had far less to offer. And so Samuel goes on to say, you know He says, I have walked before you from my childhood on this day. Everybody knows me. I've walked before you. The people knew Samuel. They knew him from an early age. They knew him from an early age that Samuel had walked the straight and narrow. And by the way, when Christ talks about it walk in the straight and narrow it doesn't mean it's a straight, narrow path. It the word straight actually means difficult. You walk this difficult and narrow path that leadeth onto life. And they knew that Samuel from the from the time he was three or four years old raised under the high priest Eli, that he had truly walked the straight and the narrow. He had been a godly man, he'd been a godly young boy, he'd been a godly teenager And uh there he was and s in expressness all of them and they just weren't of a mind to listen to it. They still wanted the young king Samuel is a powerful example of the results of introducing our children to the things of God at an early age. If we introduce our children to the things of God at an early age, my What teenagers we may have, what young men we may have, what leaders we may have someday. Those that seek me early shall find me, the Lord tells us in Proverbs 8 and 17. So I would just say this morning, I would encourage you to encourage your young people. Encourage your young children, your teenagers, even before that. As soon as they can begin to understand words like Mama and Dada, start telling them about God. They will never forget it and what what the the encouragement that your children will be to you if you taught them to seek the Lord young. Samuel continues in verse 3. He says, Behold, here am I, and witness against me before the Lord. If I've done anything wrong, I've walked as a young child before the Lord. And as a teenager before the Lord, I bought if I've done anything, you're getting rid of me. Have I done something wrong? If I've done something wrong, he says, please let me know. He said, Witness against me before the Lord. Have I taken somebody's oxen? You know, I'm the judge of Israel. If I if I walk in and say I thought it's a nice looking bovine over there, I want it for myself, I'm going to take it over and butcher it and sacrifice it and eat most of it for myself. They would have had to give it to him. He was the judge. He could call down fire from heaven Able to perform miracles. He says, have I done anything? Have I abused my power as the prophet and judge of Israel? Have I taken anyone's ox? Have I taken anyone's ass? And they would in their mind's eye they they they they would answer, no, no you haven't. And he had told them just a few chapters earlier, when God gives you the king that you want, the king, he may not just take your ass and your oxen. He will take your sons and your daughters, and they will work in his vineyards, and they will be in his army. 1 Samuel 8, 11-13. You I didn't even take a uh a a donkey from you, I didn't even take a a camel from you, I didn't take anything from you. But if you want a king, he's going to take your sons and your daughters, but you still want this king, don't you? And then he goes on, he says, And whom have I defrauded? Have I defrauded somebody? Whom have I oppressed? Have I oppressed somebody? You go back and you read all the first and second Samuel, and he was the judge and the ruler of all of Israel. He he what he said goes. I mean he he He he was just he ruled. You know, he he could have declared anything and set up the word of God and the people would have obeyed it. And when you look at the life of Samuel, I have to tell you here that that I don't find anywhere that that he ever taxed the rain that fell on the people of God. He never taxed the churches of Christ where the rain fell on them. He was not oppressive like that. We've got a government here in Maryland that not only do they tax the rain by I suspect if Governor O'Malley was around on that day, he'd have taxed the manna that fell from heaven. I suspect if he'd been around that day, he'd have taxed the water turned into wine, because there's got to be a liquor tax of some sort, right? I suspect if you've been around and whatever they if you you you start around with a couple loaves of bread and you end up with twelve loaves of bread and feeding five thousand, well that's quite a profit. We've got to tax that too Oppressive government was nothing that Samuel had ever done. He did not rule, he did not oppress his people. But the king would, and he had told them that. Of whose hand have I received any bribe to blind my eyes therewith? He was a judge. He would make judgment. People would come to him. with a problem within uh their their community and he would judge them and he wouldn't take a bribe from anyone If you came to him and you had some idea that you want to promote uh uh health care in the area for all the people of Israel, promising him thirty pieces of silver, it wouldn't have worked with Samuel. We know what happened in Congress and the Senate Lots of money exchanged hands. We'll send money into your state. We'll send money into your community center. Congressman. We'll give you all this federal uh money that's sitting out there if you'll just vote for this. And Samuel could not be bribed with 30 pieces of silver. Of whose hand I received any bribe, he says. Samuel knew that kings could be persuaded. Could be persuaded to sin. A bribe was something they were open to. How easy are you persuaded to sin? Samuel was a man of God, and he could not be persuaded to sin. You couldn't bribe him in any manner. So in verses 4 through 5, the people answered. When Samuel says, Have I defrauded anybody? Have I oppressed anybody? Have I taken a bribe? Have I taken your axe, your ass from you, or your cattle from you? The people responded, Thou hast not defrauded us. Nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. And Samuel said unto him, The Lord is a witness against you. Good. The Lord witnesses. You you acknowledge, I haven't done any of this. Ye have not found aught in my hand. So what could you want more than that? The people of Israel had a a better man, a a spiritual man in Samuel, but they desired a bigger man. Remember, Saul was taller than anybody else at all of visual. He was a head taller than everyone else. So they they don't want a better man. They want a bigger man. They don't want a spiritual man. They want a man of flesh. They are not much different from their fathers. In the wilderness, remember in the wilderness for forty years their fathers are are moving about the wilderness, and they've got Moses, and they've got Aaron, and they've got Joshua, and they've got Caleb, and they've got some great leaders They got some godly men who are not defrauding them, who are not susceptible to bribes, who are not taking their cattle and their sheep. They had wonderful men leading them. and they had manna falling from heaven every day. And so they had this spiritual food. Psalm seventy eight calls it angels food. The Lord Jesus Christ declared that the manna that fell from heaven it was bread from heaven in John six and thirty one. I mean they had bread from heaven. They had angels food. They had the spiritual sustenance that God was sending them every day. And they wanted, if you read there in Numbers eleven, they wanted some flesh And so God sent them quails. And you remember the rest of that story, how they had so much quail they they they became sick and began throwing up and uh so they're they're much like the fathers. They got spiritual Samuel, but they want this big fleshy guy. They want Saul. And just like the fathers who had the spiritual manner that fell from heaven and they wanted flesh. You know, some things never change in families. From one generation to the next, the same sins follow. Sometimes you'll have a grandfather who's an alcoholic, then the father's an alcoholic, and one of the kids an alcoholic. Some of these sins just follow a pattern in families, and it did here with the Israelites. And so Samuel here is so concerned about them getting themselves a king, he knows where it's going. You think it was bad that that That someone might just take your ass or one of your sheep or your cattle, they're going to take your sons, they're going to take your daughters, they'll be susceptible to bribes. I want you to look back over the history of Israel and realize you don't need a king And in verses six through eight it says, It is the Lord that advanced Moses. God gave you a Moses and an Aaron, and he brought your fathers up by the land of Egypt. He didn't need a king to do that And now stand still that I may reason with you, he says in verses six through eight. Of all the righteous acts of the Lord. You know anything that happens in your life You some people get mad at God when something car accident. Oh, why didn't God do this? You know, tree falls on their house. Oh, why didn't God do it? You don't think that people blame God for a tree falling on their house? They do If you got house insurance, what does it say? We don't pay under acts of God. You know, I mean if if it's a hurricane or there's all kinds of little little footnotes. And the insurance companies don't pay when something really is going to cost a lot of money. They say that's an act of God. But you know what? It is an act of God. I know that if a hurricane comes in or a tornado or uh whatever happens, I know that when buildings collapse, I know when And the fact is that these are all acts that God could have stopped. In fact they're actually acts that God has allowed or predestined for his glory and for our own good. We may not see the good in it at the time, but these acts of God, however you look at them, they are righteous acts. My wife was listening to a talk show the other day. I think it was R. C. Sproul, and a lady was very upset. She said, How could God allow my unsaved son to die? You know what he said? Who are you to question the righteous acts of God, lady? Who are you to question what God has done? You're but a creature. God could have let everyone's son, God let his own son die, didn't he? And God could have seen that every one of our children died before they ever reach the age of ten or twelve. God is a righteous God and he has reasons for what he does. And we don't understand him. His ways are higher than our heavens above the earth are way past our finding out. Someday he'll explain these things to us. But until then, who are we to question what God does in our life? He is a righteous God who does righteous things. For his glory and for our good. I've used this before, but if you were uh a native out in Kenya somewhere 50, 60 years ago, and you came back to your straw hut that night And you saw a white man in your straw hut slashing your wife with a knife, you might think this guy's nuts. You can grab a machete and try to kill the guy, right? I mean that's your wife. He slashed your wife with a knife And you wouldn't understand that. And then someone might grab that man, that native, and say, hold off, hold off. Your wife is about to deliver a baby, and it's got to be cesarean, and that doctor is saving your wife's life. Oh. Or if she's having appendicitis at first and the doctor's going in to take the appendix to save her life. So we are we can our vision can be so narrow that we think that what God does is unrighteous, but if we had the whole picture, you want the whole picture? Turn your life over to the Lord Jesus Christ. Get saved. Repent of your sins. And when you get to heaven, he'll give you the whole picture. Well, I want the whole picture now. No, you don't. You haven't even read the small picture. I mean, I mean here's a Bible. It's not that many pages. Not many people have read it. You know why? It's too big. It's too many chapters, too many books. If you're not willing to look at the small picture, you just want the answers of the big picture. You get those and you get to heaven A righteous God will explain to you all the things that happened. And so here's here is Samuel trying to explain to these people. You wanted a king, you did fine with Moses, you did fine with Aaron. Let me reason with you, he says. No, stand still, let me reason with you. Of all the righteous acts of the Lord. There are no unrighteous acts of the Lord, by the way, which he did to you and to your fathers. When Jacob was coming to Egypt, Your fathers tried on the Lord. They're tired of making brick and then making brick without straw. They cried on the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place. Okay. Samuel says he brought you out of Egypt. Remember that, crossing the Red Sea, and then eventually the crossing of the Jordan. And Samuel says that he brought you into this place. Samuel is preaching to these people. He's preaching them where? I said you'd never be in. What's the city he's preaching in? Gilgal. And so here he says up here in verse 8, and God brought you out of Egypt, and he brought you to dwell in this place. Guess where the people landed when they crossed the Jordan before they attacked Jericho? Gilgal. They landed in Gilgal. And I want you to go back just for a second to Joshua chapter 4, because we'll find it there. And and I'm doing this because I know sometimes we read these stories and we read these chapters and we think Oh, I can't remember all this stuff. And why is that important? Why the there isn't there isn't one preposition, there isn't one adjective or adverb or ver there isn't one jot or tittle in the Bible that's not important that you can't get a blessing from Well people share me sometimes a verse they heard that got them saved, and I go, wow. God laughed. God sits in the heavens and laughs. I know a guy got saved, reading that verse. Strange verses. So there there isn't any verse that isn't important. Any verse that can't save someone. Any verse that isn't so, so critical. And here we find, look at the chapter 4 and verse 20. They've just come across the Jordan and it says and they took twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan while they were crossing through the Jordan River. They picked up twelve stones and Joshua pitched them in Killed all. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall say their fathers in time to come, saying, What meaneth these stones? He's piled these twelve stones, they pitched just off the shores of Jordan. Then you should tell your children, Israel came over the Jordan on dry land. Samuel has asked the people, you want a king? All right, this is what you're going to get when you get a king. But okay, you want a king, let's go down to Gilgal. And let's we'll make the covenant with the people. They'll have a king, they'll they'll covet, they'll worship not worship the king, but they'll obey the king, make a covenant with the king that he won't be oppressive, and they won't be defrauding them. Will make the covenant in Gilgal, where we first came out of Egypt, across the Red Sea, across the Jordan, and settled in this place. So there they are. They're standing in Gilgal. Samuel is talking to them. And if you can imagine this, he's saying to them, it all started in this place. And I think he was standing right in front of the pile of rocks, the twelve stones. In sight of Jericho's, the city of Jericho, still probably blackened, the blackened ruins of the city was burned to the ground. Now you say to yourself, wait a minute That was three hundred years ago. Does anybody still think the pile of stones is there three hundred years ago? I mean really, you know, it I mean they could be there, but it's a long time to think that Uh-uh commemorating something that's so important that happened with a pile of these big stones that each man carried up and laid it. I don't know, 300 years ago? Go up to Plymouth Rock, Massachusetts. Plymouth Rock is still there. 400 years ago. 400 years ago. Our pilgrims came over here and the rock is still there. So why can't the rock still be here? I don't know if it was or not. But I do know this that when he brought them into Gilgal to give them a king, he said to them, This is where it all started This is the place where God brought you in, and this is the place where you begin to dwell. And now we make a covenant with a king for the first time. We made a covenant with God 300 years ago that we would obey the Lord and His anointed or His Christos or His Messiah. And at Plymouth Rock, our founding fathers made a covenant that they also would raise up their children the way they should go and they would teach them that God was the Lord and that Christ was his anointed the Messiah. So we find that history is really important. And Samuel is using this history to teach these people that they might not abandon their God again. And history well it's the history of Israel. It doesn't really apply to us, does it? Who cares what's going on with Israel? It does apply to us. Happy is the people whose God is the Lord, Psalm 144 And that's what Samuel's telling him. You will be a happy people if you keep God as your Lord. Does this apply to us? Of course it applies to us. It's probably the very reason our founding fathers in 1620 at Plymouth Rock Set that rock engraved on that. They knew something special was starting in America. Just as Israel knew something special was starting in the land of promise. But verse nine, Samuel says they forgot their Lord and their God. That's probably the saddest thing you could ever say to anybody you know. Ah, he used to go to Sunday school. Oh yeah, I used to see him in church once in a while. What's happened to him? He forgot the Lord, his God. You know, we're all hoping to get to heaven someday and hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Who wants to die and on the other side here, you forgot your Lord and God. And this is what is happening, these people. Israel, sometimes they'd be all excited about the Lord and other times they'd forget the Lord. They forgot their Lord their God. They forgot God's favors to them. They forgot God's deliverance from the Philistines, from Hazar, from the Moabites. They forgot God's The favors, his deliverance, their victories, their obligation. They forgot all of that. And so it says in verse nine, he sold them in the hand of Sisera, and he sold them in the hand of the Philistines, and he sold them in the hand of the Moabites. That's what God did Now we think that's unrighteous of God when a country invades our country. But God says when someone invades your country, it's because you're not obeying me. That's what he's telling Israel. You know, we're upset right now about the Mexican border. We're being invaded. I mean they're just letting them across the borders and and we've got MS thirteen gangs coming across the borders. You know what they say, the children. Have you seen these children? Most of them are bigger than me. Well not most of them, but a lot of them. I mean it's and they got tattoos up everywhere and and they got their to flash in the game sign. I mean they're bringing in the MS thirteen when the toughest games in Mexico are coming across the borders or invading us by the Well the hundreds right there are thousands and they're bringing the people with no medical checkups and what have they got? They've got tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is like curable, by the way Some are coming in with leprosy. We're being invaded. How how could a righteous God do this to us? Because we kicked him out of the public school system. We stopped Bible reading, we take the Ten Commandments of our courthouse. Of course God can do this. Is God unrighteous that he's always to be invaded? And by the way, it's it's not all Mexican children. In fact the majority are not Mexican. They're Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Sudan, Iran, Iraq, Syria. They're unloading us on us probably the Al Qaeda and the Hezbollah and the Hamas. We're being invaded. And a nation that turns their back on God, learn from Israel. It's not an unrighteous thing what God is doing to us right now. We deserve it, and we need to fall on our knees and cry out to God, or the same thing will happen as happened to Israel, time and time. and time again. We've lived well for a long time, but we've been living off of the prayers of our founding fathers. You know what I'm saying? I mean this is what happened in Israel. They lived a long time. They'd forsaken God, but they lived a long time. They did pretty well for a while. They were living up the prayers of Moses and Aaron and Joshua And we've lived a long time in America off the prayers of our godly heritage and forefathers as well. We've lived off the prayers of George Washington, we've lived off the prayers of of of President Adams. We lived out the prayers of some godly presidents and some godly people in government for a long time. But you know something? It it rut that bucket runs dry after a while Nations can live on the faithfulness of the previous generation, but when we go astray and when we start performing and doing some major things contrary to the word of God, We're gonna pay. And they had done a may in fact it's a list of a lot of sins here and and when we read these chapters all kinds of sins That Israel was involved with. But it says here in chapter 12 of verse 9, you know what their biggest sin was? Their biggest sin was, of all the sins, their major sin was they forgot the Lord their God. Period. They just abandoned God. They didn't have him in their minds anymore. They didn't meditate on his word, didn't read his word, didn't quote his word, didn't recognize it when it was quoted in front of them. Do you ever do that? You're in a grocery store or something and and uh you'll you'll toss a little Bible verse out and you know And the people just right over their head. They don't even recognize it's a Bible verse. You say to somebody, Well, you know, what you saw, you will rape. Oh yeah, where do you get that from? It's in the Bible. Oh, I think it's gonna be a stormy tonight. Well, you know, red sky in the morning, sailors take warning. Red sky at night, sailors of light. Well, that's kind of cute. Where'd that come from It's in the Bible. We've forgotten God. This nation's forgotten his word. And we're beginning to see the results of it. And when they had forgotten God And that is when they no longer love the Lord their God with all your heart and all your soul and all your mind and all your strength. Yeah, Old Testament stuff, you know. No, that was Matthew chapter 22 and verse 37. That was quoting the Lord Jesus Christ that he's that we're to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all soul. He says it in Matthew, he says it in Mark, he says it in Luke. And it's mentioned twice as many times in the Old Testament and the New Testament, but that's that's what we're supposed to do. And we don't love the Lord our God with all our heart, and nobody does, but we're supposed to strive for that and all our soul or our mind and nobody does but we're supposed to be stri that is to be our goal we may not ever reach it but that's to be our goal If we don't, we're accused of forgetting God. And so when Israel forgot God, it says in verse 10:11, they were invaded by all these people. And they cried on the Lord and they said, We have sinned. Verse 15. They say, We've rebelled against God because we have forsaken the Lord. See, they admitted their biggest sin was they'd forsaken the Lord. They'd forgotten God. Deliver us out of the hand of our enemies and we will serve you. Wouldn't it be great to have some congressmen stand up See Congressman Boehner stand up and say, Oh, I got the answer to all our problems. I got the answer, the immigration, I got the whole answer. Oh God, we have sinned, we rebelled against you Turn it around, Lord. Do something miraculous. Send us a leader. Send us a Moses. Send us a. Oh God, whatever it takes, do it for us. We will turn back to you. We repent, Lord. Don't hold your breath that that will happen anytime soon. But when they did, when Israel did it, the Lord sent Jerubal Beden, Japheth, Samuel, Gideon, you know, there's a whole list of judges he sent me literally out of the hands of your enemies God knew how to deliver Israel out of the hand of their enemies. God knew how to take care of all their troubles, didn't He? Do you think that the way to be delivered from our troubles and the way to be blessed today has changed? You think there's some new formula? You think there's another way, a different path that we can follow that will bless this nation, another way that we can go that will that God will decide to respond? The only way we're going to respond according to the word of God, all through the history of Israel is to repent as a nation, to repent as a people, and to turn our backs away from sin and back to the Word of God. There is no new way. There is no other way to be delivered from our troubles. There is no other way to be blessed today. Nothing has changed. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. If my people which are called upon my name shall humble themselves. Now you say, oh this is Israel. Believe me, friends. This applies to anyone And for a long time America said we are God's people. For a long time he said we are a Christian nation. And so he says that my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves to pray, seek my face, turn from their wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven and I will forgive their sin and heal their land. This land, America, needs to be healed spiritually more than any. But that's 2 Chronicles 7 and 14. There's still hope for America. But we need people on their knees People in their churches, people going back to church, people asking God to forgive them, people not only saying it, but actually changing their lifestyles. And so this is what Samuel's telling us. You know, every time you got into trouble, he gave you Moses. God in trouble, he gave you an Aaron. God in trouble, he gave you Joshua. God in trouble, you got a Gideon, you got a Samuel. And I always I always heard your prayers and you always repented. and God always sent you a man. So why is it, verses 12 through 13, when you saw a Nahash, that's a serpent That's what his name means. We saw Naosh, the king of the children of Ammon, coming against you and said, You know what? We don't want a judge. We don't want a Moses. We want a king this time. What has happened to you? And now you want a king You know what a king looks like, don't you? I know we're not from Britain, but not spending a lot of time in England. Let me show you what a k let me tell you what a uh what a king looks like. This is what a king looks like. I'm gonna do a demonstration. I have a pen, I have a phone. I don't care what the Supreme Court says, I don't care what Congress says, I am the ruler. Now you see the king there. Oh at least what a king looks like. They wanted a king! They wanted a king You never needed a king before. Weren't the judges good enough? Weren't the prophets good enough? But a king shall reign over us, that's what we want. And the Lord your God, he said, the Lord your God, he is your king. Why do you want to replace God as your king? Remember, Christ is the king of Israel. On the cross, he was crucified. He says King of Israel. I mean that came from Caesar's. I mean that came from Rome. He's king of Israel. In fact, elsewhere we read in the scripture that Christ is the king of kings. We have a king We don't need a Caesar. Well, I have no king. We have no king but Caesar. That's what the people said when they crucified Christ. We don't need a king. England doesn't need a king. America doesn't need a king. We have a king. Christ Jesus is our king, and the Messiah, the anointed one, the Christos. He was their king in these days, and he had been very righteous towards them that they wanted a king of flesh. God was Israel's king and he delivered Israel so often and now they want this this other king. I would tell you something. Saul, for God the Savior, was a very poor exchange. You realize that? They've got the Christos, the anointed one, God who is their king, and they change him for s they change him for Saul. That's a poor exchange. That's a poor substitute. And some people they have a substitute for God today. They love their money. Silver is a substitute. They love being successful. That is their substitute. They love sports on Sunday, so they skip church and they go to the games. That is their substitute. There's any new substitute for God is a poor substitute. And they wanted Saul to be their king rather than God Isn't God, the Creator, far more merciful than any creature you ever met? You've met some people, you thought they were pretty merciful, they were pretty nice, they were pretty generous, they were pretty good, but no one is as merciful As the King we have in Christ Jesus, as God. Verse 14 If you will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord Then shall ye and also your king reign over uh will continue to reign. If not, when a nation forgets God, there isn't a king or a handful of kings that is able to protect you from the wrath of God. Let me say that again If you're rebelling against God, there isn't any king or a handful of kings that can protect you from the wrath of God. And many who rule over us they have forgotten God. You look around you at the rulers of this nation and the rulers of the world, they've forgotten God. They don't know the God that delivered the baby Moses out of the basket. They don't know the God that delivered Jonah out of the belly of a whale. They don't know the God that delivered Lazarus bodily out of the tomb. They don't know that God. They've forgotten God. More important, pressing question for Rapids is is there somebody here who's forgotten God? Wow. If so, may Christ soon occupy your mind and rule in your heart as King. If you've forgotten God, that's where you need to go. The Christ will set up his throne on your heart and he'll rule over you. When life turns sour, And life is going to turn sour for everyone here at one point. Some of you can turn sour when you're young or when you're in midlife, or maybe when you're getting old, there's some things are going to happen in your life. But there's going to be times when life is going to turn so sour and only a believer knows The Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And therefore only a believer knows that no matter how sour things are in your life, the final outcome is not only going to be good, it is going to be glorious. But only a believer knows that. And only a believer will experience that. Not just a good life in eternity, but a glorious, glorious life. And if you've forgotten God this morning, you don't know that. May that not be the case. Even before you leave here today, in the chair where you're sitting, ask God to become real to you. Ask God to set up his throne in your heart. Ask God to be your king. He is anyway. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. So grateful, Lord, that you've come into the life of some of the young folks here at a very early age. So grateful, Lord, that in mercy you've come to some of us at a much later date. But you've convinced us of your mercy, of your grace, of your ability to forget and forgive our sins, to put them as far as the east is from the west. You've convinced us and you've told us that our sins, you will remember them no more if we repent. Oh Lord, may there not be a soul here today that has not or will not repent. And bow the knee to their King, their King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. I'm asking if uh Pastor Dave if you would close the service today and just ask for blessing on the food downstairs so that as we circulate down there we won't have to wait for