O Father, this morning, may you indeed prepare our hearts to receive Thy word May your spirit plough the soil and break up the fallow ground, that the Word of God may be sown not on stony ground, not on thorny ground, not by the wayside. But in good ground. And O Lord, may your words spring up within us and bear much fruit. Father, may Jesus Christ be honored and glorified in our midst We thank you, O Lord, for indeed the Lord hath done great things for us whereof we are glad. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm reading our call to worship this morning from the 47th Psalm. Sing praise to God. Sing praises. Sing praise unto our King. Sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing ye praise with understanding. God reigneth over the heathen. God sitteth upon the kingdom of his holiness. Good morning. Please turn in your hymnal to number thirty-five, Immortal, Invisible, and Only Wise God Number 35, a classic tune. It's a uh a Welsh hymn I find to be interesting. Number 35, Immortal Invisible, God only Wise, we sing all three stanzas. More so then wise divided excess of our eyes was Most glorious the ancient of faith, Almighty Victorious, Thy great name we praise. Nor wanting more racing, thou rulest in my justice. This light mountains, I saw ring of art, my fault with your mountains, the goodness and law. Father of glory, your father of lights, my angels are worthy, for mailing their sights for praise. We would render for help us be 'Tis only the splendor of my Amen. Amen. Can you look at the sun? You can't. Blind your eyes. You can't even see the shape, what it looks like Our God's seven times brighter than the sun. Only the splendor of light hides him. What a thought. What a thought. Please be seated. And Tom, if you wouldn't Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we continue with the twenty-sixth article of the Belgic Confession. Regarding Christ's intercession. And this one is a little bit lengthier, but it is good. I hope that you get to pay attention as you're reading. There's much scripture here involved. Christian, and what do you believe? Therefore, the apostle to remove this foolish fear, or rather distrust, from us Justly saith that Jesus Christ was made like unto his brethren in all things, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. To make reconciliation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted. And further to encourage us, he has, seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Though it in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. And we may obtain mercy and buy grace and help in time of need. Same apostle saith Having boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, etc. Likewise, Christ hath an unchangeable priesthood, wherefore he is able also to submit them to the uttermost That come unto God by Him, seeing He ever liveth and makes intercession for them. That was a lengthy reading, but it was a a good summation of of Christ's coming, of his incarnation, of his purpose to uh know his people, to mediate for his people. You know, skeptics will find fault with the Lord over the salvation plan. How is it that he sent his son to be made in the likeness of flesh, to have lived out this life righteously, and then to face a brutal death They don't understand that. Why would that have to happen? That's a weird thing. He's God at the end of the day, so couldn't he do anything? Why why is it that he had to brutally uh have his son be put to death? They don't like that idea. They, of course, would prefer the injustice of universal pardon. Nobody has to pay for sin, so just let it all go. No worries there, just pardon the guilty But no, nonetheless, God still upheld his justice. He crushed his son on the cross, which paid the penalty for his elect But you know there was something that was interesting there in Christ's work, in being made in uh having come forth in flesh, just like it says he was made like unto his brethren in all things. It was uh there's something more to it that I'm not sure if you've pondered on yet, but it's a very intimate way that the Lord comes to know us. He's been tempted and tried and always like we are. He understands. He's able to have compassion because he's experienced this life Imagine if Christ was never sent, if there was some other way of salvation, the Lord would have never understood, or the Lord wouldn't have experienced, as we do, all these temptations. But no, the Lord decided in his counsel to uh come even in the form of a man He didn't come as a sheep or as an angel. No, but he came as a human. He experienced every struggle as a human. And what we read here in these scriptures from this confession is that the Lord has empathy. He is able to be merciful. He is able to be the the uh faithful mediator. You know, uh employers who have previously worked the same exact role of their employee will understand better that employee when they go through a certain struggle. They'll be able to have compassion on them. And they'll be able to relate to that specific employee. That creates empathy. They're able to show mercy there. They're able to show understanding in the difficulties. And this is what we see with Christ Like it says, Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. And it says in there as well, for in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he's able to succor or to strengthen them that are tempted. He's gone through it. He's able to strengthen the believer as well. And in Hebrews 4, 15 and 16, for we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. And imagine that if the Lord had no understanding of what your weakness is about, it would be quite the different thing. But no, he we don't have a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He does understand it He's able to reason. He's able to understand what the individual, what the sinner goes through, what the weakness is there, though he had never sinned himself. And so as a result, he shows us much mercy. He's dedicated to being our faithful high priest. What an amazing Savior we have who has humbled himself To know his people, even intimately in this manner. And he's now dedicated to ever live to intercede for them. Thank you, brother. The Belgian Confession is indeed a a sermon in and of itself. It's good to see you here today. We see a few empty seats of folks that were with us on our first day of worship back in 2019. They have communicated with us, uh, not with us because of illness. A lot of that going around. Uh isn't it marvelous to know that these bodies are not our final residing place, our final home. As Brother Vince was exhorting us in Sunday school this morning, that this world is simply the preparation for the next And what shall it profit a man if he gain this whole world and lose his own soul? Um we're strangers and pilgrims. Let us go to the Lord at prayer. Our gracious Father, Lord, we thank you that you do all things well. Our Perception of what is good and well is defective because we see things with the eyes of flesh. But Father, we thank you that you, being the Alpha and the Omega, see the end from the beginning. And Lord, we thank you for the promise of thy word that all things work together for good. To those that love you, to those who are the called according to thy purpose, and rather by life or by death, may we glorify thee. And so Father, we thank you, Lord, that sometimes you don't answer our prayers. For Lord, I know that many of us uh six years ago, this past week, were praying for an outcome that you did not ordain and did not permit. And Father, we thank you that you answered those prayers in the negative. For Father, what you have done since then has been so great. And so marvelous and such an overwhelming blessing. And Lord, as our brother mentioned in in Sunday school this morning, we pray for the healing of thy people. But oh Lord When you ordain to take your child out of this vile, sinful, sickening, painful, wicked world. Oh Lord, what blessing and glory that is. And Lord, we sorrow not as others which have no hope, for our hope is in thee. And so, Lord, we pray for our dear ones of this congregation that are in sickness. We pray that you would restore them to health. We pray, Lord, that you would preserve them to us in this daily fellowship. And yet, Lord, to live is Christ and to die is gain. And so, Father, we thank you that indeed your way is perfect and your word is tried. And so, Lord, while we pray, Lord, for healing of these sick bodies, Lord, we pray thy will be done. And Lord, we pray that whether by life or by death, we might glorify Thee. Lord, that we might be faithful unto Thee. Father, we do have those that have communicated with us this week. Their earnest intention and desire was to be here this morning. And yet in your providence, they are physically unable. Lord, be with them. Bless them this morning. We pray for their physical health and comfort. We pray for their physical healing. But above all, Lord, we pray for all of us. that our souls may be healed with the balm of Gilead, that our spirits may be refreshed and renewed in thee, that our weak and fainting hearts might be strengthened by thy word. That the joy of the Lord may overwhelm our being, for indeed the joy of the Lord is our strength. And so, Father, we pray for those that are in sickness this day. Lord, we do pray in particular For the young man, young adolescent in Texas, father, who is dealing with a very serious infection, a bone infection, father, and Lord we we pray uh that the doctors would have great wisdom. and that the medication would be effective, Lord, for his healing. Lord, we pray for several in our congregation that have ongoing back issues. that are very painful, arthritic issues, that hinder their mobility. Father, we pray that you would bless them with your healing and with your strength. Lord, we pray for those that are battling cancer. Lord, my own brother. And others that uh this congregation has fellowship with, a dear friend of mine who was uh high school friend and was uh was in a a groomsman in our wedding. That's battling cancer at this time. Oh Father, Lord, this disease came about because of the fall of man. And Lord, you are able to heal it entirely, to remove it from a body here on earth. But Father, we thank you that you are preparing a new body for your believers that cancer cannot invade. And so, Father, we we pray this morning for healing. Lord, we know also that uh many in our congregation are Battling sleep issues. And Lord, these bodies need rest. And so, Father, we pray that you would grant your people deep, restorative sleep. Father, you've told us to rejoice with those that rejoice and to weep with those that mourn. And Father, we do have those in our congregation that are mourning the loss of loved ones. Some more recent, some many years ago. And Lord, we know that in this life, when we lose someone that is very dear to us, my own father. We never truly heal from that wound. We just learn by thy grace how to go on. And so, Father, help us as a congregation to bear one another's burdens. Help us to support those that are suffering, O Lord. And Father, we pray that indeed, as we have mentioned already in prayer, that balm of Gilead, that grace of God, would bring comfort to sorrowing hearts For Lord, there is a comfort that is found in thee that cannot be found in the things of this world. Oh Lord, we pray for this. Father, we do pray for the children in our midst. Father, we thank you for their presence. They are indeed a heritage of the Lord And Father, may you fill this church's quiver with them as you fill the family's quivers with them. Lord, we pray that you would help us To live before them a godly example. May we in word and deed point them to Christ. May we never put a stumbling block before one of these little ones For Father, we read in your word that it would be better to have a millstone hung about our neck and to be drowned in the sea than to cause a little one offense. Father, we pray for their salvation. We pray for their parents that you might give them grace and wisdom And yet, Lord, it is not just the little children that are worshiping with us here and worshiping with us online and in Alaska as well. We pray for their salvation. But Father, we have many adult children that are listed on our prayer list, for whom we cry out for their salvation. O Lord, that you would bring them to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And we laid them before you. And Lord, it is it is on our prayer list as well. There are prayers for uh brothers and for children and for sisters, Lord, for whom we pray that they would grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. That you would strengthen their faith, that you would encourage them, Lord, that they may not be weary in well-doing. And Father, we bring them before you as well. Lord, we do thank you that you and the cattle on a thousand hills. Lord, uh I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging bread. You meet our needs. And yet, Lord, as long as we live in these bodies of flesh, doesn't matter what we eat this morning, we're going to be hungry by night. And so, Father, so is our daily walk. Anyone could be employed today and lose their job in the afternoon. Anyone could be healthy and able to go to work this morning and some calamity, from man's point of calamity, come upon them, and by this evening they can no longer work. That is the state of these frail bodies. And Lord, we have those in our congregation that that are businessmen and businesswomen. And Father, uh, you can send the right client in the door and make the greatest deal they've ever had. And so Father, we pray, Lord, not for riches, but for daily bread. May you provide. Lord, we have young adults in our congregation that are employed minimally, but they need better employment. And these things are known to thee. May you bless them provide. Lord be with her young men in college. Uh one here studying locally, uh one at Bob Jones along with his sister. Father, may you may you bless them in their studies and may you raise them up as the next generation to stand in the gap and to make up the hedge. Father, we thank you this morning that we are here, that we are gathered, both those gathered in person and those gathered online We thank you, Lord, that you have established Mission Bible Church. Father, may we be faithful to you in our service here. And Lord, we pray that this church that today celebrates its sixth anniversary will someday celebrate its 60th. Oh Lord, may you multiply us by ten, and Lord, may we be found faithful. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm forty-eight for responsive reading. Once you located Psalm forty-eight in your Bibles, please rise. We'll read all fourteen verses of Psalm forty eight for our responsive reading. A song and psalm for the sons of Korah. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth. This is Mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her palaces for a refuge. For lo, the kings were assembled. They passed by together. They saw it, and so they marveled. They were troubled and hasted away. Fear to hold upon them there, and pain as of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, God will establish it forever. Selah We have thought of thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is full of righteousness. Let Mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments. Walk about Zion, and go round about her, tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces, that ye may tell it to the generation following, and altogether. For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our God even unto death. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his Holy Word. Indeed, mark well that city of Zion. Indeed, mark it well. And I'm not pointing you to some piece of real estate in Palestine. We turn to our sermon, Psalm number 509, in your song book, To God, My Earnest Voice I Raise. uh great Presbyterian Reform hill. Love this too. It's a really good one. I will sing all four stanzas, including the Amen at the end. To God my word despot. Voice I raise to find my voice and morning raise my dream. I stole and tell my troubles and my room when you've saw God. All past me the white I take is going to be the To spare my servant way to hold on my savior. When troubles crawl for us and weak, and both are strong. I can't just so Praise and bring and thankful praises. Thank you, thank you. Pleasure to see you. Turn in the precious Word of God this morning with me to the forty-sixth Psalm, Psalm forty-six. And I'm going to read in our hearing the eleven verses of this Psalm. Psalm number 46. Beginning with verse one. Psalm forty-six, verse one God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Though the waters thereof roar and are troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof, Selah. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her, and that right early. The heathen raged. The kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice, and the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge, Selah! Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he hath made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease He breaketh the bow, he cutteth the spear in sunder, he burneth the chariot in fire. Be still And know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this glorious passage of thy word. Father, we thank you for the lesson. lessons it teaches and the sermon it preaches all by itself, all of its own inspired truth. Uh in accordance to thy choosing of the foolishness of preaching, we're going to attempt to dissect these lines and bring in other passages of Scripture which coordinate and correspond with them. And Lord, it is our earnest desire this morning that thy Spirit might teach us truth that our sorrowing hearts need. That thy word might be rich to our souls and encourage us and strengthen us, that we might rejoice in thee. For Father, regardless of the calamity we face, it is of thy doing And thy purpose and will work for the benefit and blessing of thy people. Lord, these are glorious truths. Father, we know them by faith. But Lord, we pray this morning, increase our faith through the study of thy word. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Folks, I could sit down right now and we've had a message. We've had a sermon. What glorious words these are. You may have noticed that I took our call to worship from Psalm 47, the one just after 46, and we read for our responsive reading Psalm 48. And actually, if you were to take Psalm 46 through Psalm 50 and read them at one setting, you would find great overlap and correspondence between them. because they all carry this marvelous theme of the great and mighty power of God and his sovereignty over all situations. We read there in Psalm 48 of the Zion, the heavenly city of God, and we find that same thing here in Psalm 46. The title of Psalm 46 does not tell us the occasion of its writing. If you look there at the title, it just says to the chief musician for the sons of Korah a song upon Alamat. This was a song that was given to the chief musician So if the sons of Korah could take it and practice it and prepare to sing it for worship. That's simply what it says. It's to the chief musician for the sons of Korah. The sons of Korah were the singers of the tabernacle, the singers of the temple. But it says a song upon Alamat. And that's where I want to begin this morning by way of introduction. This word Alamath literally means a young woman or a maid. That is the the literal interpretation of Alama. Now some have taken that and said, okay, it's a musical notation. It means that this is to be sung in the soprano, in the high feminine voices. Which, you know, I could see how they could come to that conclusion because of the word itself. But folks, I believe there is a more beautiful and telling meaning here. Because if we look at this psalm We can see here a picture of a young maid, a young virgin, who is preparing herself mentally. preparing herself in her outlook on life to submit to the headship of her husband. And you think about the church which submits itself to the headship of Jesus Christ. And so this Typology shows us a young lady who is ready to make her husband her dwelling place. She's forsaking her father's house, and now she's going to the dwelling place of her husband, and she will find refuge under his protection. Just as Israel found refuge in Jehovah, and the church finds refuge in Christ. She will trust in her husband's care through the roaring, troubled Ways of this world. It doesn't matter what happens, the wife of the godly husband can trust in him. He'll figure it out and do it right And so she trusts through roaring waters the godly wife will find comfort and joy in the river of the care of her husband. There is a river that makes glad the city of God. Though heathen men may rage against her family, she knows that her husband will prevail on her behalf. And so she can be still because she absolutely and unwaveringly trusts her husband. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that beautiful So that you know Scripture does not tell us that that's why it's a song for Alama But I believe it is a beautiful picture because if we look at this psalm, yes, it was speaking of Old Testament Israel, but even more so it speaks of the church. This psalm is quite obviously the testimony of one who professes absolute faith in God. There's no wavering of the faith here. God is our refuge and our strength. Therefore will we not fear. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. Folks, that's a testimony of faith But as we look at this psalm, though the title does not give us specifically the timing of when it is written, I believe we can deduce from the content of the psalm that this is somebody who's gone through some trouble. This is somebody that has faced hard trials in this sinful world. Well you don't think of a refuge when everything's going good, do you? You you don't run into a refuge on a bright sunny day. You you run into the refuge when the storm comes. And so this was someone who could testify. We've been through the fire, and God is our refuge and our strength. God was a very present help in my time of trouble. I read through Psalm 46 to Psalm 50. And Brother Vince and I have talked about this, that I tend to try to paint too broad a landscape sometimes. I really wanted to preach Psalm 46 to 50. That would take the next six years. So we're going to try to focus on Psalm forty-six. But then I ran into another problem. How do you outline this psalm? Outlines are a good tool to help us learn, to memorize, and to remember. But how do you outline this psalm? And so I came up with an outline that I'm not going to use, but I'm going to share it with you. Okay? An outline could be this. A refuge, verses one through three. A river, verses four and five A raging foe, verse 6a, a reply, verse 6b to 9, and a rest, verses 10 through 11. So if you like the outline passages, that's a alliterated outline. But after all that, in the exegetical process, I came to the conclusion that the best way to approach this psalm is just to let it speak. Stay out of the way of the Word of God and let it speak. So that's an outline if you want an outline, but I'm not going to use it. I just want to take this verse psalm by psalm And break it into portions, largely set separated by the Silas, but not exclusively separated by the Silas of the Passage. And so look with me again as I read the inspired word of God, verses one through three of Psalm 46. God is our refuge. Have a bomb shelter? Do you have a safe room in your house? Do you have a place you can run in danger? God is our refuge and strength very present help in trouble, therefore will we not fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof Roar and are troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah. Folks, it is after the greatest Trials that the elect are most likely to profess, God is our refuge and our strength. A very present help and trouble. When we haven't had any problems, that thought does not come to our mind. But when we have been put through the fire and the sword and nakedness and peril, The things we saw in Sunday school there in Hebrews 11. When we've come through all that, that's the time we stand up and say, God is our refuge and our strength a very present help in trouble. And folks, how much better it is for the soul of the believer to say God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble, than for our soul to say, hey, it's all good. Everything's fine. We're we're we got an easy road right now, folks. You see, the trial of our faith worked patience The troubles that God allows in our lives all have a purpose. And here the author of this psalm is able to say with joy and confidence, God is my refuge God is my strength. But he had to face the fire first. He had to go through the troubles Hard trials, strength and faith for the child of God. Folks, we're not seated on stony ground. Or seed on ground that has been plowed by the Holy Spirit of God. This verse just really struck me this works week, Psalm 17, verse 3 Thou hast proved my heart. Thou hast visited me in the night. Thou hast tried me. Thou shalt find nothing. I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. And that phrase, thou hast visited me in the night. Have you lay awake some night troubled? I think all of us have. Folks, God visits us in the night. God is working in those troubled nights. We pray that God will give us good rest and good sleep, and I pray that for myself and for the congregation. But folks, God visits us in those troubled nights. God convicts her heart of sin. God leads her heart to rejoice. God reminds us of what we should be praying for. God brings Scripture to our hearts and minds. And here, this man is talking, the psalmist is talking about God proving him. God testing him in the night seasons. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Job said, He knoweth the way that I take, and when I am tried, I shall come forth as gold. And so first of all we see that this is someone who knows what it is to go through trials and is able, because of the trials, to declare, God is our refuge and our strength. But secondly, the believer's refuge and strength is found in God and only in God. God's our bomb shelter, folks. God is our cave from the tempest. God is our hiding place. The fallen elements of this world and the fallen men of this world cannot help you. They can't give you aid. Well, they might give you temporary comforts. But they're not the help that we seek. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Yeah. Put your trust put not your trust in Princess, nor in the Son of Man in whom there is no help. Those two verses are Psalm 118 9 and Psalm 146. 3, if you're if you're writing down references. Psalm 20 verse 7, some trust in chariots and some in horses. But we will remember the name of the Lord our God. Folks, you know, what do you want? A B-52 bomber or the name of the Lord? A M1 Abrams tank or the name of the Lord? Yeah Paul said in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 10, Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distress for Christ's sake. For when I am weak Then am I strong? Folks, we find that this is a passage that is most likely after someone has faced great trials. And we find that Jesus Christ is our only refuge. The world cannot help us. But further, we find that the believer is sustained in the trials. but not necessarily exempted from the trials. Let me say that again. The believer is sustained in the trials. But not necessarily exempted from the trials. God may bless you with an exemption from trials. But God may ordain that you go through those trials. But God will sustain you in those trials. For we read, God is a very present help in trouble. He doesn't say God's a very present deliverance from trouble. But this man can testify that in my trouble God was very present. We tend to say, where is God in all my problems? Right there. Immediately. And the the most glorious illustration we find of this is found in the Old Testament where the children, the three Hebrew children, Shadrach, Mesak, and Abednego, Hanonai, Azarai, and Mishel by their Hebrew names, were in the fiery furnace, but they weren't alone. Mm-hmm. Yeah. They were in love. And our God is a consuming fire. And I've often thought that the presence of Christ just pushed the burning fire away and surrounded them with a different fire, the same fire that was in the bush that was not consumed. Mm-hmm. And protected them. And again Daniel, the Lord has sent his angel and has shut the lion's mouth. Did you ever feel a furry animal like that? My dad always said that that uh Daniel walked over and kind of patted down the side of the line and used it for a pillow because it could do him no harm. It was softer than the rocks of the dungeon. Why not Yeah. And Dudges can be awful cold. But he had a lion to keep it warm. Oh my God. The believer is not necessarily exempted from the trial, but the believer is always sustained in the trial. Christ told the disciples in John 16, verse 33, In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. Paul said to young Timothy, 2 Timothy 3 verse 12, Yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Psalm 34, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. And the Lord delivereth you out of afflictions. Doesn't necessarily mean you're taken from the affliction, but the affliction does not sustain, stay on you that God will sustain through it. Number four God is never absent from our trouble. God's never absent. He's a very present help. in trouble. And it doesn't just say he's present there. It says he's a very present help in trouble. That's an exclamatory. He's very present. You may not see him. He may hide his face. As we were considering in Sunday school this morning, sometimes the heavens are brass, and it seems like our prayers have no effect But he is a very present help and trouble, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee So that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear what men shall do unto me. You see, man might be able to stop my heart, but it's the best thing man could ever do for my heart. Because I have a new body in heaven. And Paul, who said, For me to live is Christ, but to die is gain, was not far from the sword. And Paul's testimony was, I have a desire to depart, but it's needful for you that I stay. And so God, in his mercy, takes his children home. Or God in his wisdom leaves them here because he's got work for them to do. God is never absent from our troubles. In Isaiah 43, the first two verses, we read the promise of Christ, the promise to the church and to Israel. But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and formed thee, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed thee. I have called thee by name. Thou art mine. The Lord knoweth them that are his And that everyone that uh nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. When not if, when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. But what about the men that were burned at the stake? Did they walk to the fire? You better believe they did. But the fire didn't kindle on them because their soul was immortal. All the fire could do was to this body. Which dwells under the curse, this body which gets sick, this body which hurts. But they could not touch the martyr Because the martyrs are under the altar crying, oh Lord, how long? Sick up, Lord. That's what they're crying. And so God is never far from us in our trials. Number five, nothing can comfort the heart of the believer more than the watch care of God. Which would you rather have, a million dollars or God watching over you? Which would you rather have? A mansion without the Lord or a doghouse with the Lord? The old hymn, a a a uh tent or a cottage, why should I care? Uh he's building a mansion of gold over there and uh you've you've heard me preach before, I believe the mansions in heaven doesn't talk about building a brick and mortar. 'Cause the building of frickin' mortar is just a place to go sleep. And we're not gonna be sleeping in heaven. The mansions are in heaven are our glorified bodies. That's right. In my father's house are many mansions, I go to prepare one of those for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I'll come again. But I'm getting off the subject. But nothing can comfort the heart of the believer more than God's watchfair. And that's what we find in the passage. Therefore, I love that word, therefore, it's a connector word. Because God is our refuge and our strength, the very present help and trouble, therefore, because of that, I shall not fear. We will not fear Nothing can comfort me more than the presence of God, his eternal watch care over me. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. Hebrews 13, verse 5. The Lord is on my side and will not fear what man can do unto me. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? Number six The Godward confidence of the believer overcomes any calamity of earth. Let me say that one again. The Godward, confidence of the believer, overcomes any calamity of earth. Look at our text. Therefore We will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. That's all about calamities It it the expression is that of a flood. And we saw on the news and our brethren in Texas actually visited part of the area, but we saw of a Sudden flash flood that came down a valley and just wiped out everything, and multitudes were swept away, and entire communities are just gone They're just they're just gone. There's nothing left. It wash away campgrounds and so on. We will not fear Though the earth be removed and the mountains carried in the midst of the sea. Have you ever seen a hill erode till it's gone? Because water was rushing by, and it just carries it away Folks, therefore, because God is a refugee in the strength, we will not fear any calamity of earth. I've I've known believers that have had their house burned down. What what a what a tragedy. I'll be honest with you, it's something I fear I've thought about the possibilities, especially the last several weeks when my furnace was acting up and like what what you know this place could burn to the ground All the memories. My mom's china closet. Things that are dear and precious to us, but what are they? They're malt and rust. They're earthly junk. Penny and I have talked about it. If we ever move out of the house, what are we gonna do? Got too much junk, too many sentimental things sitting around. Folks, these things are dear to us, but what if they're all taken away Then do we still have confidence in God? Well, we find here that therefore, because God is a refuge and a strength, there's no calamity in this world That can shake us. I know a believing man who's been a millionaire three times and lost it all. Three times If riches increase, set not thy heart upon them. You see, God gives us a confidence that the world does not know of Matthew 24, 35, Mark 13, 31, and Luke 23, 33 are word for word the same verse, and all three are the parallels. Heaven and earth shall pass away But my word shall not pass away. Now you know we're very strong on the preservation of Scripture here. God said it three times. There's a Trinity. of declaration that heaven and earth will pass, but his word will not, that he will preserve it. Christ warns us in Luke 21. Verse 10, and following nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and great earthquakes shall be in diverse places, and famines, and pestilence. And fear fearful sights, gr great signs shall be there be in heaven. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads. For your redemption draweth nigh. Christ warned of earthquakes, of famines, and of pestilence and fearful sights. Think about that. What's missing from the list? Well, you know, we see these things today. You know what the believer can stand in an earthquake without fear We just had an earthquake and it was in Pakistan this last week. That does not bother the believer. The believer can endure wars without fear. The believer can endure famines without fear, and the believer can even endure COVID without fear. When the pestilence comes What is that to the child of God? Why? Because the Lord is our refuge and our strength. I did look at the clock. Part two, verses four and five. There is a river The streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her, and she shall not be moved. God shall help her and that right early. Folks, we read there of the seas roaring and even mountains being washed into the depths of the sea. But folks, there's a river. Not a flood. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall raise up a standard against him. I enjoy sitting by a river. I don't want to sit in a flood. Folks, this world's a flood. This world is all these problems, but there is a river. There is a river. The streams whereof its fingers go out into all these little tributaries. Wherever you may find yourself, you can find the comfort of this river. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God. A river is a place of rejoicing. It makes us glad. It's a place where we find joy in the Lord. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend thee. I will say unto you that likewise there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repeats. Folks, there's joy in the city of God. There's joy in the river of his mercy. This river is a place of residence, for it says God is in the midst of her. It is the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. Where is God in my problems? He's in the river of mercy. He's in the river of Zion. He's in the river of the holy place. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. How long is this life? Well, my father would be 101 years old on September 18. But he only lived to sixty-seven. Okay. He's been gone for me that long. Four score and ten? How long's eternity? Mm-hmm. Yeah. How long's eternity? Ah, this this is a grain of sand on the seashore. This this life is a vapor that appeareth for a little while and then vanisheth away. This isn't long. But folks, the river spoken of here is the place of his residence. God's in the midst of her. She should not be moved. This is the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. Folks, we're heading to the river! We're leaving the flood of this world to head to the river. It's a place of residence. It is a place of refreshment, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God We read in the prophecy of Isaiah and Isaiah 35, then shall the lame man leap as a heart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing For the wilderness shall break out as a stream in the desert, and the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land, springs of water, in the habitation of dragons that where each lay Shall the grass shall be grass with reeds and rushes. And folks, the the habitation of dragons that Isaiah was writing about, he knew about, because dragons and dinosaurs are one and the same. And he he he saw them. He knew where they were. And as he is writing under inspiration, he says the place where the dinosaurs sleep, there's going to be pools of water in the reeds and the rushes of that place. It's a place of refreshment. I there was a place called Paradise Park in Jamaica that a friend of mine owned, and uh it had a beautiful, beautiful river in it. And uh Another missionary family and our family would get together once a month at least, and we'd go sit in that river. And there was four big rocks. that you could sit on that you're up to about here with your neck. So Penny and I and the other missionary couple would sit on those rocks and our kids would bring their inner tubes and they would run up to the top of the river and they would float past us about every five minutes and then we'd see them run up the bank. So we would sit there and just talk in fellowship, sitting in the cold, cold water, and the kids would be tubing past us repeatedly. Refreshment To step away from all the cares of the ministry, to step away from the cares of the world, the ladies who just finished a long day of homeschooling. And sit in the river. Folks, God always has a river. I know hard trials, and I know many of you know hard trials, but there is always a river to which we can resort. It's found in the grace of God. The map to it is the Word of God. And so there is a river. It's a place of refreshment. A river is a place of righteousness. The holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. Revelation 22, verses 1 and 2, and he showed me a pure river of life. clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, in the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, there was the tree of life Which bear twelve manner of fruits, and yield their fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And then a river is a place of rest He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me beside still waters. Jeremiah echoes Psalm one In the seventeenth chapter, verses seven and eight, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, whose hope is in the Lord, or whose hope the Lord is For he shall be like a tree by the waters, and spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when the heat cometh But her leaf shall be green, and shall not he shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither cease from yielding. It's interesting there. Jeremiah seems to paraphrase Psalm 1 in Jeremiah 17 and verse 8. And so we've just talked about a river. A river is a place of calm. It's a place of peace and rest. But look at the contrast that starts in verse 6. The heathen raged. Mm-hmm. Boy, we see that, don't we? We see them carrying their rainbow flags and their rage. We see their anger and their victory all. The light of God's truth shining from the believers angers them, infuriates them. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, and the earth the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah, come behold the works of the Lord. What desolations he hath made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease under the ends of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot in fire. First of all, we find for this passage that it's inevitable to heathen will rage. It's gonna happen. It's gonna happen The heathen rage. Don't be surprised at it. It's going to happen. They will cast us out of their synagogues. We know a little bit about that, don't we? But when they say when they slay you, they'll say that we've done God's work. When we call the police and report you for having meetings without wearing masks, we're doing God's work. Maybe I'm getting too personal and those of you that have been with us for a while know the circumstances I'm referring to. Now folks, the raging of the heathen is inevitable. And I'm not saying those folks right now are heathen, I should I they're brethren, they're brothers. Don't misunderstand me. But it's inevitable that the heathen are going to rage That's right. Don't be surprised at it. Don't let it surprise you. Why do the heathen rage and the people that imagine a vain thing? He that sitteth in the heaven shall laugh. But folks, look at it. Look at what it says. Number one, it's inevitable that the heathen will rage, but number two, it is no effort for God to destroy the wicked. That's right. The heathen raged. That's a screaming voice. He uttered his voice. He whispered. Mm-hmm. The heathen raged and he uttered his voice. Right The heathen are out there in the street and they're stomping and they're yelling and terrible. And he uttered his voice. That's right. Just like the storm on the sea, peace be still Hm. There was a great call. You see, the one who said, Let there be light, and there was light. The one who spoke the earth into existence can utter his voice and the earth melted Right? He uttered his voice and the earth melted. It makes sense because he uttered his voice and it came into existence And so folks, the heathen rage. The heathen are screaming and waving flags and shaking fists. But it takes no effort for God to take care of them. He just utters his voice. You're done, you fool. As they would say in Jamaica. He utters his voice. Then shall he speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure. Man's weapons, number three, are worthless against the power of God. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the sword and the He breaketh the bow and cuteth the spear in thunder. He burneth the chariot with fire. Oh, but he's got an atomic bomb over there. Who cares? But but but China is building this great big army. Okay. He utters his voice and he takes care of his children. What do these things mean to us? You know folks an atomic bomb would be a pretty good way to go to heaven. You see, none of these things move me, neither count on my life dear to me, Paul said. Man's weapons are worthless before the power of God. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh, 2 Corinthians 10. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. He uttered his voice. He let me say it again. The heathen rage, he uttered his voice If you're listening to the audio without picture, I've got my Bible in my hand. He uttered his voice and the earth melted. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but might. IP to the pulling down of strongholds. Folks, we've got it right here in our hands. The weapons of this world mean nothing before the voice of God. It takes no effort on his part, and the world's weapons cannot stand. The only true peace is found in God. He maketh wars to cease and the ends the earth. Men will try peace and safety, but there is no peace. And we were told we're going to have wars and rumors of wars, but hallelujah, he's made peace with my soul He made the war between my soul and Satan, and he made the war between my soul and God the Father to cease. Yeah. And he can create wars on this earth and he can end wars on this earth. Sideline, praying about this week. Wouldn't you have loved have been one of uh Gideon's three hundred? When everybody else is gone home Wouldn't that have been exciting? You know, people thought, oh, if I was a time traveler, I'd go back and see the Declaration of Independent. No, if I've been the time traveler, I'd go back and watch Gideon. I'd go back and watch David. I'd go back and hear some of the reformers preach. I'd go back and listen to the Protestants Sorry, the Turkans, I read some of their sermons, like, oh my, I would love to have been sitting there hearing this. If it's such a blessing to read it 300 years later. What a blessing to have lived in that time and heard them preach it. Only God can bring true peace. And so the call comes come. You who are in trials, you who are suffering, you who are worried about tomorrow, come take a look. Come, behold the works of the Lord. What wonders he hath wrought in the earth You see, folks, when we begin to worry about the problems, we're looking at the winds and the waves, whether the one who controls the winds and the waves. When we begin to look at the economy and it upsets us, look at the one who owns the cattle on a thousand hills. When we begin to look at wars all around the world, look at the one who alone can make peace. You see, all these things are concluded with this phrase, come behold the works of the Lord. One more phrase we're coming to. But we've seen all these. There's earthquakes, there's raging heathen, the earth melts. The mountains are carried away by a flood. God did that. Come behold the works of the Lord. What desolations he has wrought in the earth. Who dropped the atomic bomb? God or man? Well, they were worshiping their emperor as God, the sun god. God took care of that. Come, behold, what desolations he hath wrought in the earth. And so the Psalm concludes, Be still and know that I'm God. You see, we're so busy running around. Mm-hmm. Like chickens with their heads cut off, as they say. We're so busy trying this and trying that and sometimes we just need to be st all the time, we just need to be still And know that he is God. He will be exalted among the heathen. He will be exalted in the hosts in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Be still Cease from all your fears and know that I am God. Be still. Silence all your words. Listen to my words. And know that I am God. Be still. Ignore the raging of the heathen. Peter, get your eyes off the storm. And know that I am God. Be still. Abandon all your own ambitions and your own weapons of the warfare. And know that I am God. Be still, forsake all your pretense of self-righteousness, and trust in the self-righteousness of God Be still and know that I am God. Probably the most important. Be still. Stop quarreling with providence. And know that I am God. Let us stand for prayer now. Father, may your spirit teach us much this day through thy word. Bless thy word to our hearts. Bless us to the service of the great King of heaven. Use us for thy glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Trust that was a blessing to you. We close our worship service today with Appropriate hymn number 682, Trusting Jesus. 682 in the blue songbook. Written by Ira Sankey. Tune was at least. Trusting Jesus. Six eighty two all four stanzas. Still. Trusting true last even when my faith is for trusting trees. Jesus singles no more response Trusting as the nation, trusting him whatever trusting him. Jesus that is all quite leaving into this more. While we went up for his own. Crossing as the moment's white, crossing as the days go on, crossing him. My wagon is clear, rain in the river, with measure for him. And the trays go by trusting him for people, crossing take his son. His soul crossing him while I shall last crossing him till dispatch. Be a happy As the moist fly, crossing as the days go by, crossing him whatever before. Amen. Amen. Please be seated.