It is just amazing how much time has gone along. So what are the things which most greatly troubled you this past year? Some of you said, Oh, I'm glad 2024 is done What are the things that were the biggest trouble to you this past year? Politics. Politics, boy, yeah, what a lot of grief and anxiety that presented. What else? Other ideas? Sickness, yes. Death, boy yeah, death is certainly a you know, the Bible calls death the last enemy. It is an enemy, it robs us of so much we love and enjoy. Yeah, but doesn't it say also that Uh the death of the it's the death of the believer. Absolutely it does, yeah. And we're going to be talking about things like that. What else have greatly troubled you? What are things that have kept you awake at night as you think about 2025? I think they're transgender junk. All that transgender garbage. Oh my goodness gracious, yeah, that is really catastrophic. That can really destroy a nation. Any other thoughts Bad business year. Oh my goodness. Wow, boy, yeah, the bad business year. It certainly has been a catastrophic. I think I'm just astounded that our government is actively working against some business sectors. It just really is just crushing, crushing, crushing to some people. What else keeps you awake at night as you think about 2025? If that's your plague. Good job. You're important You know, yeah, a lot of people are worried about their job employment as the thumb screws are tightening, they're wondering if they can actually keep the job. You know, can they actually keep it? What's keeping you awake at night, Joey? Anything? Academics. Academics, yeah. You know, I felt that senior year, I was just gonna die on campus and they'd find my bones there. And I'd never get out of school. I'm always gonna be here Yeah, boy. Hello, Anisa. Hello Elijah. Good to see you guys. Yes, and your little one whose name is I forgot. Shara. Shara. Yes. Hi sweetie. My goodness, you're so pretty. Where'd you get your prettiness from? Obviously my mother. I like it. That's great. Well, um I have several passages we're going to turn to this morning. I've got five thoughts for a new year. Five thoughts for a new year And uh I will apologize in advance uh because I don't have a lot of questions other than what I've asked you already, and I normally like to keep Sunday school a little bit more interactive. But I was overwhelmed this week with all kinds of things between my wife's health between the the death of the dear friend in Southern California, spoke at length with uh his uh widow, and uh just other things that have just come upon me that I had to reach deep into the archives and I Found something that I hadn't spoken on in a good uh decade. So I thought, well, y'all probably haven't heard it, and it's still relevant because it's just loaded with scripture. And I'm actually indebted to Pastor Henry Mahan for the spine of this outline because he did a marvelous job. And five thoughts for a new year. Turn, if you will, to Romans 8. 28 And we'll start there. And then there will be other passages that we'll look at as well. If you're too busy with little ones or don't have your Bible handy. uh don't panic. Uh if you'd be able to bring it up on the screen and I can read it for you as well. Romans 8. 28 says this. That's a familiar passage. I'm sure many of you know it. It says, and we know I like those first three words, and we know, because that's what we gotta kind of keep stirring up in our minds, and we know that all things work together for good. to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. That's kind of a spine theme for this little meditation really, we know. And that word all things means what? It means all things, what you supposing that that is. All things means everything, and we would have to include in that the good, the bad, and the ugly. Um, you know what more can be said of our God's perfect, wise, and adorable providence? To have someone who rules in such a fashion so that he structures, guides determines and directs the course of human events throughout all time in history, exclusively for the benefit of his people and his people alone. Whether good or bad. And yet through all that, he also gives testing programs to strengthen our faith along the way. Has he not made an overabundant and rich provision for his people? Such thought is too wonderful for me, really, to think it through like that. But in spite of the scripture about God's divine rule and his perpetual care, I find that believers have five common problems. That prevent us from fully trusting and rejoicing in this great and gracious God and Savior. So here's five piercing humbly truths I've tried them on myself, so I get first I draw first blood so that you're not the the only ones that are suffering Uh in your bulletin in the insert there's the fill in the blanks and I'm going to try to uh that that's where kind of the outline of this is in your bulletin insert. And the first point is this, I believe that we have entirely too many fears Too many fears for a people to whom the Lord our God has said, and now you'll want to turn to Isaiah chapter 41. Look at what God says in Isaiah chapter 41, 10 through 14. Isaiah 41, 10 through 14. Addresses these fears of the people of God. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Now this was stated long before the Lord Jesus came and spoke this through the writer to the Hebrews Here's where he said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed. That's a very different Thought there, but it's related to be dismayed. For I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded. They shall be as nothing. They that strive with thee shall perish. Thou shalt seek them and shall not find them, even them that contend with thee. They that war against thee shall be as nothing and as a thing of naught. For I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. I I like that imagery just as a a parent reaching to the hand of the child. Fear not, they they've got you. Fear not, thou worm, Jacob. Here he calls Jacob a worm, and that would be referring to that whole nation, all the descendants of Jacob. And ye men of Israel, I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. This is what God has said to his people, and why can't we believe that? You know, that seems to be hard at times to believe, doesn't it? David did. David was a man who was noted as one after God's own heart, and he faced a great many perils. How many of you lived in a cave? I've explored them. I've poked my nose into them. They kind of smell damp and musky and there's not a lot of cleanliness in there. So if you're a germaphobe, caves are not for you. But David said, I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou, Lord, makest me to dwell in safety. In Psalm 23, that famous classic piece, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Thou art with me. And so on. I I I know it from the beginning. I can't finish it out there. When my father and my mother forsake me Scripture says in Psalm twenty seven ten When my father and mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up. Now God is a God to the fatherless and to the widow. He knows those who have that great need. Has God promised to never leave nor forsake? So why is it I have so many fears for the future? That's humbling thought number one. Humbling thought number two is this Is that, I believe, we have far too much anxiety and worry about earthly material things. about earthly material things. For a people to whom the Son of God has said, consider the lilies of the field. Isn't that what he said in Matthew 6? I want to read that to you. It's a marvelous section of scripture right from the Sermon on the Mount. You know, the dispensationalists, I have heard one at least. I don't know that they all believe this. They don't have a consistent theology Uh but uh one dispensationalist said, Well, the Sermon on the Mountain, that's for the that's for the millennium. That's not for you right now. Oh no, it's it's you can hang on to this right now. He says in Matthew 6, 28 Uh why take you thought for rainment? Where does he consider the lilies of the field? Where does he start with that? Oh yes, that's 27. Why take ye thought for raiment? Consume the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spend. Ever seen a lily, a flower, working? No, he doesn't. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed, was not clothed, was not dressed like one of these. Wherefore If God so clothed the grass of the field, and I know a little something about grass, which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, and boy it doesn't take many months after the springtime before that sun comes and that grass is wilted down. That's you and me. It doesn't take much to wilt us. Shall he not much more clothe you, oh ye of little faith? Wherefore take no thought. That word no thought doesn't mean don't even think about it. It means take no care. Don't be anxious. Don't be anxious saying, What shall we eat? What shall we drink? Wherewithal shall we be clothed? For all these things do the Gentiles seek Your Heavenly Father knows you have need of these things. Philippians, the apostle says, My God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. He supplies our needs. What's the difference between needs and wants? Anyone will venture a guess? A young child will want everything he sees and his wants will constantly change, but the parent knows what the child actually needs. provides. As an engineer I had to decompose user requirements into things that engineers could build on. And It's interesting because in working with the government um everything is a is a need. They need everything. Uh I have been on a project where Uh this is true, it's sad, uh because it was long before I had any say in how to direct engineering. But the table height for the exotic computer system that we were building For some individuals was too high, and other individuals was too low. Now, what would you do today to fix that? Well, you get them a chair and you adjust the height of the chair. Oh no No, that won't work. You have to adjust the height of the table. Now the equipment we put on the table was quite heavy, about 600 pounds worth of gear. So we had custom made a table that with the push of a button could go up or could go down This is, I'm sorry to say, your tax dollars at work back in the day, and eventually they threw those away because it said phooey on that, all you need is an adjustable chair. Sometimes the strangest things called wants all of a sudden become needs. And so we have too much worry about these things. Hasn't God promised to supply all my needs? Why is it then should I worry about earthly provisions? The Apostle Paul at one point says, I have learned to be in in in abundance and in and in uh and in want. Uh what's the verse exactly? That's it. known times where he had plenty, and there were seasons in his ministry where he had an abundance. And there's other times where he had bubkus. He went from bounty to bupkus. God has promised to supply all our needs. We need not worry about earthly provisions. I'll tell you how I've internalized this. Is years ago I had to have a a little come to Jesus moment with myself that says, look, if you are in fact teaching, if you're called of God to teach the Word of God, then do it. Do it and do it well. Don't shirk back from it. Get into it. Apply every ounce of energy you available, reasonable time that you have and that you can to get into it. But if you're not If you're really not called, then stop it. Just stop it right now. Just get out of that seat and shut up and support somebody who is. But you gotta figure that out. You can't you can't sit on the sidelines and you can't waffle about it. And I said, yes I am. I'm committed to this And as I go forward, I said, boy, it would be nice if I had such and such to help with the ministry. Well, I had a long look with myself and look at the bank account. Do you have the money to buy this thing? Yeah, but it's expensive. I will buy it. Either you're in this job or you're not. Quit complaining about. And you know what? All of a sudden, I've never had a lack. He he gave it to me. But do you see the drive for coveting and for lusting and for holding on to things too tightly when we ought not to hold on to things too tightly? Sometimes you have to have a hard discussion with yourself to say, why am I so worried about earthly material things? They're going to burn up at the judgment. I don't care what it is, it's not going to escape it Third thought for the new year, again returning to your bulletin insert or the inside part is that I believe it's not unusual for Christians to have far too many doubts concerning the mercy, the love, and the grace of God for a people. To whom the Lord our God has said, All that the Father gives me shall come unto me. And him that comes unto me I will in no wise cast out. He won't cast him out. God is not one who will cast out that individual who comes to him. That's a glorious promise. And I love this particular passage in John 6 very well. Because it strikes a very good and divine balance between the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man. You know, the Bible doesn't even try to answer that supposed dilemma. It's assumed both to be true and holy writ. There is really no section of scriptures that tries to address that dilemma because only in our minds is it a dilemma. God says, Come unto me, all ye that labor in the heavy laden, I will give you rest. That's a command It's a command of God. And yet through that command, through that word, it'll quicken an ear, quicken a heart, change an individual, and all of a sudden when they hear that, they're like, well, that's the best thing I could do, is to come unto Him. All that the Father has given me will come to me. And him that comes, God says, I'm not going to cast him out. I can't come because I've done too many bad deeds. That doesn't stop you. Minister one time said it's not your sins that keep you from God, it's your righteousness. That's a profound insight. You can't come to him with your righteousness because he'll only accept Christ's righteousness. Remember that prayer at the temple? The publican entered? And the Pharisee. The Pharisee said, I thank thee, Lord, that I am not as other men, even as this publican. I pray, I I I tithe all that I own. I fast twice in the week. I he listed a bunch of things. My memory's failing me, forgive me. But the publican standing afar off would so not much as lift up his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus stops and pulls back. Now he hears prayers exactly like this. Right? He hears these all the time, which I think is impressive. He's kind of given you the view from his seat. And he says, I tell you, this man pointed to the publican This man went down to his house, oh here's a blessed word, justified, rather than the other. For he that exalts himself shall be abased, he that abases himself shall be exalted. He came not. Christ's purpose in coming was not to call the righteous. Are you telling me he didn't come for everybody? That's right. Christ's coming was not for everybody, it was not for the righteous. So on what grounds then, brethren, would I call into question the mercy, the love, and the grace of God? Oh, what grounds do I have to question that? Shall the God of heaven fail to keep his promise? Perish the thought? In John 10, 28, he says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I particularly like that verse as well. You know, the imagery is clear. Here's a hand. Here's a big hand. You're being held up. He says he holds you by his hand, he supports you by his hand, he covers you. It's just all around you He says, um I've got them. They're in my hand. Nobody can pluck them out. I think of like a maybe I'm like a little marble, or actually smaller than marble. What are those little sprinkles they put on Chocolate cakes and the little sprinkles, whatever they are. It says, Yeah I can pluck him out of my hand. Now what I like about that is that my will can't pluck him out of his hand either. If you can will your way into salvation, you can will it out. But God is the one that changes the heart, so that my servant shall be willing in the day of thy power. Yes, indeed, no one can pluck them out of your hand, not even yourself John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. Well, you can look at that verse and say, I believe on the Son. So I have everlasting life. What need have I to question that? Why would I dare question that mercy? You know, frankly, it's the height of arrogant presumption. That's a sharp phrase To call into question the promise of God. It really is. You know, Saul of Tarsus was a sinner just like us. He was saved by grace just like us. He didn't question God's promise. He says, I know whom I believe. and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. It's the Christmas season We think about different events, especially as ministers, because we feel a strange burden to have to preach on the incarnation of Christ, and we don't always have to. It's all right. But um I was contemplating the contrast recently between when the angel Gabriel came to Mary and declared unto her this miracle that was going to happen to her. That she was with child, overshadowed by the Holy Ghost, holy thing born in thee, shall be called the Son of God, his name shall be Emmanuel. That is an amazing thing. And she said, asked the simple question, how shall this be? And so the angel patiently explained. She just had an innocent question. And he Answered her. She's just a simple. She says, Behold the handmaiden of the Lord. Simple woman, average, I don't know how old she was, 18. I get the sense that she was very young And then we have Zacharias. He and his wife Elizabeth were righteous, walking blamelessly in the commandments of God. I have no reason to doubt that statement. After the flesh they had kept all the matters of the ordinances that were required in the old covenant. His course was to go in and to light the incense of the candles, and he went in And lo and behold, an angel appears in the temple. And as he's discoursing with this angel, as he tells him that his wife Elizabeth is going to have a child. And he says, well, how how do I know this thing's going to happen? Well, the angel reproved him sharply, saying, because of your unbelief, you're not going to be able to speak until after the child's born. And we think, wow, well Mary asked, how shall this be? And then Zacharias asked, how shall this be? Mary wasn't struck dumb. Zacharias was. What's up with that? Well Zacharias is a minister. He's one very familiar with the things of God and the workings of God. And he has access that Mary does not have to something called the holy place. And he could get near there and he could minister around there. I can imagine him going home and talking to his wife saying, well, she would say, how was it at work today, hon? It was pretty nice. It's kind of a different day. Yeah, what happened? An angel appeared. Well does that happen very often? No. How many times do you have an angel show up? And he dares ask the question when an angel appears on his job to give him a message from God in the holy place at that time. Well, how am I supposed to know? An angel just appeared to you. What more indication do you need? And I believe that's why he was struck dumb. Because he didn't believe that very proof God gave him. Whereas the expectation was lower for Mary. That's a side bonus track. Similar to Sarah laughing Mm-hmm. When she laughed, yes, she laughed. In fact, the child's name Isaac means laughter. Yeah, that would be caused to laugh. I should not question the grace of God, because of my sin, his grace superabounds where sin is found. I should not suspect his mercy because I don't deserve mercy. Mercy is for the undeserving. Daniel, do you know the difference between between uh um justice and mercy? I gotta get these two words right So justice is at a law court, right? You go to a court, you want justice. Somebody does something wrong, you're looking for justice, right? Justice is what you ask for when you've been wronged. Justice is for somebody to get uh what what they deserve. I want the the I I want what I deserve, I want justice. Mercy is God not giving you what you is God giving you what you don't deserve. So if you go into the court and you're innocent, you want justice. If you go into the courtroom and you're guilty, you want mercy. You see. And that's what God delights in. He delights in mercy. He delights in somebody showing up in the courtroom, pleading guilty in advance, but still coming unto him. God says, Yeah, I look for that individual. These are the ones I look for I've seen this firsthand. I was late for a meeting at work. This was shortly after 9-11 happened engineering project I was on was thrown into quadruple overdrive. We happen to have, providentially, the exact type of um apparatus that the government was highly interested in at the uh at the heels of uh in the aftermath of nine eleven And we went from a oh twenty-thirty million dollar program, we revolted into what would be a billion dollar program. That's a lot of money. That's a fifty-fold increase. And if you and it has to be done yesterday into many places, it was just insane And the pace was intense, very intense, and I was just tired and I just overslept. I slept right through that alarm clock. I mean it was making noise I think it was Angela shaking me saying, Will you turn that boomin' thing off and get out of here because I'm trying to go back to sleep? And I'm like, oh no, I'm late and I'm racing to get to work and as I'm going down this windy road here All these cars are coming flashing their lights and like, why is everybody flashing me? Because right around the next corner is a cop with his radar gun and I'm I'm busted and pulled over On the ticket, I uh contested it. I said uh uh guilty with uh explanation, and so I appeared to the court. Courtrooms filled with people. I thought there'd be ten people there Oh my goodness gracious, there were must have been 300 people in this room, all contesting their ticket. And person after person goes up and One goes up there and When did you calibrate your radar detector? And you know, oh that was this morning. Okay, well that argument shot down. Well I've always driven good, yeah, but not this time. Okay, what I mean just one after the next And I realized something that I didn't know, that the judge can raise the fine. He says, Well, I'll let you off today and uh your initial fine is two fifty, but I'll let you off today for the bargain price of $500 What? That's more. Yeah, that's the deal. Next. Because you're clogging up the court's time with a stupid argument. Get out of here. Pay pay extra money. And so I'm like Damn most of sucking. But bec I was the only one in that room that pled guilty with explanation. Because they went through everybody else first so they could release and dismiss the police officers. The cop didn't need to be there So they actually like my timing. I I said, I I'm not going to come up with any stupid explanation. All I can do is tell this guy the truth Throw myself in the mercy of the Corps at Officer. And told him I said, you know, I I've been working quadruple overtime after nine eleven Me and my folks are busy. I just I got up late. I was just zipping along trying to get to this meeting. Really had to get to I yes, I was speeding this. I just I just people were flashing their lights. I didn't get it. He says, Yeah, you didn't get it, right? That's pretty funny. He thought that was funny too. And he said, uh, okay, that's fine. And he gave me what's the thing uh where you get uh probation probability? Yes, probation and by dry clean for a year I'm fine. Thank you, officer. So he he he gave it to me. But I witnessed person after person after person go up and try to defend their righteousness and it didn't work. It never worked. Not even in man's system does this work How much less in God's system? So flinging yourself upon the mercy of God, folks, is not a bad approach. It's not a bad approach. God has per promised his mercy and grace to all that come to him. Fourth point. Fourth point. For you to consider as we approach the new year. I believe that sometimes as Christians we spend entirely too much time grumbling and complaining about our trials and troubles Our trials and troubles for a people to whom the Lord Jesus has said, In me, ye have peace. Ye is an old English word means y'all. It's a plural form of you. In the world you will have tribulation. So Jesus told you, guess what, Joey? In the world, you're going to have tribulation. You think this next semester is going to be easy? Scripture says it's not There, so just get over it. Jeffrey, you think you think this next year is going to be smooth and easy? It's not. Get over it. You're going to have trials and tribulations. It's just, Penny, you think this last semester? No. The you think you're done with the yearbook at school? No, it'll still find its long arms to claw out to you. She thinks that will be easier to live with. You think he's gonna be any easier to live with? No. Get over it. Jesus says in the world you will have tribulation. That's what he said. If he said it, well, why do we keep hoping that maybe he was kidding? Maybe he's talking to somebody else. Thankfully, saints, it doesn't come to all of us at the same time. I think it does kind of go in a little rotation scheme, you know, or it's just custom fit trials. So we really shouldn't be surprised, folks, when trouble comes our way. We ought to be surprised when it doesn't. We ought to be surprised when it doesn't. There was a um Navy uh uh captain that served in in my group. He was a fellow supervisor on the same nutso project that got really big. And uh he had served in the military a great many years. He was retired from the military, came back second second time around as contractor. They had a sign on this desk that thought it was great. If everything seems to be going well, you've obviously overlooked something. He knows how those ships operate. If it all seems to be going good, well you guys are not doing your job because I guarantee you there's something wrong and you're ignoring it, go find it That what a what a what a breath of wisdom that really was. Um you know, um our trials are frankly nothing nothing to what others have endured. Peter said, Beloved, think it not strains concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. Now when Peter wrote that in the first century, he wasn't being poetic Fiery trials is exactly what Nero subjected the first century Christians to. Some historians, I can't imagine this, some historians noted. That Christians were often nailed to crosses and lit on fire as light posts for the Roman Coliseums at night. They were lit up by the burning carcasses of Christians. He says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. He wasn't just being poetic. You used to say if everybody's running around with their heads cut off and your calmness can be. Maybe you don't understand the situation. Maybe you're the one that just rolled out of the rack when the Tet Offensive started and thinks all you know what is hitting hitting the fan. Uh The uh prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 48, 10 says, Behold, I have refined thee. I have chosen thee in the Furnace of Affliction. What a powerful passage. In the furnace of affliction. But what does a furnace do? You all know the story. What do you do with gold and silver? You heat it up The silver can handle it, the dross can't, the dross bubbles to the surface, that's what comes out of us, it bubbles out, and God just wipes that part away. And they'll turn the the temperature down a bit. You know, I turned to 2 Corinthians 4. This is one that has struck me. The Apostle Paul knew a little bit about difficulties, about trials, about afflictions. And as he writes in 2 Corinthians 4 and verse 17, this should be a good memory verse Perhaps for you in this coming year. Actually, back up to sixteen, for which cause we faint not But though our outward man perish, yet the inward man, that inward thing, is renewed day by day. See, that's the difference between a saint, a child of God, and somebody who does not know Jesus Christ Somebody who is an unbeliever, they don't know Jesus Christ, they're an alien to him, they haven't hung everything on him. They don't have an inward man that's being renewed. They have a dead man that's the old man. It's dead and it's corrupt, and there's nothing to renew And verse 17 says, For our light affliction. And he says, What? Which is but for a moment. It's a moment. The psalmist says our life is but a Hand breadth. This is a hand breadth right here. Hand breadth. Mighty short. A few weeks ago I turned 61. I never thought I'd hit that age. Are you kidding me? Buy it by a tombstone, Jeffrey. I mean I'm one foot on a banana peel, one in the grave already. This is ridiculous. How did this happen? Verse 18 Oh, seventeen, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. You know the best illustration I can think of Again, I make no apologies. I I I have a background in building things and I kind of think that way. Imagine yourself to be a piece of lumber You're a tree in the woods, happily growing, drawing up sap, and one day you're cut down. How can this happen? You're removed utterly, entirely, and completely out of your place. You're just cut down You're carted off a long way to a sawmill where they strip off all the bark and you're sliced up into long sections, thrown into a kiln and dried. And stuck in a Home Depot underneath a whole bunch of others. You've just been carted away. Your nice livelihood is just cut down. And then someday somebody sticks you in the back of a broken Toyota 4x4 and hauls you off to a job site, props you up, starts cutting off an end. As if the cutting was over, it's not. There's still some more cutting And then you're hammered into place and you show up in the frame of a church. a more noble purpose. And there you find that you're covered with Brick and drywall, and you're hidden. But there was a season when you were thriving and flourishing in the forest and the birds of the air, but now you have the singing of Christians around you You're serving a more noble purpose. And this is what God does, this brief moment of whatever, because you're part of the house of God, right? The house of God we say is people Right. Aren't they being fashioned for an eternal service in a kingdom that knows no end? It's not right. Right. So you should expect some refinement You should expect some changing. Behold, he says, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the firms of affliction. Our trials are nothing to what others have endured, our sorrows are nothing compared with the Son of Man. He was called a man of sorrow, acquainted with grief. He woke up and grief was right there with him. He was acquainted with grief, but it was a brief time. It wasn't forever. Or a light affliction, but for a moment. So has not God told us we will have trials, so why am I dismayed when they come? Fifth point, and I'll close up here And this one really, I really have been meditating on a lot over the past year. It happened to be sitting here in my notes from over a decade ago, but I have been thinking a lot about it. And the fifth thought I have as we contemplate going into a new year is that I believe that we have entirely too much attachment to this world. That's your fill-in-the-blank. Too much attachment to this world, this present life For a people to whom God has told us, the world passeth away. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. You know, I uh I recall that fateful day when the um planes hit the towers. Um I first everybody knows where they were when I first heard the news. And I was at a bank depositing a check. I saw it up on the bank screen that TV was just going nuts. And I raced back to Bakheet Martin where everybody was filing into their large auditorium as they streamed. the events on their big screen TVs and just the shock of everybody watching as both towers came down And it struck a note of fear in me. I was like, I I I gotta get home to Angela and the kids. It really struck a note of fear in me. It was a little terrifying. Those are just two buildings And whatever else came down with it. Just a couple. What am I gonna? And you know, before I get to what am I gonna do, think about Sodom and Gomorrah And the angels came to Lot and knocked on his door, Do you have any in here beside your sons-in-law? All that you have in this place, bring them out For the Lord will surely destroy the city. He had a note, he had a message, he had a warning from God, this place will be destroyed. You have a note, you have a warning, you have a message from God, this place will be destroyed It will be. This is not anything people worry about saving the planet. We should be good stewards. I'm not saying go trash it But it will end. It has a decided end. And his wife stopped and looked back. Anybody venture a guess why she looked back? Why did Lot's wife look back? Any ideas? She loved her home. Um that in wrong part. Right. Lot was not married when he went in, so he would have married somebody from Sodom and Gomorrah, and she And a longing, just a longing look over her shoulder. One longing look. One little tiny bit of attachment. Just one last glimpse back home. Just So I can remember how it was and she turned into a pillar of salt. No, she wasn't a pillar of preservation, she's a pillar of judgment. Looking back. Too much attachment. Abraham is one called he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Abraham wasn't attached to things of this world. He was a very generous man. He says, To the sons of Heth, as he's trying to buy a a cave or to bury his dead wife, he says, What is this to thee? Just take it. It's very generous. The Saints don't have this clinging attachment to the things of this world. They're not that hung up on it. They ought not to be. Again, Hebrews 11, truly if they had been mindful of those things. They would have had a recent agree. I'm not quoted. They might have had opportunity to return. Yeah. Yeah. But now he seeks the heavenly. The apostle said in 2 Corinthians 5. 1, we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God. Sure in the heavens, we have a building of God. Believers long to be with Jesus Christ. They really do. There you find perfection. There you find life. There you find life-giving. There you find access to the tree of life. Your sciatic and nerve pain gone. with Christ, your eyesight restored and then summed at the presence of Christ. Your ignorance totally dissipated with the knowledge of God. The glorious robes and righteousness. All that you desire in this world, he is the complete fulfillment of. Joy is beyond measure. The ability to walk without pain, gone. It says we're sons of light. We can move very quickly. I don't know what that looks like. It's beyond what we could possibly imagine. But it seems so difficult for us to tear loose from this world. The Lord Jesus told us through the Apostle Peter to look for the coming of the day of God when the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with fervent. Why is it we cling so tenaciously to this world? So my parting application as we go into a new year, let's consider how God has answered our petitions this past year. Have you prayed to the Lord? Have you uh asked other saints to pray for you? Has he not answered them this past year? I would submit to you. Yes he has. There are many that he has. In his timing he answers some and others he pr uh politely declines or puts you on hold and says, well a little later I've got a better plan. Reflect upon your distress and anxiety during that period of time while it's fresh in your mind. Think about the distresses you had. Think about the anxiety. And then all of a sudden, oh, I popped on the other side of it. I like to remind people sometimes, now you have a praise report this week, don't you? Why? Well, because two weeks ago you were praying for this and now it's passed. Oh, oh yeah. Well remember that. That's an answer to prayer. And would you not consider that to have been a needless worry You know, the antidote for all of these things is to rejoice in the Lord at all times, because that promotes the realization of his wonderful promises to us. Well that's all I have is uh is uh this morning. So let's uh close with a a brief moment of prayer. Father God in heaven, Lord, forgive us for our Fears and doubts, and Lord, please encourage and strengthen us for this year coming up, Lord, though we know we'll have trials and tribulations and afflictions. We trust and look to your comforting hand to guide us and take us through it all. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen