Last week we concluded Chapter Eleven of Second Samuel. And this morning we begin in chapter twelve of second Samuel. I know on your Bible there's about a three-eighth of an inch space between verse twenty-seven of chapter eleven and verse one of Chapter twelve. So that little white area of three quarters or three eighths of an inch space encompasses six uh rather nine months, all right? It's been nine months from the last verse in chapter eleven until the first verse in chapter twelve. And that's significant in that we found that King David had an adulterous affair in chapter eleven. And And that uh she was with child, and so David of course trying to hide his sins, he he has her husband uh conveniently killed in in combat And so we pick up nine months later, last chapter, he finds out Bathsheba is pregnant. And now we're in chapter 12 and verse 1, nine months later, if you read with me, and we'll just do the first 20 verses. And the Lord sent Nathan, now Nathan is a prophet, unto David, and he came unto him, and he said unto him, There were two men in one city, and the one was rich and the other was poor. And the rich men had exceedingly many flocks and herds, and the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb. which he brought and nourished up, and grew up together with him, and with his children, and that did eat of his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his own bosom, and was on him as a daughter. For those of you who don't have pets, you can't understand that. But even the writer under inspiration of the Holy Spirit understood how close you could become to a little lamb And some of you know that if you've had a a cat or a dog, uh a parrot, any kind, even a fish in a fishbowl, you can get very attached to these things And um especially when they can colour you back, like a lamb can, or a cat or a dog can. And so and and uh here we have it that it was like onto a daughter to him. Get very close to your pets, can't we? And there came verse four a traveler unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd to dress, that is to kill and to dress it for food, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. But he took instead the poor man's lamb. Remember he only had one and dressed it or killed it and dressed it for the man that was come to him, and they must have eaten it. And David's anger was greatly kindled against such a man. And David said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, and the man that hath done this thing shall surely die, and he shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing, and because he had no pity So he's got to restore the lamb fourfold, and then we're going to kill him. And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. I know some people like to read it, thou art the man! That's not the heart of Nathan. He loved David He's put it out in a story to him. It must have broke his heart to turn to the king and say, Thou art the man Thou art the man. Thou, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anoint thee king over Israel. So he continues with his rebuke to David. I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. I gave thee thy master's house, thy master's wives, into thy bosom, and I gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah. And if that had been too little, I would have more given unto thee such and such things. Whatever you'd have asked for. Verse 9 Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord? Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not covet. He's really, you know, you break one commandment, you pretty much break them all How is it that you've despised the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight? Thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite. With the sword, and has taken his wife to be thy wife, and has slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon Now therefore, the sword shall never depart from thine house, David. Because thou hast despised me, that is the Lord, and hast taken the wife of Uriah, the Hittite, to be thy wife Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house, and I will take thy wives before thine eyes and give them unto thy neighbor And he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of the sun, out in the open to embarrass you before all Israel. For thou didst it secretly, But I will do this thing before all Israel, before the sun. And David said unto Nathan, I just don't know how to read this uh the way it must have come from David, but we have here in Psalm fifty one an immediate broken and contrite heart. I mean, when Nathan says thou art the man, he must have just I don't know how much of the rest of it he heard. But he comes back and he says I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, The Lord hath also put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die. The law of the land was an adulterer to be put to death. And David knew I'd sinned against the Lord and committed adultery, not just the murder of the Hittite Uriah, but I've sinned against the Lord I am to be put to death. That's what he's saying when he says, I've sinned against the Lord. And Nathan says, thou shalt not die. Howbeit, because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord. To blaspheme the child also that is born untoe shall surely die. And Nathan departed unto his house, and the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick. David therefore besought God for the child, and David fasted, and he went in, he lay all night upon the earth of the ground in the dirt. And the elders of his house arose and they went to him to raise him from off the earth of the dirt, but he would not, neither did he bread with them. And it came to pass on the seventh day that the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead. For they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he would not hearken unto our voice. How will he then be vexed himself if we tell him the child is dead? But David saw that his servants were whispering. And David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, he is dead. This child was never named in scripture, by the way. It's just the child. He, it's a boy, it's a son Then David arose from the earth and he washed and he anointed himself and he changed his apparel and he came to the house of the Lord and worshiped. Wow. Let's look at these verses again a little more closely In verses 1 through 5, we know what has transpired here, how Nathan comes to David and he pours out him the story of the rich man and the poor man. And how the rich man took the poor man's only sheep and dressed it and he ate it. And David said to Nathan, as the Lord liveth, he took a vow. As the Lord liveth, that man that done this thing shall surely die. David's pronouncing judgment of death upon himself when he says this. And now it's just for the adultery and the stealing of the sheep. David didn't perceive at that point that Nathan was talking about himself. And so he was going to really be hard on this guy. And I think that that happens with us too. We are so blind to our own faults. When we see the fault of ourselves and someone else, boy, we're hard. I mean that guy ought to go to jail, that guy ought to be put in the death sentence, that guy ought to be put, you know, uh put away for life, I mean this that man ought to be tortured, uh you know, let's waterboard him, let's do all these things to him, you know. We're really harsh when we we're judging somebody else. And then when someone points out to us we've done the same thing. We have a different standard. We have an excuse. We have a reason for what we did. But if it's laid out and we don't know, and I think sometimes we think about judgment in heaven And well we'll be there before the white throne judgment, watching God judge the wicked, and and this soul and that soul will come up and we'll be there with the with the angels and Gabriel and Michael, and there's gonna be this judgment of these people, and the soul that it will be pointed out the sins the soul did. And God will say this man deserves hell for all eternity in the lake of fire and will sit there and we'll probably amend it not knowing who the soul is and they may reveal it to be someone nearer and dearer to you. And that's what was happening here with David. Well, he just thought this man should be dealt. And so I would say this morning, do you tend to judge others more harshly than yourself? Or do you tend to judge yourself less harshly than others for the same things? David's reply was, The man should surely die. You know, if Nathan said, Well, if you insist, because that man is you, but Nathan didn't do that. You see how standards change? It depends on whether it's you or it's somebody else that's committed a sin. I mean we're all sitting here this morning and we got two standards. Boy, we got this one here that we want to toss the book at everyone. And then when it's ours, it's we're looking for the loopholes, right? We have two different standards. But the fact is we need to be guided by a standard that never changes. The the reason it's called a standard is because it never changes, all right? If it varies back and forth like uh like shadows, then it's not a standard. But we need a standard. We need to be held to a standard, something that changes not And I find it interesting in Hebrews thirteen eight, Christ is quite the standard to follow. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Christ never changes. And Christ said he declared that the standard, he declared the scriptures the standard, and he said ye do err not knowing the scriptures in in the Matthew 22 and 29. So Christ, who is the standard, never changes. He said this is the standard. You err because you know not the scriptures. And you know something That's what Christ said two thousand years ago, and it hasn't changed. We are still erring today because we don't know the scriptures. That's the standard. It's been around for several thousand years And we need to go by a standard that never changes. Our government is constantly changing. You know, you almost need a scorecard to figure out what's going on. The standards were that sodomy Idolatry, pornography were a sin. But today, well, sodomy is that's the blessing now. We give them a marriage certificate. We give them tax exemption and idolatry. We're bringing by the hordes. Uh immigration uh the laws are not being enforced. We're bringing the people from all kinds of background, they're bringing in their idolatry and their gods. They're not messing with us. They're not Uh they're not we're not becoming a melting pot. We're becoming such a diverse nation of all kinds of standards and laws. Michigan and the courts of Michigan and some of the courts in in Texas, they live by the Sharia law. They don't go by this anymore And matrimony, my good, the definition of matrimony has changed. How do you change thousands and thousands of years? The standard. Who has the right to change God's word? Who has the right to change God's standards? And then we find when they change the standards, the standards just keep on changing every couple of months, don't they? The scriptures are unchangeable. They're the standard we're to keep. They're like the lighthouse out there on a solid rock somewhere, and there's a ship out there, and you've got the light never moves. It's a standard. It saves souls. It saves lives. And we need a standard that never changes that our souls might be saved. That we know how to be guided in life with decisions that we make But men have two standards today. We judge others harsher than we judge ourselves. We have two standards. You know, i the standards in my lifetime have changed. Don't you dare kill a bald eagle, but you can kill a baby up to two seconds before it's born You can burn the American flag, but don't you get caught burning trash out in your backyard. You'll go to jail or get fined for that one You can deny God's warning Deny it's the standard, deny anything you want in here, nothing. But deny global warming, you're in trouble. You can lose your job, you can be demoted, you can be blackballed from scientific society So God had standards, and Nathan was reminding David of those standards in verses one through five. And finally in verse 7, Nathan said to Daniel, or rather rather Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. The other one that stole the only you that this man had Now some would say that nobody confronts somebody and Nathan was confronting David with the words of God because those words became the words of God as is Nathan is saying, thou art the man. When he said it it wasn't the word of God, but we know today it is the Word of God. So he was quoting the Word of God. He was giving the Word of God to him. And people say, you know, if you use the Bible, it's so insulting If you use the Bible, it's so abrasive. If you use the Bible, it's so harsh. Was Nathan being harsh? I think like I said, I don't think Nathan said, Thou art a man you know, I don't believe that. I think he I think Nathan had a broken heart. He loved David And he was so disappointed when God came back, you know, Nathan didn't know what David had done. God comes to David, or rather, God comes to Nathan, tells Nathan what's going on, and sends him to tell David. And Nathan said, Can you send somebody else? I mean I love this guy. He's really neat. I better go confront him with something. He didn't know about it We had some in the church one time that they said that their calling was to rebuke people. That was recalling. And boy they did. They went through this church like a wildfire. They were rebuking people. Every time a woman got her hair cut a little shorter, boy, she went after them, you know. You you've heard of pastors having a rule and they checked the hit the height of the skirt or the hands of the people coming to the church. She was running around type of the rule, checking the length of the hair of the women in the church. She didn't have a rule to have, but um she said that God had called her to rebuke people. Boy. She had a lot of friends. No I've always said if you if you feel it it that you don't want to rebuke someone because you love them, you're the one that should go to them and rebuke them. That's the first the person I've been called to rebuke. No you haven't. It's a person like Nathan, the God goes to that once you go and rebuke David. Oh no, not me, David. I love David. What did you? Oh, your kid, and that's what he did. Oh, can you find somebody else? That's the person that should go. Someone's heart is broken as they confront the person. And Nathan says to David, Thou art the man. And I think David heard in his voice the cracking and the love in his heart and said, He says, David, thou art the man. That's what he heard. Thou art the man. But people tell us it's not kind, it's harsh, it's unforgiving, it's not It's not the way you should treat people, you know, using the Bible, using the Word of God, using the using the standards of the Bible to confront it. It just isn't the kind thing to do. But I'm going to tell you something. If I got a physician, I want him to reveal it to me what is wrong with me. That it might be addressed and taken care of. I don't think it's a kind physician who says, yeah, you'll probably be all right. Don't worry about it. And then he hides the x-rays or he throws re reports down on it. I want to know the the kindest thing that the physician can do is tell me the truth. The kindest thing your car mechanic can do to you is tell you, those brakes are getting pretty thin. If you're going down through the Blue Ridge Mountains this weekend, I don't think so until you fix the brakes Rather than saying, well, they're pretty thin, but boy, if I tell them it breaks, it's a $400 job or whatever, he's not going to like me. You want to know the truth. And the truth you may say that it may not be palatable, it may not be something you want to hear. But God's word is a merciful way to tell someone You're on the wrong path. You're off the path, actually. You're not on the straight and narrow. You're on the broad path that leadeth to destruction. It is a kindness. It is a mercy to tell somebody they are sinning. Tell it in love. And Nathan was doing that here. How do you respond to rebuke Boy, David here, it's amazing in the next verse we're going to get to in a second. But how do you respond to correction rebuke? We go ahead a few chapters in the Book of Chronicles, you really get the heartbreak. I mean you can read the fifty-first Psalm. And if you can't read that without crying, you're not reading it right, because that's what David's doing. He is weeping as he pens the fifty-first Psalm. Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. That's why you need to read that So how did he take the rebuke? Well verse 7 will tell us, but there's all through the scripture that tells us how he took that rebuke. Do you know what he did a couple of years later? He had a little baby boy, not Solomon, but he had another little baby boy. He named him Nathan after the boy. Prophet who told him the truth. And I had to have heard, but he told him the truth. You read in 1 Chronicles 3 and verse 5. And now there's something very subtle when you read this. We all know that Solomon was born of Bathsheba. You would have thought that Nathan would have said, You're not going to die, the baby's going to die, and divorce this woman, and that's it, and we're settled. But God allows the marriage to stand. And even blesses the marriage with Solomon, who goes on to write scriptures. It's amazing the forgiveness and mercy of God. Wherever you find yourself in life, dear friend, there is a merciful God. Who's not as harsh on you as other others might be. Solomon is born of Bathsheba, writes a song of Solomon, writes some of the problem. I mean, she uses this guy. I mean, and we could talk about whether Solomon was saved or not. And I I believe he was, and that's a whole nother message. But but the reason I'm talking about that is Bathsheba has another child by David, Nathan Wow. So it's not just Solomon that God blesses this marriage. It has a horrendous sinful start, no question about that. No question about that. But he blesses that marriage with Solomon and then with Nathan And unless you don't quite grasp this yet, read Luke 3 and 31. Because out of the loins of the tribe of Judah, of Jesse, of David, of Nathan comes the Lord Jesus Christ. Wow. Boy, talk about forgiveness. You kill this woman, you seduce this woman or take her by the power of as a king. You seduce her or take her by power, you commit adultery with her, you kill her husband, and God uses the child that's that comes from David and Bathsheba. Kind of like Rahab the harlot, there's another story, right? She's also in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. So how much was David forgiven? Oh my Not only would he not die, but God would would still use him in some respects. But there's also a lot of rebuking that continues Here. Verses 7 through 12. Thus saith the Lord God, I anointed thee King. I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul, King Saul. I gave thee thy master's house, wives, Israel, Judah. And you take this little lamb, this little somebody else's wife. You know, the story was a rich man and the poor man, and that the rich man, he takes the other one's The poor man's you. And that's that was David's story here. But you know what I find here? Obviously it's a heart problem when you steal another man's sheep. Obviously it's a har it's not a poverty problem. It was the rich man who stole the poor man's sheep. People say, well poverty's creating crime and poverty's these people out there breaking the stores or you know Genosa Wrights in Baltimore, they've broken the liquor stores. You know, they broke in the pharmacies and got the drugs. And it wasn't because of poverty they were doing this. They were crime is not Promoted because of poverty. Crying out there and said it's because of a spiritual problem of the heart. Poverty does not initiate sin. That's an insult to tell a poor person, well, you're a poor person, so I know you're a thief. That's a horror they tell poor people. You're poor and it justifies them doing it. And that's a sin too, to justify them sinning because they're poor. This is a rich man that stole. The problem is with the heart, the problem is not with our wallets And then he goes on, he says, wherefore thou hilled Uriah with the sword, verses twelve, uh seven through twelve. And behold, I will raise up evil out of thine house. So yes, there was a Solomon. And yes, there is a son named Nathan, and yes, he's in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. But, but, the sword shall never depart from thine house. Behold, I will raise up evil. out of thine own house, out of thy own children. They will take your wives and give them unto thy neighbor and he shall lie with thy wives before all Israel. And we find that that takes place in 2 Samuel 16, 20 and 22, that all the wives are taken out, put on the rooftop, perhaps the same rooftop where David stood staring at Bathsheba. And the wives are taken from someone in his own house named Absalom, his own son. That's gross that your own son would do that to your wife. First Davidson could do great harm Because the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ today would use David's sins as an excuse, well, I'm not doing anything different. And I've heard people do that. Hey, okay, I'm a sinner, you know, I don't commit adultery. King David did it too. See, you can use that as an excuse. What we have in the scripture sometimes is not a prescription for how to live, it's a description of how even God's people sometimes fell. into sin. This doesn't give us a reason to go out and collect concubines and wives. It doesn't give us that. It just this is the description of what happened and what happened afterwards when they did it Now you say, well, if King David had multiple wives, why can't we be like Mormons or something and do the same thing? Did you see what happens to David for all of this? The children that he has from the multiple wife, they are killing each other, they're seducing and raping each other within the same household. I mean it's a mess Now raise up evil out of thine own house. It's no excuse to do what David didn't think it was That's the part they miss. They don't read the Bible enough to know. You do error not knowing the scriptures. David did not get by. He had consequences And for us to run around and say, well, they were doing it in the Bible. You know, the great Abraham, he had concubines, and and uh, you know, we've got the same thing going on with with uh Jacob, I mean he had he had uh you know a couple of wives and and we got David and I mean you know they're all doing it. They all paid the consequences. You gotta read the whole Bible. You gotta read these things in context. Everybody's doing it. Young people say that they took a survey among Christians of whether adultery was wrong. Among even Jacob Born-again Christians. The uh the Barn Barna survey, I think it's called Barn I forget the name, Barnell Over 40% of young Christians today think that sex outside of marriage is okay. Wow, why everybody's doing it. It's acceptable in society today. Not acceptable in here. Well that's pretty narrow minded. Yep. About an inch and a quarter narrow minded. But it's the standard. It's the standard of a thrice holy God. Who you will stand before judgment. Not before your friends, not before society. You're going to stand before a thrice holy God, and you will be judged by the holy standards. The people, they think everybody else is getting away with it. There will be consequences. There were consequences in the day of Noah. when the flood came. And you know something I noticed about the day of Noah? They were continually evil in his day, and it they were all doing it Except for eight that got on the ark. And then you look at the days of Lot and people people be sitting up there in the city of Gomorrah and they say, Hey, look what we're doing here in Gomorrah. Isn't this great? Well, I don't know if it's right or not, you know. A lot such a lot, what's he know? And besides, they're doing it down in some s in the city of Sodom, you know. Hey, we've got to get with the program. We want to be like the other big cities And so Sodom was joined by Gomorrah. And guess what? The consequences fell upon both those cities. But everybody was doing it, and everybody paid the consequences. There will be consequences. And secondly, David, not only will there be consequences, but the enemies of the Lord could surely mock. They could blaspheme, as it says in verse 14, they would do. They could blaspheme the followers of the scriptures. Unless severe consequences followed, not only would the those who profess to be Christians would do what David did, but those who profess to be atheists and agnostics and And idolaters, they would use an excuse, say, Well, I'm not going to be one of those. Look at the the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Look how those people act. And they would blaspheme the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. And God said, We can't have that blaspheming. So there will be consequences that follow. That they not think that our God thought it was okay, and that once in a while we could wiffle on the standards a little bit And so we read here in 2 Samuel 12, the first son dies, 2 Samuel 13, the second son, Ammon dies. 2 Samuel 18, the third son Absalom dies. And 2 Samuel, or rather, 1 Kings 2 Adoniz and the fourth son dies. All die by the sword, by the way Uriah was killed by the sword, and so the four sons, they die by the sword. That's not karma, like the world likes to call it. That's the word of God. Visiting upon us the iniquity in soul-like manner. Pharaoh was drowning babies, right, in the days of Moses. How did he die? He drowned in the Red Sea God often does that so that the sin we are accused of comes right. We we know what's happening. As Pharaoh was drowning, he had to be thinking, I drowned their babies and not one. Downing. And the older Egypt would look at that and see the same thing. And so after all this seven through twelve, what's going to fall upon David's household? David says in verse thirteen unto Nathan, sinned against the Lord And I I think he must have just collapsed back on his chair or his throne and and you know if if you could see that he would he would Nathan would be talking to him and the made her stand and he would just he'd collapse and have sinned against the Lord I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord. I've sinned against the Lord Now you might think that's exaggeration, but I think it went exactly like that. Because when Nathan saw how he received it and how he spoke about it, how he out of his voice came, I've sinned against the Lord. Nathan announced that he is immediately forgiven. Wow. And we'll see that in just a moment David didn't make any excuses. He said, I've sinned against the Lord. David didn't deny the charges. I've sinned against the Lord. David didn't look for any loopholes. He said, I've sinned against the Lord. He confessed immediately, I've sinned against the Lord, unlike his predecessor, King Saul, who had sinned against the Lord, and that he was supposed to kill all the Amalekites. and kill Agag the king and not to take any of the spoil or any of the booty. You're supposed to kill off everything, all the sheep, all the camel, the goats. You suppose so Saul's sin wasn't near as bad Saul didn't commit adultery of some woman. Saul didn't kill the woman's husband. Saul's sin wasn't near as bad, but he did not confess his guilt. And dear friend, that's where we are this morning. You can say, I haven't done anything like King David has done Wonderful. I hope you never do. But if you only done something like Saul, covered a couple of sheep and goats and just drink it it wasn't as bad what Saul did. But the problem that the difference between Saul and David was David, confess before God and man. I've sinned against the Lord. And Saul would not confess it. That's the difference in salvation, friend. It's not what you've you can't say, well, wait, my good and my bad, and I'm not as bad as the other guy. You probably aren't as bad as the other guy. But if he's confessed his sins, he's saved. And Saul would not confess his sins. You go back and read 1 Samuel 15. When Saul is confronted by Samuel the prophet, he said, Did you do anything you were told? Oh, I did everything you were told. Then what's the bleeding of the sheep I hear? And Saul said, oh, that is, well, he said, we spared the sheep for a sacrifice to God. Liar Nathan looks at him and he says, Oh, I'm sorry, Abba. Actually the people took the sheep. I didn't take the sheep. The people, my soldiers, sorry, I had nothing to do with it. Samuel didn't buy that either. And then Sam in Samuel 15 and 24, King Saul says, I feared the people. I didn't know what to do. I was afraid they'd get mad at me. They might not want me as a king. They might kill you. I was just so afraid. Liar. King David, he certainly has sinned. Even in a saved person, there are remnants, fragments, residue of our sin nature. You know, we're in a process of sanctification. As we near heaven we get more sanctified, but uh we should be. We're praying all the time, reading the word of God, we're on our knees, but there's these remnants and residue and fragments of our old sin nature, even in the saved soul like King David's But the good news is, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And that 51st Psalm where David says, you know, forgive me for my blood guiltiness. He said, I haven't killed anybody. Well, maybe nobody here has. Or maybe somebody if you ever aborted a baby, you're guilty of the shedding of blood. But Psalm 51 says you can be forgiven for shedding of blood. And Jesus Christ cleansed us from all sin, 1 John 1:7. Boyfriend, there's nothing you've done that can't be forgiven. The dirtiest, darkest, most devilish of sins, if we trust Christ's work on the cross, we're forgiven. Now for one to say I've sinned against the Lord, that's not easy. People might go to person say I already sinned against you. You know, I stole a tire off your car a couple years ago. Here's a new tire. How do you confess to God? That is not easy. They say, oh, I don't know if that's hard or not. Well then do then do it. If it's not hard to confess to God that you have sinned, if that's not hard to do, then do it Some people can't do that. I've talked to people, I say, look, would you like to go to heaven? Yes. Just tell God you're sorry for the sins you get. Do that? Oh, come on. It can't be that. I'm not going to do that. It's one little sentence. How about two words? I've sinned. Lord, forgive me. Four words. White people just can't do that. It took David, a saved man, nine months to confess his sin, by the way. That's how hard it is sometimes to confess certain sins, even to God. It took him nine months to confess and repent Repentance goes deeper than just confessing to another man or to a priest somewhere. It means we've got to confess it to God. I have sinned against the Lord. Verse 13. And David would write Psalm fifty one, restore unto me the joy of my salvation. He had lost his joy Hadn't lost his salvation. He said, Return unto me the joy of my salvation. And from what they, you know, they they number the psalms, they tell you when this psalm was written, that psalm was written, and what they can determine is this. From chapter 11. Of 2 Samuel chapter 12 of 2 Samuel. David never wrote a psalm. He had no joy. He was burdened and buried down in the sin. He had no joy. They said his harp hung in the palace covered in dust. The strings were covered in dust. He wasn't playing the harp anymore. He had no joy. The 32nd Psalm he says the same thing. I kept silent, my bones waxed old enough through the roaring all my day long, and my days and my nights, the hand of God was heavy upon me. A brief moment of pleasure with David cost him long hours, days, weeks, and months of agony And if you are really saved and you go out and commit some of the sins that the men in the Bible commit, you're going to have long hours and days and months of agony. You just think, well, that was pleasant, I got by with it, and I'm doing okay. Then question your salvation. If you can do things, things that David has done here, you should be in agony. You should feel like you're dried up like a potter. You should feel the hand of God heavy upon you. You should feel like you're waxing old. You shouldn't have any joy at all. David had none. A man that sins and still has joy, that's not David. That's not a soul like David, a man after God's own heart. You're in deep trouble. Deep trouble if you can sin and if you have people out there all the time they say, Well yeah, I'm uh I know what I did is not right. I've been yeah, I've been not living right for a while. I'm I'm in a bachelor's state And they kind of chuckle. You can't chuckle about a backslitten state. If you have done what David has done, it ought to raise goosebumps on your soul. The judgment is coming, and you haven't yet told God, I confess before the Lord that I have sinned. Your soul ought to be just douchebumped with fear if you're saved The intensity of David's repentance. I have sinned against the Lord. It must have been so intense as I was as I was sitting over here, repeating himself over and over, almost like uh you know just couldn't get out of it, couldn't get out of it I've sinned against the Lord, I've sinned against the Lord, I've sinned against the Lord. Lord, I'm trying to sin against the Lord. And it must have been so intense that Nathan immediately realized this was true repentance. And so Nathan says to him in verse thirteen, The Lord also hath put away thy sin, thou shalt not die. Forgiveness was immediately given to him in the restored. You know, you wonder how long it's going to take for God to forgive you? It's in the twinkling of an eye. If there's an intensity and serity of your confession, it's in the twinkling of an eye you're forgiven, and you'll feel the difference The joy will be restored to your life and to your soul. Forgiveness obliterates the guilt of sin. We die, and as we're passing by the white throne judgment, we don't have to stop there. There's no judgment for us Forgiveness, it eradicates the guilt of sin. You know, Satan's up there, the great accuser, and he said, Oh, here comes another I want to accuse. And the Lord said, No, you let him go. He's one of him mind. He repented. He confessed his sins. He's white as snow, white as wool. He's covered in the blood of my son Jesus Christ. He just he's not going to stop off the white throne judgment and be judged. So that's the forgiveness obliterates the guilt of the sin. It removes the eternal consequences of the sin. It destroys the habitual power of sin over us. If you ask God to forgive you and he really forgives you, those habits die Those sinful habits die. They may not die the next day. They may not die as quickly as other sins, but your sins begin to die off and shred up and go away. And yeah, on the day before you die, you'll still be a sinner. There'll still be things you're doing, but you'll no longer be what you once were. You will have grown in sanctification So probably nobody here has coveted somebody else's wife and seduced them And then they're covered up, killed their husband. Is that a pretty good guess? I I bet you I'm right. I don't think it's probably anybody here's done that. But if you have, or if you think you've done something either worse. Your case is not hopeless. Again, I say to you, your case is not hopeless. We have redemption. through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins, Colossians 1. 14. The blood of Christ cleanses us of all sin. Regardless how many times you've done it, regardless of who you've done it with, or who you've done it against, we are cleansed in the blood of Christ. However, verse 14 says, Because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blast to blast him rather, the child shall surely die. It must have pained David. The baby's born, it's a very sickly baby, he's watching the baby. Nathan's told him the baby's gonna die, and so that this baby is born and it's a sickly baby And David starts pacing and the baby's getting sicker and sicker. He's looking at more and more and finally he just drops down on the ground. He begins praying. He's fasting, he's not gonna eat anything. He's laying in the dirt of his of his tent. He's the face down the dirt. He's fasting. He's praying. He's praying for his child. The child will not die. And you see the you see the intensity Uh and the in the pain of David as his child is dying and you say, Well, I guess he's he's really weeping over this child. He's not weeping so much over the child is dying is the fact that the David has done this to the child. It's not the child is dying. The child is dying because of me sinning. And that was the immense pain that David felt. How would you feel if you're the cause of someone's death? If you knew beyond a shadow of doubt that it was your reason, that it was because of you, somebody was down dying or died. Did that bother you? You run over the car, back up over with a car? You know, some you you you do s you you forget to hook the parachute upright and they jump off a plane and parachute doesn't I mean how would you feel if someone died because of you? Somebody did. The Lord Jesus Christ. He died for your sins. How does that make you feel? Have you ever agonized over that? Have you ever groaned over that? Does it cause you some sorrow in your life? That your sins put the Son of God through the cross? Place them on the cross. If that has never bothered you, they've never agonized, you've never sorrowed over that, I pray that it will someday. You need to be upset that you were the cause for the death Of someone. Someone precious, someone holy, someone pure, someone good. Someone who if he hadn't died could cure you of all your ailments right now as you sit there. We killed the antidote You know, we're out there trying to discover, you know, oh how do we get rid of polio, how do we get rid of tuberculosis, how do we get rid of cancer. We killed the antidote. He could take care of leprosy. If you die before he got he could raise you from the dead. We how can you not feel something about the death of Christ and your sins By the cause of it. The Lord struck the child, and it was very sick, and David besought it, and on the seventh day the child died. On the seventh day the child died. On the seventh day the child died. You know what takes place on the eighth day? That man child was to be circumcised. You know what that meant to a Jew if the child didn't live long enough to be circumcised? It was a horrible thought that that was the sign of the covenant, the seal of the covenant. It was a blessing that God would bring upon your child for long life. It was a blessing upon your child That he would be prosperous, he'd be fruitful, and he'd have other children, that he'd live long upon the land in which he was born. It was all these blessings, and the only thing that could befall that child, and he missed the circumcision Genesis 17 and verse 12. And how about the celebration that followed? The Jews loved to celebrate. They were party people, by the way. And there was no celebration on the eighth day for the circumcision, there was a funeral. Wow. And so no celebration A funeral and David gets up and he washes and he cleans up and he goes into the temple, Lord, and he worships? How many of you here can, after going through a loss of a loved one, show up the next Sunday and worship? We don't often see that. That's a tough thing to do, to get in the worship mode after the death of a loved one. But David loves the Lord. If one says they've repented, but their nature has not changed. Boy, David said he repented, his nature had changed. Even at the death of his son, he's back to worshiping the next day. If your nature hasn't changed, you ask Christ for a miracle of the new birth. Only those who become a new creature in Christ, 2 Corinthians 5 and 17, can really worship the Lord when their life is going to hell in a handbasket. When her health is bad, when her family situations are bad, only those who are really new creatures in Christ can handle the circumstances of this life in such a way. I asked you this morning, are you here to worship or are you just barely here this morning because of the shots you've taken in the world? Whatever those shots are that you've taken this week, last week, last month. If you're a new creature in Christ, you're here to worship. Praise God for it. And we'll close the service right now. With our last song. Let me just pray first. Oh Lord. We do thank you, Lord, that you you do chasten us. And not everything bad that happens to us is the chasten of the Lord. The world might think we're being chastened for something we've done, but We know in our hearts sometimes that the things that happen to us, there's no cause for it, except that God might get the glory, that whatever happens to us, we still worship you, we still love you, we still pray to you, we still lift your name on high, we still hold your Bible in our grasp. And love it and share it with others. Oh Lord, today, whatever's going through our lives, may we still worship you in this last song. As we close the service. And it's in Christ's name, our great God and Savior, who did shed his blood on the cross for all our sins. And all God's people said, Amen. Amen. Let's close our last hymn