Open in your Bible with me this morning to the third of the Gospels, the book of Mark, and to the twelfth chapter. And I will take our scripture reading from verse 28 through verse 34. I would love to read the entirety of the chapter. We will be referring to portions of it because you cannot really separate out the teaching. It's all related. It's all unified. And uh Lord willing we'll see some of that unity this morning. But for our scripture reading, I'm going to begin in verse 28 and read down through verse 34. Mark twelve verse twenty-eight through thirty-four And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth, for there is one God, and there is none other but he And to love him with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the soul and with all the strength. And to love his neighbor as himself is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any questions. Let us pray. Gracious Father, as we approach this glorious passage of thy word today, Father, may your Holy Spirit indeed instruct us and teach us Lord, may we see the glorious connection between all the various accounts of this very chapter. And Lord, may we see how your word is indeed line upon line and precept upon precept. May you show us this morning from your word how the ideas and philosophies of man are set aside and put to naught, put to shame before the glorious Word of God. Father, we thank you that the entrance to thy word giveth light, give us light this day. And Father, we thank you even for this scribe who was not far from the kingdom of God. And from what we can learn from his question. Bless thy truth to us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's important with these gospel accounts not to try to isolate them because these are narratives, and the context of the passage. really opens up to us what the teaching was, what was going on. Imagine if you dropped into calculus class one day And you hadn't been there before and all you got was just this one lesson and that was it. Well, you you would leave quite confused. Because to learn a subject there must be a building foundation. And it's the same with our study of the gospels. If we just pick out a parable and take it out of its chapter and not consider what's taking place around it. We lose so much of the picture and the context. This 28th chapter begins with the story of the man who planted a vineyard And he built a wall around the vineyard and he left the vineyard to the husbandman. And at the time of harvest he sends his servant and the husbandman Send him away. And he sends another servant and they beat him. And he sends more servants and they beat them, and some of them they killed. And finally the husbandman, the owner of the husbandman, the owner of the vineyard sends to the husbandman his own son. And he says, Surely they will honor the son. But when the husband see the son of the vineyard owner, they say, We can take the inheritance for ourselves. We can get it for ourselves and they slay him. And of course the Pharisees perceived that Christ was giving a parable about them, that they were the husbandmen. And Christ was the son of the owner. But you see here, you have a bunch of Pharisees, and Christ chose them all you're trying to do is getting for yourself. You care nothing about the kingdom of God. And so that is where this chapter begins. But then, after Christ tells them Reminds them of the stone which is set at dawn to the builders. In verse 18 and following, he's addressing the Sadducees, and the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. And so the Sadducees come up with this marvelous story. There is this w uh man, he had a wife and he died. And so his brother married the wife and then he died. And then the brother married the wife and he died. And finally, this woman has had seven brothers to be her husband. Now in the kingdom of heaven, whose wife is she going to be? And they're trying to disprove the resurrection. And Christ says, You don't even know the scriptures. You're the Sadducees, but you don't know the Scriptures, and that's why you don't believe in the resurrection. Now, that foundational background is important to understand the question of this scribe. Because we began there in verse 28 that the scribe sees that he answered well He understands that Jesus is teaching, and he's just seen Jesus defeat the Pharisees, and now he's seen him defeat the scribes. And he says, oh boy, he is going after my enemies. Because you see, we tend to think about the scribes and the Pharisees and the Herodians. and the Sadducees as all being very similar. And the reason we make that assumption is because they all ganged up on Christ. They all hated the Messiah. But you see, they were actually all very much rivals. The Pharisees wanted predominance. And the scribes wanted predominance. And the Sadducees, they wanted to tell people what was up. So basically you've got the Methodists, the Baptists, the Presbyterians, and and you know the Lutherans and and they're all vying because there's only so many people out there. We've got to get all of them we can And so when Christ shamed the Pharisees with the parable of the vineyard owner The Sadducees, they're cheering for him now, but then he turns around and makes fun of them with their story about the woman who's had seven brothers. the husband. So now the scribe said, Okay, it's my turn. I I'm gonna I'm gonna do it now. And if you look at the Matthew account of this passage in Matthew seven. You don't need to turn there, but I'll read it to you quickly. And it came to pass that when Jesus ended these sayings, the people were astonished, that's not the verse I'm looking for. Matthew 22, 35, and one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question. tempting him. So this scribe, when he comes and asks this question, which is the first and greatest commandment, he's not seeking truth. He's coming to tempt Christ. He's coming to try to trip him up with his words. He's trying to gain an advantage over Jesus Christ. Now, what about this question? Which is the greatest commandment? This is an old argument, folks. You see, the Scribes and the Pharisees and the lawyers, they all argued over this. Some of them held that the greatest commandment was the commandment of the sacrifices. Certainly the commandments of the sacrifice there in the tabernacle, that has to be the greatest. Others believe that the wearing of the philosophies, that little box that they would wear on their forehead, And remember when we read there in a responsive reading, it talked about you know as a frontlet between thine eyes. That must be the greatest of the commandments. Others believe that the greatest commandment was that of purifying That must be the greatest commandments. The rabbis counted over 600 laws of Moses. And so there was an awful lot for them to argue about. And so this scribe comes and he says, I'm going to trip him up. I'm going to be the one that's going to get him. Which is the greatest commandment? And see in his thinking, if Christ agrees to the scribe, I win. If Christ dispels all their arguments, I win But Christ does not go to any of the commandments that they expect. Christ does not go to the commandments that I mentioned, but rather he cuts to the very heart of the matter. He answers as no other man can. Which is the first commandment? And Jesus answered him, the first commandment is this Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Now it's very interesting. That there is a difference in wording between the Old Testament and that which Christ quotes from the Old Testament And this is not an error. Christ is not making a mistake. Rather, Christ is expounding the teaching of what is really being said there. It is like this. In the Old Testament, where we read in Deuteronomy 6, verse 4, Hear, O Israel, the Lord, all capitals, our God is one Lord. The word there in the Hebrew is Yahweh. It is Jehovah. Hero Israel, Jehovah our God, is one Jehovah. But when we come to Mark 12, 29, Jesus says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord, Korias, our God, is one Lord, Korias. And Jesus there is not using Jehovah, but he's using the word Lord, which is the word Lord and Master. Behold, O Israel, your master is one master. And to make the situation even more beautiful is the fact that the Old Testament, where it says, the Lord our God, Jehovah our God is one Jehovah The God there in the middle is a plural. And so in the Old Testament, where the commandment is given, hear, O Israel, Heads up, listen. This is important. Don't miss it. Jehovah is one Lord, but our God is plural. And so when Christ repeats it, he doesn't use Jehovah because who is he? He is Jehovah. He is your Korios. And so Jesus, speaking to scribes, the Pharisees, the Herodians, the Sadducees. Takes the Old Testament passage, but he's applying it to himself. Listen up, Israel. You've got all these questions. You want to argue about which is the greatest commandment. I that speak to you of He. Jehovah in the flesh, your master, hero Israel, Messiah's come. Korias, your Elohim, is one Korias. Your master is one. He is here. And so In all the the confusion of the world, and all the fighting of Sadducees and Pharisees and Herodians and Scribes And Methodists and Presbyterians and Baptists and Lutherans and whoever else you want to throw in the pot. This is what you need to hear. The Lord our God is one. As the rabbis say, he has showed himself with three faces, or two faces, they would say. But he is one. He is a God of multiple faces, but he is one God. And Christ is showing us, no, there's the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And so well said the Old Testament, as Christ quotes in Matthew 13, verse 15, for this people's heart is waxed gross. And their ears are dull of hearing, their eyes they have closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and should understand with their hearts, and should be converted, and I should heal them. But blessed are your eyes for they see, and your ears for they hear. And so what is happening in this chapter is a great theological brou-haha. But Christ is saying you've missed the whole point. And the call to hear was in the Old Testament. And the call to hear continues because I am here now to teach you. truth. And so the first part of the commandment itself is hear. But what are we to hear? The Lord our God is one. This is not polytheism. This isn't a multiple choice. Pick your God. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. You see, the Sadducees who didn't believe in the resurrection Basically we're annihilationists. You die and that's it. The Pharisees were depending on their own goodness. Their own righteousness to get them to heaven. They were not really looking for Messiah. The scribes who should have known of the coming of Messiah and should have been ready because they were the doctors of the law. They missed it Remember when Christ was born? Where is he? And they have to go search him. They didn't even know it's Bethlehem. They should have known that. They've all missed the point. Here Israel, the Lord, our Lord, is one Lord. The owner of the vineyard had sent his choice servants. The prophets of the Old Testament had prophesied, Messiah's coming, Messiah is coming, Messiah's coming. Some of them they killed, some of them they stoned God sent his own son, and him they crucified. And so the beginning of this commandment is to hear What we're to hear is the Lord is one. But then the third element of the commandment is this. What are we to do about what we've heard? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. Matthew Henry, the old Puritan commentator, said this about this commandment. Where there is a commanding principle in the soul, there is a disposition to every duty. Love is the leading affection of the soul. The love of God is the leading grace of the renewed soul. In other words, where love is what commands the soul. Then there is that dedication to everything that God has said. You see, if we love the Lord as we should love the Lord, sin will not be the issue that it is. If we love the Lord as we ought to love the Lord, the love of the world is pushed aside. If we love the Lord as we ought to love the Lord, no duty in service to the Lord becomes arduous. We're to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. But Henry continues, where this is not, in other words, that love is not, nothing else good is done. Or done right, or done acceptedly, or done long. And I love that last one. Where we don't truly love the Lord, it's not done long. Remember the seed that sprang up but withered away. It's not done long. So what is it that we are to do? Well I've already commented on the fact that in the Old Testament we have Jehovah our God is one Jehovah and in the New Testament we have Lord our God is one Lord, Master our God is one Lord No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and what? Love the other. For he will hold the one and he will despise the other. You see how it all connects in if we truly love God with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. Then indeed the Lord our Lord is one. We can only have one master. And also the disciple is not above the master. For he nor is a servant above his Lord. It is enough for the disciple to be as his master. It is not for the servant to be as his Lord. And so when Peter had denied Christ, what is the denial of Christ? Well, it's the opposite of loving the Lord with your whole heart, soul, mind, strength. And body. What was it that Christ used to drill him to repentance? Peter, do you love me more than these? You see, the opposite of loving God with our whole heart, mind, soul, and strength is loving anything else. Peter, do you love me more than these? Do you love me more than your nets and fish? Do you love me more than the other disciples? Do you love me more than the praise of men? Do you love me more than the fear of a little servant girl? pointing out that you're my disciple. And Peter's answer, of course, is, Lord, thou knowest I love thee. Christ isn't done with Peter. He asked him the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And he said, Yea, Lord, thou knowest I love thee. And see God says, I've got something to do before you do, feed my sheep. Get busy demonstrating that you love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and strength. And I love the third time when Christ asks, Peter, do you love me? And Peter's answer is Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest I love you. You see, the first and greatest commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And folks, I'm not going to ask you if you love the Lord with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, because I don't believe one of us does. I don't want to put temptation before the lie. And I'm not going to stand here before you and say that I do. Because I'm more like Peter than like Paul. I'm more ready to deny than get my head cut off. You see, this is the first commandment. This is the ruling commandment of the soul. And that is why we're told to write it on the posts of our doors, to write it upon our gates. to give it to our sons and to put it as frontlets between our eyes. Love the Lord thy God. Love the Lord thy God. You see, love is that which God demonstrated when He sent His Son to be our Savior. Love is that predominant element. And so, first of all, we see the commandment itself, thou shalt love the Lord thy God. But what is the exposition of this commandment? What does it mean? to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. Well, Christ says there in verse thirty-one, There is none commandment greater than these And in Matthew 22, verse 40, the on these two commandments hang the whole law and the prophets. Scribe himself says that this is greater than whole sacrifice and burnt offerings. This is important, and so what is it? Well, the original commentary On this passage, um I shouldn't, I said it wrong. This passage in Matthew is a commentary on the original. The original is what we read there in our responsive reading in Deuteronomy 6, that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee. Thou and thy son and thy sons, sons, all the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. What does it mean, first of all, to love the Lord our God with all our heart Well, we're we're coming up on the season this week that we refer to as Valentine's. And a lot of people will give a card that says, I love you with all my heart. And I frequently say to my wife, I love you with all my heart. Here we're told to love the Lord our God with all our heart. But there's a distinction here between what we mean in English and what the original means here. In our modern thinking, we say, when I love you with all my heart, we're speaking of emotions. That's not what we're told to do here. You see, emotions change. Emotions are hot one day and cold the next And there are many people today that will say, Oh, I love the Lord, and they'll shout about it, and they'll sing songs about it, and they'll dance around, and they'll get really happy, and they will go home from church very satisfied. Because their emotions have been stirred up to the peak. And they mistake that for loving the Lord with all their heart This is not talking about emotions. When we are commanded to love the Lord our God with all our heart, we're not talking about emotions. You see, for the Oriental mind The heart was not the seat of the emotions, but rather the heart that's spoken of in Scripture was the seat of the will. It was the seat of the volition. When we are too told to love the Lord our God with all our heart, we're not talking about a warm, fuzzy feeling But rather, we're talking about the submission of my will to his. And folks, that is what salvation is. Lord, I am not righteous, I'm a wicked sinner. I cannot do this myself. I cannot depend on myself. I cannot rely on my goodness. I look to Christ. And to Christ alone. And so Christ said in Matthew 22, 37, thus Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. You see how the heart is tied to the mind. The heart, rather than being the seat of emotion, is the organ of submission to the will of God. In 1 Kings 3 verse 9, give therefore thy servant understanding heart to judge thy people. It's not talking about Being happy about judging that people. Now give me an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between the good and the bad That my mind, my will may be brought into subjection to the will of God. But not only does he say that we're to love the Lord our God with all our heart, we're to love him with all of our soul. A lot said about the soul today. What do we mean by the soul when we say we're loved with all our soul? Well, we're not talking about that eternal being that will be with him in heaven forever. But rather the soul here is the very essence of our existence. It is our big yes indeed our soul will be with him forever. But the soul being spoken of here is that intellectual being that distinguishes us from the animals. We're alone with everything we have. Our entire being is to be submitted to the will of God. In Genesis 2 and verse 7, where it says man became a living soul. It means that God did something for man that he didn't do for the animals. You see, animals operate on instinct. But human beings operate on the operation of the Spirit within us. Our soul transformed. You see, the unbeliever Whose soul is dead in trespasses and sins, he can't love the Lord this way. For us to love the Lord with all of our heart and with all of our soul, our soul has to be awake. Our soul has to be alive. It has to be regenerated by God. And so the soul here is the innermost being. And I I believe Charles Wesley expressed it when he well when he said uh the the the the hymn, A charge to keep I have. The words go this way, A charge to keep I have, a God to glorify A never dying soul to save and fit it for the sky. And Wesley wasn't saying I've got to reform myself, but rather My soul has got to be conformed to the image of Christ. It's got to be made right for heaven, and I can't do this. To serve this present age, my calling to fulfill, Omay, and all my powers engage to do the master's will. May every fibre of my being be involved in this. Arm me with watchful care, as in thy sight to live. And now thy servant, Lord, prepare, a strict account to give May I live every day in the knowledge that I will give account of this day to the Lord. That indeed is loving the Lord with our entire soul, with our entire being. Help me to watch and pray. And still on thee rely. Oh, let me not my trust betray, but press to realms on high. We are to put our entire soul, our entire being into the love of Christ. But then he says also with thine mind. And we we've said that the the soul here, or that the the heart, is the volition. And what's the difference between the volition and the mind? Well, not a lot. But our mind here is tied to our might. Whatsoever thy hand finds the do, do it with all thy might. You see, to give it a silly illustration of it, There's a lot of things we say we love that we don't put much into. We don't really care much about. And there are people that say they love us, but they don't. And the silly illustration is this. My wife has a cat and the cat doesn't love her. The cat comes around Penny when it's hungry. The cat comes around penny when the door to my office is closed and I'm not off for opening the door. The cat is not my cat. But the cat loves me. The cat loves me. It adores me. It wants to be with me. It will follow me around. It's not my cat. But how do you know the cat loves me? Because it's not just there for food. Because it wants me to scratch it. Because it wants to rub its head up against me. Because it wants to curl up on my chest if I'm laying on the sofa on the sofa. It doesn't matter what I'm doing, it wants to be there. It wants to be on my desk. It wants to be close to me. When I get up in the morning, it's waiting there at the bedroom door for me. That cat loves me. No. It used to be her cat. It was acquired to be her cat. But something happened and it was transformed from being her cat to being my cat. And that cat silly illustration, I apologize. That cat loves me with its whole heart, mind. soul and strength. Now, the Pharisees are trying to build a kingdom for themselves and steal a vinger. The Sadducees are trying to deny the resurrection. The scribes, the doctors of the law, they're trying to win their argument and get their side. And Christ is saying to all of them, you've all missed it. Here, O Israel. Jehovah, who is the plural God, is one Jehovah. And your master, who is the one God in flesh, is your master, and you better love him with all your heart. soul, mind, and strength. And if you have been transformed, if you have been renewed by the Spirit of God, you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And this scribe who has come to Christ to tempt him, this scribe who has come to Christ to to trip him up, come to Christ to try to win his arguments over his Religious rivals. In hearing Christ testify of himself, Hero Israel. In hearing Christ testify of the law, love the Lord thy God. Suddenly something's happening to this scribe. And he says, Lord, you have spoken truth. Look at verse 32. And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, well, Master, thou hast said truth For there is one God, and there is none other but He. And to love Him with all the heart And with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and thy neighbor is thyself is more than burnt offerings and sacrifice. To love the one God is more than anything I can do to try to please him. It's more than all my righteousness. It's more than all my works. It's more than all my knowledge of the law. It's more even than sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. What was the purpose of the law? It was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. What does the schoolmaster say? This is the lesson for today. Listen. Here, here, I'm going to teach you truth. The law was our schoolmaster. And here, Christ, speaking to this group of unbelievers, group of very religious people, is using the law to bring them to himself. And this scribe has heard. He's not far from the kingdom. But look at the last phrase of the verse. And no man after that durst ask him any questions. Of this whole multitude, the scribe is the only one that's heard. Of this whole multitude, he's the only one that's got it. The rest of them totally missed the message. He came onto his own. A vineyard. He came on his own, and his own received a knot. They killed the son. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name What is our Christian duty? Read our Bible every day, pray, witness, live a godly testimony. Provide for our family? No. The Christian duty is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. with all our strength. Because when we take this first commandment and write it upon the gates of our houses and wear it between our eyes, Then all those other things, the burnt offerings and sacrifices, will fall into place because they will be the natural outflow of love. Because we love him who first loved us. So I hope you can see the beauty of the unity of this passage. Where all these stories that seem to be little disconnected points, it's all one narrative. And it all begins and ends with Jesus Christ. Christ. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the grace of Jesus Christ that was extended to this scribe. And though the passage does not tell us, it is an indication that he was being drawn by God the Father to the Son. An indication that he had been given to the Son by the Father. And Lord, we thank you for the great promise. Him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Father, we thank you, Lord, that in spite of our failings, Lord, you are patient with us and continue to work in us and through us. Father, help us, O Lord, to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, and with all our strength. May we indeed engage all our powers to do the Master's will. Father, bless your truth to us this day. Transform us by it. Transform us by it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.