Our way through this interesting section of Hebrews that's just fascinating. I'm using it as a springboard the Old Testament trying to stick with what the faith lesson is of the text. Today's is a doozy, really Because we've looked at the faith of some really big patriarchs, Noah, and then you've got the faith of Abraham and Isaac, Jacob, Abel, Enoch. You know, these are big figures. Now we have In our Hebrews 11, 29, this, by faith they, this is a collective group, they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians, as saying to do so, were drowned. Well, who's the they Who is the they that passed through the Red Sea? The Israelites What happened to the Israelites by the time they got to the first place where they started to get thirsty and they complained? And then they when the spies went in they grew weary. How many of those people that walked through the Red Sea actually went to the promised land Yeah. There was only two, Joshua and Caleb, over the age of twenty. That made it. All those that were under 20, the kids, made it. But it says here, our faith lesson here for us to admire is that they, these people, the Israelites, whom God delivered, they pass through the Red Sea by faith. So we're going to kind of explore that some. I think it's a fascinating what is that lesson? And that's what I'm trying to get at. And so I got to my question, which is What is the longest, darkest cave or tunnel you would explore? I had one uh Audience member respond back that said, uh, well, the Baltimore Tunnel is about as far as they would go. It's uh underneath the water, and even then they get a little nervous when they see some water, you know, dripping down from the ceiling and you kind of go, uh I just kind of hope that's runoff from the rain, not uh harbor water I for one am a little claustrophobic. I uh can tolerate an MRI, but much longer than that, no. Diving? No, no, no, no, no. No, that's no, no, no. Out of my element. Nope, not gonna happen. So for me, it's a pretty short distance. But what's the longest, darkest cave or tunnel, Miss Saba, that you would explore I've got the fix. Well it can't be hard. Jesus. Joey, what's the longest, darkest cave or tunnel you'd explore? Pretty long, pretty dark, pretty deep. There are some long ones, dark ones. Um what's the longest you know of? You're quite the researcher and historian, so I'm sure you found some interesting caves you'd like to explore. Uh one of the ones in Utah probably. Okay. Oh are they known for their caves? Interesting. Okay. I know Mexico has some very interesting sixty-seven miles if they're underwater miles. Back up, follow it. Sixty-seven miles and you can't see no surface. I don't go into anything, I can't see the end. Okay, so you're limited to line of sight. If I see the end of it you would go through, but without that Lisa, what's the longest, darkest tunnel? Not very far. In the end of the night. End of the light. So you're a a cringe a cringer going through how Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't even have to be dark, it can be over the Bay Bridge as a knuckle ex white knuckle experience. Penny. I'm not as adventure If somebody else has done it before and they're with me and they have a light, then I'll go through the case. But by myself, I'll Uh uh uh if I if I step in and it starts to close it, I'm gone. Yeah. I know you're itching the answer and I'll get to you. Gabriel, what's the longest, darkest cave you would go into? How far would you explore it? Why doesn't it depend on who's behind you? Oh okay. Yeah, well you've been watching too many self-defense movies, so we'll I thought he was gonna say he's afraid they would get wedged someplace they couldn't get out. Um my first thought when I read it was underwater and I thought okay as far as my air will take me. Um and then thought no I think Vince means on land. On land there's probably very little limit Um there was a hole in a rock about thirty foot above the road that my son and I observed once And um it was about the height that pulpit but half the width. So you had to kind of squeeze in through this way. And we went in the first time, went about fifty foot back into the cave, and it was just a sheer drop off. Couldn't see the So we went back with a flashlight and realized it was only about 35 foot deep and then it continued back. So we made a rope ladder and came back again with a 30-foot rope ladder and a big piece of rope. tied to a tree outside the entrance all the way back in and probably were the first and maybe only human beings ever to go down that cliff And got back in there and there was a hole about this big that I couldn't get through, but but Donnie crawled through that hole and went back another twenty, thirty feet and it opened that Back up again. Yeah. And um Donnie was six. And I let my son throw on a shield. That's a safe activity, Marissa. What do you think? Let your son through a thirty foot drop in a hole with a little You know, a piece of uh kite string at the end of it. Hang on, son. So what so one more thing and I and I'll I'll be quiet. Um Donnie with a hoker rig, which a hoker rig means you don't have tanks, all you have is a regulator and a long hose and your oxygen's outside the hole. Donnie will crawl back into a hole underwater about this big looking for turtles, go 30-40 foot out, but because he's head in, he can't get out. So he will jerk on the rope that is tied to his foot, and my daughter-in-law will pull him back out This is all all under one. So obviously we have a range of adventurism here from the uh no way jose to the yeah, bring it on I would like to expect that in a congregation as large as the Hebrew slaves of Egypt, who are accustomed to the surface and the land. That I would like to think that there's a similar broad range of opinions, some very adventurous, others maybe not so much. Well, I give that little intro introdu uh introductory example to maybe set you into the account. How many of you have seen some of the reenactments by way of movies of the Red Sea Crossing? There's some, I'm sure, that stick in your mind. I know as a kid growing up uh watching the movie The Ten Commandments with Charlton Heston left an endearing uh an enduring impression in my mind as to what that looked like. Here he's standing on this rock, he you know, holds out this rod and sees just kind of part back. It was really quite spectacular effects and then people and carts and all that. It was a reasonable reenactment But I think that has anchored into some people's minds that all of it is precisely the way it happened. And there are little twists and nuances to the story. that the biblical record and account when you pull all the data together presents a a little different twist to it. Because it gets back to our faith lesson. By faith they passed through the Red Sea by dry land. They did that by faith. What is that that's being held up? And again, this is a batch of people who we know all but two made it did not make it into the promised land. What is it that God's trying to point out that by faith they did this? Well, this entire account is a very sharp contrast here. Our text points out a sharp contrast between you know, dry land versus drowning, Hebrew slaves, Egyptian warlords. There's a sharp contrast made there. Beyond that, we don't see too much. So what I'd like us to do now is to take your Bible and open it to the book of Exodus. We're going to start in Exodus chapter 13, and I'm going to begin at the 17th chapter Uh there's house Bibles over here nearby if you need one. But uh we're gonna kinda walk our way through. I'm gonna kind of cherry pick some of the key portions that I want to draw your attention to. There's about a dozen little facts about this. And when we're done with it, I'm going to ask you the question, you know, what what struck you as significant? So as we kind of walk our way through this, be thinking, I am going to ask what you think was significant about this account It somewhat begins, I think, in uh Hebrews 13 in the last few verses and in verse 17. The bulk of it is in the 14th chapter. We're going to touch a little in 13 and again in 15 the 15th chapter. Here's the word of the Lord, Hebrews 13, 17. And it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go that God led them out through the way, led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines. Let me read that and get it right. And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines. That would have been the northern border. They would have gone out of the land of Goshen towards the Mediterranean Sea and hugged that coast straight up. Although that was near. In other words, that was a shorter path. For God said, and here's his reasoning, why he didn't take the short path. For God said, lest peradventure the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt. Historically Archaeologically they could find records of this, but historically that was a contested area because of the trade routes, the different groups vying for preeminence and so forth. Wouldn't have anything to do with Egyptians and others. It was just various other facets of war. So that's 1317. Now look at the congregation's response in chapter 14 and verse 1 and 2. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel. that they turn and encamp before Pi He Hyroth, between Migdald and the Sea, over against Baal Zephon, before it shall you encamp by the sea. For Sparrow will say of the children of Israel. They are entangled in the land. The wilderness has shut them in. I will therefore harden Pharaoh's heart, you'll follow after them, I will be honored upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts, that the Egyptians may know that I and the Lord. And they did so. Alright, so they started out. They didn't go the easy path. They didn't go the straight path. They went a hard path. And then as they make their way to a certain point, God says, all right, now turn and go this direction. And they went a different direction. They would have traveled through what are known as the Waddies. In America, we call them brooks. These are seasonal rivers, riverbeds that for the most part are dry. But when the spring or heavy rains come, those waddi would become raging torrents and it would wash a bunch of stuff away and dump a bunch of deposits out in the sea or on the shore. So they're traveling back along this Wadi W A D I, and now they're dumped out in this little delta on a beach shore. Two mountains behind them and the sea in front of them. God says, yep, I want to put you right there. Alright, you know the story. They're going to get hemmed in here. Verses 5 through 7 It was told the king of Egypt that the people fled, and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people. And they said, Why have ye done this that we have let Israel go from serving us? Now I gotta stop for a moment. How dumb can you get? I mean, all Pharaoh had to do was stick his beak outside of his window and look at the smoldering remains of Egypt Look at all the dead bodies and the heaps and the stench. Look at all the mighty powers that God has shown with the fire from heaven, with the death. He only needed to go to the grave of his son And now he's going to stop and say, well, why did we do this? I mean you talk about where's this cognitive dissonance? There should be a disconnect in the brain. Well, we did it because they kicked their tail, that's why. Their cod was stronger than ours. But no, God says I'm going to harden his heart because I'm going to get honor on him How did God harden his heart? He removed his hand of wisdom, removed his hand of any form of common grace whatsoever, just removed it. He removed any kind of semblance of intelligence the man had, and full rage just took over. And we read this, he made ready his chariots and took his people with him. He took six hundred chosen chariots and all the chariots of Egypt and the captains over every one of them. Verse 8, the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel And so on. So we find that the very best of Egypt's army is in hot pursuit after all of the Hebrew slaves. The very best, the strongest, the strength of Egypt's military might. They would have been considered the world's superpower at that time. Nobody dared shake a stick at Egypt. You know, if you wanted help, you would go petition Egypt for help. This is who is pursuing them. The absolute strongest army Known to that modern world, with fast chariot chariots, strong horses, men skilled at riding them, skilled in battle, experienced in it. And Pharaoh himself is leading it, and he is ticked off. He's very angry. Then you read in verse 9, but the Egyptians pursued after them all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh. There wasn't a single horse left behind in Egypt that could pull a chariot. and his horsemen and his army and overtook them in camping by the sea beside Pihairoth before Baal Zephon. You get the picture? Two mountains to your left and right. Pharaoh's army in hot pursuit behind you and a big sea in front. You know, there's the joke about uh the man in the middle of the Hebrew uh congregation, as the news from the back came forward, Oh no, Pharaoh's chariots are behind us, and the man in the front saying, Oh no, there's an ocean in front of us. And as the word starts to circulate, the man in the middle Chariots behind, oceans in the middle. His panic spensive humors So they're obviously boxed in. And they would have to stop and ask themselves, now how did we get here? Well, because God told us to go back over here. Well, why did God put us in this position? Well, he did. Because he said, I'm going to get glory over Pharaoh. I'm going to get glory over Pharaoh's army. Now, this is an interesting fact. Notice now in verse 19 and 20. I'm going to skip over the complaining of the people and Moses speaking back to the Lord. But in 19 and 20, we read this. And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, removed. Oh no. Oh, this is a good thing. And he went behind them. And the pillar of the cloud went from before their face and stood behind them. And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel And it was cloud and darkness to them, them being the Egyptians. They saw nothing but a cloud, like a cloud coming off the ocean, a lot of darkness. But it gave light by night to these, so that the one came not near the other all the night. Isn't that interesting? That angel of the Lord is standing there in between. He, as it were, puts up a temporary dam. He now kind of boxes in The Egyptians with the very same constraints that the Israelites are in. From the Egyptians' perspective, mountain to the left, mountain to the right, Egypt behind them, but the boss says go forward political force pressuring them to go forward, because war is politics carried out by other means. And then you've got this cloud and darkness in front of them. Cloud, darkness, confusion. They weren't willing to enter that. It's interesting It was just not safe to them. It's like, well, we're just going to wait here. This is a storm, we'll let it clear. I don't know what they were thinking, but it was good enough to stop them. We continue. Now, here's the crossing. The specific mention now, if you skip ahead to chapter 15 and verse 4, this is the song of Moses, where he says about the victory, his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red Sea. So the scripture says they cross the Red Sea. The scriptures does not teach that they crossed the read sea. Some attempt to translate Yam Suf to say, well What's a naturalistic explanation? Oh well you you're not going to dry up an ocean, you're not going to divide that. Maybe uh a hurricane came through and and cleared out the reed sea where there was a little bit of shallow water Yeah, no, it says Red Sea. We stick with that. There's another interesting point back to chapter 14 in verse 21. Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon dry ground. Let's go to verse 24. It came to pass that in the morning watch, in the morning watch The Lord looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians. Folks, what happened here that the movie The Ten Commandments doesn't depict? Maybe it did, I don't recall it, I just remember there was plenty of light to see it. These people cross the Red Sea at night. Because in the morning, God troubles the Egyptians. But it says all night it dried it out, and then in the morning watch he troubles the Egyptians. Well the implication is they crossed at night So now does that change your thinking about this Red Sea crossing? It's night Now instead of two mountains to the left and the right, you have two walls of water, and that word wall is like city walls. It's straight, it's sharp The ground they went on was dry. It couldn't be muddy. You know, cows can sink in pretty deep and they had carts and so forth. When the Egyptians tried to go over with their chariots, they wouldn't go over in mud. Their horses would get stuck in that too. It was hard, dry ground. But they went through at night. But they did have a source of light. What was that? Remember the angel of the Lord that stood behind them? It was what to the children of Israel? It was light to them. So they had light from the rear. Well what good does that do them? The light's supposed to be in front so I can follow it. It does them a lot of good right now, because it lights the way forward Through this otherwise dark tunnel. But they went through at night. I find that interesting. Alright. We uh find in verse 21 that it was a strong east wind that dried out the seafloor. Now some have said to do that, it would be blowing the Hebrews away. And I suppose if you're looking for naturalistic explanation, uh perhaps, but When the blast of God comes, he knows how to move water. The Spirit of the Lord spoke and divided the land from the water in Genesis 1. I have no trouble with the God of the Bible Dividing the Red Sea. That's a very tiny part of his creation. Very tiny part. In the opening chapters of Genesis, he moved it all. Didn't seem to break a sweat out doing it. Verse 22. It says, the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea on dry ground, and the waters were a wall. around them. Now that word walking overfoot on dry ground gets back to our text. They passed through the Red Sea, passed through one word. And it literally means through foot or by foot. It was on foot. They could actually walk over. You ever tried to walk out on the beach? You know, it can get kind of slippery, get kind of mucky, especially if you're in a beach that doesn't have you know rocks or some kind of solid base, you can get sunk in it. Not so here. But this is at the mouth of the delta. All kinds of ush spills up. No, not so. It was dried out. And a dried-out lake bed can be pretty firm. In fact, it had to be firm enough for Pharaoh to drive his chariots over, so it couldn't have been rocky or craggy. Then you have verses 27 and 28. Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength. And when the morning appeared, again a reinforcement of the fact that they traveled through by night. When the morning appeared, the Egyptians fled against it, and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. I don't see how God's going to overthrow a whole bunch of horses and chariots in the Reed Sea in the shallows of the Mississippi swamp. That ain't happening. Had to be enough to drown 'em effectively. 28 and the water because horses can swim. And so they would have hung on to a horse that was shallow. No, didn't happen. The sea crushed them, absolutely crushed them twenty-eight, and the waters returned and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh, that came into the sea after them, and there remained not so much as one of them. There wasn't a single survivor. Impressive. Impressive. In 15. 5, we read, the depths have covered them. They sank into the bottom as a stone. So again Some indication of how deep the water column was. You know, to sink like a stone is not impressive if it's a shallow swamp, but if you're talking about an ocean You drop a brick overboard, you drop your iPhone over, it's going to the bottom, you've lost it, not coming back. And that's exactly what happened to Pharaoh. My favorite part of this entire account is in verse 30 of the 14th chapter. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and here it is, watch it. Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. What Israel saw on the backside was a bunch of dead Egyptians. So I ask you, what struck you through all of this as significant or of interest that perhaps you didn't know before Um a lot of these soldiers that were drowned Had become the head of household within 24 hours. Because their brother, who was the firstborn and was the head of household, had died And now their families are bereft of both sons. A lot of these men who were Going through there were the secondborn, but their firstborn son has died the night before A lot of commanders are absent because they were firstborn. A lot of chariots had a different horse because their horse had been a firstborn. And so the the great tragedy that has brought on Egypt because of their sin is just overwhelming. And now they're understanding. Well it was an overwhelming defeat, no doubt. What else struck you as we read through this narrative that maybe caught you as quite interesting or different One more thing, if I may, those shoes that the Egyptians were wearing, or the each the Israelites were wearing, were going to last for 40 years. And shoes that have been through the mud and muck don't tend to last much longer. The job is preserving every aspect of their lives. uh go off to the end of that point which is that the Lord really provided every step of the way. This was just uh nothing on man's part. Uh nothing that the Israelites did aided them. It was um truly just the Lord protecting them on the one side from the Egyptians, clearing their path, providing them light. It was You know, even that salvation is fully just uh the work of the Lord. Indeed, everything was carried out and provided. Joey. Water at night is very dark So if it's at night and they're crossing C they cannot see to the left or the right of them. The only way they can see is directly from the moon. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. That's a very good point. Yeah, it is very dark at night. Another reason I don't like to go diving too deep and can't see Yeah, absolutely. Right, right. So given that I've walked you through this, now we've got a little refresher about the whole Red Sea crossing event. that it was these people that came through and the focus is on them. By faith, they passed through the Red Sea. They did it by faith. What do you think is the face faith lesson that we receive from this account? How does this apply to us? It says by faith they did this. What do you think might be the faith lesson? What are some spiritual teachings you get in light of this? Any thoughts? That's the Lord. It was his presence in the darkest times that led them, that gave them light and protected them from earth. Moses used the grace, stand still and see the salvation of the world. And yes, they went by faith, but faith was in the God. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the faith lesson did seem to be that their only hope was the Lord. He was the one that put them in that position. He was the one that opened up the sea. He was the one that shined the light. He was the one going before them And they simply had to keep carrying out his guidance and leading to get to safety. Absolutely. We've all seen something tottering on the edge, wondering how soon it's gonna fall. And there had to be thought, I've never seen water stand up like this before. How long can it last? Or is it gonna come in immediately as it did on the Egyptians Many of them would have had the similar fears and trepidation. Can you imagine uh Mrs. Ross or my mom in an ox cart because they're too old to take the journey? They're just being hauled along And uh she's sitting there asking, okay, son, what's up ahead? Uh not to worry, Mom, it's uh the ocean. The ocean? Well, you brought a cart, not a boat Oh, don't worry, Mom, we're getting there. How are we going to get over? You gotta be kidding me. Did you waterproof this thing? No, Moses just held up his rod and they separated the waters. He did white There's two walls of water there's no two walls of water there. Come on, quit jockey joking with me. You mean we're gonna ride through this? Oh Lord heaven help us. Yeah, that would be quite a terrifying thing. That would be quite the terrifying thing. You know, I had a few things that that stood out to me is that, you know, there is this sharp contrast between the two, dry land versus drowning. A bunch of Hebrew slaves and the very best of the strength of Egypt, the superpower of the world. You can go further, the strength of a tyrannical organized government. under young, strong leadership, versus a band of slaves and their family, a bunch of nobodies in the eyes of the others following an eighty-year-old man with a stick in his hand. I mean from the world's perspective, really? Really? This is what you got? I mean that's gotta look kind of strange. It's quite graphic. This reminds me of a video I saw of a monkey with a stick that runs every hits a lion and takes off running. Yeah. It is. He just hit Egypt and now he's running. Yeah. It's from from man's perspective it looks about that silly. It really does look strange, you know But the difference between the two is faith in Jehovah versus rage against the chosen people of God. One is really trusting God's deliverance, and they do see the incredible works that he has done so far, but they had to pick up their feet, they had to move their knees, they had to get moving, they had to go You know, this is a very large historical point, large historical event. Try that again. This is a very large historical event that proves one big point. Jehovah alone is Savior. He says, by my name Jehovah was I not known, but I'm going to get glory upon Pharaoh. I'm going to get glory and honor over Egypt. All will honor me. And this word would go out not only back to Egypt, and I'm not sure how Egypt would ever find out, somebody would have to go there to say what happened to our army. They didn't come home. There's wives back in Egypt who had cooked. He hasn't come home yet A week later, he hasn't come home yet. Somebody had to venture out there, and now they're a nation bereft of their army. Yeah, Jehovah alone, God alone is Savior. And when he says, let my people go, he wasn't kidding. He meant it We also see another interesting point here about God's salvation. 100% of the Hebrews were saved. Not one of them was lost. Every Hebrew slave, young and old, it didn't matter their condition or state, every single one of them, without exception, was saved. But among the Egyptians, every single one of them was lost. There wasn't a single Egyptian spared By design, by intent, God had no intentions whatsoever of showing any mercy to a single Egyptian. None In fact, his entire stated purpose was to destroy every one of those Egyptians. Because he would have the honor. He alone would be worshipped. He's going to hammer them down and say, No, I am the Lord. These others are not. You know, in many small ways, folks, God still opens up a way of escape for each and every one of us in our big trials There are some mighty, mighty big difficult things that come upon us. And you stop and think, how did I get to this position? Well, Lord. I was doing this and I was doing that, and I didn't mean any evil from it. And yet I find myself in this predicament. God sometimes puts us specifically in those really bizarre situations and I don't know maybe it's common among older folks but as I'm tipping my toes into the waters of uh the senior golden years they call them that I find that the craziest things happen. How did I get in this predicament? How did this happen? And God still gives us a little miniature Red Sea crossing from top. time to time. Just little times where he just opens it up to say, you can trust me. You can trust me. I'll get you through this. I just want you to feel and experience a little bit of fright, a little bit of fear. So that you can learn to trust me. It's okay. I'll get you through this. You know, many people particularly in archaeology and the sciences, try to give some kind of naturalistic explanation as to how this could have occurred. For instance, they'll say of Sodom and Gomorrah, well, it was uh an earthquake or a volcano, some volcanic activity. It just exploded on the scene and wiped them out. Except there's no evidence of the volcanic. Well it was a it was a big meteorite that came down and exploded. They all try to give some kind of naturalistic explanation Even some well-meaning Christian scientists attempt to do the same. Yes, they say God did this, but he used natural means, like we read here in the text. He used an east wind. So what kind of a hurricane could we find? They try to fit a little bit of the world's explanation, a little bit of God's explanation together. But I'm here to tell you that this defies any form of naturalistic explanation. It just defies it. Moses raised a rod. Okay? Waters split. I mean, there's plenty of creeks Gabe the Gabe and I would have liked to have crossed where, you know, dear old dad could have sat out there holding out his shotgun, you know, open up the waters, but kind of didn't work Kind of won't ever work because this was a miracle of God. When you bring God into the picture, big things can happen. Big things do happen, as we ought to expect from our God You know, any kind of proposed solution other than the biblical record undermines the entire point of this verse. Faith that Jehovah works mightily on behalf of his people And for his glory, when all other human options, when all other naturalistic options for escape are impossible. How sharp of a contrast can you get? Who ever heard of a superpower being destroyed by a group of nobodies? You know, today the Bedouin slaves still roam around parts of the Arabian Peninsula. Imagine a group of them showing up during the Bush administration when we were trying to free Kuwait from Saddam Hussein's uh occupation of their land Here's the American military, the American tanks, all of their weaponry, and here's a bunch of Bedouin slaves walking around with their camels. And imagine them somehow overthrowing the entire United States military, ships and all. Who's ever heard of such a thing? It's laughable. You would go, what kind of a superpower did these people have? You would only conclude that. And we have something just as sharp of an example here You know, let's think about it from the Egyptians' point of view. Because the tail end of the verse says, which the Egyptians are saying to do so, they tried to cross as well. The waters held up for them as well. The gr ground was dried for them as well. But I'm still not here to tell you. I'm here to tell you, if you try to use God's means against God's people, you're going to lose You're gonna lose. God's not stupid. He's not gonna sell you a weapon that he devises against you for your benefit against the people of God. It won't work And so the world cannot use God's means effectively against God's people. It only falls back upon their own head. Always. And that's another big lesson we have here. And I told you my favorite verse is verse 30. The congregation saw the dead bodies of the Egyptians in the seashore. That gives me a lot of encouragement and comfort, folks. There's a lot of people in this world that are against Christianity. There's a lot of voices out there that run contrary to the messages you hear from this pulpit. There are many so-called smart men. I call them the high priests of academia, who come in with their learning and their wisdom. to make Christianity seem foolish. Remember Richard Dawkins, that bulldog for atheistic evolution saying He has no problem with Christianity. It's like, you know, some people just like to knit. They just, you know, want to knit and they're just knitting something. It's harmless. You know, they can knit. They can, you know, bow down to their little knitting or whatever. He says, I don't have anything against that He makes it like it's just foolish, like we're all just sitting around this morning knitting. Yeah, tell that to Pharaoh. Tell him how much knitting, how he's got wiped out by a bunch of kitters Because God's people always win. They do. They do. They all shall behold the demise of their adversaries in the end. Every single one of them you will see dead, but it's on the other side of the seashore. You gotta get through the Red Sea. You gotta, as the hymn writer puts it, you've gotta cross the Jordan River. You have to get through that. But when you do, and you turn around, you'll see a bunch of dead Egyptians Seashore. It's a wonderful thing. There's other theological aspects to this. I don't have time to cover it in your bulletin. There are also some archaeological aspects and explanations, but Briefly, I do want to touch upon a couple of them. What's interesting is that we're drowned. I was fascinated by that Because the Egyptians are saying to do so, trying to do so to get to the earth. They were drowned. That word's not used too often in the Bible, a handful of times But it shows up in 1 Peter 5. 8 about your adversary the devil walks about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may drown. It's the word devour. Interesting. How does Satan drown people? Well, you read in Revelation 12 about the great dragon that was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan. You go to verse 13 When the dragon saw he was cast in the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child. This was the Old Testament people of God. How did the devil persecute the people of God? Well, verse 15 it says this The serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood. It's a flood of lies. Are we living in an era where there's a flood of lies, where there's a flood of false news and fake teachings? Is there so much of it that it might even begin to cause some of God's people to doubt and question? Yes, there is. And so when it speaks about the devil seeking, he may devour. He's going to devour them by his flood. It's from his mouth But he's devouring them from a flood of bad ideas. I don't want to rob Peter's analogy of a lion because lions do eat and devour things. Lastly, his analogy of end times in Revelation 16. Listen to the theme of Revelation 16, which is very similar to the Red Sea crossing event. Just hear this carefully now. It's the sixth angel. Revelation 16, 12. And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates. Alright, so again, another large water body. And the water thereof was dried up. Ah, now we have something that dries up this water source. There's a purpose. that the way of the kings of the East might be prepared. I believe in that context that's a good reference. I think that's us, that's the believers. It's preparing a way for us. God wasn't preparing a way for the Egyptians And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, out of the mouth of the false prophet They are the spirits of devils working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world. Notice there's kings of the earth versus kings of the east, two different groups. Notice it's an unholy trinity. All the false prophet working miracles, the beast, and so forth. And then we read That they are going to be gathered together to the battle of the great day of God Almighty. Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth and keep his garments, lest he walk naked, they see his shame. The words of Jesus, he often spoke that in the context of an end-time scenario. And then he said, and he that is God gathered them together. into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. Very similar concept. There's a drying of a large body of water. It's a preparation for the kings of the East. Believers are called kings and priests, but there's a purpose. That God can gather them for this big final battle in which He alone will be Savior and He alone will conquer all of them. You'll see their dead body. on the seashore. Marvelous account. There's a lot of themes of this that echo throughout scriptures. And uh if you want to read more about some of the archaeological considerations or watch some videos, I've got some additional things in there for you to look at uh if you pull down the uh PDF version. I've got links to three of the best articles I could find that support a Suez, traditional Suez, Gulf of Suez crossing, a Gulf of Nueva, the Gulf of Aqaba. and the Straits of Tehran at the lower end of Gulf of Accama. Different theories as to which way it's crossed, and uh you can take a look at that. All right, we'll close it there. Anton, could you close us in prayer? Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for uh providing your word to us. What a sure word of prophecy it is to us, O Lord. uh filled with great promises, great hope, O Lord, great teaching, even of the faithful that have stood before. And uh you're a provision to them. Oh Lord, help us increase our faith that we would be able to stand. And in the the days of trust, the days of please continue to grow us in grace and the knowledge of Christ and the Word. What's our uh time upcoming in uh in your worship? We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen.