Message for today is in Hebrews chapter seven and verses four to ten. And Hebrews seven four to ten. I will read it just to get it in front of our uh mines here and then we'll go into our discussion question which I hope some of you got. My apologies sent it out rather late and uh but you should have it and some replied and I didn't get it so Pardon me while I work my way through email challenges. Hebrews chapter 7, beginning in verse 4. We read this. Now consider how great this man was. unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. And verily they that are the sons of Levi who received the office of the priesthood have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren. though they come out of the loins of Abraham. But he whose descent is not counted from them, received tithes of Abraham and blessed him that had the promises. And without all contradiction, the less is blessed of the better. And here men die that receive tithes, but there he receiveth them of whom it is witness that he liveth And, as I may so say, Levi also who received tithes, paid tithes in Abraham, for he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him Very complex set of scripture, in some respects easy because you have an explanation. On the other hand, we're Gentiles and don't understand the ramifications of everything that's just been said. So I have an introductory question to try to maybe s take us A little baby step up before we get to the big tall steps of what we're looking at today because there's six points. They're on your bulletin insert and you're going to have to do some hand scratching and writing to capture all the six points. Have you ever been in an old house with really, really steep stairs? You know, before the codes came along and you're like, man, I'm glad there's a handrail, because you take a step and down a foot you go. It's just really steep stairs. You get into some old houses. That's kind of what these are. There's six very steep stair steps and there's more to follow. But here's the introductory question to try to help us get up those steps. So which one is greater, the taxpayer or the IRS? Any votes? IRS. How many thinks it's the taxpayer? I don't think anybody does. It's kinda hard to stiff arm the IRS. You know how they got back in the uh was it 40s or 30s? The who was the mobster? Bonnie and Clyde and Al Capone. Thank you. That was the infamous character They couldn't convict him on murder charges, which is ridiculous. They couldn't convict him on bank robbery and other such things. The thing that took down Al Capone was failure to pay taxes. That's what they put him in prison for. Well yes, the IRS has teeth, don't they? Now what would it mean if the IRS paid taxes to another country? Corrupt? Uh corruption where? At the IRS or the other country? Oh no, they're not borrowing money from another country. We do that anyway. They're paying money to another country. What if the IRS pays money to another country? Means the other country is is greater. Alright. Means the other country is we have become a tributary. Ah, we're a tributary. Okay. Uh or w whoever this other country is, yeah. Um uh Gabriel? Well that would mean the IRS is subservient to another entity. Yep, they're subservient to the entity, or back to Mother's point, maybe there's some corruption going on if they're doing this covertly, but if they're overtly doing it, we know they're doing it. There's no mistake about it. Something uh one member writes, something's really upside down. Why would the IRS be paying taxes? Yeah, you would really have to scratch your head And what are the implications of all of that? Some of you touched on it. But let's keep walking some steps here It's publicly well known that a situation has occurred, and we don't know what that is. Maybe we can explore that. But if the IRS, the Entity in the U. S. that typically receives your tax money. If all of a sudden they are now paying that to another country, what do you think is going on here? What are the implications of such payments? You pointed to one, we're subservient to them. What else does that mean? What other changes in your life or structure might that imply? Well that would mean the IRS isn't the top dog anymore. It would mean someone controls them and could possibly end them. If they raise the tax. Okay. So they control them and they could possibly end them. Alright, I like that. Let's keep exploring that. That's good. A person did something bad and they are threatening him for So a person so is the IRS one person or Oh well of people. A group of people, okay. If a country has something of a on if somebody if their country has something saying bad things about someone, mm-hmm they're threatening it. Well they're past the threatening stage I would think if the IRS is paying taxes somebody else. But yeah, there's some conflict there, right? And so there's some uh there's some conflict. Maybe we don't know the full scope of it. Let me change it from the IRS to say maybe a country in distant memory, say Armenia. Armenia used to be its own country, and they used, and there was Armenians, and uh as well as Assyrians, and they used to collect uh revenue for their own country, but now they're paying it to somebody else. What does that mean for the Armenians or for the Assyrians? They're no longer collecting revenues for their own, they're paying it to somebody else. that they as citizens in their whole country are now indebted under the control, under the influence of somebody else. So it's not just going to affect the IRS It's going to affect all of us. Oh, so it's a little broader than the IRS. It's you said affecting all of us. Gabriel said if the the IRS is no longer the top dog, they could terminate it. Yeah Uh what would that do to the sovereignty of that nation? They have no sovereignty. They don't have the sovereignty. Right. Yeah. Your money is the is the defense. Your money is the power You become a vassal state, as the pastor points out. Yeah, all of those are very significant in terms of who pays taxes to who. It's very substantial. There's a lot you can glean from that. There's a lot you can pull and draw out from that. And so As much as we despise the IRS on April 15th, just keep it in mind that if you weren't paying it to them, you might be paying it to somebody else and they may not be too favorably inclined or disposed towards you So that's just our introductory steps to get us to thinking about tithing, paying taxes, to whom you pay taxes, who is greater, what are the imports, what's the ramifications of all that Well, our text opens with, now consider how great this man is. So we are being exhorted by Holy Writ, by Scripture itself, by God Himself, to say, Time out. Stop and consider. So we are being exhorted here from scriptures to stop and think hard. about what he's been talking about. We've kind of kicked the can down the road in the fifth chapter and the sixth chapter because the penman has been constantly recording made a priest, a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. He keeps using that phrase in total and keeps repeating it, repeating it, repeating it. In the seventh chapter, he's now digging. He's digging. He's going to make a justification for what he's about to say, and he wants you to stop and consider. And my only point about this, and this is point number one. Is that you are not reading just some ancient account. This is not just some ancient account that you're reading about, because he's telling you to consider Well, that's in Genesis, uh the book of Genesis. It's also in the book of the Psalms. So if you pay close attention to God's written divine mystery and reflect upon it, as the penman's about to do, you can draw some astounding conclusions. And so my point is you're not just reading some ancient record. This is, if all you get out of the Old Testament Is a snapshot of ancient history going back thousands of years. If that's all you get is the history, it's goofy. It's just plum goofy. It's weird. If that's all you get, if you don't see that there's a connection, there's a theme, if you don't take this as the written divine revelation, that this is what God Almighty chose to use the phrase we used in the prior message, to hide in plain sight teachings about Jesus Christ, you're really going to miss a lot. Now, when it records history, it's accurate. Did these things really happen? Yes. And so we now turn our attention to the patriarch Abraham. He says, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoil. So we're going to consider Abraham for a moment. Again, us Gentiles, of course, if we're Christian Gentiles, we certainly understand a lot about Abraham. But if you have no frame of reference for that, as the early church did not Abraham, who? Abraham really wasn't even a common Gentile name. That's not a common Gentile name. But Abraham is a major figure. He is a very major figure in the Old Testament. He is a major figure in the New Testament. And just by way of brief introduction, in case Really you don't appreciate how big of a deal Abraham is. I have a handful of passages, a couple from the uh all of them from the the new because it's referencing back to the old In Luke 1, Zecharias working in the temple, getting knowledge of uh of things to come. He speaks of the Lord, he says, as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, and he's going to talk about one of those prophets, that he blesses God in remembering his holy covenant, the oath Which he swear to our father Abraham. The Jews took Abraham to be their father. We now understand that. This would have been news to the Gentiles. In fact, in John 8 As some Jews are pushing back on Jesus, who says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day and was glad, and by the way, he's not talking about Melchizedek, and there's other reasons for that. He says, Are you greater than our father Abraham which is dead? So they're trying to trump Jesus. They're trying to say, well, you're not greater than our father Abraham, who's dead. They're reaching for the highest figure they can they can point to. We might point to George Washington, or in recent memory of great president Ronald Reagan, or pick your favorite. Trump, in my mind, but he's not exactly, you know smooth keeled, but he's uh he's an interesting he's a street knuckle dragging street fighter. Uh in Luke sixteen Abraham is featured this way. It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. This is a parable that the Lord Jesus gives And he says, in referencing God himself, he says this beggar was carried into Abraham's bosom. Here, Abraham now is typifying God the Father, this comforting figure. So he's a big deal. The Apostle Paul, twice in the New Testament, once in Romans, again in Galatians, connects us, the New Testament saints. to Abraham as a patriot connects us to him. He doesn't replace him. He says, therefore it is of faith in Romans 4. 16, to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed Use that word seed. That's a great word the King James has. Very simple word. I can say it. It's in one sentence. Even Elias can say seed. I bet he could if we teach him how to say seed. Not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. Here he connects that being a son of Abraham is to be a child of faith. In Galatians 3. 10, know ye therefore, they which are of faith are the same are the children of Abraham. So he's a big figure. We get that. Abraham is a very big figure. So we ought to understand there is a connection that we have to Abraham. We ought to see that we are of Abraham. We are of faith. For the purposes of our illustration earlier, think of him as the IRS. Okay? He is that great figure. He's that powerful individual. Okay? And so my second point Is that Abraham is the founding father of both the Jews and Christ-believing Gentiles. He's a founding father. You know, nations talk about founding fathers. In the countries in the Orient there is a uh a tradition of elder worship where they respect, greatly respect their elders. They have great respect to those. And there's actually some interesting tradition from the flood of Noah's day. uh that ties into that tradition, which we can talk about later if you'd like. But the second part of verse 4 then says, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. Earlier in chapter 7, the second verse, to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all, and it mentions here the tenth of the spoils. So here We went back last week. We read Genesis 14. We read the account of the five kings whooping up on the four kings. And then Abraham with his men comes along, introduces special ops forces, nighttime operations, whoops up on the other five kings. And he's conquered them all, to include Cheddar Laomur, who had himself received tithes of these other areas. He received tribute from them. Now he comes back and rescues everything, only because he's interested in lot, not because he wants to be a superpower. He only cares about lot. He gives the king of Sodom all the stuff back, but not until he paid 10% to Melchizedek And so the penman is freezing the frame of the video clip of Genesis 14 and saying, whoop, did you see that? Have you ever seen that in crime scene shows? I remember one, there was a man in St. Louis. It was a black individual and the police officer encountered him and the black he was an older black fellow. He was infirm 60, 70 something. And so he's backing away from the police and he's trying to run away, he's walking away, and the cop turned and shot him, and as he went over to the body He pulled a gun out of his pocket and dropped it on the scene. Dropped it right there. Planted a gun on the dead man. Somebody caught that frame. So forget the whole thing they just froze on that one frame and you could clearly see the silhouette of the gun coming out of his hand and it leaving his hand as he dropped it on the ground. Thank God somebody caught that picture, because that man was unjustly killed. That's what's happening here in Genesis 14. We're freezing a frame on the most important thing that happened. Forget the battle. That didn't matter. Forget the shots fired. Abraham Paid tithes to Melchizedek. That's what we're doing. We're freezing on this victory frame. Melchizedek was never on the battlefield He didn't come to Abraham's aid. He wasn't part of the forces. And he was never spoiled. He didn't have a dog in the fight, so to speak. Yet he comes, he brings bread and wine for the supply of his men, he blesses Abraham, and he pays him 10%. And so let's think about that for a moment. First of all, just some very basic, very basic applications. He was known as the priest of the most high God. Abraham recognized him as the priest of the most high God. And so by way of application, those that receive kindness should show kindness, especially to God's people, and particularly when we receive some mercy of God. When you're in receipt of a mercy, indeed, it was the mercy of God that Abraham was able to accomplish this battle. I mean, by all accounts, if you were waging bets on who would win this war. I'm not sure I would put it with a little desert wanderer named Abraham and his little tribe of three hundred and eighteen men against Chedeleomer, these kings that have already had a track record. Of great victories. And so it was indeed a mercy of God that Abraham won. And also I would point out, and as I'm oft to as I am wont to beat this point, because I think it's a legitimate one, a tenth of our increase Keyword increase, is a fitting amount for the honor of God and for the service of a sanctuary. It's a fitting amount. It's very reasonable. Proverbs 3, 9 and 10. Honor the Lord with thy substance With the first fruits of all thine increase, so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. And I can tell you that I have by God's grace been able to tithe off the top. Now I'm in a salary position, it's a little easier to do. If you're running your own business, uh you calculating increase is a different story. And God God has never left me destitute. I have not had, I have not suffered want. I've not suffered a lack It's a light thing for God to feed his children. It really is. It's a light thing for God to provide for his people. It really is. And yet I have found those who continually and perpetually struggle financially And you know what? They don't give to the Lord. They don't tithe. They don't support. And I know I've been a treasurer and I've seen these individuals and some have come for help. Some are legitimately in need of help. Right? Hard times do fall upon saints. But others I've seen where they have a steady paycheck coming in, but they just cannot make ends meet. It's a regular, accountable, repeatable. I'll get off my Grant rant there. Matthew Henry says this, we're obliged to make all possible returns of love and gratitude for the Lord Jesus. For all the rich and royal favors we receive from him, to pay our homage and subjection to him as our King And to put all our offerings into his hands to be presented by him to the Father in the incense of his own sacrifice. I thought that was a good application. But back to our stair step of the text and back to climbing up to the ramifications of this freeze frame that we've looked at, this handing over. From Abraham to Melchizedek. And the point is simple. It says the only record we have of Abraham paying a tithe is to this curious figure, Melchizedek. That's notable, according to scriptures. You know, Hebrews likes to argue from silence unto which of the angels said he at any time. Sit thou at my right hand till I make thine enemies like footstool. He he likes to point out, hey, it's never spoken about this, so you can't make this conclusion And so he's straining hard. Again, back to our first point. This is the divinely written record. You can strain hard at it. You can squeeze those berries until juices come out. And verses 5 through 7, now he's going to start to alliterate the contrast. And he starts to spell these things out because we dumb Gentiles don't. understand the significance of all these things. So here he's going to repeat it for the ears of the Jewish audience Hebrews 7. Excuse me. Hebrews 7 verse 5. I'm going to do a running commentary. So just kind of follow along here And verily, they that are the sons of Levi, these are the children, not the fathers. They're sons of Levi, they're descendants of Abraham. Sons of Abraham, who receive the office of the priesthood. So they're the baton carriers. They receive this It came down from Abraham all the way through the lineage, eventually to Moses and to Aaron, and they received it. It was not by conquest. This is something that's handed down. They're descendants of this. All right, they're downstream. They have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law. This is not voluntary. This is the law in Jerusalem. If you were not doing this, you were in violation. When Nehemiah came as the governor of the re-established Jerusalem. He set that in order. He perceived that the priests were the Levites were not receiving their tithes. He says, this is a violation. That is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham. These are people with a known lineage within the family. They're not outsiders like Melchizedek. They take him with the brethren, Levite. We know who Levite is. In fact, if you couldn't recount Some of the lineage as recorded in the book of Ezra, these people were not allowed to partake of the renewed Second Temple. They couldn't participate as priests in there. You could not show your lineage. And here it says Abraham is not dealing with the lineage. This is not the case. Verse 6, but he whose descent, that's speaking of Melchizedek, is not counted from them, meaning the sons of Levi Melchizedek is not a Levite, received tithes of Abraham, and Melchizedek blessed him. Blessed him that had the promises. And without all contradiction deduced from what we have just read, he says there's apparently a contradiction going on here. But he says, but there isn't one. There appears to be one, but there's not. The less, meaning Abraham, is blessed of the better, meaning Melchizedek. And so Consider for just a moment that last phrase that Abraham had the promises. He had promises from God Almighty. Anybody remember the promises that Abraham had? What did he have? Isaac. The promise of a son to come, the promise of Isaac? Yeah. What else? I'll make you a father of many nations. Make you a father of many nations. That's pretty big. The land? Yeah, he would receive all the land of Canaan wherever he walked. He says to stand up on a mountain, look north, west, south, and east. I've stood up as a pretty high mountains, that'd be kind of nice. Marissa, what do you think? Stand up on a mountain? Everywhere I can see, put a fence up, because that's mine. Bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. Yeah, he will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. Abraham had a lot of promises of God. I will be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee, and so on. He had many, many great promises And yet, lo and behold, and we read in Hebrews six thirteen, God made promises to Abraham because he could promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself, saying, Surely, blessing I will bless thee And multiplying, I will multiply thee. So when Milchizek comes on the scene and blesses Abraham, who is he sounding like? Who else blessed Abraham besides God? Anybody? Who else blessed Abraham besides God? Up until Neelchizedek, no one. So when Melchizedek is blessing Abraham, who does he sound like? Sounds like God. He's the only one who's ever blessed Abraham. I mean Abimelech didn't. He reproved him. I could have, you know, been I would have lightly lying with thy wife, and there could have been evil come upon me for doing this. Why did you do this? He reproved him. I mean it shows you how high the level of stand moral and ethical standard was back in those days. And so since the greater does the blessing And not the other way around. Melchizedek looks very much like God, and that's my fourth point. Melchizedek looks very much like God. He looks very much like God in this picture. Now again, he is a theophanate. He's a historical model And we looked at that one Greek word, but that poss that position that he's not a theophany, but just a model, a historical model, and God is capturing specific events about his life so that it is written this way, so that you can deduce this. We read in Hebrews 7. 15, for that after the similitude of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest. Melchizedek was a similitude. He was a likeness of God. But he's certainly acting a whole lot like God in this point, and that's the account, and that's our fourth point. Next point, giver versus receiver, and the difference, and that gets back to my IRS illustration. Hebrews 7. 8 says this And here, men that die receive tithes, but there he that is Melchizedek receiveth them Of whom it is witnessed, and that's a very key word, witnessed, that he, Melchizedek, liveth. Witness meaning he still appears in holy writ. as alive. That does not mean Melchizedek is still physically alive. It is witnessed that he still liveth. Okay, when we talk about tithing, of course the tribe of Levi would readily come to the mind of the Jews. That's just what would show up. You know, by the way, Levi not only received tithes, but Levi had other important government functions for the children of Israel. They received the tithes to carry out a number of functions, obviously offering sacrifices and so on, but also for writing and copying the law. Do you know that there's some foolish idea taught in seminaries, and it's practically widely accepted among Christianity? That there is a Greek translation of the Hebrew called the Septuagint. Now the Septuag has to do with 70. Because legend has it, and this is a ridiculous legend, that ten members of each of the twelve tribes of Israel got together and decided to translate the Hebrew into the Greek And we have and when they and they all did it in separate rooms and when they came together, voila, it was all the same. And this is captured in the story of Aristeas. Now is there a Greek translation of the Hebrew? Yes. Of course it exists. And by the way, it came after your New Testament, not before. Jesus never would have quoted from it. It was the other way around And how ridiculous that is to say, to give such a story. Imagine going to the tribe of Asher. Would you copy for us the word of the Lord? No, that's not my job. I'm not a Levite. I don't have copies of the scriptures. The Levites do. They have all that. Go to them. And you go to the tribe of Benjamin. Would you mind uh giving us some scholar what scholars we don't have any scholarship in this we we don't have any history or documents of that only the tribe of Levi folks did anything with the propagation and the transmission of the Word of God And so to even come up with a ridiculous idea that the other 11 tribes who have no legacy, no knowledge, remember college doesn't exist at those days. It was the trade craft went from father to son and daughter, mothers to daughters, fathers to son, but especially for the handling of the Word of God, fathers to sons. So there's no way that that account would make any sense whatsoever. It's ridiculous. But I digress a bit. So when we talk about a witness, here it says in verse 8, here men that die receive tithes. Melchizedek received him of whom it is witnessed Now, the strength of this argument that is put forth lies in a witness to Melchizedek's eternality, at least in holy writ, at least is how he appears. Well, what is this witness? Where did he even get that from? Well, you don't get it necessarily strictly speaking from Genesis 14. Bear with me now. We're high up on the steps here. We're taking some climbing steps here. I know these are tall steps. Well, it doesn't come from Genesis 14. It came from that psalm that has been oft quoted In the book of Hebrews, Psalm 110. That's the only place you get a clear witness where it says in verse 4 of Psalm 110, thou art a priest forever. That's the witness forever after the order of Melchizedek. That's the only witness you find. One passage. One passage. Folks, one verse of scripture is sufficient to nail it down beyond a reasonable doubt. One verse of scripture is enough to lay down a doctrinal point. It's helpful to Bible teachers and pastors and Bible students and scholars to work with all doctrine so that you're not trying to come to some conclusion that runs afoul of the others. But here, under divine inspiration, God is going to take that one point, and God's allowed to do that, and say This is the witness that Melchizedek is an eternal creature. So the prophet and King David, he was a prophet, he was a king, and under inspiration, he calls out an order of Melchizedek Which he says is forever. So, what's my fifth point? Fifth point is this. Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek, who typifies God Almighty. Who was Abraham's ultimate source of blessing? You see that. Alright. We're getting up to our sixth point. What are our four, what, what, how would What's let's review what we've covered so far. I'll get get it out eventually. First point, you're not just reading some ancient account. Second point, Abraham's the founding father. Use your IRS. Point number three, the only record we have of Abraham paying a tithe is through this curious figure, Melchizedek. You would expect that he doesn't pay tithes to anybody, just like we wouldn't expect the IRS to pay taxes to any other nation Point four, Melchizedek looks a whole lot like God. Point five, Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek who typifies God. And now we'll take a jump to that last step. Even Levi paid tithes. Even Levi paid tithes. Now this one really is fresh. Hebrews 7, 9, and as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, Paid tithes in Abraham, for he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. So nine and ten are now turning up the heat. We're turning up the gain on this point of Melchizedek superiority, not only over Abraham, who's the father of us all, but also to Levi. Levi, folks, was said to be present at the very same moment of time because it says he was yet in the loins of his father. Wow, that's pretty interesting. Here's Abraham standing there. Um at this point he doesn't even have Isaac. Isaac comes along much later. And God says, oh no, you got the whole nation right there, to include Levi. So that's a pretty phenomenal thought, if you contemplate it for a moment. Loins are often reflected throughout Scripture. uh as the uh source of the seed for the man. Uh biologically it turns out to be true. Genesis 3511, God's promise to Jacob, kings shall come out of thy loins. He mentions that. Genesis 46, 26 All the souls, and I want you to put a footnote on that for a moment, that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's son's wife, all the souls were three, score, and six. Souls literally there means breathing creatures, men. It's a reference to men. Now some will use this passage to justify, here's a 12-cylinder word for you, the tradition view from the Latin traduce meaning offshoot or s uh uh uh uh another root, the traducian view of the origin of the soul. Now if you go back to the summary of Christian doctrine, we looked at that chapter 11 Part C, we refuted that because he and Levi here is referring to the body that would propagate naturally. His soul came from God. It's not a split between father and mother. You don't carry half a soul, and she doesn't carry half a soul. Souls come from God. Physically, the body comes. Otherwise, you have some real issues with the Lord Jesus Christ, who's the supernatural seed. He would not be in Abraham's loins here either You can't say Christ is in there. He is of the seed of Abraham, but that would be his body, not his soul. So we have to be careful with taking that too far. However, this illustration does help point out to us how we also sinned in Adam. Because in Adam's loins, folks, we were all there. We all partook of it. We can't get around it. If Levi paid tithes to Melchizedek and Abraham, you and I were at the garden doing the very same thing. Every cell in Adam's body said Sounds good? Every one of them did. You raised your hand at that time. And you voted against it. Meaning for the violation. against obedience. Now, what's my sixth point? He says Levi was in the loins and paid tithes in Abraham. So, the sixth point is this, that Levi, know it or not, is virtually acknowledging Melchizedek's superiority when he pays him a tenth. Back to my illustration. If the IRS is paying another country taxes and it's done open and publicly, you have a record and an account. IRS is no longer the top dog. So when Abraham and Levi, who's in his loins, that's one of those steps we got to, is paying tithes to Melchizedek, Abraham's not the top dog anymore. The head of every man is Christ. He's the top dog. And there's a different order. There's a different order. And so he's acknowledging Melchizedek's superiority when even Levi pays a tenth. So let's add up all these points. What do we get with all these stair steps? When we get right to the top. Melchizedek has a priesthood far above that of Levi, and thus the high priest who should appear afterwards, of whom Melchizedek was a type. Must be vastly superior to the Levitical priesthood. Vastly superior. There's got to be a far more powerful, enduring priesthood that exceeds that of Levi. And that's what all the points get to. Of course we now recognize this because you've heard some preaching, but this is the the steps that get there. This is the path that is taken to build up to that point. Alright, have I knocked you out and have I given you a good nap yet? I hope you enjoyed that. Other comments or questions? So yeah, that that's a definitely an end-up study that probably very few can articulate. What what is the general uh commentary? on Melchizedek. We've we've heard it, we've all read it, maybe gloss passes, but now that you've stopped and taken a look It seems very important. So what is the general commentary? There are three schools of thought on who Melchizedek is. One, and I don't know how prevalent this is, is that he is a theophany, meaning he is an early incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ. That has problems both from what the text says, similitude of Melchizedek, after the order of Melchizedek, that Greek word used made like. unto the Son of God. That word like is made like has to do with a model. So uh I uh and I can entertain those who want to see Melchizedek as a as Jesus Christ himself. That certainly um I would not say is unorthodox. I I would say it's inaccurate, but I wouldn't say it's uh it it I wouldn't say it's heretical uh maybe he's not as orthodox as it could be uh based on this language in here. The other view is that uh we have no idea who he is Um uh he was just an individual who God happened to not record certain events of his life but did record key things so that the testimony of the written declaration, the Word of God, would paint a picture of him being a picture of God. That I up uphold A third view is some. There was a fellow named Gregory, who, Dr. Gregory, I was going to say Gregory, Dr. Gregory, who had studied at Oxford did an interesting thing where he uh uh apparently says that there is some uh historical ancient tradition that traces the lineage of Melchizedek and shows that he was a descendant of Japheth, to show that he was a godly seed that came through from the lineage of Japheth Uh there was some other extra biblical information about him uh as to who he was individually. But that's the closest I've seen to anybody trying to even articulate his his identity. So those are the three schools of thought. Maybe the third one is lesser lesser known. I picked that one out of Matthew Henry's commentary, so I'm relying on his capturing of that record. But those are the those are the the camps where people go with that. Um I guess I'm fascinated with does that answer your question? Yeah, that's what I'm fascinated with is God is saying consider, and then he walks us through how God considers, which I find interesting. God's giving you a tool, a process by which you can examine the scriptures. And I find that fascinating. Who else in scripture? Can we uncover some hidden treasures and jewels from? You look at their name. You look at how they show up historically. Try to find the focus on why God is recording these specific actions of the individual and to consider that. I think that's instructive, and I think, and I hope it will enrich your own personal time of Bible study and Bible reading to consider the way that God would have us to consider Melchizedek. And I will give you one guideline. If you end up with the conclusion of the oracles of Nostradamus and some stupid prophecy of an earthquake in Turkey or whatever, you're off the rails. If you wind up at Jesus Christ, you're on the right track, okay? Because the scripture says, Lo, I come in the volume of the book, it is written of me His name is Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. His name is the Word of God. The Word became flesh and dwelt among us. So you have to wind up at Jesus Christ. Alright? I can tell you that right now. But it's interesting how you can get there And so I would would would give you that. Just very quickly, faith does not require evidence of every individual concept or or point. We posit the real reliability of scripture. And you know the old illustration of the guy who walked across the tate rope on Niagara follows with the wheelbarrow and then he asks somebody to get in the wheelbarrow. The guy getting the wheelbarrow doesn't have to know the tensile strength of the w of the wire. He doesn't have to know the diameter of the wheelbarrow wheel. He just simply has to trust that the guy can take it with it. cross. And it's true of scripture as well. There's great value in looking into the details, but we do not have to have every single detail to accept the truth. All right, very good. Yvonne, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for So it's pretty not enough. Uh pray, Lord, that uh we uh would uh be faithful with our remittance, Lord, to our King Uh, we acknowledge, Lord, that all that we have is a thee and uh we don't have anything without uh thy allowance and giving to us, Lord. And uh we just pray that uh we would uh be faithful in apportioning uh uh some portion of everything that we have, Lord, towards the advancement of thy kingdom, Lord, towards the work of work. uh great and high king. And uh just uh pray that we would uh continue to see Christ in in all of Scripture and we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.