Our Father, we recall in thy word when the nation of Israel of the Old Testament had fallen into paganism and yet they would still bring an offering To try to offer it to Jehovah, and your response was, who has told you to tread my courts? Who has told you to bring this offering? Father, may we never come with that kind of an offering which is nothing more than just going about the nasty habits of religion. But, O Father, rather may we come to worship, humbled by the marvels of thy grace. Saddened and afflicted with the reality of our sin and our failure before you And Lord, may we come in true repentance of sin and confession of our unworthiness to tread in thy corpse. And yet coming boldly to the throne of grace, because with thee there is forgiveness that thou mayest be feared. And Lord, this morning, may we truly worship you in spirit and in truth. Worship you not with the exercise of our own emotions. Not exer worship you with the exercise of vain religion. Father, may we worship you as thy spirit works within our hearts Teaching us in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, making melody in our heart under the Lord. And Father, as we open thy word today, may we not be as men who behold their face in a glass And see what manner of demand they are, and go away forgetting. But O Lord, may we look into thy perfect law of liberty, and may we be transformed by the Word of God. May we this day be made more like Christ and less like our old man that is crucified with Christ. Bless our assembly in this place. Bless thy word to our hearts. Bless our lips to thy glory. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me as I read our call to worship this morning, reading from the 38th chapter of Isaiah and the 19th verse. The living, the living, he shall praise thee as I do this day. The father to the children shall make known thy truth. Hey man, hey man. Turn in your blue songbook today to number 81. Number 81, a mighty fortress is our God. And indeed he is a mighty, mighty fortress. Classic song of the Reformation. I trust all of you know it And we do sing all six stanzas today. Oh my key for God all work. Venga Architects all does that for that. From race to race us. Cry up through the Prince of Darkness Prince We scramble not for Amen, Amen. Please be seated. We rejoice to sing about a kingdom that is forever, one that we inherit, one that knows no end. One upon which the Lord Jesus has taken the seat of David and rejoice in that. But we're in time's going to instruct us in our profession of faith. Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we'll continue the 29th article from the Belgic Confession regarding the marks of the true church and wherein she differs from the false church. Christian, and what do you believe? The marks by which the true church is known are these If the pure doctrine of the gospel is preached therein, if she maintains the pure administration of the sacraments as instituted by Christ If church discipline is exercised in punishing of sins, in short, if all things are managed according to the pure word of God All things contrary thereto rejected, and Jesus Christ acknowledged as the only head of the Church. Hereby the true church may be certainly known, from which no man has a right to separate himself. The article this morning points out the marks or the indicators of a faithful church. And this is a good checklist to be applied, to run through as you examine a church. What is that church's teaching on the gospel, the sacraments, which are baptism and the Lord's Supper? church discipline and even management of the church according to the scriptures Another big one that they mentioned at the end is that Christ is the head of the church and not any other. Of course, some like to set up their own uh sect so to say with a a head on top that has the same authority level as God and of course that's a reference to the Roman Catholic Church and their Pope You can and you should have a lengthy Bible study on each of these little topics, seeking out what the scriptures really teach on this. It's too much for me to cover in this one uh Sunday morning review of this confessional article But it is a good question to ask. How does your church align with the Bible on these topics? And you know that's why confessions are a helpful uh resource to the church. Because you can come to many churches and just ask some very preliminary questions. Do you guys believe in the Bible? Yes, sure. Do you guys believe in Jesus Christ? Yes, sure. But then what do they actually believe on some of these nitty-gritties? That's why confessional uh statements are a a useful thing where you can pull up somebody's um belief somewhere and a and go through okay what is it that this church actually believes. You can ask uh you can also go and ask the church leaders themselves and see what Bible verses they use to support their stance on these topics. And I know Pastor Joe and Brother Vince would be happy to share the uh understanding, the reasoning that this church, Mission Bible Church, follows on these different things here. I'll just briefly note on the gospel teaching because it says that from this confessional reading the the church you have you attend must expound the the gospel uh faithfully and soundly. We must be careful when a church is sharing the gospel to listen to both what is and what is not being said. You know, I've uh gone to uh church growing up, the this was the Russian Orthodox Church many times. And you would hear s some things, but I never really heard or understood what the gospel was. I had to go out to a Bible study one time and that's where I first heard, oh, th there's There's an actual teaching of the gospel. There's you know, and and all these years being in the church, I never heard it once. It was never really explained to me. Other churches might use the right language, but then leave some things out. And that's often what you run across in mega churches. You'll hear that Christ is mentioned, salvation is mentioned, eternal life But you never hear what it is that God saves you from, or what the actual purpose is, or even the danger of not believing. You'll never hear about hell Matthew 121 we read, And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Well, this implies that individuals are sinners. They're those that have done wicked things against the Lord, but often that's not mentioned. in many megachurches. It implies that the sinner is under God's judgment. He needs salvation. But that's another thing that won't be mentioned. They'll never warn you about being cast into hell and they'll never warn you that God is angry with the wicked every day. Somehow that never makes the makes its way into the gospel presentation. That's a scary thing. Because that is the whole purpose of the gospel. The good news is that Christ came to save these hell-bound sinners. It's as it was in Ezekiel today. God holds accountable those that don't warn, that don't warn others. In Ezekiel 3. 18 it says When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. That's how it is for many of these churches. They don't warn uh the wicked to turn from their ways. They don't warn them of the judgment to come. And God will hold them accountable for holding these things out. And so I hope you do see the real need to discern and to test your church's teaching. Thank you. Thank you, Father Anton. Well, before we go to prayer, let me update you. I know a lot of people have been asking and uh about the situation in Jamaica. So let me just update you very, very briefly. I don't want to take a lot of our time. We have had communication uh more than when I the uh update that I sent out this week by email. We actually got a call from uh Sister Barbara and uh brother Maggie last night which was encouraging. Um the church is still standing in fern. Um the roof is on, which is a that had a church had a what we call a sealed roof. There was a ceiling underneath the the zinc on there so the wind couldn't get in That stayed. Um they have lost uh some of the doors and the windows of the church blew out. Pastor Maggie and Barbara lost the roof off of their house. Um there the walls are still standing and it is rebuildable, but all their furniture has gotten wet. They had their mattresses out in the sun trying to dry them The roof the garage for their house was heavily damaged and their vehicle was damaged by falling roofing. The vehicle's functional but but has been scratched up from that Pastor Dalbert Tomlinson reports that the church at Crowder, the the first church that I pastored actually is a 22-year-old. That church is standing and is in good condition. The mission house where my wife and I lived has been uh heavily damaged. His roof is totally gone. Pastor Dalbert's roof is damaged on his house and his garage as well was destroyed. We've learned that the church at Smithfield is still standing, but it lost its roof. It did not have a sealed roof. It had an open roof design. So the walls have stood and the church is rebuildable. Every board house in Smithfield is gone. And several of the concrete houses in in Smithfield, they have all lost their roof, but several of those collapsed as well. The Bible College. We I saw pictures of the chapel in the dining hall at the Bible College where we had our summer camps for many, many years. Um it's it's a total loss. The walls. The walls are so heavily damaged they'll have to be knocked down so Start start over. So pray much for Jamaica. Um Pastor Maggie cannot get supplies because the road to Montego Bay is still blocked. There is a back road up to the cockpit that I took a f A couple times it takes like four hours to get down to Montego Bay that way. He said that road is open one lane. Um so Pastor Maggie is running short on water bottles. He cannot get more And he's distributing to the community. Years ago, I made the trip up there crossing over down trees with the four-wheel drive Jeep that we had to save supplies to them But there is no one with the concern for that community that takes supplies. So we will be updating you on how you can help the folks in Jamaica. as means are available. At this point, there's simply no means that we have to get supplies to them. There are I heard of it of 18 different scam organizations that are already online collecting money that will never reach the people that need it. So we will be sending aid at some point, but we are going to wait until we have a very secure and reliable means to do so. So I know a lot of people contacted me. How can we help We will we will be able to help, but we're waiting until we're sure that the help gets where it's supposed to go. So that that is the the update on the folks in Jamaica. Thank you. Thank you for your prayers. On their behalf. Let us go to the Lord in prayer at this time. Gracious Father, Lord, I thank you. Lord, the the one rejoicing from Jamaica is as as a brother in South Carolina commented to me the smile on the faces of those in the videos. Lord, I I thank you that the faith of these people is firm And Lord, they they truly know what it is to say the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Father, be with them and sustain them through this time. Lord, I pray that very soon the means of being able to send assistance to them will be open. and that we will be able to help to bear some of the burden. Father, I pray for the churches, Lord. I'm I'm sure that Brother Maggie is preaching this morning in a building that has no windows and doors, but he will be there preaching. I am sure the same is true there in Crowder, where Pastor Dalbert Tomlinson will be preaching the Word of God to a people that have lost everything. Father, prosper thy gospel, save souls. Return the wandering. But O Father, we pray also that you would open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing on these dear saints. Father, we pray for our dear sister in Wisconsin. Lord, we agonize before Thee in prayer that you would provide for her a liver transplant. And Lord, you answered that prayer a year and a half ago, approaching two years ago. That prayer was answered. And yet, Lord, now again she stands in need. And Lord, there will be a biopsy on the 11th. And Father, we pray that it will not show any sign of the rejection of this new liver that you miraculously provided for her. Lord, we pray with importunity before you, Lord, knowing that nothing is beyond the power of the mighty God, for nothing is too hard for thee. Father, there are those that have walked into our assembly this morning since the service began. And Lord, we rejoice that they were able to walk into this assembly. For Lord, they all have varying degrees of health needs. And Father, we are always concerned when we don't see them and rejoice when they come through the door. Father, we pray for our dear brother this morning. This is now, I believe, the third consecutive Sunday, that he has been unable to worship with us in person Lord, we know that he is worshiping with us online. But O Father, our prayer is that you would give him strength of body and that it gives his body great restorative rest. Lord, for I know that his earnest desire is to be here with us for the time of worship. Bless our brother, I pray And Lord, I pray that you would bless their business as well. Lord, not just send people through the door, but send people through the door who are ready to do business. Lord, we pray that you would answer that prayer. And Lord, our other brother, Lord, in the same real estate business, Father, I pray that you would bring to fruition The deals that are on the works, Lord. We've been praying again this request well over two months now for this specific transaction. And Father, I pray that you would bring it about, Father. Lord, help in these things. Lord, we know that you own the cattle on a thousand hills. And Lord, we are we're we're not concerned about the the wealth of this world and yet Lord you promise to supply all of our needs according to your riches and glory And Father, you know that there are legitimate needs within our congregation, O Lord, may you supply. Father, we pray for our dear sister who is not with us this morning. We rejoiced, O Lord, that she was present. In this assembly last Sunday. And Father, we pray that you would continue to strengthen her body. And Lord, we pray that the Sundays that she's not with us would be the rare Sundays. Lord it i at this time it is it is a blessedly rare Sunday when she's able to come. But Lord may those be be the norm and not the exception we pray. Lord you're able in this thing. And we call upon you. Father, we pray for our dear sister who has struggled long for many, many years with the ailments of the body and continues to Receive treatments and protocols, and Father, we pray your blessing upon her. O Lord, may you strengthen her body. May you give her joy in her soul in spite of suffering, Lord, as you've done so faithfully these many years. And Father, may you bless her with complete entire healing. And Father, may you restore her to absolute 100% health Oh Lord. These are big requests we've read before you this morning, but you are the God of the Almighty. You are the God with whom there is nothing too hard. Father, we do pray this morning for the children of our congregation. And Lord, they are in good health and appear to have many years of life before them. But Father, we do not know what tomorrow will bring forth. And so, Father, we pray that you would save their souls, and O Lord, save them right early. Save them this very day, we pray, O Lord. Father, we know that there are many brothers and sisters and parents and children of our congregation that are unsaved. That we share with them a gospel witness and some listen politely. Some Scoff, O Lord. But Father, we pray that the gospel would find deep root in their hearts, that they may be saved. Lord, we pray for our poor nation. Lord, there is disturbance and trouble on every side. Lord, we pray that you would meet the needs of those that are suffering. Lord, we know that within our own congregation we have those that are government employees, and because of the shutdown at this time, they are suffering. Oh Lord, provide for them Lord, we pray that their jobs will be secure, that they would not uh be made redundant or lose their employment because of the shutdown. Lord, we pray that you would meet the needs of people and that you would bring uh Godly judgment to our government, we pray. Father, bless this afternoon as we'll be at the only memory care facility. Lord, we thank you for the privilege we have to share the gospel there. And Lord, we realize each time we go that there's the absence of this one or of another one. These dear folks are at the door of eternity. And many of them are at a stage of life where their minds are are are slipping. And this Sunday, as we go there this afternoon, May be the last opportunity they ever have to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. O Lord, may you visit them with thy salvation, we pray Father, we thank you that you do meet with us. You promise that where two or three are gathered in your name, there you're in the midst. And Lord, uh I I I grew up often praying, Lord, meet with us. And Father, it was was several, many thirty years ago, you convicted me that that is not a fitting prayer because you've already promised to do so. Lord, if we are truly meeting in thy name, you are truly meeting with us. But O Lord, how often our hearts are so cold to thy truth. that we may be meeting with you, just as the men on the road to Damascus were in the very presence of Jesus Christ. But they were unaware of that presence because of the coldness and the unbelief of their own hearts. And Christ confronted them with the words, ought not Christ who have suffered these things. Is not this what the Scripture says? And so, Father, this morning we acknowledge that if we do not know the presence your presence with us, it is not for your absence. but it is for the coldness of our own hearts. And so, Father, may you illumine our dead, dying, our darkened hearts with the light of Jesus Christ this day And may we leave this place, knowing that we've heard of thy word. May we leave this place with new zeal and burden to cast all our care upon you for you care for us. May we leave this place renewed by the washing of water by the Word, and may we be made more like our Savior and less like the old man that is crucified with Christ. Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Matthew chapter 6 for a responsive reading. Once you've located Matthew 6 in your Bibles, please rise. We'll just be reading the end of Matthew 6, verses 19 unto the end, Matthew uh six, nineteen to thirty-four. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt And where thieves break through and steal. But lay out for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither both nor rocks up to rot. And where thieves do not break through and steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, the whole body shall be filled with light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? No man can serve two masters. E neither he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and man. Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life. What ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather in the barns. Yet your heavenly Father feedeth them Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of fields, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven Shall we not much more clothe you, O ye of the faith? Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or wherewithal shall we be clothed For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that he hath need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness And all these things shall be added unto you. And altogether, take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. I particularly like that phrase, Satan unto the day is the evil thereof. Just seems like some days there's just so much you can handle. Number 36 is our sermon psalm. It is to the tune of Odesta Fidelis which you know it as uh oh come all ye faithful. Uh I might point out that it will seem a little awkward to put some of these words to that tune. And so um Uh we'll work our way through it. The first stance in particular is a little awkward uh so uh I'll see if I remember how to get it right and lead you in a good way. Number thirty-six Uh O come all ye faithful, but it's a psalm, adaptation of Psalm 29, and we'll uh take it from there. All four in the Amen Isansant suchän nohenko. A cry through in glory and whether him honor in duty of holiness worship. Alright, hold up. Now you see what I'm saying. Thank you for helping us, Penny. Uh stanza two Hamoist hervor note en taantö. And brightness is speaking, the voice of what was in birthday. Almost wanted to end that with whew. We got the on endpoint. Right. All right, very good. Please be so. It's when you're singing one like that it's easier just to drop the bass line and Follow follow down there when you're not quite sure where to go. Our text this morning is from Proverbs twenty-seven verse one. I'm going to read that for you, but I'm actually going to have you turn to Luke chapter twelve, where we'll begin our exposition. Our text this morning from Proverbs chapter 27, verse 1, is this Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I actually started working on this message about four weeks ago. And that was long before there was any hint of a storm approaching Jamaica. And then I abandoned this message on Tuesday, worked on something else on Wednesday, and Thursday thought, no, no, I need to go back to it And I trust that what the Lord has impressed on my heart through the scriptures will be a blessing to your heart this morning. We're going to consider a lot of scripture this morning, line upon line and precept upon precept. And so our text is that verse, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Close bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach the Holy Word of God, we know from thy true word That the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. And so, Father, we are new creatures in Christ. And yet we find with the Apostle Paul that he still had that natural man dwelling within him. And plaguing him and warring against the law of the spirit and mind. And so, Lord, this morning, as we look at multiple scriptures, we acknowledge that if we simply look at them through human eyes and consider them with the natural man's mind, they will have no blessing or benefit to our soul. But Father, we pray today that you might, as we refine in Scripture, remove the scales from our eyes, pull back the curtain of thy truth by the hand of thy Holy Spirit. And teach us glorious things. Admonish us from thy word this day we pray. In Jesus' name. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. The first thing we consider from God's word is this. There is no guarantee of or for tomorrow. There's no guarantee of tomorrow. There's no guarantee for tomorrow If you visit the campus of Harford Christian School, where my wife teaches, and where my entire education before going to college took place And go to the flagpole there at Harford Christian School. You will find a granite marker. It is to a graduate from Harford Christian School that joined the Navy and died on the USS Cole. In the attack. His whole life was before him, and he is remembered there on that marker. If you walk down the hallway of Hartford Christian School and approach the office, you'll find a plaque on the wall and a picture of a young man, 16 years old, who died on the soccer field of Hartford Christian School. school. He had been to the doctor. He had gotten his physical examination and was cleared to participate in athletics He was running sprints in practice and had a heart attack and he died. They brought the helicopter to the football field and could not save his life Penny and I knew a man in Jamaica that I learned this week that during the hurricane he was very troubled. and concern and one of the windows on his house just exploded with the force of 180 mile-hour an hour wind and he had a heart attack and died in his house And the son of that man who died in the house used to come to our Sunday schools and our Bible clubs. I can see his face so clearly in my mind. And he, like his father, was a fisher. And the type of fishing that the father who just died and the son died did was that they were divers. They would dive down with a spear gun 30 and 40 and 50 feet, no air, no equipment, but they would dive down and spear fish And about four years ago, this young man went out on his boat to spear fish, and he was never seen again. The boat may have drifted away while he was underwater and he never got back to it. Or frequently the men that do spear fishing are attacked by sharks because they have bloody fish that they've just speared on their way to the boat and the sharks will come in. We don't know Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And so I had you turn there to Luke chapter twelve, and that's where we're going to begin our exposition this morning in the twelfth chapter of Luke. And in the thirteenth verse we find this. And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. And he that is Jesus, and he said unto him, man, who hath made me judge or divider over you. Now, Jesus Christ is the judge. Judgment is committed under the sun. But Christ is saying, wait a minute, I'm not here on earth to determine who gets what pile of cheese and who doesn't. I'm not here concerned over this inheritance. You see, these two brothers were fighting over earthly things. But they had no concern over the spiritual things. And so in verse 15, and he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things that he possesseth. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, so thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night Thy soul shall be required of thee. It's payday, buddy. This night, thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? And then Christ drives the nail in the coffin. So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. You see, you may be the wealthiest man in the world today And die before the day is done. And what good will all the things that you have accumulated benefit? There's a bumper sticker you may have seen on the back of vehicles that says, he that dies with the most toys wins. What a foolishness. What a ridiculous way to live. We need clothing. As a pastor, I try to dress appropriately We need housing, we need transportation, we need food. But those are not the drivers of our lives. And I have mentioned to a few of you already, and mentioned in prayer, I've been so blessed by our Jamaican brethren, because they, many of them, have lost everything they owned. And yet, though they are greatly troubled, they're not in despair. Because they've truly learned to say, The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord, as Job did. And it's been pointed out that those that don't have much don't have much to lose. It's easier for them many times to take the loss. than it is for someone who has spent their entire life accumulating all this junk and then to lose it all. You see, folks, life has no guarantee. There's no guarantee of tomorrow. You may not have a tomorrow. And there's no guarantee for tomorrow, for your life tomorrow may be very different than your life is today. And so Christ says to this rich man that says, I'm going to tear down my barns, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do all these things that I can get my big pile of money But God says, thou fool, tomorrow whose will these things be? Back two chapters from where we are in Luke chapter 12, back to chapter 9 in verse 23, we find these words. And he, again, that's Jesus, and he said unto them, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall save it. For what is a man advantaged if he gain the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of Man be ashamed when he shall come in his own glory. and in his fathers and the holy angels. You see, folks, we find Very clearly in the book of Genesis that by the sweat of our brow we're to eat bread all the days of our lives. But this life is not about accumulation here. But rather it is about the things of heaven. And folks, I know of many, many people, and I'm sure you do too, of people that could have accumulated Unbelievable wealth in this world. But rather, they made a conscious decision. I do not belong to myself. I am a servant of the Most High God. And therefore, everything that I have It does not belong to me. It belongs to my master. And my life is not about accumulation here, but about accumulation there. And I've also known some believably dedicated believers Who God has entrusted with much. Just as God, remember the parable of the talents where God gave the 110 and the 1-5 and the 1-1 I've known some that God has given to them ten, but their responsibility to God is the same as the one that received one. And so this world is not about accumulation. There's no guarantee of tomorrow and no guarantee for tomorrow. But rather, our life is to be dedicated to the service of the most high God. Remember Noah In the days of Noah, we read in Matthew twenty-four, verse thirty nine, and they knew not until the flood came and took them all away. You see, the preaching of Noah had gone on while Noah and his sons were building the ark. And a flood came, and they knew not until it was done. And they were taken away. What are you going to do tomorrow? Well, I'm sure we all have some form of plan for tomorrow. But we do not know what a day will bring forth. Lots, children! And there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon them and the young men, and they are dead. In Luke 17, 28, likewise also it was in the days of Lot. They did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, and they built it. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. You see, folks, the unbelievers, they're spending their lives building Tearing down to build again. Buying. Brother Vince mentioned in Sunday school, I can't figure the exact phrase, uh two two years anew or something like that. They gotta have a new car every two years They've got to have this. They've got to build all these things for themselves. But God has given us a different viewpoint. The rich man and Lazarus both died. But turn with me to Isaiah 38. Isaiah 38 records for us the story of Hezekiah. And to remind you of the background, God told Hezekiah, get your affairs in order, because you're going to die. Get your affairs in order, because this is it. The day of your death has come. And Hezekiah, we read, turned his face to the wall and prayed, and God added years to his life. But in Isaiah 38 and verse 40, Or verse 14, this is the testimony of Hezekiah. Actually, I'm going to start reading in verse 15 of Isaiah 38. What shall I say? This is Isaiah speaking, or Hezekiah speaking. He hath both spoken unto me, and he himself hath done it. I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul. In other words, I'm going to be careful how I live these years that God has given me. I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul. O Lord, by these things men live And in all these things is the life of my spirit. So wilt thou recover me and make me to live? Behold, for peace I had great bitterness But thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption. For thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back. Here's a man who's been told, Hezekiah, get your affairs in order, you're about to die. He pled with God and God added years to him and he says, God's added years. I'm going to go softly. I'm going to not be a loudmouth. I'm not going to be the braggart. I'm not going to be the one looking to all the things of this world. I'm going to go softly For peace, uh uh behold, for peace I had great bitterness. I thought I was going to die, but thou in love hath to my soul hath delivered it from the pit of corruption. You've delivered me from the grave And you've cast all my sins behind thy back. You've forgiven me of all my sins. Verse 18. For the grave cannot praise thee, death cannot celebrate thee. They that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth. He says, you know, when I'm in the grave I can no longer praise God. Of course we praise God in heaven, obviously, but that's not what we're talking about If you're going to praise God, this is the time you have, fourscore, and ten. If you're going to use your hands for the glory of God, this is the time you have. If you're going to use your resources for the glory of God, this is the time you have. If you're going to tell your neighbors about Jesus Christ, this is the time you have. And then verse 18, or verse 19, the verse I read is our call to worship, the living. The living, he shall praise thee as I do this day. Folks, my father was a great preacher And the recordings of his preaching are still listened to today. But his day to praise God on earth is done. The living, the living, he shall praise thee as I do this day. The father to the children shall make known thy truth. We have some young fathers here today. The father to the children shall make known thy truth. Folks, this Day we have may be the last we have. There are no guarantees of a tomorrow, and there are no day guarantees for a tomorrow. And so James warned us, go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow I will go into such a city and continue there and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, ye shall live and do this or that. And so the first thing that we would learn from the Word of God this morning is that life doesn't have any guarantees of or for tomorrow. But secondly, I would have us to see from God's Word that there's no benefit in worrying about tomorrow. There's no benefit in worrying about it. Well that doesn't mean we say, okay, I'm just going to sit here at home and expect the bird to fly my window for me to eat. No, we obviously have to labor. We always obviously have to repair the roof on the house. Brother Vitz mentioned again in Sunday school that he did nothing, the house would fall apart There are things that are obviously our responsibility, but lying awake worrying about them doesn't really help them, does it? As the child of God, God has not given us a spirit of fear But of power and of love and of a sound mind. There are an awful lot of things in this world that worry us. We can worry about our health, or we can cast it to the Lord. We can worry about our income, or we can cast it to the Lord We can worry about storms coming, or we can catch to the one who rules the winds and the waves. Folks, there is no benefit To worry about tomorrow. If you look back to the passage we read for our responsive reading this morning in Matthew chapter 6, and the last verse Matthew 6 and verse 34. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Some people worry about tomorrow here. The child of God worries about tomorrow there. You see, our life is to be laying up treasures not on earth where malt and rust doth corrupt But laying up treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. You see, God knows the number of our days. This isn't that a great blessing. Oh no, I'm gonna die. Well, not until God says so. God knows the number of the days of our lives That doesn't mean that I can go jump in front of a car and think everything's going to be okay. We're not talking about stupidity. We're not talking about living carelessly But rather, we're talking about living peacefully because God knows the number of our days. It is with Him And uh you know I remember when we Penny and I were first heading for Jamaica, my mom sent me that verse, be not afraid of their faces. Yeah, because God will protect his people. We are invincible. What about our brethren behind the Iron Curtain who or in in um Nigeria today where the Muslims are beheading Christians and killing them. And uh those that are told, look, you turn from your faith or you'll die. But because of the grace that God gives to his children, his children can say, okay, all right. Job 7 verse 1. Is there not an appointed time to man upon the earth? Are not his days also as the days of a hireling? And in Job 14, verse 1 and 2 and verse 5, that a man a man that is born of woman is of a few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down. He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not, seeing his days are determined. The number of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed his bonds that he cannot pass. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after that the judgment. I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them to me is greater than all, and no man shall pluck them out of my father's hand. You realize that the child of God is indestructible. Oh, this body. This body is perishing. This body is in decline. You know, we talk about somebody that's over the hill. Folks, we're born over the hill. We're born in, you know, the body seems to strengthen for a period of years, but then it begins to decline. It is the result of the curse. But if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Folks, God knows the number of our days Yes, we see the doctor. Yes, we use good prudence. Yes, we try to protect our bodies from things that are harmful, and we try to get good nutrition. But good nutrition doesn't stop you from dying in an accident, does it? There are no accidents. You see, folks, as a child of God, we don't have to worry about these things. We do what is necessary for our health, yes, but God knows the number of our days. It doesn't do any good to worry about tomorrow. It does not benefit the believer. The psalmist said in Psalm 39, verses 3 and 4, Lord, make me to know mine own end. and the measure of my days, what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as a handbreadth And mine age is as nothing before thee. For verily every man at his best is altogether vanity And then in Psalm 90 verse 12, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Lord, teach me to number my days. Wow, Lord, I just wasted one. Forgive me for that. Oh Lord, this is a new morning. I have woken from my sleep. May I this day apply my heart to wisdom, and the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. This new day, Lord Teach me to redeem the time. Lord, you allow me to sleep last night. You allow me to wake this morning. This day, Lord, I do have to go to work. I do have to do, I have these things. But Lord, how can this day be a glorious day for you so when I lay down to sleep tonight, I can say thank you, Lord, for this day. And folks, I guarantee you, if you've been lying awake worrying about things at night, when you go to bed saying, Lord, what can I do for you tomorrow, you sleep better. And you won't worry. Because our days are numbered. And so there's no benefit to worrying about tomorrow. Our days are numbered And there's no benefit to worrying about tomorrow because God gives sleep to his children. Now, you'll know from our prayer list that a lot of us have trouble sleeping. And you'll know my name is listed among them. Lord help me to sleep Because it is the tendency of man to lay awake and worry about things. But folks, God gives his beloved sleep Oh Lord, help us to sleep. Psalm four, verse eight. I told you before, during the years that we spent in Jamaica, was the verse that Penny and I prayed as we lay down at night because you know we were in a we were in a a ghetto that that a lot of people would tremble to drive through. We lived there. That was where we were, and crime was very rampant and houses were broken into Just about every week you'd hear of another house had been broken into. But Psalm 4, verse 8 was our sleeping verse. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep For thou, Lord, only makest me to dwell in safety. Remember after Hurricane Gilbert, the roof was off of her house We had concrete walls and iron burglar bars on the windows, but with the roof off anybody could just climb up one side of the wall and drop down in the house and the bars did us no good. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. Lord, I've got this big medical test coming up. And and Lord, it doesn't look good. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. Lord, there's this business deal and it's weighing so heavily on me. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. Lord, these people hate me. This this guy he's out to get me. He's slandering me at work. He he's telling lies about me I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou only makest me to dwell in safety. See, God gives his children sleep. We don't have to worry about tomorrow because God is in control of these things. The psalmist said in Psalm 127 verse 2, it is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for he giveth his beloved sleep. Yeah, you've got a big dis business deal going tomorrow. You might be on the computer working on the deal. That's that's one thing. But just laying awake in bed thinking about it isn't gonna make it happen any better God gives his beloved sleep. My mom used to tell me that I borrowed trouble. And she was right. You know, and I and Penny's never actually said that to me, but she knows I do She knows I can think of all kinds of things that can go wrong. Folks, God knows about it all. In Psalm 3, verses 3 to 5, but thou, Lord, art a shield for me my glory and the lifter up of my head. God is my shield. God is the one in whom I glory and He lifts me up my head. He exalts me, David said. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill, Selah, I laid me down and slept. I awake For the Lord sustained me. That's Psalm chapter 3 and verse 5. I laid me down and slept. I awaked. For the Lord sustained me. When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. Proverbs three, verse two Go back to Matthew 6, which we read for our responsive reading this morning. And there in verse 25 of Matthew 6, Christ says, Take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink. That doesn't mean that we're lazy. It doesn't mean that we don't work. But it does mean that your life's in God's hands. He's going to take care of you. Verse 27, which of you by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature Can you lay awake at night worrying about it and wake up taller? No. Can you lay awake at night worrying about it and wake up richer? Or healthier? Or anything else, er, that you want that you want to name? No, no. You know, he gives his beloved sleep. Verse 28, take no thought for raiment, consider the lows of the field. Verse 32, verse um 33, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. God will supply all your needs. But I think the greatest example is found in Acts chapter 12, verses 5 and 6. And I would ask you this question before I read the verses. What would you do on death row? You know tomorrow you're going to be executed? What would you be doing? Well, in Acts 12, verse 5 and 6, we find Peter on death row. And Peter therefore was kept in prison, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping. between two soldiers bound with two chains and the keepers before the door kept the prison. Herod was going to execute Peter in the morning, and the same night Peter was sleeping. Folks, you give us this beloved rest. And so we find, first of all, that there's no guarantee of or for tomorrow. And there's no benefit to worrying about tomorrow. Folks, here's where it gets even more pointed. We have commands as to what we're to do tomorrow. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt. But That's a command. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither rust doth corrupt and where I'll get it right. Where rust doth not corrupt and where thieves do not break through and steal, for where your treasure is There will your heart be also. We are commanded to be laying up treasures in heaven. It's not passive, folks It doesn't just say, oh, your reward's great in heaven. No. We're not to be concerned with the accumulation of this world, but we're commanded to be concerned with the accumulation in heaven. Lay out for yourself treasures in heaven, where moth and rust doth not corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. And so we're to be seeking the kingdom of heaven And we are to be laying up treasure in heaven. For where our heart is, or where our treasure is, there will our heart be also. You see, we prioritize the spiritual above the physical. We prioritize the heavenly above the earthly, and we prioritize the eternal above the temporal, the passing. Paul said in Romans 13, verse 11 and following, and that knowing the time that it is high time to awake out of sleep, For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. In other words, the day of our our death or the day of the return of Christ is nearer than when we were than when we believed. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Therefore let us cast off the works of darkness. And put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkening, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and ending. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. You see, when we're lying awake planning out our next business deal Rather, maybe we should be lying awake planning out how we can approach someone with the gospel. When we're lying awake concerned about the things of this world, may God give us grace to be more concerned about the things of the next. And if you're preparing for that one. And uh my brother and I have talked about this several times, but the preparation for the Lord's Day is a very important thing in the life of the believer. Go ahead and turn with me. We're doing good on time this morning. Go ahead and turn with me to Exodus chapter 16. And here God is giving command to Moses as to how the people are to prepare themselves for the coming Sabbath. And in Exodus 16, verse 23, we find this. See some pages still turning. I'll give you just a moment. Exodus 16, 23, and he said unto them, This is that which the Lord has said Tomorrow is the rest of the Holy Sabbath unto the Lord. Bake that which ye will bake today, and see that which ye will seize, parentheses, to-day and that which remaineth over up for you to be kept until tomorrow or the mor the the morrow morning. And Moses did eat that day. And Moses said, Eat that today, for today is the Sabbath unto the Lord. Today ye shall not find in the field six days ye shall gather But on the seventh day, which is the Sabbath, in it there shall be none. See, for that the Lord hath given you the Sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day, so the people rest there on the seventh day. Now why do I mention that? Folks, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God The highest priority in our lives should be the hearing of the Word of God. Because that's where it all begins. You see, if we are to live a life that doesn't Bank on tomorrow and spend our life planning about tomorrow, it begins with the Word of God. It begins with the worship of God's people. It begins with not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. If we are to live a life that doesn't worry about tomorrow, it begins with the Word of God. It all comes back to the book. And if we are to live a life that is preparing for tomorrow It will be a life that is lived in the Word of God. And so we are not in this world for pleasure. We are not in this world for d for accumulation, but rather God has put us here to serve. And so boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day shall bring forth. The great comfort of the believer is this: O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Folks, we have a long list of folks we pray for that God will spare their lives. That's biblical. Hezekiah did that very thing. But we also have a book that tells us for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. And so folks, great peace have they that love thy law. And nothing shall offend them. There's no guarantees of or for tomorrow. There's no benefit in worrying about tomorrow, but we are given great responsibilities to prepare for the tomorrow of eternity. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that your word is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. We thank you, Lord, that you have chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Lord, bless thy word to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Return to our closing hymn, number 27, in our blue song book. Great is thy faithfulness. Number 27 And we will sing all three stanzas. So wait just a second. The place is my faith for less to God, my father. There is no Oh Shadow Walty Thou changes not thy command shast Morning, my morning to me. All I have need for Spring time and for us Sun, moon, and stars in their courses of all day. Nature in thy forest through thy great faithfulness. Is thy faithfulness, raise thy faithfulness, voice thy body to blow me thy save. All my hands that all thy faithfulness for the body. There isn't Good year and good Strength for today and right for tomorrow Blessings There it is. Me morning to Mercy I seek all my back of my hair.