Before we consider this morning's message, let's uh turn to the Lord for a moment of prayer. Father in heaven, we pray, Lord, this morning, as we look into your word and consider this passage in James chapter 3. Pray that we would take heed, O Lord. Help us not to just be hearers of your word, but doers of it also We pray, Lord, that um the message would be clear and that it would be an edification to your saints, O Lord. Pray that your spirit would move today. Even through the bringing forth of your word and through the hearing of it, O Lord. We pray for your help in this hour. Please help us to take heed to listen unto thee, O Lord. And we ask it all in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Now if you have your Bible, please turn to James chapter three This morning we'll be considering the first twelve verses of James chapter three. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in words, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm. Whithersoever the governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man taint. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God, even the Father And therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either a vine, figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh If you've been paying attention as we've been reading along in James chapter 3, you see that it's all about the tongue, the use of the tongue. I'd like to tell you that this topic of the tongue is no trivial matter. This is not a light matter. We read in the scriptures that God hears, He knows all words that are uttered, spoken, and even thought. Psalm 139, 4 says, For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. The Lord can hear all the speech. But furthermore, we know that God will hold men accountable. for all of their words. We know that every idle word that men shall speak, they'll give account thereof in the day of judgment And that by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. This is a very serious matter. The use of the tongue. It's no light thing. That brings me to the first point that we can see and extract from this passage in James chapter 3, that the tongue will be judged. All men will be judged based on the use of their tongue. Look with me at the first two verses of James chapter 3. Says, My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation, for in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. We see that there's an application here towards the masters, those that are the leaders, the teachers in the church. There's a warning not to pursue the pulpit as a light thing. Because masters, those that are the leaders in the church, they're more accountable. There's an exhortation for not many to be masters, and uh they're accountable over the souls Over the souls that will have to encounter the Lord. They're required from the beginning of their position, those that are the masters, those that are leaders, they're required to be qualified And the scripture speaks of many of these qualifications that they need. They need to be able to hold fast the word of truth. In First Timothy three verses two through six, there's several others that point to that necessity of not having a tongue that's needlessly offensive. In First Timothy three Verses two through six it says, A bishop then must be some of these qualities are listed of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach Patient, not a brawler, not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil Truly, they must not offend needlessly. They have to have a tongue that is able to be patient, that's not a brawler, that's hospitable in speech. But furthermore, we see that they also need to know and be able to proclaim the truth of the Bible. They need to not be offensive by bringing up any heresy or any false doctrine. For we know that the soul, the hearer that listens to them, will fall in the midst of that judgment if they go astray based on their teaching In Ezekiel 34,10, the Lord warns those that are the wicked shepherds in Israel. He says, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my flock at their hand, and cause them to cease. From feeding the flock. The Lord requires the flock at the hand of the shepherds, those that are the leaders So truly, there's a greater condemnation that will come to masters who are those teachers that offend with their tongue. But from this passage we can see, by implication, because there's a greater condemnation to the masters, we know there's also a condemnation upon all men. Though masters receive the greater condemnation, all men are judged for the use of their tongue. James 3. 2 says, For in many things we offend all. But look here, it says, if any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. This isn't just the teaching for those who were the leaders in the church, but it's for all. All will have to give account of their speech. In Matthew twelve, verses thirty-six through thirty-seven, the context of this passage that I'm about to read is the Pharisees come to the Lord Jesus Christ and they blaspheme against him, they blaspheme against the Holy Ghost that's working in him. And he uh speaks against them for that And he says there, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. As you can see here, it's all the words, it's even the idle words. God hears it all. He will bring uh make men be accountable for even those words There is no time off when you will just be able to tell the Lord, hey, don't look at this portion of my life. Just look at these couple of things I said here. Let me point you to this instance here No, but the Lord hears and he brings men into account for every idle word. I came across a professing Christian in college who would openly state that he's a Christian, sometimes speak of some of the things in the Bible, though it was never really the true gospel. I never really heard that from him But he was vile in his language, he didn't mind cursing, didn't mind blaspheming either. And when confronted, he was say, well, you know, God doesn't care about those little things that you say. God's not bothered about that. He's just looking at the big deeds overall. He's not really concerned with the little speech here But that goes fully contrary to what Christ teaches. Christ's teaching is that men will give account for every word, for every idle word. And that word idle It's the Greek term the Greek word argos. It means free from labor or at leisure. It's that same word used in the kingdom parable when Christ speaks of the householder that goes goes out to find men to work in his vineyard, and he finds men that are standing idle in the marketplace. They're without work and he brings them into labor. So when you think about it, this speech that the Lord looks at, it's even that speech that's brought up in idle conversation, light conversation. You might not be thinking, oh, this isn't a very serious point in my life I'm not really before a judge. I don't have to worry. But no, the Lord says you're going to have to give account for every idle word. And that's a sobering thought. There's so many words spoken in our life, but God hears them all. God gave us this tongue. He formed the body. He formed the entirety of the body. He said it was good to begin with. And that tongue is given to us. to serve the Lord with. It's it's only right to love the Lord our God with it. And to love our neighbor as ourself with the use of the tongue. We're to use it in prayer, in proclamation of God's word. in praising the Lord and in loving our neighbor. But how often is it used for sin, for gossip, for coveting, for blasphemy, for using the name of the Lord as a light thing? for idolatry, for speaking of something, as if it's so glorious to put God down and raise this thing up. How often is it used for idolatry? And even more scary, how often is it used by many false teachers, those that don't know the true gospel for heresy? They teach a false thing. They teach something that's contrary to what God's revealed word is. So we see how uh dangerous, how much wickedness this uh tongue can be used for, is used for. And you can't say to yourself, well, you know, some of those bad things that I've spoken, they were in my home, just in the midst of my family, maybe just in my room Nobody really heard them. Uh i it it didn't offend anybody, even if it was gossip or whatever it might have been. So I shouldn't be worried about that No, God still hears it. Neither can you say, well, it was in my mind. I didn't actually utter it with my lips. So that should be okay. It was just in my thoughts. But no, we often see as the Lord goes about in his ministry, he knows even the thoughts, he'll confront men for those things that they're thinking. Ecclesiastes 10. 20 says, Curse not the king, know not in thy thought, and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber. For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. Truly, God sees what's even in the thought God sees what's spoken even in the bedchamber, in the privacy of your home. The Lord hears, sees it all, and he holds you accountable for it. Lastly, on this issue of the judgment of the tongue, I just want to point out to you that the rich man that's in hell, that that parable, that teaching that we see of the rich man and Lazarus, the rich man that's in hell What does he ask relief for? It says that he's in flames, but he wants his tongue to be cooled. Luke 16, 24. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. For I am tormented in this flame. Interesting. He's asking for a leaf of the tongue. We know God judges the tongue. And of course, sadly, as we know, in hell there is no relief for the burning tongue. God does judge it The second point that I want to make that's very clear here from this passage in James is that the tongue is a powerful item. The tongue is a powerful member of your body. Look with me at verses 3 through 5. It says, Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold also the ships. Which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth Even so, in that same manner, even so the tongue is a little number, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter, a little fire kindleth We see that this tongue that we have, this little number in our body, it's likened to uh A bit that's in a horse's mouth that's used to control it. It's like into a small helm, that steering wheel wheel that's uh inside of ships that can control these large ships even in intense waters, intense waves. And that's what the tongue is likened to Of course, animals, the horses, they're difficult to be tamed, they're wild beasts. They're strong creatures. They're uh they're a lot more powerful than humans, that's for sure. It's a hard thing to control them, but when that bit is there, it's it's uh you're able, you have a good chance to do it with a bit and a bridle. Same thing with the large ship that's in a uh a wave or something of that sort. That's a hard thing to control with a small helm. It does control it Well, you know, we after our nature, after our flesh, we're like that wild horse. We're like the ship in a stormy sea. We're full of carnal desire. We're full of wild behavior. If we just pursue the lusts of our flesh that's fallen, the flesh that's in sin. It's wild. It can't be tamed. But if the bit is activated, if that tongue that's in your mouth is taken control of Then what do you see? You can control the whole body, all of those fleshly desires. And by implication we see the tongue is the hardest thing to be able to control. If you can control the tongue, you can control the whole body. And of course, if uh God's granted you that new birth, and it's been some time that you've been in the faith. You'll notice, you'll see how God has changed your language, how God has changed your speech. God grants you a walk in the spirit, one where you can control the tongue, where you can control the flesh. God makes you Put that bridle on your mouth. It's something that he does, something that the uh flesh the natural man cannot do God sets a watch over it. Psalm 39. 1 says, I said, I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me. And Psalm 141, 3 through 4 says, Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practice wicked works with men that work iniquity, and let me not eat of their dainties. We see the believer's heart. They desire to have a bridle over their mouth. They seek the Lord to put a guard, to put a watch. Some s it's almost you can envision it as having a guard, uh like a bodyguard at your lips to prevent any wicked thing from coming forth. You pray that the Lord would bring to your mind, please help me not to bring any offensive speech, offensive words. The believer is concerned about it. They know the power of the tongue. And you know, if you've been a believer, you can uh for a while, you've experienced the true grace of the Lord You can look back at some time at your old writings, perhaps something in a letter, or perhaps something in an old video, or even text messages, and you can think, wow. Can't believe I spoke so wickedly. Why would I speak those vile things? Why would I speak such foolish utterance, such foolish nonsense? You can see it's a it's a blessing to see how the Lord's brought you out of those things. He truly, uh by his grace, it's a supernatural thing. He takes over that tongue and he turns it to serve him. The tongue is truly a small member in the body. I did a Google search and it's uh it's less than 1% of your total body weight. Truly, it's just a very small portion of your body. But what a great influence it is, though it's such a small portion. James 3 5, even so the tongue is a little number and boasteth great things It's a small portion, but it has strong influence. It's used to articulate your words. It's used to give a certain message, but it's important. What is that message? What are you using that tongue for? Proverbs 1821 shows the power of the tongue. It says, Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. We can understand this in the natural sense, that death and life are in the power of the tongue. We know that kings that have authority, they can give somebody a death sentence just by their speech. We know also, uh, if you want to break somebody down, cause them to go into depression or whatever it might be, you can speak some harsh things to them to really crush their spirit. And uh we know the opposite as well. With the natural tongue you can use it to build somebody up. You can use it to give somebody a promotion You can give it you can use it to uh free somebody from jail if you have that authority, if you're in that place of power. Truly death and life are in the power of the tongue. But we see this as well in the spiritual sense. Words can be used to edify, to build up, to bring the message of truth, or they can be used to break down and to push somebody into condemnation. Sound preaching can stir up hearts and it can relieve great burdens, great burdens of sin and great burdens of uh not knowing the Scripture. When you point to Christ, you can help people set their affections on the things above and edify them, help them to grow in grace and in knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. At the same time, you can use your son your your tongue for death. You can bring about heretical preaching, false things, things that will motivate the flesh to fulfill the lusts of the flesh. And furthermore, you can preach a false gospel that can make everybody feel very good, that can make everybody feel at peace. You can tell people peace, peace when there is no peace. And bring them into condemnation with this false teaching. Truly, death and life are in the power of the tongue. But we see from this passage in James that if you can control your tongue, that thing that has much power, if you can control your tongue. Then you can bridle your whole body also. James 3. 2 says, if any man offend not in word, the same as the perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. That term perfect man, if you're able to make a good use over your tongue to bridle your mouth, then you'll be a perfect man. You'll be a mature believer. You'll be one who can control the tongue and uh truly you can then have it be used for something that's profitable, something that's of service to the Lord. And the opposite is true as well. If you cannot control your tongue, if you can't get that bridle over the tongue, then it will defile your whole body. James 3. 6 says that it defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. And of course Christ teaches when Pharisees come to him again and uh try to rebuke him, try to find fault with him. for his disciples not washing their hands. They're concerned about some traditions of men. They need certain washings to be done and all of that. But Christ tells them that you shouldn't be so worried about what's going in through the mouth, but rather what's going out of it. Matthew 15, verses 17 through 21 says, Do not ye yet understand that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draw. But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and they defile the man For out of the heart perceived evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashing hands defileth not a man. We must understand the teaching here. Truly, you're not going to be condemned to an eternity in hell by eating something that has some bacteria on it. It's going to go into your body and out eventually. Even if it kills you, that won't be the thing that condemns you Yes. No, but rather what comes out of your mouth is the thing that will condemn you. What comes out of the mouth shows what you really have on your heart. That's the thing that defiles you That's the thing that will be used to acquire whatever sin you're looking to do, whether it's to steal, whether it's to kill to to kill, to commit some kind of fornication. All of these things, they're initiated, they're done with the mouth, and they reflect what's going on in the heart. That's why the Lord says, For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. What's coming out of your mouth is showing what's on your heart. Oh I know I've I say a lot of wicked things, but that's alright. My my heart is in a good place. No, it's not. You've proven your heart is in an evil place because of what's coming forth out of your mouth And so wicked speech shows a wicked heart, and it declares you defiled. So we see there's great power in the tongue. The third point that we can see very clearly from this teaching in this portion of James is that the tongue is prone to great wickedness. It's prone to great wickedness. Look at verses five through eight. Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. And then these next two verses we see how it's untamable. For every kind of beast, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind, but the tongue can no man tame. It's an unruly evil full of deadly poison. The tongue is again likened to a small fire Just a small fire. We know that small fires aren't very harmful. You can blow them out if you consider just a small little flame on a piece of wooden stick or something It doesn't seem to be too harmful, but oh how it can set huge things on fire and fully destroy them. And you see this with uh forest fires when uh on a hot and dry day somebody starts a little bonfire, maybe they're roasting marshmallows or something like that, and then they just leave it, they forget about it, they go do something else And all of a sudden one tree catches on fire and another and another. And now just a small little bucket of water won't put it out. That won't do it. This is a a great evil that's been done. This is a great destruction that's come about. And so it is with the tongue, though it can start with just a small few little words of wickedness How much it can transpire and grow into evil things. It ignites even the whole body. It defiles the whole body. So, behold, how great a matter, a little fire kindleth, and the tongue is a fire. A world of iniquity If you let the little thin flame of the tongue flourish, it's going to grow into a whole forest fire of iniquity. It says in James 3. 6 that it defiles the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature and is set on fire of hell. It sets on fire the whole course of nature. That term course of nature means wheel of life. All the proceedings of life are are destroyed, are defiled because of this little fire that that comes forth from your mouth, that little wickedness that begins, it destroys everything in life. All from that little tongue. It causes chaos and destruction. And you think about it, your relationship with God That tongue shows that you have a wicked heart, that you're against him. When you take his word lightly, when you take his name in vain, it defiles your relationship with God. It condemns you And furthermore, even relationship with family. If you use that tongue offensively, how quickly you can offend a brother or offend uh whoever it is in your family and destroy all these relationships Same thing with uh government decrees. When governments use their tongue, use uh the the message that they proclaim to be some iniquity that they push forth, it destroys the whole nation And and even with uh raising children, the young the young kids, if you use your tongue in a vain manner to teach them false things, to teach them evil things, or to neglect to teach that which is right. Oh, you're going to destroy that child's entire life. So we see the tongue. It sets on fire the course of nature, that whole wheel of life. It's prone to much iniquity. It's a world of iniquity. And we see here as well that it's untamable by natural man. The natural man that's fallen in the flesh, there's no way that he can tame it. There's no way that he can bring it unto power and use it and uh have hold of it. And we get the example here that all wild beasts, they've been tamed. And we know if you've seen any videos of of uh professionals working with animals. They can uh train lions and bears to do things in carnivals and they can even stick their hand in a lion's mouth and look, it's not biting you and all that, even though it's a wild beast, it's strong, it's much stronger than man But they can be tamed. Even dolphins. People have done dolphin shows at aquariums. It's such a common thing. Those creatures are very strong. They can they can truly destroy a man, but they can be brought to be tamed But what do we know of the natural man? What do we know of the man's tongue? It can't be tamed. It says in James that it's an unruly evil. It produces wickedness. It can't be ruled. It's an unruly evil. Sins against God. It speaks evil. It gossips of others that are made in God's image. Those that are in the similitude of God, as it says here in James It's an unstoppable rebellion. And uh in Psalm ten, verse four, it speaks of the wicked. First it in Psalm ten it gives a little description of the wicked and then it tells you what their speech is. Psalm 104 says, the wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God. God is not in all his thoughts. Truly, the God the the wicked try to push God out of their thoughts. It condemns them. They don't like to keep that thought in their mind. But then we see how the wicked use their mouths In uh Psalm 10 verse 7, it says that his mouth, the mouth of that wicked person, is full of cursing and deceit and fraud. Under his tongue is mischief and vanity. This is what the wicked use their mouth for. It's full of cursing, deceit, and fraud, that which is false. And it it's uh mischief and vanity. That's what's under his tongue. Mischief and vanity. All these from that wicked man that doesn't want to keep God in his mind, that's why you see When you walk around the world, you go into the city, you hear all these men with their wicked speech. Why does that happen? They don't want to keep God in their mind. And their tongue brings forth this evil speech, cursing, deceit, fraud, mischief, vanity. See all of that. Then also James speaks of the tongue that it's a that it's uh full of deadly poison It's not just things that are spoken and oof that doesn't sound clean, but actually it's poisonous. It's deadly poison. It can harm the hearer. Uh the speech offends their neighbor. They can speak also false doctrine, these things that are harmful to the in uh individual, and especially false prophets. Those that claim to be bringing forth a God's word, and yet they're bringing a false message, we know that this is a deadly poison. It's harmful to those that hear it. Psalm 58 verse 34 says, The wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies. Speaking lies Their poison is like the poison of a serpent. They are like the death adder that stompeth her ear. Truly, when the wicked bring their speech, especially a false prophet, it might seem that there's nothing harmful here, but soon as the poison seeps in, you see the man become defiled. What what pours out of a man that listens to these things and follows them, they become corrupt. What they do is corrupt and in the end they're condemned to hell. That tongue is full of deadly poisons. It's a world of iniquity. It's evil to God and it's it's evil to your neighbor. It's very destructive And we read Isaiah 6 for the responsive reading. But we see that Isaiah understood of himself the wickedness of the tongue, the wickedness of speech. In Isaiah 6, verse 5, it says, Then said I, this is after Isaiah had seen the Lord on his throne. Even in the temple, he sees how the angels proclaim him. The angels cry, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. They proclaim holiness. They use their tongue only for that which is good, that which is clean, the praise of God. That's the right thing to do. And then Isaiah, after seeing that, realizes, he says, Woe is me, I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips For mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. And truly, when you're confronted with God's glory and his holiness When somebody brings to you the truth of the scriptures, the truth of the gospel, and you see the condemnation upon sin, and you see God's full holiness, full glory, then you understand, whoa How wicked am I truly? How wicked is my mouth that's spoken so much evil and so many false things Truly, once the Lord's worked in you and revealed some of that light of his word, that light about himself, you can begin to understand, you can begin to dread your own wickedness You see the depths of man's wickedness, especially in their speech. There's so much vain and sinful speech, and you see it all around. I know for myself, when I was uh go growing up and going into the college world, going into the professional world, I thought, well You know, I understand as a child, when I was in school, there was a lot of filthy speech, a lot of false things said, and people didn't really have a good idea about God. Even if they were false, they just or false ideas, they didn't have a good backing for what they believe in. I thought, well that'll probably change once I go into the college realm, once I go into the professional realm, once I'm amongst people that are successful, they're grown individuals. But what I learned is no, it's actually all the same. Uh people still have filthy speech. They might know how to cover it better, but their speech is still filthy and God is not in their thoughts. You look into the professional world, you try to get a professional career, you you won't hear God in any of their language And when you confront them about it, many of them don't have a good idea for what they believe, and it's rare to ever find a truly converted, born-again Christian God's not in their thoughts, God's not in their speech, truly. The w the the tongue is prone to much wickedness all throughout life. And now that brings me to the fourth and uh last point for this morning's message That is that what comes out of the tongue, what comes out of the mouth, reveals what's truly on the heart, reveals what your heart is all about. Look at verses 9 through 12 of James chapter 3. It says of the tongue that therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either a vine, figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh Truly, we see that a tongue that's used in two ways, one to profess, to proclaim, to praise the Lord uh at at the same time as being used for wickedness ought not to be so. And there's an admonition here. Uh For both the false convert and somebody who's a true convert and yet struggling with the sinful use of the tongue To the false convert. Truly, if your tongue is spewing evil words from Monday through Saturday, you have no thought of God, no desire to speak of his word, no desire to hear it But then you clean up your speech for a few hours on Sunday so that you can appear clean, appear to be righteous of some sort. Or if it's the case that you have a false gospel, you will fully, what you fully proclaim is not what God's Word teaches. You mix these things up and you teach heresy. That's damnable. Well, you have to understand. You have to uh understand and don't be deceived that you're not truly converted If God's not in your thoughts or if you're proclaiming a false message, you must be under tr understand that you're not truly converted. Your religion is in vain, as James says In uh James chapter one, verse twenty-six he says, If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is in vain. If you are not able to bridle the tongue, this i i it just doesn't produce anything good. It's uh there's whatever is brought forth of the uh uh of the mouth isn't uh genuine Speech isn't genuine praise of the Lord, isn't a genuine desire to proclaim his word. You have to understand that your tongue's not bridled and your heart's not right And uh truly your religion. These things that you're professing, they're in vain. That's a it's a false faith that you have. It's a dead faith. And if this is the case, that you're a fountain that's yielding bitter water, as James says, or salt water. Because The the source of your heart is bitter and salty. You have to understand that your your heart is fallen. Your heart is still in its sin But I would urge you, if that's your case, if you're hearing this message and you understand, yeah, truly, I don't care for the things of God. I don't really care to speak them. Well, turn to the Lord. Believe on Christ. He'll give you a new heart and a clean fountain source. Once God changes the heart, He'll change what comes out of the mouth as well. John seven thirty-eight, He that believeth on me, as the Scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. That's what the Lord does to somebody who believes on him. He changes their heart, and then what proceeds out of them, out of their belly shall flow rivers of living water. That speech which is profitable, that speech which is good will thou come forth from your mouth once the heart is converted Proverbs ten eleven, the mouth of a righteous man is a well of life, but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. Truly, if you're if you've been uh Convert it. If your heart is new, then your mouth will truly be a well of life. It will speak those things which are true and good and desire to proclaim God's word. But then the application, the message to the true convert that's still struggling with the use of their tongue. Truly it does come up upon all men. None have reached perfection. But there is a teaching here to the believers that struggle. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. So James says, My brethren, these things ought not so to be A true convert, they'll have good things that flow out of their mouth. They do bless God with their mouth. They do bear fruit. And they do have a fountain that yields sweet and fresh water, which is for the refreshing of the saints. They have those good things that are coming forth. And yet there's reproof against using that same tongue for cursing men or speaking nonsense As i as it says here, to speak with with that same mouth you bless God and yet you curse man that is made in the similitude of God. speech as the world has their speech that just gets ignited to gossip into trash somebody who uh we're opposed to, somebody that might offend us. The Lord has Uh his ways of going about dealing with somebody who's offended you. You can confront them. But truly just to sit around and speak filth about them. It's it's uh as it says here, it's somebody that's made in the similitude of God We can't be using that mouth for both filthiness and blessing of the Lord. It ought not so to be. Ephesians 4. 29 it says, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Oh, how we need to redeem the use of the tongue that it would be less about building up the flesh, less about gossip, whatever it might be, and more so to build up the believer or build up the hearer, even if they're an unbeliever, point them to the Lord, speak about these things. Get away from all the fleshly mind, fleshly build-up language that's that's used of your tongue. There must be words to build up one another, to minister grace. Something that will help them in their walk, something that will point them to the Lord. Of course it's much easier to tear down. Of course it's much easier to murmur, to use this tongue, to complain, to do all those things. But the need is instead to point others to the Lord, to have their affection set on the things above. But there is hope for the unclean tongue. As we read in the responsive reading, I'm going to continue looking at this passage in Isaiah six. There is hope for that unclean tongue After Isaiah saw the glory of the Lord, he understood his own wickedness, and even the wickedness of those people that he dwells in the midst of. His lips are unclean, and those people around him Their lips are unclean, but there's hope for the unclean tongue. Listen to Isaiah 6, verses 6 through 7. It says, Then flew one of the seraphim unto me. having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar, and he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo This has touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. God granted A relief. God granted something that would cleanse Isaiah from his wicked tongue, wicked lips A live coal is applied for the purging of sins. The wicked mouth has been made clean. And really what that is, that's a a picture of the administration of the gospel. It's applying Christ's atonement, his covering, his cleansing for the sins of an individual. It's even taken from off of a an altar And we know that Christ had to be crucified. As it says, now once in the end of the world hath He appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. Truly, any man that comes to the Lord genuinely professes this same language that they're wicked. Oh, thank you. Truly. Yeah, to cool my tongue here. Thank you, Brother Vince. But yeah, truly any man that comes to the Lord and confesses their own guiltiness, their own wickedness and their need for the Lord. The Lord does cleanse them. The Lord uh receives those that genuinely come unto Christ. In the glorious light of the gospel upon conversion, our sin debt is wiped clean. We're not guilty anymore because Christ has paid that debt. But also in the confession of current sin, there's hope for that tongue as well. There's hope for that situation as well if you're converted. But then you slip up. There is hope in 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There is cleansing There is hope in Christ. Not in the world. Don't go to some program that's gonna tell you about how to fix your speech, how to sound more polite, all of these things. That's not gonna help you. But if you turn to Christ, he'll clean your heart, he'll clean your lips. And listen to this last portion in uh that portion of Isaiah, this uh last verse that we read there in Isaiah 6. It follows that after Isaiah's tongue is cleansed, the Lord immediately employs that tongue. He immediately employs that mouth. Isaiah 6. 8 says, Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I, send me Immediately after his lips were cleaned, after his lips were cleansed, the Lord had sent, the Lord had used Isaiah to proclaim his message, to proclaim his word. And that's what we see always. When God truly converts somebody, when God truly has cleansed them, has brought them into the light of the gospel, has brought them into the light of his word, he'll then use them They have God's message. Revelation 9:10 says, the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy The Lord will use you. If He's cleansed you, He'll use you. He never just cleans somebody up and they continue in the same way. They continue with the uh vein use and a defiled tongue. No, but he uses them to proclaim, to send forth his message. And even when we read of Christ healing, the man that's deaf and dumb After that, we see that his speech is plain, it's clean. Mark 7. 35 it says, And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loose, and he spake plain. Truly, that's what the Lord does. He gives you clean speech. He gives you the ability to speak of his word once he quickens you. And even with Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, he was made dumb or he lost the ability to speak after not believing in the angel Gabriel. But uh after that, later the Lord loosed his tongue, and it follows that he spake and praised God. The Lord will use that tongue once he cleanses it. Of course, we know this shows us all true believers have God's message and they're involved in the delivery of God's Word. It doesn't mean everybody's a teacher. It doesn't mean everybody's going to go into the pulpit. But everybody has a heart to share. Everybody has a heart to uh every true believer has a heart to declare God's word and to declare it soundly. to put away any false teaching, to put away any false former views that they had, and instead speak that which is true Whether it's with family, with strangers, or whether it's even in supporting the pastor and the teacher, they'll be very zealous to hear a faithful minister speak and to support them And so my question to you, are you in this labor? Are you desirous to proclaim God's word right, to proclaim God's word truly? Do you care that his message is being uh brought forth Has your tongue, have your lips been employed to proclaim the praise of God and to declare his word? If not, if you have no care of these things, well you should be afraid. You may yet be with an unbridled tongue in keeping vain religion only, having your whole body defiled. Because your tongue has still not been taken power of. And so may God help us to have a godly evaluation of our tongues. Truly they reflect our hearts. The tongues, all of our tongues. We've w we've we've are all brought forth in sin. All of our tongues have spoken much evil, much wickedness, but there is cleansing in Christ And in Christ, he can even protect us. You can seek the Lord, and he can set that guard over your tongue. And he can make your tongue to be profitable again. This message isn't brought forth to promote you to be a legalist of some sort, to try to clean up your speech for a little bit, make sure nobody sees evil things that you say Uh just make sure your speech is a little bit cleaner than it was before. No. We see that the Pharisees did that. They drew nigh with their lips, but their hearts were far from Christ. Instead, after hearing this message, the hope is that we'll seek God to redeem the use of our tongues, to cut off lying, wicked, and offensive speech. And instead, use the tongue for more edification of the saints, for more praise of God, and for more declaration of his word. Now let's turn to the Lord in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for granting us uh your word. We thank you for this clear And simple yet profound teaching of your tongue. Truly, it's not a trivial matter. We pray that we would take heed to these things. and to uh seek you to redeem the use of our tongues, that they would be profitable, that they uh would refrain from evil, that they would be different, that they would be wholly, set apart, not like the world. We uh ask for your help in these things. And we praise you and ask all this in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ's name. Amen.