Our passage today is in Hebrews 9. I'm going to read it. If you'd like to turn to it, you can. It's in Hebrews 9, 16 to 20, and then I'm going to get into our discussion question Which I trust you enjoy getting an early edition of, to give yourself ample time to meditate on it. Alright, Hebrews 9, 16 to 20, we read as follows. Hear now the word of the Lord. For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the test eater. For a testament is a force after men are dead, otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth. Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood, for when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people, According to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the testament. which God hath enjoined unto you. That is the reading of our passage for today. This section almost speaks to itself, but there are some interesting nuances here that I'd like to try to draw your attention to. And to do that, to help us in that, I have our little discussion question. Alright. Imagine Imagine real hard, okay? Just imagine that you have spent your entire career as an attorney and it has turned out to be quite profitable for you. You have been very successful as an attorney. And you have a very substantial and wealthy estate. So just try to imagine real hard for a moment that this is your condition. But you have a doctor. And you made a visit. And he says, go home and get your affairs in order. You're going to die soon. So in that process You begin to think about a lot because you have an estate and it's quite complex. You've made lots of investments, you've got a lot of things to think about, and you begin to work on something called your last will and testament. Now As you may imagine, somebody who's very wealthy and is about to die is going to have a lot of radars picking up You've got in-laws and you've got outlaws. That's what my dad used to call them, right? Every family has a black sheep. You have young members in the family. You've got old members in the family. By young I mean below the age of 18. You have various worthy causes that you'd like to see continue after your demise. You have special friends who have meant a lot to you over the years. You have threats to your business empire, and they can't wait for you to kick because they'd love to swoop in and get it all. They'd like to increase market share. So, as you're crafting this last will and testament What are your thoughts? What is your approach to doing this? Start with what's most important, family. Okay. Start with what's important, family. All right. And when you may start, okay, what uh draft the how I would like my heirs to benefit from the work that I've done. Okay. That would be my first yep, all right. Anyone else Very complex estate you have here. Lots of angles to consider. And we're gonna we have to look at all of them really. Hire someone who understands the legal ramifications of the law. But you've spent your whole life as an attorney. Yeah, but a a doctor's worst patient is himself. You need somebody with a b objectivity. Yeah. That's why I said you had a lifelong career as an attorney because I didn't want you to outsource this job. Tag, it's yours. You have it So I got another language. He can write the details, but you still have to craft out your wishes. So forget the legal language. What's your approach? Go ahead. Oh I will Your approach. I've already never mind. I I'm I'm not gonna not gonna get into facilitess. Maybe you'll look at who you favor more, I don't know, and who you least favor with how you um order it. Ah yeah. There are those you favor and those you don't. Okay. Yeah, I mentioned in laws and outlaws. Oh yeah Yeah, right. Okay, uh what is it that you would want to happen in your in your will, in your test? What do you want to happen Any thoughts? Jeff mentioned a couple. What would you want to happen, Msaba, in your will As you think about your favorite son-in-law. I love my female brother. Speak a little louder please for the microphone and for the record uh for the court later on. That was a good one. This may not be where you're heading, but you you would want what takes place to be actually what you want to take place. You would want to set things up in in in such a way that it's it's irrevocable. Okay. That's true. Yeah. You don't kind of want things to mess up. Um, I've known or I've not known, I heard through my husband, because he seems to be anjurant, how men make a lot of money And they had children. So uh if the child if the children had children Okay, the grandchildren did not get anything until they had a college degree. And everybody didn't like what it was Okay, very interesting. So she's bringing back to memory some things my dad has seen with some of his wealthy clients. He sold life and health insurance over the years. And he would uh find some of his clients would pass down money to the grandchildren if and only if they received a college degree. And likewise he would put a clause in there, and this gets to my next point. What would you do if how how would you what what are some things you don't want to happen in the will And one of the things my dad's client would do is to write a statement in there, if anybody bring any contest against this will, his interest in it is null and void. So how would you what do you not want to happen in a will? I don't want it to be worded so vaguely that it ends up going to the government. Like you just lose it and nobody gets with their Yeah, so vaguely worded, that's where you might hire a professional attorney in that area. Got it. But yeah, you wouldn't want your money going to some cause that you don't particularly care to support. You want it to go to where it's intended. There was one of those the children there it was the uh the son that confested the blood And we have lawyers and everything. And we don't get the money is the lawyers. We saved so much money. Yeah. So the son who contested it, you know, the lawyers will eat it up. And so you don't want the lawyers eating it up, you don't want the government eating up Solomon says when riches be increased there be those increased that eat them and certainly that uh is true in the matter of a will. Now what kind of protection would you want to include to ensure your final wishes? Would you want to put any protections in there? Or getting back to things you don't want to happen, what kind of protection would you uh you mentioned the government, taxes uh protections against having certain people in the family that you don't want them to be closely surgery. So I specifically want these beneficiaries to receive it and under no circumstance would someone else receive it. Yeah, that's pretty bold to say under no circumstance shall this individual get it I mentioned in the intro in-laws and outlaws. You know, not every family has uh all their little children as glorious little saints. Unfortunately, some families uh and this happens in grandchildren as well. Uh they end up they've done everything they can and lo and behold uh uh the the devil has come and and and robbed their minds and then it goes down to the grand and you just have the worst worst children or grandchildren that show up. God forbid that happen to any of us, but these things do happen. I sat in on a retirement seminar and they said well there's a way to craft it so that the the ne'er do gooders in your family are excluded from it and regardless of what they do and uh except on conditions of good behavior and you can appoint somebody who oversees them. There's a lot of power to it. You can put a lot of things other than I give everything to X. That's kind of the easiest way, but there's you can put terms and conditions in there. You can put all kinds whatever you want There's a lot of freedom. If you haven't made a will, you know, talk to somebody. Usually attorneys will give you a little free time. It's very interesting, the various things you can do. And the reason we're talking about a last will and testament is because that's what we're reading about here in the book of Hebrews. What's uh what are some things that you think are absolutely impossible to do in a will? Please everybody. Please everybody? Yeah Some things seem to be perhaps impossible in a will. Well, we're going to look at some things that are impossible to do in the human will, but it's not impossible with God. And I find that to be quite fascinating. I'm very familiar with this. It didn't take me long to produce this study. But you know, when you go back over scripture, again, there's always some new thing you come into, and that's what I can't wait to share with you. So let's look at the framework of this last will and testament. All right? Let's look at a framework. It says in the first two verses of Hebrews 9, 16, and 17. that where a testament is, there must of necessity be the death of the test eater. Up to this point, the book of Hebrews has been talking at length about a number of different topics. There's three words that come to my mind. The word covenant is one of them But now all of a sudden we're using the Word Testament. We're going to have to look at what those is there a difference between the two? And if so, what is it? And does it matter? We've talked a lot about a high priest. It seemed like we were forever talking about Melchizedek as a high priest So there has been a lot of talk about that. Now there's going to be a lot of discussion about a testament, because this is the other aspect. The high priest meant we got the right guy, the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not trying to be blasphemous, I'm just trying to be colloquial to convey the sense of the thrust of it here. And in this last will and testament, we a i I I I like to explore the framework just by asking questions. One of my favorite engineering tools, who, what, when, where, why, what, how, just to kind of go into that. That's just an idea Throw out questions that are not relevant. The why question typically is not always useful. Who wrote it? Who wrote this testament? Who wrote it Ultimately God. Ultimately God, okay. In a last will and testament, who writes that The test stator. The test stator. The test somebody is testifying. This is what I want, the test stator. Now they may hire somebody to pin it. But as you point out, Jeffrey, ultimately it's God. And so the testator in this case would be Jesus Christ. He is the one that carved out his Father's last will and testament. Of course, Jesus and the Father are one What's interesting is in Hebrews 7, 2 was one of the first places we saw the word testament, and it said this, by so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. And what's interesting is that word surety. can also be rendered sponsor. The sponsor. You know, if you get a government contract up in the government where the money is. You have a sponsor, a government sponsor. They're the ones that are flowing down the directions, the requirements, and ultimately the money. Here Jesus is the sponsor, the surety of that testament. In Acts 3. 25, it says, You're the children of the prophets and of the covenant which God made. Now, I want to make this distinction now between covenant and testament. We don't use the word covenant too much, excuse me, outside of religious circles in our land, but if you move into certain neighborhoods, and if Freddie were here, she would fully understand this, she would be able to school me up on it Some communities have what are called covenants and restrictions or C C CNRs, I think. Maybe Jeffrey, you know about that. Is it C C and Rs or CNRs or something like that? Covenants. Yeah, there's a I have to see, see, and R, but one of the C's is covenants. And what that means is Back, thank you. Covenants, conditions, and restrictions. What that means is if you move into this neighborhood and you buy this townhome or this condo When you sign the lease or sign the contract to buy the place, you're also signing into this covenant that says I'm not going to paint my windows purple and put, you know, uh ugly solar panels on my room, whatever the conditions are. But it's a two-way thing. It's a two-way. You voluntarily enter into it, and the other side of the contract also writes out their terms of conditions. So it's a two-way agreement That is a use of the word covenant. Covenants can be two ways. All right. And you see that in Genesis 21. Earliest reference to covenant, not the earliest, but an early one. It's between Abraham and Abimelech. Abraham took sheep and oxen, gave them unto Abimelech, and both of them made a covenant. That's Genesis 21, 27. They both made a covenant Covenants can be two-way deals. When you're making your last will and testament, typically, would you consult with your heirs? Typically you don't, right? You typically don't have a two-way discussion. You don't have some kind of negotiation. I'm not precluding that. That may happen. You may come to one, hey, you know, I'm thinking to split the money among these, and this one gets the house. Are you okay with that? You know, let them think about it. But typically not Typically, last will and testaments are one-way, meaning the testator is the one that structures everything and it's his document. It's his thing that's going to fly. And so, lo and behold, when we talk about this testator and a testament here, it is a one-way document. Only one individual has written and spelled it out, and that would be the Lord Jesus Christ. Excuse me. Oh my goodness. Who can change a testament? Who can change it? uh the testator, he could change it up until when. At some point it gets locked down Yeah, after he dies you can't you can't tamper with it. You can't change it. Right. After after that, right. There's a certain point where it's locked in But then it says in Galatians 3. 15, Brethren, they speak after the manner of men. So the Apostle Paul is going to describe it to us in our language. Though it be but a man's covenant, and it's not wrong to refer it as a covenant, covenants can be one-way or two-way, but testament makes it very clear this is a one-way deal. Yet if it be confirmed, all right, confirmed, no man disannelleth or addeth thereto. The testament is not even recognized as legitimate by the courts unless there is a signature. There has to be something on it that says The testator has agreed to this. And typically it's a witness signature. There's two witnesses who also affix and assign their name to it, and some will even have a professional scribe. I think they're called uh a notary who will also bear record to stamp it. It looks official, right? You d I don't want to just show up you know, at somebody's funeral with my own copy in a Ford signature saying, No, no, this is the the last will and testament. Put a later date on it, like two days before they kicked Right, that wouldn't be a confirmed testament. That's not valid. So Now others can't mess with it. Once it's confirmed, once it's sealed, you can't mess with it. It's locked in, right? You're um In your community that you go to, you can't wake up one day, I really okay, it says I can't paint my windows odd color. I'll paint them neon yellow. It doesn't say purple. No, you can't change it. You're locked into it. It's confirmed Uh can the airs influence the contents? Can the airs influence the contents? No. They tried if they know what's being written. If they generally know, because you're not having any discussion with them But if they know what's in there, they can try. They might could try. Well, Jesus Christ has a testament. Could we influence him in that? Well, the scripture says no, because you're ignorant. You're very ignorant. It says in Ephesians 4. 18, speaking about us, that we have our understanding darkened prior to salvation. We're alienated from the life of God. through ignorance that's in them because of the blindness of their heart. So this is our condition. We had no idea that God even had a covenant or a testament. We were blind. We had a hard heart. We were ignorant. We had an alienated. We were alienated. We didn't want any part. We didn't even want an interest. In that, why would you want to be the inheritor from our perspective of a homeless beggar on the street that's hung on a cross? I mean, why would you want that? There's nothing there We had no interest in it. We didn't see anything in it. So this is our disposition towards it. Might could influence if we had an interest, but we were ignorant and didn't even have an interest. There's nothing there Now when does this testament take effect? When he dies. When he dies. Who's the he? The twirl. That's right. Yeah. The toaster, right. Not the toaster, but the testator. I'm teasing you. when the testator dies. So this document that you got on the shelf is all good and fine, but do the heirs have anything Not yet. In fact, when do the heirs get the goods? So the testator dies. This document's now enforced. So when do the heirs get the goods? when the covenant document state would have to be accepted. Sounds like a woman who works in the business department, yes. According to the terms and conditions of the contract If it says you get something right away, then you get something right away. If it says you've got to get a college degree first, you better go get a college degree first. If it says you're an outlaw in the family, pound sand, go waste your money in attorney, but it's not going anywhere. You get the goods according to the timeline in the covenant. There's a timeline. And here's the news flash, folks, when the Lord Jesus Christ died And the testament was put into force, you were put on a timeline. You have an interest in it, but your interest is according to God's timeline. You need to embrace that. Some people complain, why didn't God say this and immediately take us to heaven? I mean, just avoid all this It wasn't his will. It wasn't his plan. He baked into his testament a timeline. And you read about it in Galatians 4 in verses 1 and 2. It says Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, you see you're all still spiritual children, differs nothing from a servant, from a slave. You're no different than a servant, though he be Lord of all. His name is in that testament. He's going to inherit everything. But his under tutors and governors, he's got to get his education until the time appointed of the Father. So I really like that example that mom brought forward earlier of this client of my dad's that he says you're not getting anything until you get a degree. The Lord Jesus Christ says you're not coming into heaven until you have some understanding of the nature of salvation, the Son of God, the Kingdom of God. And until then, until you embrace that, until you have a good understanding of that, then we'll bring you in Well, how long does that take? Well, as long as it takes. But understand you must. It's called sanctification. It's part of God's process. He says you're Lord of all. You're in the will. And yet it's God's Father to have a timeline of events that must occur before all this is unloaded Why do you think men write in their wills these kinds of restrictions? What happens when Hollywood stars or the Hilton family Mr. Hilton, when he passed, gave all of his money to this very, very young daughter of his. She became an heiress of hundreds of millions of dollars Did she bring any glory to his name? No, she wasted the money horribly. She became an embarrassment to the family name She, as any fifteen-year-old would, whose brain isn't even fully formed yet, got three more years to go, as they would with a crazy amount of money, and everybody coming up to them, deceiving them, do this, do that, you'll be happy. They'll just wreck their lives. We don't really have a natural understanding of the things concerning the kingdom of heaven. We don't understand how God's level of ruling the world operates. We're going to be part of that, folks. We have a seat. It's got our name on it. We're there. Okay. It's not going away, and it will surely come to pass. But you need to understand something about the kingdom of heaven. You've got to understand who God is. Who Christ is, what he has done, why and how things operate the way they are. That's part of his testament. And in the New Testament, who are the heirs Who do you think are the heirs in the New Testament? Any thoughts? A group of people called the elect. That's the very summary form of who they are. Elect is an English word meaning chosen. When you make out a will, you didn't consult anybody typically, and you, dare I use the word, chose whom you cared to dispense your wishes to, and you didn't answer anybody for it. The court's not going to look at your your your will and go, are you kidding? You you can't do that. That's just not fair. I mean really Really? You're cutting out the oldest son from this, but the younger you're giving it to. And Jesus says, yeah, the older shall serve the younger. Yeah. God does it. Why? It's according to his Counsel of his own will. He doesn't give account of his fares. God says in the scriptures, if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. Why would he come to us? We don't have we have problems. We don't have solutions. Why would he come to us? So it's a group of people called the elect, but glory be to God. People don't walk around the earth with a big E emblazoned on their forehead. That's known to God. He knows who they are. I don't But he gives us some insight into who these people are. It says in Romans 4, now therefore it is of faith that it might be grace, to the end that the promise might be sure to all the seed. They're also called the seed. Not to that which is not to that only which is of the law, meaning the Jews, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, meaning those who believe, any who believe, any who believe, Gentiles. You know, folks, if a news report came out that said, hey, wealthy billionaire died and left his estate To various residents living in, around, and near the 20855 Durwood, Maryland zip code. Go to the courthouse, see if your name's in it. Would you go? Would you look? Wouldn't you check? Wouldn't you see? I would. Who knows? Who knows? Galatians 3, 26 through 29. You're all children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many as you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There's neither Jew nor Greek. There's neither bond nor free. There's neither male nor female. You're all one in Christ Jesus if you be Christ and your heirs Then you argue Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Vince, that sounds good, that's real theologically correct, but I flip the pages of this Bible again and again, and I don't see the name Jeffrey Taylor in here. I I just don't see it. I can do a word search on my Bible. Oh, but it says Christ died for sinners. Are you a sinner? Christ died for the wicked. Christ died for the ungodly. Christ died for the have nothings, the be-nothings, the do-nothings in life. If you can say, boy, that sounds like me, yep, I can raise my hand and put my name next to that. You betcha. Absolutely. Well, that's how you find your name. It's that simple. And that's a hard thing. Oh, but everybody's a sinner. Really? Ask them. See if you can find one. Are you a sinner? Well, I'm not perfect. They're not sinners. But if you can own up to that, glory be to God, at least you got a good hope. You got a real good hope. What's interesting is a point made about testament. And the uh in this uh Bible dictionary that I have, I just read to you a couple of sentences. Very interesting. It's concerning the word diatechi, this word testament that we find here. This New Testament beginning was at the time when the Lord Jesus Christ died on the cross. The New Testament began, it was initiated, it was kicked off, it was made in force at the death of Jesus Christ However, it affects the elect, those who believe at any time in the history of the world. Isn't that interesting? It has a real-looking component to it. I can't write a will that does that I can't benefit people that are dead and gone. This was entirely an act of God. Everyone in the Old Testament who was saved, like Abraham, was saved in the prospect of that sacrifice to the testator. His covenant of grace applies to all who believe, regardless of when they live. This testament goes back all the way to Adam and goes forward until the very last elect is saved. We read last week about Christ's payment of sin for redemptions of transgression that were under the First Testament. That testament went all the way back in time. So this is a very different testament. It spans time and it affects people who can find entrance into it prior to the death of the testator. Can some people benefit even if they don't know they're in the will What do you think? Can some people benefit even if they don't know they're in the will? What do you think, Peggy? They might not know they were written into the will, but eventually Correct. Absolutely. Yeah. That's my story. I had no idea. I had the foggiest idea. The Apostle Paul said he before was a blasphemer, a persecutor, injurious, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. He was ignorant. He was ignorant about the things of God, ignorant of the thrust of the testament of God. He cannot deny himself. So it's still true just because we don't know it Or maybe you don't believe it at the time, but then it's not the truth. God's salvation plan applies to all the elect, whether they know it or not. But election is unto salvation. It's not salvation. It has to occur at a point in time. And God has a term and condition. in his testament that guarantees that to come to pass. It cannot be that one of God's elect not make it into heaven Just can't happen. He puts terms and conditions in there to ensure to ensure the salvation of his people. Christ's not going to shed his any drop of his blood in vain on the cross. Paul who given to me shall come My people shall be willing in the name of my power. Two good references, Psalm 110 and or those Psalm 103. And um John 629. Yeah. Very good, very good commentaries. Romans three it says that unto the unto them, speaking of the Jews, were committed the oracles of God. What if some did not believe? Shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect? If all the Jews stood up and said, we absolutely positively refuse to believe, is that going to make Christ's testament in force? This is where things get kind of strange. Normally, you would think that the heirs would be highly interested in receiving the benefits of the testimony. In Christ's world, in his testament, he is benefiting heirs who frankly don't want to be in it. Isn't that odd? Why? Because they're rebels. They're ignorant. By nature, they hate God. He's had mercy on his enemies. Isn't that a strange arrangement that God has wrought? He's going to work peace in the heart of his enemies, so that they will lovingly embrace him and cling to him forever. And he has ensured a way that that will happen I find that fascinating. Ephesians 2, 12 and 13. At that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were at once were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He's brought you nigh. He's brought you near. What an unusual testament to even go to his enemies. My testament, I'm trying to keep it away from the enemies. In God's testament, he's converting his enemies to him. It's an amazing, amazing document. Here's the thing that was new to me. I knew it, but I didn't connect the dots. Alright, you're writing a will and testament. Can I write my testament this way? I Vince Kluth declare that upon my death that I Vince Kluth will receive everything back to myself. I will avoid all taxes. I'll get a first-time step-up and basis on my Stocks. I owe nothing. I just bequeath it all to myself. Can I do that? Can I take it with me beyond the grave? You can't. A testator can't identify himself. He's one person that really can't show up in the document. But the Lord Jesus Christ did that. He put his own name as a beneficiary. And you would say, well, why how can he do that? Because he rose from the dead. Because only the living. A recipient of it. And he is alive. This is a thing that blew my mind. Jesus Christ has an interest in his own testament. He is a beneficiary listed. Yea, dare I say he's the primary beneficiary. Walk with me in this. Look at this. I want you to think of these verses afresh. Hebrews 1. 2, the very opening chapter, said this. God hath in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir. Heir of all things. What's an heir? Somebody who inherits something. How do they inherit something? By a testament. Romans 8. 17 says, and if children, then we are heirs, heirs of God. And what? Joint heirs with Christ. So that's talking about the New Testament. The only thing we inherit from God can only possibly be described by the New Testament, made in force by the death of Jesus Christ, and yet it says we are Joint heirs with him. Glory to my soul, what comfort that gives me. Anton, this means that testament Will surely come to pass because Jesus Christ Himself has an interest in seeing that it comes to pass and he's alive and no one can mess with it because he's the testator. Isn't that powerful? This is a very different testament. You and I can't write this kind of a testament, and there's no other one out there. Buddha didn't write one, Muhammad certainly didn't write one Confucius had some very moral and upright things to say, from what I'm reading. The Taoist, not so much. But nobody. God says, I don't know of any other God. From his vantage point, yeah, I don't know of any other God. I'm looking around. Nope, I'm not seeing any. To Abraham and his seed with a promise is made, he saith not to seeds as of many, but as of one and to thy seed, which is Christ. Wherefore then serveth the law, it was added because of transgressions till the seed should come to whom the promises were made What you and I have in this testament, because we haven't received it yet, are called promises. You have a promise. You haven't received it yet. You have a promise. But it's sure. And so my point is that a last will and testament is a most instructive analogy that you're next fill-in-the-blank. a most instructive analogy as to how God legally dispenses his promises to his people throughout time upon the death of Jesus Christ. I find that fascinating. I find that absolutely fascinating. Alright, the next three verses, 18 through 20, is talking about the dedication of a testament, the confirmation of it. And it's interesting because It tells us that Moses' law, the first testament, was dedicated. It was inaugurated, if you will. by the shedding of the blood of acceptable animals. Likewise, Jesus' blood is what dedicates or inaugurates the New Testament. And we're having the Lord's Supper today, so it's a fitting passage to add. In Luke 22, 20, likewise the cup after the supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. Jesus calls it a New Testament and his blood secures it. It's in his blood. It's secure. In fact, he could be called the covenant itself. And what's fascinating is in the Luke account, I chose Luke for a reason. Because in that, sitting there at the table with the twelve disciples, he even gives them a little hint. He gives them a hint at what's in it for them. He says, and I appoint unto you a kingdom. That word appoint? is the word to dispense by way of a testament, to bequeath. He's basically telling him telling him, ps, tell us, here's what I put in the will. And bequeathing you a kingdom that, as my father has appointed unto me. See, he's that joint heir. He says that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Even hints at what they're going to get from all this. And so Jesus' death has made the New Testament legal document in force. It is running its course according to the terms and conditions. Jesus Christ personally has an interest in the execution of this document. It most surely results in Jesus reuniting with his people in eternity. It will surely come to pass. So I hope you appreciate digging into the legal foundations of your salvation, into the ramifications. We read these things perhaps too quickly sometimes, and we need to think about it, meditate on it. I've looked at this many a year, but this is the first time it dawned on me that Jesus Christ is both the testator and the heir. And only he can get away with that. That gives me a lot of confidence. I don't know about you. Um Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer? Thank you Hopefully have a what a blessing it is to uh to read against on your word and to be reminded that you can have these have your words stirred up in our hearts. to know that such a great one as Jesus Christ who died and now lives is uh we are part like even a joint heir to the promises that uh he has received the very creator of this world. Oh Father, what a what a blessing that is. Uh let us uh go forth. end this day with that joy and uh and yet uh look and as we look forward to even being fed even more spiritual blessing Jesus Christ.