Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering together. And Lord, even the instruction of thy word to forsake not the assembling of ourselves together. Father, we thank you that we are able to gather, and that our gathering is not about anything of this world. Not about any celebrity of this world or activity of this world. Or rather, our gathering is about and because of Jesus Christ. We are gathered today for the express purpose of studying thy word, of calling upon thee in prayer, and offering our worship and our praise to thee. And so, Lord, we indeed pray in the first instance that our worship would be acceptable in thy sight, and in the second instance, that we would truly worship thee in spirit and in truth. Father, free us from the nasty habits of religion, as they've been described. Free us from the tendency to go through an order of service and to sing hymns, but our minds are thinking of something else. to hear the reading of the scriptures, and yet our minds tend to wander to some event that has happened or will come in the next week. It is so easy for us during the preaching of thy word to be disengaged from thy word. And so, Lord, we pray today that you would free us from these infirmities of our fallen flesh. And Lord, that the new man, the new creature, the new creation that is within every believer, would be fed today through the Word by the Spirit of God. Bless our assembly, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm reading our call to worship this morning. The first three verses of Proverbs 16. The preparation of the heart in man and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. All the ways of men are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weigheth the spirits. Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. Good morning everyone. Turn to your blue hymn book, but not to the number printed. Turn to number 83. Our first opening hymn is number 83. We praise thee, O God, our Redeemer. Number 83 in your blue songbook Here we sing all three stanzas of number eighty-three. We praise the Out of Reaching Merci for the motion of We pray, we lay for thee, we deal and adore thee, we bless thy holy name. What praises we say? We worship the God of our fathers, we bless the light soul. This cake will take us and then I hope the Lord for our battles we win with voices united our praises we offer. To the great hold of the lands we raise, our strong will guide us, our God is beside us. Will be our great reading for ever be praise. Amen, amen, thank you It's a uh wonderful tune from the Netherlands. It's a marvelous report. Please be seated. And Brother Anton, if you would, please uh bring us to the confessional reading. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we begin on the twenty-seventh article of the Belgic Confession. Regarding the Church of God, the Christian Church. And we'll get into some of the details about the title there, the Catholic Christian Church after reading. Christian, and what do you believe? We believe and profess one Catholic or universal church, which is a holy congregation of true Christian believers All expecting their salvation in Jesus Christ, being washed by his blood, sanctified, and healed by the Holy Ghost. Lord willing, we'll be reading through all three portions of Article 27 as the weeks come, but it is a good summary of the Christian church, the church that God sets out and has determined to establish. The term church in general As it's used in the New Testament is the Greek word ekklesia, which means individuals that are called out. And you might have heard the term ecclesiology. That's the study of the nature and the structure of the Christian church. And truly, everybody that's in the church has been called out by God. There's been an effectual calling upon them to pull them out of the world and come and serve the one true and living God. They've been set apart. It's not wrong to refer to a church as a place where the saints gather. We see some instances of that in the scriptures, even as the church that gathered at this individual's house or that individual's house. But primarily it's a reference to the group of people. The group of people which is the body of Christ, Christ of which is the head. That's what you see being taught in the scriptures. And there's much things to consider just from this short paragraph of the Belgic Confession. You might have noticed that the term Catholic is being used This isn't a term referring to the Roman Catholic Church, but rather the original sense of the term Catholic, which means universal. Both in space and time. It's referring to all the saints that ever were. Going all the way back to the time of Abel. We see his righteous stance. And it goes all the way to the last saint that's pulled in, that's drawn into the ark, so to say, parabolically. The uh the last saint that's found in Christ. It's a reference to all of the saints throughout time. But it's also a reference to all of the saints throughout different locations, whether it's in the US or Israel or China, Russia, Africa, wherever they might be, there's one church that the Lord is gathering together. Though they're all spanning perhaps different times, different places, different locations on the earth, they're all one body of Christ There isn't one separate unique body of Christ that behaves this way and this one other one that behaves that way. Sure, there's different denominations, there's different individuals that have matured differently in Christ haven't matured as much yet, while there's m others that have matured more. But if you're truly in Christ then you're part of his one body. There's one body that the Lord has They might look different, speak different languages, but everybody goes through some of these same features being in the true church of God. There's a real effectual calling that they experience. There's a real genuine salvation that they experience by the Lord. There's a real genuine cleansing by the blood of Christ of all their sins. That's something in common for all of the Church of Christ. And you know, not everybody who says they're a part of the church are truly of the church. Not everybody who says, Well, I'm a Christian truly is. There's some that only profess the name, but they've never experienced the Lord The Lord Jesus Christ will declare to them, I never knew you. He never truly knew them, and neither did they truly know him. But it is a great blessing when you meet somebody who is a true member of the Church of Jesus Christ. You instant you you immediately find uh great and sweet fellowship Speaking of the same experience that you have, that experience of regeneration, that experience of repentance, that experience of faith that the Lord's granted That experience of suffering in the fellowship of Christ or fellowshipping in Christ's sufferings, being set apart from the world And a love for God's word. These are some of the things that are that are consistent with the people of God. This is something that they all bear It's a it's a blessing w truly when you meet somebody. And it's it was always an odd thing to me when I came across somebody that said, Oh yeah, I'm a Christian, I go to a church. Yeah, yeah You know, not a big deal. Go ahead and keep moving on. But if you know that somebody's truly a Christian, that should be a a great joy to your heart, knowing that it's it's uh it's few that of these individuals that are called that are set apart from the world. It's one body that Christ is gathering to work in effectually now and to fellowship forever in eternity And I'll leave you with Ephesians 4, verses 4 through 6, that speaks of this one body. There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Thank you. Thank you, Anton. Really appreciate that uh explanation and and description. Um the Church of Rome, which has the name Catholic, claim that they are the one true universal church. But scripture bears out that the church of God is not in golden cathedrals, but in the hearts of men. And so we are the true Catholic worldwide church, the body of Christ. Thank you. Well, let us let us go to prayer. We have much to be thankful for and much to carry before the Lord in prayer. Gracious Father. The great God and King of heaven. Lord, as we prayed in the men's prayer meeting this morning, we thank you for who you are. You are the all-wise and sovereign God. And Lord, we thank you for who we are in Christ. For without you we are nothing. Without you, we are but sinners. But in Christ, we are sinners saved by grace. And Lord, we thank you for this. We thank you, Lord, that you have brought us into this fellowship. And indeed, you were found of those that sought you not. We were not seeking for God. You were seeking for us And Lord, you brought us to your truth, brought us to this faith. And we thank you. We rejoice in it. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you are the God of all of our comfort And Lord, we have many things that make us sorry, that give us great concerns Well Lord, we we uh all know the grief of heart that we we suffer in this world. We all know the aches and pains, we know the concerns for finances and for retirement We know the concerns over employment. We know the concerns of family and difficult relationships. Lord, we we know the concerns of the apostasy of the true church. We know the concerns of politics and all these things. But Lord, these things mean nothing to the believer because we are pilgrims and strangers. We are in this world, but we are not of this world. And so, Father, we thank you, Lord, that you are sufficient for all these things. And Lord, that you are our comfort. And so, Father, with that. frame of mind, we can truly lay before you the needs of the sick and pray, Lord, thy will be done. Lord, you know our will. You know what we would desire. And yet, Father, we know that you are the all-wise and loving Heavenly Father. And so, Lord, with great urgency With overwhelming concern, we lay before you the needs of your people. For Father, there are within our congregation very grave and very serious health concerns. Lord, there uh are uh half a dozen this morning that are not physically present with us. We know that they are online with us, but they are not here this morning because of the effects of aging because of the effects of ongoing illness. And Lord, we we know that their heart's desire is to be physically present for the worship. And yet, Lord, this is not possible except that you mightily and in your sovereign healing hand intercede on their behalf. And so, Father, we pray that you would heal. Lord, that you would raise up, O God. Father, that you would strengthen that which is weak and perfect that which concerneth us, O God. For Lord, indeed We know that it is appointed unto man once to die. That these bodies were in the process of perishing the day that we were born. And yet, Father, we have found in your word that lame men walked, and blind men see, and the dumb spoke. And even Lord the dead Lazarus was called forth out of the grave. And so, Father, we believe that you have power over the sicknesses of the body and even over death. And Father, we Call so often to mind King Hezekiah who was told, set your fares in order, get your house in order, because you're going to die. And oh Lord, he turned his face to the wall and pled before God. And Lord, that prayer was answered. And so, Father, we pray for those of this congregation that are suffering so mightily in body, who we We wonder how much longer their life will be preserved, and yet Lord, you were able to add to years. And Father, we have a brother that is physically present with us this morning, that we believe you have added to his years. And we rejoice in these things, O God. Lord, you are sovereign. We pray not our will, but thy will be done. But Father, you know our will. You know our desire. Lord, we desire miraculous healing for thy people. We desire and pray for freedom from pain. For removal of physical difficulties, both great and small. And Lord, we pray in absolute faith, believing. Confessing that our faith is no more than a grain of mustard seed. But, O Father, it is no less than a grain of mustard seed. And so here our prayer we pray for Jesus' sake. Father, we pray for our poor nation and even for the state of the world. Or we have heard on the news what is being called a revival in various places in Europe and so on And yet, Father, when we read the news, it appears to all appearances that what they are celebrating is a revival of Western culture. without a true conviction of sin. And so, Father, we pray not that Western culture will be preserved. Lord, The world has seen the rise and fall of many cultures. We pray that souls will be saved. We pray that men will be turned from paganness. Oh Lord, the pagans are not simply the natives in some area that has not been reached with the gospel who worship by sacrificing a goat. Lord, the pagans are those in this nation. who worship the God of this world and the God of prophet and the God of politics rather than worshiping the King of heaven. And so, Father, we pray that men would be turned not to politics but to Christ, not to culture, but to Christ Father, we pray that you would indeed save our leaders. For we have a few that speak the right words. We pray that they are truly children of God. But we pray for their protection, especially this morning, Father. Lord, that you would watch over them this day. Lord, we thank you that though we are in this world, we're not of it. And though we have concerns about the nation that you have allowed us to live in, we're strangers and pilgrims. And Lord, we seek a country even and heavenly. Therefore, you have prepared for us a city. And Lord, that is where our citizenship lies. And so in all things may Christ have the preeminence. May we seek first the kingdom of God. May our eyes be heavenward and not earthly May we not mind earthly things. May our eyes ever be on Christ. And Father, give us a great love for thy kingdom And Lord, as we see the chaos of this world, may we evermore pray, even so come Lord Jesus. Yet, Father, one of the last commands that Christ gave to his people is to occupy till he comes. And so, Father, may we be faithful to occupy. May we be a faithful witness. May we be faithful ambassadors for Christ. For Lord, we know that the coming of Christ is near. We believe this. And yet, Father, we know that not one of your lost sheep will not be returned to the shepherd and the bishop of the soul. And so we renew our prayers for the salvation of souls. Till all the sheep are brought in, and then Christ will return. Father, bless us, your people, this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 28 for our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm 28 in your Bibles, please rise. Responsibly to read all nine verses of the twenty-eighth Psalm. A Psalm of David. Unto thee will I cry, O Lord, my rock, be not silent to me. Lest if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts Give them according to their deeds and according to the wickedness of their endeavors. Give them after the work of their hands, render to them their dessert Because they regard not the works of the Lord, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them and not fill them up. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him. The Lord is their strength And he is the saving strength of his anointed and altogether save thy people and bless thine inheritance. Feed them also and lift them up forever. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of this Holy Book. Very powerful psalm. I trust you took note of it. David's opinion of how he wants God to deal with the wicked. Turn to the uh very opening pages of your songbook, and it's number 10 O come, my soul, bless thou the Lord thy maker. An adaptation of Psalm 103, number 10, in your song book. You have to get past the index and all that can be a little hard to turn to. Number 10 in your songbook. We sing the five stanzas and the amen at the very close. Oh my soul, bless thou the Lord thy maker handle with it. In the blessed holy name, Bless thou the Lord forget not all his mercies Bless her all your life God is for Lord and Most go to anger plenty of still Rich to all. That only seek him was the help of God works him for us. One dress in my spirit is will be. Love his life, our fathers to his children, and direct time to all who bear his name. Oh well he knows our weakness and our guilty knows that we are trusting us our prayer. Blessing forever one cause enough last We feel and die like a flow and go to life and dirt. That's true wellness of here's changed as chill so true. Those who look for me last and forever one just in fighting. This friend is purpose as you get where you are One rest in the same case every game when we are These mistaken Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the 119th Psalm, the Psalm which is the longest chapter in our Bibles, Psalm 119 And I'm going to read verse 65 through verse 67 of the 119th Psalm for our scripture reading this morning. Psalm 119 And I'm going to begin with verse 65. If you have your place there. Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word. Teach me good judgment and knowledge For I have believed thy commandments. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I have kept thy word. Thou art good, and doest good. Teach me thy statutes. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. Their heart is as fat as grease, but I delight in thy law. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn thy statutes. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn thy commandments. They that fear thee will be glad when they see me, because I have hoped in thy word. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Let me, I pray thee, or let I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort according to thy word unto thy servant. Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live, for thy law is my delight. Let us pray. Well followed this morning, uh Lord, every time a man stands to preach, thy help is overwhelming overwhelmingly easy. But Father, more so this morning. May your Spirit direct and guide in our hearts. Lord, we are dealing this morning from thy word with uncomfortable things. But Father, may your spirit teach us by thy truth that you are indeed sovereign, even in what man would call disaster. Even in what man would call horrible circumstances, even in the things that man of this world would attribute to chance or to some Circumstance. But Father, we find in thy word that all things that come into the life of the believer are controlled by loving providence. And so, Father, we pray that you would teach us through thy truth and cause our hearts to submit to thy word this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Afflictions, trials, sorrows Divine corrections, divine discipline, pain, sickness, distresses Disappointments and the general downward trajectory of life. Who wants any of them? Who has these things on your wish list? None of us. Who among us, even the smallest children It's never had distress. It's never had something that they wanted that didn't work the way we've heard some of the children crying this morning. Obviously their will is disapproved In some way or another, by some circumstance, by mommy saying shh or by them wanting to do something that they are not permitted to do How are any of us any different? Folks, in this life we deal with disappointments. With distresses, with sickness, with pain. And I believe it all goes back to the Garden of Eden. Because in Genesis 3. 16, unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. And thy conception. In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be unto thy husband, and he shall rule over you. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree which I commanded thee, saying thou shalt not eat of it, cursed is the ground It's not just the ground, it's this whole world, this whole system. It's everything that we live in. That word ground doesn't just mean the dirt. It means it means the employment, it means the job situation, it means the it means the politics, it means the wars and rumors of wars, it's everything about this world is cursed. Cursed is the ground for thy sake in sorrow. Did you hear about Eve? Sorrow, sorrow, sorrow. Now he turns to Adam in sorrow. Thou shalt eat of it all the days of thy life. You're not going to escape it. You're not going to avoid it. From the youngest child to the oldest saint, we all deal with trials and afflictions and difficulties. In my reading this week, I came across a quote I don't know who it's from, but it's interesting and it's encouraging. It said, the nearer we are to dust, the nearer we are to heaven. Isn't that true? You're from the dust and you're going back to the dust. And the closer we get to the dust, the closer we get to heaven. Folks, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. We're not going to escape We're not going to be live in this life without affliction. And so what do we do with affliction? How do we handle affliction? What opinion do we take of affliction? And look back to verse 75 of Psalm 119. Psalm 119, verse 75. I know, O Lord. That thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me Folks, the judgments of this world are all wrong. The judgments of this world are wrong. But the psalmist in faith says, I know that God's judgments are right, and God, in faithfulness, thou hast afflicted me. And then in verse. 76. I pray that thee, thy merciful kindness to be for my comfort according to thy word unto thy servant. Lord, I'm in these afflictions, Lord. Your merciful kindness is the only comfort I'm going to find. Because all the elements of this world are cursed. Verse 77, let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live for thy law. is my delight. And so folks, I'm gonna just read a lot of scripture to you today, take you to a lot of passages I'll give you the references as you're taking notes and hope hope and pray that you'll go back to them at some other time. Folks, the first thing I want to see is that our afflictions, the afflictions of the believer, are always ordained. They're not by luck. There is no luck. Luck is a is a is a four-letter word to the Christian. It doesn't belong in our vocabulary. There's no luck. But every affliction that the believer faces is ordained. I know that in faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me. Where's God in my problems? No, your problems are God's faithfulness. Why has God forsaken me? No, your problem is God being faithful. God ordains our afflictions. God places them in our life for his purpose. Look at verse 65. Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word. When we are lying in sickness, has God dealt well with us? You better believe it. Our employment has fallen apart. We thought we were in a job for the next 10 years and suddenly the company's struggling and we realize I've got to find a job. God is faithful. When we've put together our nest egg for retirement and the stock market crashes or some other disaster comes along, some unexpected uh expense. Crashes in on our carefully uh crafted budget. Yeah, God is still faithful And if that is an affliction to your soul that these things have happened, God in faithfulness has afflicted you because God always ordains. The afflictions that come into the life of a believer. Daniel 4, verse 35, all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. God does according to his will among the inhabitants of the earth. And none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Psalm 135, verse 5 and 6. For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. Whatsoever the Lord pleased, that did he in heaven and in earth in the seas and in all deep places. Whatsoever God hath pleased, he's done in earth. Doesn't that apply to you as a believer? Doesn't that apply to you when your hopes and dreams crash in on you? Doesn't that apply when you have done, gone one way and God says, no, not there, over here God is sovereign. He ordains our afflictions. Elihu was was absolutely correct in Job 34 and verse 29 when Elihu said this When he, that's God, when he giveth quietness, who can make trouble? And when he hideth his face, who can behold him? When God gives quietness, nothing in this world can disturb your quietness. But when God ordains to hide his face, Nothing in this earth can replace his face. Isaiah forty-six verses nine and ten Remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none else. I am God, and there is none like me. declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things which are not yet done, saying My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. Folks, when when your employment didn't work out the way you wanted, that was God's pleasure. It happened because God ordained it. Folks, when when all your political aspirations and the people you were depending on didn't get elected. Or got elected and it didn't work out the way you expect. Does God control that? Is is are are the liberals stronger than God? No. Does God judge a nation by giving them wicked rulers? Yes. He does. But folks, there is no affliction that you will ever face that was not ordained by God. And that goes to every joy and every sorrow, to every recovery from health and every every sickness in health. A lack of help? It's all controlled by God. You see, God has ordained whatever comes into the life of his blood bought and purchased elect God is doing his will in the life of his children. Again, I I found so many quotes this week which really I believe are pertinent. I don't know the source of them. But this one We see the rod rather than looking at the loving hand that raises it. We see the rod rather than looking at the loving hand that raises it. Do you ever spank your child? Well, yes. Because you hated them? No! Because you loved them Why do you smack the bottom of a child who wants to touch a hot stove or wants to run in the road? Because you love them. Because you understand more than the child understands. The folks God understands more than than I do. And more than you do. In Lamentation 3 in verse 1, Jeremiah says, I am a man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. Was Jeremiah a godly man? Yes. Was Jeremiah a faithful prophet? Yes. Was Jeremiah standing in a wicked generation? Yes. And yet he said, I'm a man that has seen affliction by the rod of God's wrath. Folks, we know That all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Affliction in the life of the believer is always ordained. Number two, a affliction in the life of a believer is always purposeful. Folks, one of my greatest weaknesses is to say why? Why? Why did this happen? Why did that happen? Why is it this way? Folks Affliction in the life of the believer is always purposeful. It is not without a purpose. God is working his purpose. Isaiah 48, verse 9, and following. For my name's sake will I defer mine anger. And for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off. Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver. I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. For mine own sake, even for mine own sake will I do it. God says, I haven't cut you off. But I've chosen you in the furnace of affliction. I've chosen to put you through the fire. And folks, this is really blessed. In Job 5, verse 17. Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth. Therefore, despise not the chastening of the Almighty. Now, what do you mean happy? You ever happy when God spanks you? You ever happy when well folks that word happy i you know I'm not criticizing our King James. You know, you know without a doubt I love the King James. But you know what that word happy is there in Job 5. 17? It's the same word in Psalm 11, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the counsel. It's the same word that's translated happy in Job and blessed in Psalm 1. Folks, blessed is the man that God corrects. And folks, we we know from Corinthians that if we're without correction, we're not children, we're bastards. You know. I I may tell the neighbor's child, stop that. But I do not meet out punishment on the neighbor's child. But if it's my own child, I will ensure that they hear and listen. And it is the same with the child of God. And so indeed, happy, blessed is the man that God correcteth, because God doesn't necessarily correct the wicked, but he corrects his own. Therefore despise not the chastening of the Lord. And of course this same um ideas echoed In Hebrews chapter 12, verses 5 and 6. Hebrews 12 is not quoting from Elihu. Hebrews 12 is quoting from Solomon in Proverbs 3. If you look up the two verses, Hebrews 12, 5 and 6 and Proverbs 3, 11 and 12 are almost word for word the same verses. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as children, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth everything. son that he receiveth. Think about this, folks. In Jonah 1, verse 17, I love Jonah. In Jonah 1, verse 17, now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Is being swallowed by a fish an affliction? How many of you ever gutted an animal? I know a few of you have. Smell nice or stink? Smells. Jonah said the weeds were wrapped around my head. You realize that Jonah was swimming in the stomach contents. When when you when you gut a deer, you have to be very careful not to slice open the spleen or the stomach, because if you do, it will destroy most of the meat. You've got to gut the deer, don't mean to get too graphic, but you've got to gut the deer without allowing the stomach contents to spill because the meat's basically wasted if you do. That's where Jonah was. Jonah was in great affliction. Being swallowed alive by a great fish was an affliction. Being swallowed alive by a great fish was the best thing that ever happened to Jonah. It was his salvation. You see, if Jonah had not been swallowed by the fish, Jonah would have drowned. And if Jonah had not been swallowed by the fish, he never would have followed God's will to go to Nineveh. And so that which Jonah viewed as a great affliction was the greatest blessing he could receive. And folks, it was in the whale's belly that Jonah cried out to God. Jonah's affliction saved his life. Jonah thought the fish was the death of him. But instead, the whale, the fish, was his life. And folks, so it is with us. It's been said that the same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. God's displeasure shines on the wicked, and they rebel. God's displeasure shines on the just, and their will is melted before his sovereignty. In Job 23, verses 13 through 17. Go ahead and turn there. I want you to get your eyes on this one. Job 23. Job chapter 23, it's just a few pages over from the book of Psalms. Job is the book preceding Psalms. Job 23 and verse 13. But he is of one mind, and who can turn him? And what his soul, that's God's soul, desireth, that he doeth. For he hath performed the thing that was appointed for me. God did that which was appointed for me. And many such things are with him. Therefore, I am troubled at his presence when I consider. I am afraid of him. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. I am afraid of him. For God maketh my heart Hard? No! God maketh my heart soft. Wow The same sun that hardens the clay, softens the wax. For God maketh my heart soft. The Almighty troubleth me. Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath hath he covered the darkness from my face. Folks. Every affliction you face is purposeful because every affliction you face was ordained by God. But number three Affliction in the life of the believer is always limited. It is always limited. You know you say, how could it be any worse? Do you want God to start listing the ways? What else could possibly happen? Do you really want to know? Do you really want to know? Do you want God to give you a list of what else could possibly happen? Folks, no matter how bad it gets, your affliction is limited. It is restrained by the hand of God Many are the afflictions of the righteous. In Mark 13, verse 19 and 20. For in those days shall be affliction such as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created under the time, neither shall be And except the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh should be saved, but for the elect's sake, whom he hath chosen He hath shortened the days. Do you hear that? God says, except the days were shortened, we'd have an L or Noah in the flood. Except the days were shortened, no one would survive, but for the sake of the elect, the days are shortened. Just as seven souls were preserved in the ark, so God shortens the days. I said seven, it's eight souls in the ark Seven's the number of perfection. I just gotta go there by default. And then my mind starts catching up with that wasn't in my notes, by the way. But folks, our afflictions are always limited by divine providence. We we feel like it can't get anything worse. Well it won't unless God ordains that it does. What else could happen? Nothing that God doesn't ordain. Nothing else can happen that God doesn't have a purpose for Lamentation twenty three, verse twenty-one. This I recall to mind Therefore, have I hope it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Folks, what else could happen? Nothing but what God ordains. What else could happen? Nothing but what God has a purpose for in your life. In Isaiah 43 verse 2, when, for instance, not if, but when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When not if when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. 1 Corinthians 10 13, there is no temptation taken you, but such is the common unto man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. But will also with the temptation make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. 2 Peter 2, verse 9: The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. And to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Psalm 34, verse 17 to 19. The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out of their troubles The Lord is nigh unto such as be of a are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth them out of them all. The Lord delivereth him out of them all. Job 1, verse 12. The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself, put not forth thy hand. God said to Satan, everything that Job has is in your power, but don't touch Job. The affliction was limited. Job 2, verse 6. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thy hand. But save his life. A second time. First time God says: take his cattle, take his children, take his house, take his servants, but don't touch Job. Leave him alone. And the second time God says, okay, you can touch his body, but don't take his life. You see, folks, every affliction we face is limited. There is a point beyond which God will not allow it to pass. This far and no further. The affliction in the life of the believer is always ordained. The affliction in the life of the believer is always purposeful. The affliction in the life of the believer is always limited. And number four, the affliction in the life of the believer is always appropriate. It's always appropriate. We do not discipline a two-year-old child in the same way that we discipline a 12-year-old child. We do not discipline a twelve-year-old child in the same way that we discipline a twenty-t two-year-old in the courts of law. There is appropriateness in every affliction that you face. God will not give a newborn Christian The same affliction that he will give a senior saint. You see, like as a father pitieth his children, So the Lord pities them that fear him. He knows our frame. He remembers that we're gods. And folks, the affliction Or discipline that you face is always appropriate to where you are in your spiritual development. And folks, when Satan first was allowed to take all Job's possessions, but not touch his body, God knew how much Job could take. But after Job showing himself faithful with the loss of everything he owned, God said, okay, now he's ready for a little bit more. And Job sat in ashes and took a broken pot and scraped the boils on his flesh. I cannot imagine anything more miserable. Folks, the afflictions that God brings into your life are always appropriate. It may not be appropriate for your neighbor. It may not be appropriate for your brother. But it's appropriate for you. Oh, folks, if we could just learn not to chafe against the appropriate work of God. Consider this. Proverbs 26, verse 3. A whip for the horse, and a bridle for the ass, and the rod for the fool's back. I think that says it all, doesn't it? Folks God knows you better than you know yourself God knows what will work in your life to mold you for all eternity. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. Lamentation three, verse thirty-one and following, for the Lord will not cast off forever But though though he cause grief, this is Lamentation 3. 31 and following, but though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies For he doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men, to crush under his feet all the per prisoners of earth, to turn aside the right men before the face of the Most High, to subvert the men. in his cause, the Lord approveth not. It says the Lord doth not afflict willingly. That that word willingly, I think, has lost some of its meaning from from 1611 when the King James was first translated. It means that God does not A take pleasure in giving you affliction. Just as a parent does not take pleasure in disciplining a child, it's a very difficult and grievous thing to the parent. It's not that he wants to thank you, it's because he needs to It's not because you want to inflict pain, but rather you know that pain is the only way to get the child's attention And so it is with us. You know the old story about the man that bought a mu mule and it wouldn't listen, so he knocked it over the head with a tube before. Don't recommend that. But as the story goes, they said, why'd you do that? How'd you get his attention? God has to get our attention. And it's not always comfortable. It's not always painless. But God gets our attention. God got Jonah's attention. God will get our attention. He doesn't correct randomly. God does not discipline or correct randomly or without purpose or for cruelty. God's application of chastisement is always appropriate to God's purpose And God's application of affliction or chastisement is always appropriate to the person that receives it. He will not suffer us to be tempted. Above that, we are able. And so God's allowing of affliction in the life of the believer is always appropriate. Number five. Affliction in the life of the believer is always productive. It's always productive. Look at Psalm one nineteen, verse sixty-seven. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now have I kept thy law. Before I was afflicted, my spiritual life was wandering. Look at verse 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Yeah, before I was afflicted, I was just kind of, yeah, average on my Bible reading. Boy, when the affliction came, I started memorizing scripture. I started learning his statute. In Psalm 94, verses 12 and 13, Blessed is the man that thou chastisest, O Lord, and teachest him out of thy law. That thou mayest give him rest in days of adversity. Wow, it says, Bless is the man that thou chastisest and teachest thou thy law, that thou may give him rest From the days of adversity. I thought this was the days of adversity. No, God is putting you through the fire now that He might give you rest from the real adversity. comes along. You see the progression there. You had this problem, but there was a purpose because there was a bigger one coming God always has a purpose in affliction. James 5, verse 13. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Did affliction ever drive you to prayer? Did your prayer light suddenly take off when a problem came along? Conversely, have you ever had a time when things were really going smooth and you look back and say, I wouldn't bring much? My father used to say, you know, uh Satan will leave you alone if you're not doing anything. Yeah, but when you get serious about serving the Lord, yeah, that's when you'll start having more and more problems and affliction. Hebrews 12, verse 11 through 13. Now no chasting for the present seemeth joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. It'll exercise you. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight the path of your feet. Lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, but rather let it be healed. I mentioned before Jonah. And they go back to him again in Jonah 117. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord. Folks, it looks like Jonah didn't pray on day one. Or day two. But on day three, he started praying. Sometimes it takes a couple days. Jonah probably figured when he was swallowed by that way, well, I've got about ten minutes. And after a day, he's still there with the weeds wrapped around his head. And two days. But then Jonah Bray. See folks, God's trial in the life of the believer will always be productive. Then Jonah prayed. I read verse 17 of chapter 1, then verse 1 of chapter 2. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord out of the fish's belly, and look what he prayed, and said, I cried by reason of my affliction. He wasn't praying when he was on the ship going to Tarsus. He wasn't praying when the sailors were throwing the sailors were crawling upon their gods He wasn't praying in the storm. He wasn't mad at God. I talked to you. But it took a well a whale's belly for Jonah to pray. Jeremiah twenty-nine, verse eleven. For I know the thoughts, this is God speaking. For I know the thoughts that I have toward you, saith the Lord. Thoughts of peace and not evil to give you an expected end. We read it again. For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord. Thoughts of peace And not evil to give and expect an end. God says, I know what I'm thinking about you I know, God says, that I'm thinking thoughts of peace toward you. And God says, I know the expected end. I know what will be the end of your afflictions. I know where I'm taking you. I know what I'm putting you through, but God also knows where He's what the end of it all. You see Affliction is always productive in the life of the believer. Let me read that whole passage. Jeremiah 11, 29. 29, 11 through 13. For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you an expect it in. Then shall ye call upon me. And ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you. And ye shall seek for me and find me when ye search for me with all your heart. God has an expected end. Folks, affliction in the life of the believer is always ordained, and it's always purposeful. It is always limited. It is always appropriate. It is always productive. But the last one, it is always accompanied. You are never alone. God is always right there He does not leave you alone in your affliction. He is with you in your affliction, just as certainly he was with Daniel in the lion's death. And as certainly as he's with the three Hebrew children in the fiery furnace, and as certainly as he is with Jacob in the wilderness, he's there. Affliction in the life of the believer is always accompanied. Look back at Psalm 119 and verse 68. Thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes. Folks, could a good God forsake you. No. Is he good? Yes. Would a good God do evil to you? No. He's doing good even in the worst of our earthly circumstances In Psalm 27, verse 13 and 14, the psalmist said, I had fainted unless I believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Psalm 46, verses 1 and 2. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, will we not fear that the earth be removed and that the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea? Psalm 145, 17, and following. He is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. The Lord is nigh unto them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him. He also will hear their cry and will save them Hebrews 13, 5 and 6, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say the Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Psalm one nineteen, verse sixty-five again. Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word. Folks, is that our testimony in trials? When when we go into work in the morning and we're without a job by noon, that would be once Do we come home saying that was dealt well with us, sir When we suffer a great loss, I know several people that have one family that went to church and came home and their home was gone. Their house had burned to the ground totally while they were at the church. It would be hard to come home and say, Lord, thou hast dealt well with me. But is it true? Yeah. Yeah, it absolutely is. All things work together for good to those that love God, to those that are the called. according to his purpose. Second Corinthians four verse fifteen. For all things are for your sake, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God. For which cause we faint not, though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we look not on the things which are seen, but on the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. Wow. Boy, if we could just remember that in the middle of affliction. James 4, 14, what is your life that is even a vapor which appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away? And so, to conclude, look at Psalm 119, verse 71 and 75. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for such wise and loving care. Lord, we we don't want afflictions We pray, O Lord, remove our afflictions. We pray, O Lord, deliver us. Deliver us now. Deliver us speedily. And yet, Father, we thank you that that we are not the recipients of some chance or fate. But Lord God, that you are working your perfect will, even in what seems to us to be the worst of circumstances. May we truly say it is well with my soul. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Very good, thank you, brother. Return to our closing song Number 719, appropriate song to close us with in our blue song book, A Shelter in the Time of Storm. Number 719. Seven hundred and nineteen will sing all four stanzas The Lords are wrought in him. We find a shelter in the time of Leg your will be fine, a shelter in the time of store. Weary land, a weary land, a weary land. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of snow. No tears alarm, no throws alarm. A shelter in the time last morning. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land. For Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the tide of store teams around us being. A shelter in the time of store We'll never leave our safety free A shelter in the time of store Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus is a heart in a weary land, a show. Shelter in the time of store Who brought him by no refuse here? But shelter in the Tribal Storm Ever here, a shelter in the time of storm. For Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary. Oh Jesus is a rock in O'Meary Let the shelter in the time of so