Turn with me in your Bible this morning, please, to the 37th Psalm, Psalm number 37. And there are 20 verses. I'm going to read them all. And it may seem like we've had a lot of scripture reading because we read all of Psalm 34. And now we're going to read all of Psalm 28, or Psalm 73, all 28 verses. But as we've often noted, I have nothing inspired to say. I will endeavor to expound on the Word of God, but when we read the Scriptures, we are reading the very inspired and preserved Word of God, and therein is great benefit. Psalm 73. If I misspoke, forgive me. I'm not inspired. Psalm 73, verses 1 through 28. Truly, God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart. But as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipped, for I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no bands in their death. Their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compass them about as a chain, violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish They are corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth Therefore, his people return thither, and water of a full cup are wrung out of them. And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily, I have cleansed my heart in vain and washed my hands in innocency, for all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. If I say, I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then understood I their end. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. Thou castest them down under destruction. How were they brought into desolation as in a moment? They are utterly consumed with terrors As a dream, when one awaketh, so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image. Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins So foolish was I, and ignorant. I was as a beast before thee. Nevertheless, I am continually with thee And thou holdest me by my right hand. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me into glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee? Then there is none on earth that I desire beside thee. My flesh and my heart faileth But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For lo, they that are far from thee shall perish. And thou hast destroyed all them that go ahoring from thee. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, how can we expand upon the Word of God? How can we add to it, O Lord, we dare not try. And so, Father, this morning we pray that you would open our ears and our hearts to see thy word to gain the nuances of thy truth, to understand what it was that Asaph was facing, and understand that our trials are no different than his, nor his than ours. Oh Lord, we all receive the same difficulties in this life and the same joys as well, for we serve the same God. And so, Father, may we not be concerned with this world, but O Lord, turn our hearts and minds to spiritual things. Father, accomplish this work of healing in our hearts today through thy precious word And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The title of this 73rd Psalm is a psalm of Asaph. Asaph's name simply means the gatherer, the one that gathers in. Asaph was one of the choice singers who David appointed. over the ministry of the music in the tabernacle. Before there was a temple, the temple would not be built until Solomon's day But in 1 Chronicles 6 we read these words, and these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of the Lord after the ark had rest. And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing. And in the next several verses of First Chronicles six gives a list of names and we come down to verse thirty nine and it says Asap who stood on his right hand even Asak the son of Barakai And so Asaph is one of the chosen singers that David has appointed to lead the song worship before the Ark of God, before there was a temple. when the ark still dwelt in tents. And then we find also that in First Chronicles sixteen So they left therefore before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord Asaph and his brethren to minister before the ark continually as every day's work required. And so Asaph was one of those that was continually in the place of worship. He was continually engaged in singing psalms and praises to God. Certainly, he should never be discouraged. Certainly, a man who spends all of his time before the ark, he should never be depressed. He should never suffer the persecutions of this world. And yet we find he does. But there's more yet. For if we look at Scripture, we find there that this was a psalm of Asaph Psalm 73. So is Psalm 74 and 75 and 76 and 77 and 78 and 79 all the way through 83. And if you go backward to Psalm 50, it is also a psalm of Asaph. There's 11 psalms that God inspired him to write. And we find him again in 2 Chronicles 9 29, long after his death, long after he has gone on to heaven and he's with the Lord. In 2 Chronicles 29, verse 30, moreover, Hezekiah the king and the priest commanded the Levites to sing praise unto the Lord with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. So long after his death, they're singing the Psalms of David, and in parallel with them, they're singing the Psalms of Asaph, the seer. Asaph the prophet. Asaph the one inspired of God. What a great heritage Asaph has left for us. And so this 73rd Psalm begins with a great exclamation of praise. Truly, God is good to Israel. even to such as be of a clean heart. And if that's all we had of this psalm, we would rejoice because it's such a great proclamation of truth. But we've read the psalm. And we know that the psalm proceeds into great depression and discouragement. Truly, God is good to Israel. God is good to his people. Israel here is not just speaking of the descendants of Abraham, but it is the people of God in all ages. It is God's elect. And truly He's good to them. And that word truly is a word that means surely. It means certainly. It means unfailingly. We find it actually three times in this Psalm. In verse 1, truly God is good to Israel. Verse 13, verily I've cleansed my hands in vain. He uses the same word. It wasn't worth it. I've wasted my time. I've cleansed my hands in vain. But then in verse 18, surely thou didst set their feet in slippery places, truly. This is a word that means certainly. It means an absolute truth that cannot fail. We find it in Psalm 23 and verse 6. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. It's the same word. This is a word which indicates something that is certainly going to take place. But it's also a word that shows us exclusivity. A word that shows us exclusivity. In Genesis 7 and 23, we find out about Noah. We know what happened to Noah. God destroyed all the world and Noah was the only one that lived. One was the only one that survived. Listen to what it says. And every living substance was destroyed, which was upon the face of the ground, both man and cattle and creeping things, the fowls of the heaven, and they were destroyed from the earth, and Noah Only remain. And that word only there with Noah is the same word surely. It's the same word truly. And it's a word that indicates to us that God destroyed all the earth, but he saved Noah, his family. Now, go back to our first verse. Truly, God is good to every man and woman on the earth? No. Truly, God is good to Israel. Truly, he's good to his people. There is an exclusive goodness for the people of God. Now, Asap is going to go on to complain about the wicked But he begins with an acknowledgement: truly, God's good to the elect. Truly, God is good to his people. Certainly, truly, only Noah was spared. We find this word also used of Jehovah in Psalm 62 and verse 2. He only is my rock and my salvation. It's the same word, truly. He's the only one. Who is my rock and my salvation? My soul wait thou only upon the God on the God. And it's the same word. Don't wait on anybody else, on God alone. And so this word is also used to the Levites in Numbers 18, verse 3. And they shall keep the charge and the charge of the tabernacle. Only they shall come nigh, the Levites, and no one else. can come nigh. And to this word that begins this psalm is a word that indicates certainly God is good to his people. But exclusively, God is good to his people. Folks, if God is good to Israel, what does it matter what China does? If God is good to his people, what does it matter what Islam does? If God is good to his people, what does it matter what your neighbor does Or your coworker does. Or anyone else. Truly, God is good to Israel. But then he further qualifies it, and to such as are of a clean heart God is good to Israel, and he's good to such as are of a clean heart. Now think about this. Who is the speaker? Well, it's Asaph. What does Asaph occupy his days with? Well, he's continually before the ark. It was incumbent upon Asaph to be ceremonially clean. Those that entered passed the labor, and they were cleansed for the service. And we read in Leviticus about the robing and the disrobing and all of the priest. ASAP would have been purely clean on the outside Those that saw Asaph standing in the congregation leading the singing would know that he was ceremonially clean. But notice how he defines it. They that are of a clean heart. God is good to those that are clean on the inside. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. And think about David. Uriah's dead, Bathsheba's my wife. It all looks legitimate. David had done a good job of hiding his sin, but he didn't have a clean heart. And God's judgment was on David, even though the outward all looked well. And what was it David prayed? We have his prayer there in Psalm 51. Clean heart, O God. And so Asach begins this glorious psalm with declaring: truly, certainly, God is good to his people, and he's good to such as have a clean heart. And so, if we are facing persecution and problems and heartaches and all these things, first of all, are you the child of God? And secondly, is your heart right with God? Because you see, we tend to blame all our problems externally when the first place to look for our problems is internally. Is it me, O Lord? Is the problem not with him but with me, O Lord? Truly, God is exclusively good, certainly God is exclusively good. to his people and to those that are of a clean heart. It's interesting that Asaph here begins with this great praise to God. And then goes immediately into talking about his problems. And it's been often said that when you're discouraged, the best place to start is with praising the Lord. It's hard to continue to be discouraged when you start enumerating the goodness of the Lord. It's an old song we sang when I was a kid. Count your many blessings, name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has done. You know what? When you start counting your blessings, it's hard to be discouraged. But here we find the singer before the ark of the ga of God. Who, in spite of all God's goodness to his people, is prone to doubtfulness. He's prone to discouragement. Look at verses 2. Verses 2 and 3. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had well nigh slipped For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. He said, My feet were about to slip. Can you relate to that? Ever been there? Are you there right now? Do you wake up every morning that way? Lord, I don't I don't No, if I can handle this, I don't know if I can make it through this day. Lord, I'm carrying more bricks than I can handle. My feet are slipping out from under me. Psalm 142, verse 3: When my spirit is overwhelmed with me, within me, then thou knewest my path. And the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for my feet. He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved, he that keepeth, he will not slumber. Be not afraid of sudden fear near the destruction of the wicked when it cometh, for the Lord shall be my confidence, and he shall keep my feet from being taken Is God going to let his child fall? He says later on he has helped me with his hand. God's not going to let it slip. And yet, how often we feel like we're about to fall, but we have to go backwards a little bit and see why he felt like he was about to fall. Look at it, he says, but as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipped, for Here's a connecting word. There's a reason word. Why is it his feet had well-nigh slipped? For I was envious at the foolish. I was envious of the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Are you envious of the man who has said in his heart, There is no God? That's rather foolish, isn't it? To be envious of him? That man is bound for hell. Should I envy him? That man with all of his wealth has more problems than you can imagine. Should I envy him? You see, when we get envious at the foolish, we become pretty foolish. And the reason that the singer of the tabernacle is so discouraged is he's been looking at the foolish. You see, you can't be envious of them and see what they're doing until you look at them. Rather than looking to the Ark of the Covenant where God met with his people, he's looking at the foolish around him and he's becoming envious of them. I was envious of the foolish. We envy the foolish foolish when we spend our time looking at the wicked. Psalm 37, verses 35 and 36. I have seen the wicked in great power spreading himself like a green bay tree, and yet he passed away, and lo he was not, I sought him, and he could not be found. He was envious of the wicked when he saw the prosper uh envious of the foolish when he saw the prosperity of the wicked. What shall it profit? Prosperity and profit are the same word. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? And yet there is an apparent contradiction in the world. And that's what he's talking about. When I saw the prosperity of the wicked. There's an apparent contradiction here. It looks like they're getting away with it. It looks like the wicked are doing better than the righteous. It looks like they have all the quote-unquote blessings, and we have all the problems. I was envious of the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. And he goes on to expound on what that means. Verse 4. For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. You know, we can imagine that the wicked man When it comes to die, it's going to be crying out in fear and be sweating and be terrified and oh no, what am I going to do? And there are occasionally when that happens But by and large, the wicked die in peace. By and large, they go out of this world without a care in the world. There are no bands in their death. And yet there are many believers, many righteous, who the older they get, the more they realize how they wasted their lives instead of serving the Lord. And I talked with many elderly saints that were concerned because they felt like their life had been a waste God had given them this time. And they knew they were going to stand before him and give account of what they'd done in the body. They knew their soul was secure. They knew their salvation was certain. But they feared being ashamed before the throne of God And they approach death with far more concern than the wicked. The wicked can sin rare up to the day they die and there's no bands in their death. But the child of God is drawn constantly to the knowledge that he is holy and I am unholy and it is incumbent upon me to redeem the time. It is incumbent upon me to use the talents he's given me. I dare not bury them in the earth For I want to hear well done, thou good and faithful servant, not thou wicked servant. That's an apparent contradiction. It seems like we have what they should have, and they have what we should have And Asap says, I looked at it, I saw it, and it bothered me. Why is the wicked go headlong in their wickedness? And yet I have chastened my soul every morning, as he said. Later in the passage. But you see, the wicked die in peace because they have no conviction of coming judgment. The righteous thinks about the judgment. I'm going to stand before the one with nail prints in his hands. The one who shed his blood for me and explain why I didn't give him more of a witness. Explain why I didn't serve Same flame wine. I, like Ananias and Sapphira, gave a lot, but not all of it. They die in peace because their conscience is seared with a hot iron. The The child of God, as he says, I chasten my soul every morning. Child of God wakes up and boy, when we sin, it bothers us. Oh, it grieves our spirit. And how often we have to throw ourselves before the Lord and say, Lord, I'm sorry, the good that I would I do not, and the evil I would not, that I do. The wicked don't go through that. I believe everyone here today would say you care about what you did last night. But I guarantee you the wicked don't care about what they did last night. Right. There are no bars in their death. He says and their strength is firm Their strength is firm. You know why the wick the strength of the fur wicked is firm so many times of death? Because so many of them die young. They die young. You know the world says uh live live hard, die young and leave a pretty corpse. Isn't that nonsense? Isn't that fuel full Foolishness. Apparent contradiction. But how foolish are we to be like them? But do you know the most important reasons that the wicked can die in peace? Because they are led like sheep to the slaughter. Pastor Keith dealt with sheep as a young man. Sheep will walk right up to the executioner, right up to the slaughter, without a thought. And so the wicked go on to their own destruction without a thought, that they will die and stand before the Lord and give account. And so there are no bars in their death. But then verse five, they are not, this is the second contradiction of the wicked. They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued like other men. Nonsense! What are you talking about, Asaph? Maybe you don't know about their problems. But they've got them up plenty. They're not troubled as other men. That word troubled is also translated misery It's also translated labor and it's also translated mischief. And I I love to to take these words and see how many varied English translations we have of the same Hebrew word because it teaches us so much about what the passage is saying. They're not troubled as other men. Remember when Job's friends came, and you know Job's friends weren't much of friends, much of friends, much of friends, I'll say it right yet. Job 16, verse 2. I have learned many things. miserable comforters. And that word miserable, when Job calls his friends miserable comforters, it's the same word plant. You've you've plagued me, Job says. You're you're plaguing comforters. Remember the rich fool? I will do. I will tear down my barns and build greater, that I may have where to bestow all my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, thou hast many things, bestowed many things for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. There was a man who was going through life. He had everything. His eyes bulged out with fatness, as we're going to see. I'm going to pull down my barns. I'm going to build a bigger store. I'm going to sell more goods. I'm going to store up my wealth. God said, Thou fool, who was envious of? Asa was envious of the foolishness, the foolish. Thou fool, this night shall be required of thee, and then who shall these things be to thee? Thou hast prepared. But not only does he say there, they have troubled me, or they are not in trouble as other men. Neither are they plagued like other men. And folks, I I could spend all of our time on here because this is glorious. This is precious. I hope this brings peace and joy to your soul. They're not plagued like other men. Oh, yes, they are. And let me prove it from the Word of God. Genesis 12 verse 17 And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with a great plague, and it's the exact same word. If that were all that was here, that would be enough. But folks, this word is even more precious, for this alt word also means don't touch. It means touched. You want proof? 1 Chronicles 16, verse 21 and 22 He suffered no man to do them wrong. Yea, he reproved kings for their sakes, saying, Touch not mine anointed. And that word touch is the word plagued. ASAP says, Lord, they don't have trouble when they're not plagued like other men. God used the same word and says, Don't plague my people. Touch not mine anointed. You see this the difference there? You see the selectivity there. Truly, exclusively, God is good to his people. Don't touch mine anointed. Do my prophets no harm. And in Job 1, verse eleven, when Satan comes to God and wants to afflict Job. God says, put forth thy hand now, and Satan says, put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. Satan says, plug him, plug him, and then he'll curse you. And we know that Job did not. You see, our trials are not unique There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. Asaph, the singer of the tabernacle, went through the same trials we do. Well, he didn't have a flat tire because his chariot didn't have pneumatic tires. But he went through the same troubles we did. Job went through the same troubles we do We're not alone in this, folks. We see the contradiction of the wicked right today. And it bothers us. wants us to be discouraged. Asaph continues there in verse 14 of the chapter 73. He says, For all day long have I plagued and chastened been plagued and chastened every morning. He uses that same word about his his disciplining of his own soul against sin. But we find another contradiction of the wicked verse 6. Therefore pride compass them about as a chain, violence covereth them as a garment. Their pride binds them like a chain into their wickedness. Violence covers them with a garment. Just to briefly say there isn't wonderful that Christ came and he broke the chains and he covers the righteous with a robe of righteousness. He breaks those chains. Their eyes stand out verse heavily with fatness. They have more than they could wish Better is a little for the righteous than the riches. Better is a little to the righteous man hath than riches of many wicked. And so They speak verse 8, and then we'll move on quickly. They are corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens. and their tongue walketh through the earth. They love to brag about taking the Ten Commandments off of that courthouse. They love to brag brag about their iniquity. I saw pictures of a protest recently. uh gay pride, transgender, whatever. And one of them is carrying a sign that said Jesus Christ was transgender was chan transgender. Carry that sign when you stand before the judgment throne of Christ, I would recommend the same. Those things bother us, folks. If it doesn't bother us, then there's something that we're dead. Those things try our souls. Why doesn't God strike them dead right now Oh, I would like to. Boy, how we would like to s to lash out at the wicked. We don't We don't burn, we don't bomb abortion clinics, we don't, you know, we don't get involved in violence, but oh, how our fleshly old man would love to Why doesn't God deal why do they get away with it? Why do they live such a easy, peaceful life, and the child of God has such trouble? And we find that he says there in verse 10, therefore his people, that's God's people. Therefore his people it relates back up to the trulies up in verse one therefore his people return thither and water of a full cup is wrung out of them. Do you feel wrung out by the world? You feel like the world's just taking like an old dirty wash rag and just wrung everything out. And they say, this is God's people still in verse eleven, they say, how does God know and is there knowledge in the most high? Asaph, the singer of the tabernacle, was brought to the point where he said, Does God even see what's going on? Does God even know what I'm going through? And we know the answer, folks. We know that the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous and his ears open to their cry, but oh how when we get pushed to our extremity, when we get pushed to the place where you say, My feet are almost slipped, God I can't take any more, are you even listening? Are you even listening to the Lord? And folks, we know he is. And Asaph knew he was. Asaph wouldn't have begun this song with truly the Lord is good to his people. If he really thought God wasn't listening. But Asap is a man of God, a singer at the tabernacle who's been beat up. He's been wrung out. Like an old dirty wash rag. I want to ask you to raise your hands if you can relate to Asaph. I know I sure can. And we come to the point where we even say, does God even understand? Does God even know? Lord, where are you? Lord, why is this happening? Verse 12, behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Rather than the child of God sitting beside the wells of water, rather than feeling like we're led beside still waters, we feel like the water has been wrung out of us. And so he says in verse thirteen and fourteen, Verily I've cleansed my heart in vain and washed my hands innocence innocency. For all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. Lord, I have disciplined my soul. I have done my best to walk in your word. Morning, evening, and at noon have I prayed unto you. It shouldn't be this way. It shouldn't be this way. Folks, I remember many times in Jamaica when I got to that point, I was like, Lord, You know, it shouldn't be this way. I've given up everything to serve you, Lord. Why is it like this? But you see, God didn't promise any of that to us. I just said, Be faithful to the death, and I'll give you my father's kingdom. And so we find many cases in Scripture. Of this momentary, momentary lack of faith, Jeremiah said Why is my pain perpetual? Wow, isn't that a verse to put up on your mirror in the morning? Why is my pain perpetual? My wound is incurable, which refuseth to be healed. Wilt thou altogether be unto me as a liar and as waters that fail? That was Jeremiah, folks. Are you discouraged? Well, we have a lot of examples of saints that were discouraged as well. And this one, Exodus 5, verse 22, again is a verse that I cry out to God in Jamaica over in distress. Mosa returned unto the Lord and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil and treated this people? Why is it that thou hast sent me For since I came unto Pharaoh to speak unto thy name, he hath done evil unto this people, neither hast thou delivered thy people at all. Lord, you haven't delivered them one little bit And then we find David in Second Samuel two, or Second Samuel twenty-two, verse five. When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men made me afraid. And the word ungodly that David uses there is Belial. Remember the sons of Eli who were sons of Belial, they knew not the Lord. David uses the same word. He says, the ungodly men assault me. And in our day and age, a lot of the times the burdens that we bear spiritually are because of religious, ungodly people. Of churches that are full of belial, places where the gospel used to be and should be proclaimed. And yet we can't step in the door lest we be associated, unequally yoked with their iniquity and their sin. Elijah, Lord, they've slain the prophets. They've torn down your altars, and I only. and left. And he comes down to verse 15. And he says, If I speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. ASAP says, if I say these things, it'll be an offense to God's people. If if I go if I go into the tabernacle where I'm the the lead singer and admit how spiritually beat up I am, it's going to discourage my brother. Iron is supposed to sharpen iron, but if I say what is really in my heart, Lord, it's going to be a blunt steel to their iron Folks, this is a man who's reached the end of his endurance. This is a man who spiritually is empty. But folks, there's hope. It's not the end of the psalm yet. God hasn't left Asaph. He says when I thought verse 16 to know it, it was too painful for me. It's more painful than I could bear. And then we find that God refreshes his servant when he goes into the sanctuary. You see, when Asaph is observing the wicked and saying, look how much they have, when Asaph is saying their eyes stand out with fatness, When Asaph is looking at their iniquity and is grieving him, he's not there in the tabernacle. Because those things didn't enter in. Right? You see, all these things that are discouraging Asap, they did not get into the tabernacle. And so he says in verse 17, until I went into the sanctuary of God, then I understood their end. My dear brother Vince, who God has knit our hearts together for true yoke fellows. But one of his favorite phrases, and I'm sure you've heard it, God's got this. Then I understood their end. God's got this. God knows about the economy. That's not a problem. God knows about China, that's not a problem. God knows about the government, that's not a problem. God knows about the iniqu the workers of iniquity, that's not a problem. The problem is I need to go in the sanctuary. The problem is I need to draw an eye to God. The problem is I need to get my eyes off the foolish to be envious of and get my eyes back on Christ. Until I went into the sanctuary. Then I understood their end. Surely, verse 18. And the surely in verse 18 is the same truly in verse 1. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. Truly, certainly, and exclusively. Remember what we said about the word? It's a word of certainty and a word of exclusivity. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places. What was the first complaint of Asa? My feet are slipping, Lord. God says no. No, your feet aren't slipping. But theirs are. You're envious of the foolish, but they're the ones that are slipping. They're the ones that are sliding down the chute of hell. While we're walking on the King's Highway. But as for me, my feet had well and I slipped. Verse 19, how are they brought into desolation in a moment? They are utterly consumed. How are the wicked, verse 19, brought into desolation in a moment? Remember his first complaint? There are no bars in their death, Lord. Or it says, no, Asa, you don't see the bars in their death, but they're brought into desolation in a moment. See how God answers the complaints of our soul God knows what we need to hear. They're brought into desolation in a moment. They are utterly consumed with terrors. As a dream, when thou awakest, O Lord, he doesn't slumber or sleep But when he starts to take care of them, as a dream when thou awakenest, O Lord, thou shalt awake, and thou shalt despise their image. Thus was my heart grieved, and I was pricked in my reins. You see, his grief over the wicked has changed to his grief over his own assessment of the wicked. That's what verse 21 is. Thus. When he went to the sanctuary and understood his end, thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins. I was convicted over what I had just said. I was convicted over what I just thought. I was convicted over being envious of the wicked. I was convicted that the problem was me and not them. So foolish was I and ignorant. I was like them that I was immatures of. I was as a beast before thee. Nevertheless. In spite of all his failings, in spite of his lack of faith. Nevertheless, I am continually with thee, and thou hast holdden me by my right hand. Those of us that are been privileged to be parents, or uncles, or aunts, or grandparents, etc. , all know what it is to hold a child's hand. And the child is learning to walk and their feet are kind of tottering. And probably every one of us have come near a mud puddle at some point or another. And just kind of lift to the head. Especially if it's a boy. Get ready. Especially if it's a boy, because if there's a mud puddle, he's gonna stomp right through it. And so when the child's about to slip, we take that hand and give just a little bit of an up tug and carry them through. Folks, Esau, the seer, whose psalms were recommended by Hezekiah. Asa, who was continually in the temple engaged in the singing Who found himself so discouraged that he said, My steps are slipping. Now, after he's gone to the sanctuary and seen the goods of the Lord, he says, Thou hast holding me with my right hand. If God is holding you by your right hand, are you going to slip? Are you going to end up in that mud puddle? If Jehovah is holding you by your right hand. Nevertheless Nevertheless, I am continually with me. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me up in the glory. There are no bands in their death, Lord, but you're taking me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth that I desire beside thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, Lord. But God is the strength of my heart And my portion forever. For lo, they that are far from thee shall perish. There are no bars in their death, no bands in their death, they shall perish. And thou hast destroyed all them that go ahooring from thee. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in him that I may declare his works. You see, the perception that there are no bands in their death drove me to the sanctuary. The perception that they are not in trouble as other men, that they have no plagues, that perception drove me to the sanctuary. The pride that compassed them about as a chain drove me to the sanctuary. That they have more than their heart could want drove me. to the sanctuary. That they are corrupt and speak wickedly. They speak lawfully against about things that they don't know. Drove me to the sanctuary Sanctuary. You see, Asaph went to the sanctuary every day to sing. And we, as the children of God, can get so used to opening up our Bible and praying every day that we do it within our mind thinking about a thing. How many chapters, don't raise your hand, how many chapters have you read and thought? What was that? What did I just read? What did it say? How many times have you gone to prayer and realized that your mind's on the grocery list? That your mind is on what you gotta fix. That your mind is on what you've got to do at work tomorrow. But when you're troubled by the wicked who have no bands in their death, your reading scripture and your prayer is different. When you're troubled by the things the wicked are saying, your reading of the Word of God and your prayer is different. When you're concerned over the fact that they seem to have everything and you're struggling to pay the bills, your reading of the word and your prayer is different. It wasn't until I went into the sanctuary then I understood therein, surely thou hast set them in slippery places. You see, it is good for me. It is good for me to draw nigh unto God. Asaph went into the sanctuary to sing every day. And how used we can get to doing just that. How used we can get to walking along in our spiritual life and everything being fine and rosy until it all becomes a habit. And God has to send these apparent contradictions into our hearts that we might truly go to the sanctuary. That we might truly understand, but it is good for me to draw nigh unto God. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Purpose. Rather than complaining to God about the trials, may they drive us to the throne. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have filled your word with so many examples of imperfect men. That we might be reminded that there is only one perfect man, and that is the man Christ Jesus. Lord, it is our earnest desire to be more and more like Him. And Lord, how often we cry with Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? The good that I would I do not, the evil I would not that I do. Lord, how often like Asaph we get so used to being around the ark and singing praises that we begin to take our eyes off of God and look at the wicked around us and even become envious of them How like Peter we take our eyes off Christ and begin to look at the winds and waves, and our steps do begin to slip. But Lord, we thank you that you hold us by your right hand. No man shall pluck us out. And so, Father, give us grace, Lord, not to stray. Give us grace to overcome our fears. Give us grace to beat through the depression. and the draw nigh to God. And Lord, we thank you for the promise that when we draw nigh to you, you draw nigh to us. Father, we thank you for this glorious chapter. May it be a rebuke and a blessing to our souls. In Jesus name, amen