To the gospel is recorded for us by Matthew. And we're going to begin our scripture reading in the 27th chapter at verse number 62. And then continue on into the twenty eighth chapter. Prior to the verses where we'll begin our reading this morning in Matthew 27, verse 62, the verses prior in chapter 27 record for us the Mock trial and the crucifixion, the death and the burial of Jesus Christ. That is the background, that is the context of what has taken place before we come to this 26th verse, or sorry, 62nd verse, the 62nd verse of Matthew 27. And here we find the beginning of the first Easter morning. Matthew 27, starting our scripture reading in verse number 62. Now, the next day that followed the day of preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate. saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again Command, therefore, that the sepulchre may be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, he is risen from the dead so that the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch. Go your way. Make it as sure as ye can So they went and made the sepulchre shore, sealing the stone and setting a watch. In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment as white as snow. And for fear of him the keepers did shake and became as dead men. And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not, ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead. And behold he goeth before you into Galilee. There ye shall see him. Lo, I have told you And that he parted quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy and did run to bring his disciples' word And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All, hail! And they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid. Go tell my brethren that I go into Galilee, and there they shall see me. Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priest all the things that were done. And when they were assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave them large money, gave large money unto the soldiers, saying, Say ye that his disciples came by night and stole him away while he slept. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. So they took the money and did as they were taught, and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father. We again thank you for the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We thank you for the Word of God, verbally inspired Preserved unto your people. Father, this morning open our understanding to your word. Open your word to our hearts. Teach us by your gracious truth, we pray. This morning, may your people be edified and strengthened in thee. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, the next day following the day of preparation. The day of preparation would be Friday. It would be what we call Good Friday in this particular setting. The day of preparation happened every week. It was the day before the Sabbath. The women would not cook a meal on the Sabbath, but rather on the day of preparation, they would prepare the food for the next day. If you needed to go down the street and conduct some business, you did it before sundown because it was the day of preparation. When the sun set on Friday evening, Friday night, the Sabbath began And that Sabbath would continue to sundown on what we call Saturday. That was the Old Testament Sabbath. But this day of preparation was very important. Get it done. It's kind of like our children with their homework, isn't it? Don't put it off. Bedtime is coming. Don't tell us a half an hour before bed that you've got a test tomorrow. Get it done. This is the time of preparation Well that's exactly what the day of preparation was. It was the time when the Jews conducted their business. If they needed to go pay for something, they did it. Before sundown. They did it during the day of preparation. If they needed to purchase something for tomorrow, they did it. They took care of all their business, so all the cares will be done. No business on the Sabbath day. And so the next day following verse 62, the day following the chief the pre day of preparation, the chief priest. And Pharisees came together to Pilate. This is the day following the day of preparation. This is what we would call Friday night, but the sun has gone down. And what are these chief priests and Pharisees doing? They are going to a Gentile ruler to do business. Interesting, isn't it? Hypocrites. What was one of their chief complaints against the disciples? The disciples of this teacher, Jesus, were going to the field on the Sabbath and they got some grain and they rubbed it in their hands and they ate the grain. They violated the Sabbath And this Jesus, he is supposed to be a teacher, but what did he do? Well, there was a lame a man with a withered hand on the Sabbath day, and the Pharisees and the chief priests, they all watched to see what he would do. And what did Jesus do? He healed the lame man on the Sabbath. And there was another man that was lying beside the pool of Saloon. He had been lying there forever. There was no one to help him into the pool. He was helpless, and Jesus healed him, and then Jesus said, take up your bed and walk. And it was the Sabbath And this man took up his bed and put it on his shoulder and he walked on the Sabbath. And Jesus told him to do it. This one, he's a violator of the Sabbath. But when it's convenient, we'll violate it too. When we get ourselves in trouble, let's march off to see this Gentile secular ruler. Because we remember what that deceiver said. We remember his words. The Sabbath isn't quite as important when we're the ones on the hook. And so our passage this morning begins with these righteous Pharisees and righteous chief priests violating their own Sabbath to go see a Gentile ruler. And what is it they say to him in verse sixty three? Sir Oh, you high exalted one. Sir Pilate, we come before you very humbly with a serious matter. Sir, we remember what that deceiver said You see, they're interested in begging of man when they should have been begging of God. They have just slain the Son of God, the one that they mocked The one that they said, let's see if Elias will come down and get him off the cross. You said you were the Son of God. Come down and we'll believe you. They showed no respect at all for the king of heaven. But old Pilate, sir, Sir, we remember what the deceiver said While he was yet alive, he said in three days he would rise again. Now, isn't that interesting? They knew that he said he'd rise again. We remember. We recall what he said. But only A few hours before there was a trial. And at that trial, which takes place in chapter 27, the verses we didn't read, at that trial, they tried to get witnesses to come against Christ, but they had to have two. And they couldn't agree. They couldn't find two that would agree. And so what are we going to do? We can't accuse him without two agreeing. And they get lying, people to tell them, finally they found two that agreed on. And you know what the two agreed on? The two witnesses that they use of the mock trial that agreed against Christ said, he said he would destroy the temple in three days and build it again. He said he was going to tear down the rocks of our temple and destroy it. They knew he wasn't talking about the temple. They knew he was talking about his body. They just admitted it. They just admitted to Pilate that what they said in the trial was a lie because they tried to make it look like he was talking about the rocks of the temple, they knew all along he was talking about his body You see the hypocrisy here? They're violating the Sabbath. They just lied in the trial, but now when it's to their advantage, they switch it all around. Well he was really talking about his body. And pilot, you're involved in this too. Pilot, you see If he does rise from the dead, what's that mean about you? You gave him to us. You followed out what we said. You turned him over to the Romans to be crucified. Pilate, you're involved in this too. You better take out take care. We remember what he said. We remember that he said he would rise again. The chief priest remembered. Do you remember the words of John in John 12 when John is talking about the triumphal entry and how that they had cut down the branches and they'd placed him on the donkey? John said, after he was risen from the dead, we remembered that we had done these things to him. Today we remember. We remember the resurrection of Jesus Christ. On Friday, we remembered his death for our sins. You know what? These same scribes And Pharisees that crucified Christ, they remember today. They remember in hell. You see, we saw a few weeks ago the story of the rich man in Lazarus and in hell. He lifted up his eyes in torment, and he sees Father Abraham afar off in Abraham's bosom, and he remembers his brothers. He knew all about the things they had done There's no one in hell saying it wasn't fair. The man in hell remembers every sin he committed. But there's remembrance in heaven as well. But what do I read about heaven? The Lord shall wipe away every tear. The memories there are good memories. The memories in heaven are the remembrance of the glorious grace of Jesus Christ, whereby we're And those in heaven engage themselves eternally in the praise of the crucified one. They surround the throne. My friend, what will you remember when you're dead? What will your your remembrance Remembrance B These scribes and Pharisees remembered what they had done. And so in verse 64 Command, therefore, that the sepulchre may be made sure unto the third day, because if he does rise again, Pilate, you're on the hook with us. Your fingers in the pot, too. Command, therefore, that it be made short of the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead, and the last error be worse than the first You know what? We've got a stone rolling downhill here, Pilate. It's rolling and we're we've got to try to stop it because if we don't stop it, it's gonna roll right over us and crush us. You're in the mix here too. We can't make the last error greater than the first. That word deceiver there basically means one who's delusional. is is the essence of the word. And they're saying there's two delusions. The first delusion he said he was the Son of God. The second delusion he says he's going to rise from the dead. And if the disciples manage to steal away his body The delusion's gonna look like truth and you're gonna be in trouble, buddy. These chief priests and elders that are calling Jesus delusional have just witnessed an earthquake. The very moment that Jesus died. Prior to the earthquake, the sun didn't shine for three hours. They were in darkness like everybody else. Who do you think the first people were that knew the veil of the temple was torn from top to bottom? The chief priests, it was their house. It was their domain. And think about this. They're trying to secure a tomb. What was the most secure place in all of Jerusalem? The Holy of Holies in the temple. There was no place in Jerusalem more secure than that room. Tim was talking in Sunday school a few weeks ago about all the different layers of the temple and the court of the Gentiles, the court of the Jews, and you had to go through all these different layers of security to get anywhere, and no one got into the Holy of Holies But it's standing wide open because the veil is rent from the top to the bottom. And these priests, instead of saying, We have got to protect the ark, We've got to protect the Holy of Holies. They should have been there standing guard. Instead, they're concerned about a tomb. His disciples might come and steal them away. Where are the disciples? They're in hiding. All forsook him. John followed afar off. Peter denied him. They're in hiding. They're not out trying to open up tombs. They're not grave robbers. They're running for their lives. His disciples are gone. But we can't allow the second error to be greater than the first. And so They're calling Jesus delusional. It was really delusional, folks. It's the chief priests and elders that are deluded. They're blinded. And so in verse sixty-five, Pilate said unto them, Ye have your watch. Go your way. Make it as sure as you can. And I just love that phrase. What a mockery of their own own selves. Make it as sure as you can. As sure as humanly possible. Remember what Peter said in his preaching on the Day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, for it was not possible. That he should be holding of it, talking about death. It was not possible. Make it as sure as it possibly can. You have your watch. Vainly they watched his bed. Jesus, my Savior. Vainly they sealed the dead. Jesus, my Lord. Death cannot keep its prey. Jesus, my Savior, he tore the bars away. Jesus, my Lord, up from the grave he arose. with a mighty triumph for his foes. He arose a victor from the dark death Star Main. And he lives forever with the saints to raise. Make it as sure as you can. So verse sixty six, so they went and made the sepulchre sure. Sealing the stone and setting a watch. And there's three elements here that they have. First of all, they made it sure. That is, they rolled the stone in place. They placed the heavy stone. Remember when the ladies were coming, they were concerned how we were going to move the stone. And there's a tomb in Jerusalem that is said to be the tomb of Christ. We don't know for sure, but it may be. But a very large, heavy stone would take quite a few very strong men to move it. And also these stones were typically placed Beside the door, ready to be rolled to the door, but the ideal wasn't to make it openable again. In other words, the stone would roll downhill to where it would finally rest. So, whereas five men might get it rolling and get it to roll into place, it would take many times that to move it the opposite direction. It was not meant to be moved again. And so they made the sepulchre sure, and they sealed it. They put Pilate's seal. On the stone. Police tape. Do not cross. We've all seen pictures of the yellow police tape. Yeah, do not cross. And you may have seen a picture somewhere of a door, and they've got a big X across the door. Nobody, keep out! Don't go in here. Pilate's seal. We read of Daniel when Daniel was putting the lions den that they put the king's Seal they put the stone on the mouth of the lion's den, and they put the king's seal on it, that the purpose of the king could not be changed And I read in the story of of Esther, where the seal of Arta Xerxes was was put on the documents that the king's word, when the king King's feel went on to a document. It could not be changed. It could not be altered. That was it. It was the last word. The Supreme Court has spoken. No more What does Pilate's seal mean to the Almighty God? Seal away. Have at it, boys. Make it as sure as you can. And so we've got a stone. We've got a seal. And then they set the watch. And we don't know exactly how many soldiers it was. There's speculation. Four quatrons, or how you pronounce the word, is what we usually think of, because that's what we find when Peter was in prison. That it would be four groups of four soldiers who would be on four hour watches, so a total of sixteen soldiers We can assume that we know it was more than one because it says the watchers did shake, and so it's a multitude, but most likely 16 soldiers. And what was the purpose of all these things? Because we don't want the disciples to come and steal the body away. Isn't it amazing how man's attempts to disprove the truth of God end up proving the truth of God? You see, twelve disciples, but there's not twelve. Judas is hanging himself. If you could get the eleven together, could they roll away that stone? Probably not. Probably not. But you're going to have trouble getting the 11 together because they're scattered. They're running. The king's seal. To break the king's seal was death. And then you have 16 soldiers. If you've got 11 fishermen, they're already outnumbered by 16 armed men, 16 soldiers. You see the three elements that they use here to prove that it wasn't the disciples Or prove that it that it was the disciples. Prove that it wasn't the disciples. There's no way the disciples were going to do these three things so the disciples can't come in. And those three things stand as a testimony that the disciples couldn't have done it. It's got to be God the Father. It's got to be risen from the dead. Because you made it as sure as you could, and it wasn't enough. And I would tell you that I think that a a whole century, a whole hundred soldiers storming sixteen soldiers who are guarding a tomb would have had a hard time getting that body out in one night. Much less, if you're doing it as a theft, to do it quickly. So no one will come. Because here here's the women, they're coming along to see the sepulchre. Okay, there's people in this place. You've got to do it quick. You see, there are very attempts to prove that it was that it he couldn't rise from the dead now stand to prove that yes indeed Jesus Christ did rise from the dead. Verse one of chapter twenty-eight At the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. Mary Magdalene was the one out of whom Christ had cast seven devils Ah, how she loved him. The other Mary is not Mary the mother of Christ, but Mary the mother of James the Less These women are coming, and their purpose is coming to worship. You have soldiers trying to keep him in, and these devout ladies coming to worship, coming to anoint the body. And behold, there was a great earthquake. And the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. And oh, we could we could spin the whole message on this one verse because there's so much here. There's an earthquake. It's been happening the last couple of days, haven't they? This isn't the first one we've seen in recent days. The the geologists say it was probably an aftershock from a another earthquake, but it was an earthquake. And there's this angel. And he doesn't come up, he descends. That's beautiful. He descends from heaven. And you know what? The earthquake didn't move the stone. This was not a force of nature. How man tries to take the miracles of God and just Dumb them down. The unbelievers will say that the children of Israel they crossed the Red Sea that God sent a big wind and it blew and the the water kind of went back with the wind. Nonsense God parted the water and the people walked through on dry ground. The earthquake didn't move this stone. The angel did. The angel rolled back the stone and and sat out on it. He rolled back the stone and sat upon it. Scripture doesn't tell us who this angel was. This was not Christ, because Christ appears later, and we know it is Christ when he does appear because they hold him by the feet and worship him. This angel does not receive any worship. This angel is a messenger of Jehovah. Some believe that it may have been Gabriel. Because it was Gabriel that announced the birth of Christ and then announcing the resurrection. But Scripture does not tell us. And you know what? If we were supposed to know the exact identity, Scripture would tell us God has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. But this this particular angel we don't find that he's worshiped, but he is a messenger of Jehovah. And his countenance, verse 3, was like lightning and his raiment as white as snow. It's a sign of purity. We read in Psalm 104 that God makes his angels ministering spirits. And ministers of a flaming fire. And in verse 4, for fear of him the keepers did shake. And that's another line I just love. We've all seen young, healthy Marines, Delta Force soldiers, special forces. Big, bulky, eighteen, nineteen, twenty years old, prime of life. Nothing scares them Nothing scares them. The pride of our nation, they give you great, great confidence. in our armed forces when you see those guys. I can guarantee you that these sixteen soldiers or however many they were were the best they had. They didn't they didn't get the dregs for this. They didn't get the the uh F fours. These were the best they had. It takes a lot to make these guys shake. Takes a lot to get to these guys. They've seen blood before. These strong young Roman soldiers were bold, but no more. Now the soldiers were fainted away like dead men. They had made the tomb as secure as they could, but they could not make it secure enough to fight against an angel. They could not stand before the power of God. In Daniel ten, Daniel describes when he saw an angel, and his his expression there was, and when he saw the angel his comeliness overcame him, and he had no more strength. Than him. These bold soldiers are faint of the way. But look at the contrast here. Look at verse number 25. And the angel answered and said unto the women, I love women. My mother was a woman. I married a woman. But women tend to be more fearful than men and don't Say I'm misogynistic for having said that. It's just it's reality. We know that. Things tend to frighten a woman more quickly than they frighten a man. The angel says these women, first of all, they're standing up, second, they're not fainted. And the angel says to him, Fear not. See a beautiful contrast there? These soldiers had plenty of reason to fear. The power of God had just come over them. The fear of God has come into them. But these women who are coming to worship fear not. You have no reason to be afraid. They do, but not you Are you not afraid? And why are they not to fear? And the angel answered and said to them, Fear not, for I know why you're here. Why are the soldiers here? To try to thwart the plan of God. Why are the women here? Huh, don't be afraid. I know we're here. He's not here, he's risen, but come see the proof. Come see the place where he live. There's no judgment in the words of the angel. There's no condemnation. There is no lightning shooting out of his eyes as we read the flaming countenance that the soldiers saw But rather a gentle invitation. I know what you're doing. I know who you are. I know why you're here. Come. Come and see. Come see the place where the Lord lay. You don't need to be afraid. He is not here, verse 26. For he is risen, as he said. Come see the place where he lay. Come see the grave that is a grave no longer. He was here, but he's not here anymore. And then in verse 7, and go quickly. And tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead. And behold, he goeth before you into Galilee. There shall you see him. Lo, I have told you, I have delivered my message. I have accomplished that which I was sent to do. I'm a messenger of the Lord. I'm an angel of the Lord. And I've told you. I've told you what I should tell you. And they departed quickly. They obeyed from the sepulchre, verse 8, with fear and with joy. And did run to bring his disciples word. And as they went to his disciples, behold, Jesus met him, met them, saying, Oh hail! And they came and held him by his feet and worshipped him. That word all hail is a word that means rejoice. It's it's uh the primary interpretation translation of the word in our King James is rebo rejoice forty forty-two times it is rejoice It's also the word Godspeed twice. In um uh is it Second John, yeah, second John one. Where it talks about bidding someone Godspeed. It's the same word as all hail here. I like uh we say goodbye, and our term goodbye means God bless you. I prefer to say Godspeed when I depart from a believer. It means rejoice in the Lord. It means God's blessings go with you. God speeds you. God carry you on your way. Again, you've got soldiers that are fainted in fear, but here Jesus meets these women and oh hail, rejoice! Blessings on you! You're seeking me. And they take him by the feet. They don't take him by the hand. We often see pictures of Jesus with his hand out, and of course he did reach out his hand to Peter. But here they take him by his feet. Ah, remember when Mary. He brought the alabaster box and broke it and anointed his feet. It's a sign of humble worship. They take him by his feet and they worship him. Be not afraid. Verse ten. Be not afraid. Go tell my brethren that I go that before them into Galilee. There you shall see me. Now, verse 11, as they were going, behold, some of the watch, doesn't say all of them, does it? Some of the watch, some of them may still be laying out there by the tomb. And probably some of them have headed for the hills. You wouldn't believe what we just saw. Run faster than they've ever run before. And the ones that aren't running for fear of the angels are probably running for fear of the Romans. We've done it now. The tomb's open. The seal's broken. Run! Run! Run! But some of the watch. Verse 11. Some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priests the things that were done. These chief priests have seen darkness, they've seen an earthquake. They've seen the veil of the temple rent. Now these soldiers that they hired are telling them he's risen. It wasn't the disciples. Surely now they'll believe. Surely with that much proof, with that much evidence. Certainly now they're going to believe. They're going to go back to the Jews and say, we were wrong. We messed up. That was our Messiah. But instead, they've got to come up with another lie. They've got to hide it somehow. The truth can't get out, folks. Lies breed lies. And now we're going to tell a whopper. Here comes the big one. Because each lie has to be a little bit bigger than the last to make it stick. And so these soldiers tell the chief priests and elders what has happened. They tell the truth. Again, remember the words of the rich man in hell. Send Lazarus back to my brothers to warn them lest they come also to this place of torment. And Abraham says, they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And the rich man says, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went back from the dead, they would believe. No. If they won't believe Moses and the prophets, they will not believe though one go back from the dead. Chief priests and elders. Here's the evidence. Here's the proof. He's come back from the dead. And they still do not believe And so a big council was held there in verse 12. And when they had assembled the elders and had taken counsel, they got together to formulate a new plot. These same elders were the ones who stirred up the people to ask for Barabbas instead of Christ. These same elders were the ones who led the chant. Crucify him, crucify him, crucify him, away with him. We have no king but Caesar. His blood be on us and our children. What What judgment must be upon these men. I emphasized earlier that they remembered, ah, they remember today. It's all like it was yesterday. It's fresh in their minds. And so Looking again in verse twelve, and they assembled the elders and had taken counsel. They gave large money unto the soldiers, saying Say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. And if this come into the governor's ears, we will persuade him to secure you. You see, we've we've got the dirt on Pilate now. We can talk Pilate into whatever we need to talk him into now, because we've got him. You see, he agreed with all this. He sent you guys and now is risen. Pilate's not going to want this dirt on him either. We'll take care of Pilate Don't you worry about that Roman death sentence for breaking his seal. Don't you worry about forsaking your post, being awah. uh we'll we'll take care of it if it comes into the governor's ears. We've called him sir enough that we we got this covered, fellas. Don't worry about it. will take care of you. That word contend, I'm sorry, that word large money, the word large there is the word I want to focus on. If you look at verse 12 It says, and when they had assembled the elders and had taken counsel to go, they gave large money. That one word large is an interesting word, because in Mark chapter 15, verse 15, let me read this verse to you. And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbdus. In Mark chapter 15, verse 15, the word content, when Pilate tried to content the people, is the same word as large in I know that doesn't seem like how those two go together, but you think about it. They gave the money to the soldiers to pacify them. And Pilate gave Barabbas to the people to pacify him. That's the connection from the original word. And so, Pilate, you're involved. You pacified the people by giving them a setting a criminal free and crucifying Christ. So we'll pacify these soldiers by giving them a lot of money to go lie. What do you think the soldiers did with the money? Do you ever think about that? What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And lose his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? What's your soul worth, folks? How much of this world does it take to buy you off? How much of this world does it take for you to deny the Savior? How much money, how large does it take to content you? These soldiers got enough money. And they saw the angel, folks. They faded and shook in their boots. Or their sandals, or they wore. They became as dead men for fear, and still they took money and lied about it, and they remember too. In hell He lifted up his eyes, being in torment. They remember that money. And they remember how short it lasted. Because money doesn't last long. How long did it take them to spend their large money? What bit of malt and rust did they buy with it? And it was gone. But they remember for all eternity in hell What a contrast there is here between these soldiers and the one we find in chapter 27, the earlier part that we didn't read in verse 54. who when he saw the darkness and saw the earthquake and saw Christ give up the ghosts, he said, truly, this was the Son of God. I believe that Centurion was saved. You see the contrast here? Do you want Jesus or do you want Barabbas? Oh give us Barabbas. Do you want the truth or a lot of money? Oh give us a lot of money. Two thieves on the cross. One curses, one believes. There's a line drawn through the Word of God. It's between the children of God and the children of Satan. There's a line drawn across all eternity. That line divides the children of God and the children of Satan. The rich man in Lazarus, there's a great gulf fix. They which would come to us cannot, and they that would pass to you cannot. Which side of the line are you on? Evidence isn't going to do it. The chief priests and scribes had all the evidence in the world. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And so they gave them large money, saying unto him, Say ye, his disciples came by night and stole them away while we slept. And if this come into the governor's ears, we will secure you, we will take care of you. So they took the money and ran, as we say. So they took the money and did as they were taught. And the saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. The saying is still commonly reported, commonly reported. We had Easter bunnies and egg hunts and all these things around us. I saw on the news and I know our time's getting late, I'll close up, but I saw on the news that in California they had to pass some new regulation because after Easter they were flooded flooding all the animal shelters with abandoned bunnies. Because so many people were buying bunnies for Easter and then getting tired of them a week later and uh they were being let loose and becoming a nuisance in gardens and pharaohs, so they made this new regulation. You can't sell bunnies, no more bunnies. The saying is commonly reported among the Jews that the disciples stole away the body. What do you believe happened What do you believe? I stand for prayer Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you that your Spirit has taught our hearts the truth. We thank you that we come not in fear. We do not tremble and shake away as the soldiers, but rather we hear the gentle voice of our Savior saying, Come see the place. I'm not here, I'm risen. And by faith we believe. Bless us, your people. Lord, use us for your glory. Make us a testimony to the resurrection of Jesus Christ We pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.