Open your Bibles with me this morning again to the 80th Psalm when I began working in this psalm I guess specifically about three weeks ago, I basically had intended to look at verses 3, 7, and 19. Where we find that refrain, turn us again, O God, call us thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O God of hosts, call us thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O Lord, God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. From there, we've kind of gotten into a mini-series through this passage, and we expanded into a second message this week. week and I believe quite possibly we may even expand into a third message from this same psalm in the week following. And if we do have three messages from Psalm 80, will be a couple hundred Psalm messages from exhausting what is found in these 19 Blessed verses. I'm going to read all 19 verses aloud. You follow closely along silently as we consider God's Word. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. Thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up thy strength and come and save us. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Thou feedest them with bread of tears, and givest them tears to drink in great measure. Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves Turn us again, O God of hosts, cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Thou broughtest a vine out of Egypt. Thou cast out the heathen and planted it. Thou preparest room before it and didst make it to deep take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like goodly cedars. She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river. Why hast thou broken down her head? So that they which pass by the way do pluck her. The boar out of the wood doth waste it and the wild beasts of the field that devour it, return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts, look down from heaven and behold and visit this vine. And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madeest strong for thyself, it is burned with fire. It is cut down. They perish at the rebuke of his countenance. Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the Son of Man whom thou madeest strong for thyself, so will we not go back from thee. Quicken us And we will call upon thy name. Turn us again. O Lord, God of hosts, cause thy face to shine Shine, and we shall be saved. And then stop prayer. Oh God, this morning we plead that you by your Holy Spirit Who is the comforter, who is the teacher and guide, who is the revealer of Christ, may you through your word speak to our hearts today. Convict Us, O Lord. Turn us, O Lord. Purify us, O Lord. Edify us, O Lord, we pray this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Just to review very, very briefly as we approach this psalm again, we considered last w week that the title of this song says that it is the to the chief musician upon Shoshannon Eduth. And that word Shoshanneth mean Shoshannon means the lilies and eduth is a temple. Testimony. It is a testimony among the lilies. And this psalm has been referred to as some by some commentaries as a testimony of the church, the lily of Christ. which Christ himself is the lily of the valley, and the lily is among the church, but a testimony of the church among thorns or among lilies. It's a psalm of Asaph, one of 12 Psalms of Asaph. Asaph was the father of the Aesaphites, who were the musicians of the temple in Jira. This is a psalm that is a prayer. Give ear. Hear us, O God. It is a prayer for revival. Turn us again. O Lord, God of hosts, O Jehovah. Jehovah of hosts. Turn us again, Jehovah, God of the armies. It is a prayer which bemoans the sad condition of God's people While rejoicing in that which God has done before. Lord, you brought your people out, you drove out the heathen, you prepared a place for your people. You planted us, we grew, we spread out our wings, our bowels to the river and to the sea But then notice who the psalm attributes to the breaking down of the hedge. Why have you broken down our hedge? Why do we find ourselves in such sad state today? This is an amazing psalm. It's a psalm that speaks of the spiritual poverty of Israel in their rebellion, and yet it speaks to the spiritual poverty of the church today as well. And I mentioned last week in our introduction that this is not a psalm about the United States of America. But is a psalm about Psalm about the people of God. The people of God that need to turn again. It's a psalm of gentle pleading: give ear, O shepherd of Israel. Now that he is Joseph of the flock. It's a pleading psalm. And God has promised that He always hears our prayers, and yet we're going to see in this psalm How long will you be angry with the prayer of your people? And the concept of God being angry with our prayer is so foreign to the common Talk of prayer that we have today. And yet it's very true that there are times when God is even angry with the prayer of his own people They find that God is angry with the wicked, and God will not hear the wicked, and yet why would God be angry with the prayers of his own people? Give ear. Oh Shepherd. Oh Shepherd, we're fearful. Oh Shepherd, our hedge is broken down. Oh Shepard, our enemies laugh at us. They scorn at us. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. And this psalm reminds me of the prayer of Daniel And I've mentioned to you before that I've found in preaching over the years that about four to five pages of notes is about a sermon length, and you've heard me say before that sometimes I come with a lot of paper Well, I've got 11 pages this morning. We're not going to go through all of them. So, but I do want to take us to Daniel and then to Isaiah. because of the comparison of Scripture and I can read from many commentators what they say about the passage. But what does the inspired word of God say about the inspired word of God? That's where education is. So turn over with me to Daniel chapter 9. Because this cry, Give Ear, O Shepherd of Israel, reminds me of Daniel calling out to God And Daniel was not in his homeland. Daniel was living in a time when the hedges were broken down. He was living in a time when the people of God were mocked and And we're in much of the situation that is described here in the eightieth Psalm. Daniel chapter nine and Daniel's prayer in verses eighteen and nineteen O God, or O my God, incline thine ear. You see the similarity there? Give ear, O shepherd. Incline thine ear and hear. Open thine eyes and behold our desolation. And the city which is called by thy name, for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine and we should be saved. Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine and we shall be saved. Turn us again, O Jehovah, God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And we shall be saved. Lord, we don't pray these things because of our righteousness. Oh God, we make this threefold prayer in Psalm 80. Not because of our righteousness, we pray this prayer because we're unrighteous. We pray this prayer because we need to be turned. We need to be corrected by the Spirit of God Just as when we're driving and we make a wrong turn and we have to take a U-turn and go back to where we were supposed to be in the first place Not because of our righteousness, but oh God, because of your mercies. We pray this prayer. Because we have a God who will turn us, cause thy face to shine, and we shall Isn't that a glorious definitive statement? If God turns us, we shall be saved. And so continuing there in Daniel 9 and verse 18, beginning up in the middle of the verse, for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness But for thy great mercies, O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, hearken and do not defer. For thine own sake. Not for our sake. But Daniel says, for thine own sake. Oh my God. For thy city. And thy people are called by thy name. What was it the psalmist said? This is your people that you brought up, that you drove out the heathen, that you prepared a place for that you planted the vine, that you caused it to take deep root, that you caused his bowels to spread out to the sea and to the river. Why is it that we can cry, give ear, O Shepherd? It's because he's our shepherd. Oh Lord God of hosts, turn us! It's not a cry to turn the heathen. It's not a cry to turn the wicked. It's not, look at those wicked people, Lord, turtle. It's no. Oh God, turn me. Oh God of host, turn me. Oh Jehovah, Lord God of host, turn me And I shall be saved. And such a glorious song. And we spent most of our time last week considering that it is Joseph that is spoken of here. But as Joseph listen mentioned thou that leadest Joseph as opposed to thou that leadest Jacob or thou that leadest Abraham or the other patriarchs, but Joseph is mentioned here because Joseph was the picture of God's people, God's chosen, God's elect that were led up out of Israel out of Egypt. Into the wilderness and to the promised land. And so God's chosen are spoken of here. Well, let us get deeper into the Psalm now. And let us consider, first of all, that verse 3, which is the first time we find this threefold refrain. refrain mentioned. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Let's begin with that word saved first. What does it mean to be saved? Well that word saved means to save, isn't it? Isn't that profound? Haven't I just given you a piece of truth that you'd never heard before? It means to be saved. And we shall be saved. To be saved means to deliver. It means to preserve. It means to liberate. It means to deliver from moral troubles. It means to give victory. Look unto me, all ye ends of the earth, and ye shall be saved. And yet, when we come to this passage, it's not saying, turn us again, and we will have redemption from sin. The saved here is not the passing from death to life that we speak of when we're referring to a Unbeliever in Christ who is arrested on the road to Damascus and now he is a believer. He is no longer a Saul, but he is transformed and made a pall, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. That is the common New Testament thinking we have of the state, and it is correct, it is right, and yet that's not what the psalmist is saying here in Psalm 80. Because here it is God's people who are already saved in that redemption. Since, and you'll notice it's talking about those that were redeemed from Egypt, but rather the saved here is referring to a deliverance And the context here is why are the hedges broken down? How long are you going to be angry with our prayers? Lord, we are not what we once were. We backslid There was a time when we were walking in close and godly fellowship with Jehovah, Lord God of hosts. And Lord, today that fellowship's broken. Today that fellowship is no longer there. Today, Lord, I am not what I should be, and I am not what I once was. Turn me again. Oh God. Cause thy face to shine, and I shall be safe. I shall be delivered. I shall be delivered from the moral pit into which I've fallen. I shall be liberated from the chains of sin I shall be saved. In Habakkuk chapter 3 and verse 2, Habakkuk prays, O Lord. I had heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. In the midst of years, make known in wrath. Remember mercy. Let's have a cup. Chapter 3, verse 2, for those of you who are taking notes. And it's also Habakkuk, chapter three verse two for those of you who are taking notes. I say habak and some people say habak. But it's for both of you. What a glorious truth. Oh Lord, I've heard your speech and I was afraid. Revive thy work in the midst of years in wrath. Remember mercy. And so It's a plea that God will turn us again, that we might be saved, that we might be delivered from this present evil world. That we might live in purity and in righteousness with God because we're backsliding. But then we need to pause on that word turn as well. And interestingly, the word turn, turn us again Oh God, cause thy face to shine is the exact same word, it's the same Hebrew word that David used in Psalm 51 in verse 12, and yet in Psalm 51, 12, it's translated restore. The word turn in Psalm 80 is the word restore in Psalm 51. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. And uphold me with thy free spirit. And so when here we cry for God to turn us again, it's a cry for restoration. And that's why I say that this is not the salvation of the The end of the verse is not speaking of passing from death to life salvation, as Saul to Paul on the road to Damascus, but rather it is a deliverance from the sin that we've fallen into. It's a deliverance from our backslide. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. It's also used of the Messiah in Psalm 69 and verse 4. One of those glorious verses of Psalms that you've heard me say before, this is one of my favorite verses, and I've got a lot of favorite verses. How many verses are in the Bible, and that's about how many favorite verses we can have. But Psalm 69 verse 4 The Messiah here is speaking, he says, They that hate me without calls are more than the hairs of my head. They that would destroy me, being my enemies, wrongful or mighty Then I restored that which I took not away. It's the same word that's used here in Psalm 80. Turns again. Lord, restore me again Oh God, restore me back to that place of fellowship with thee which I once knew because I know that today I am not walking with you in righteousness And that brings us to another matter that we need to touch on briefly Notice it is a turning or a returning. The word revival Is one of the most misused words within the church today. You will see signs in front of a church, and it says, revival! And you may see a notice in the newspaper that such and such a church is having a revival. Well, I hope they do. You know? But I'm amazed that they can announce it. Because revival is not a predictable thing. Revival is not something that you put into the church's schedule. Because it's not something that you can just decide, okay, third week of January, we're gonna have a revival. Rather, revival is the true work of God when God graciously reaches into His people and restores them. And that brings up another point about revival. The modern concept of revival today, rather than truly being what revival is, is evangelism. Most churches, when they say we're going to have a revival, rather to be more correct, they should say we're going to have evangelistic services. Because revival requires there being life in the first place. You cannot revive a rock. Give it CPR. Push on it. Put your mouth on there and blow. It will never come to life because it's never had life before. Only God can bring the dead to life. And so when we talk about revival, that is a coming to life again. And so revival is not that which happens among the unbelievers, but rather true revival is that which happens among the believers themselves. When the believers are restored to life. Now, I don't mean to be overly critical because When the believers are truly restored to life, when true revival takes place in a congregation In an assembly of believers, there will be evangelism, and the lost will be brought in, and they will be saved. My father used to say, get on fire for God and the world will come watch you burn. And when God said people are truly revived by the Spirit of God, the light will shine out and the evangelistic aspect will come in. But true revival happens within the people of God. Turn to us again. O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. shine and we shall be saved and so before there can be a returning we must be his people to begin with And so it is in the context of the of the chapter where uh it is a reference to the children of Israel which were brought up out of Egypt Following Joseph, the shepherd who was led by the chief shepherd, and God prepared a place for us. And so these three refrains turn us again a reference to God's own elect, who through their own neglect. Need to be turned again. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine. And here I want to take another sidetrack, if you desire to call it such, another direction briefly, and turn us over to Isaiah 67. Because again, Isaiah 63 is another passage which is the best commentary we can read on Psalm 80. comparing scripture with scripture. Isaiah sixty three. It's that glorious passage which begins with with Those words, Who is this that cometh from Edom with dyed garments of Bozrah? This that is glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength. And the first six verses of this psalm speak of the triumph of Christ, who has tread the wine press, and his garments are speckled with the blood of his enemies. It's a verse, a passage of judgment. But I'd like to pick up at verse 7 and then compare those with this 80th. Isaiah 63, and we'll pick up in verse 7 and dissect the passage a little bit. I will make mention of the loving kindness of the Lord and the praises of the Lord according as he hath bestowed on us. And the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them, according to his mercies according to the multitude of his loving kindness. Now the context of Psalm 80 is that of Israel being led out of Egypt like a flock Just as we, the church today, are led out of the world by our shepherd, we are the chosen, we are those who are within us Joseph, God's own people. God has driven out the heathen before his people. God has prepared a place for his church today. We are those people. And so I'll make mention of his loving kindness and the multitude of his mercies. And then verse 63: For he said, Surely they are my people. Now keep in mind that we've already established that Psalm 80 is not talking about the unbelievers But it's talking about revival within the believers. They are my people. Contrast that with depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. Lord, Lord, didn't we have a revival in our church? And I marched down the aisle and I said the prayer and signed the card Now, these are my people, surely. Children that will not lie. So he was their Savior. Verse 9. In all their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel was present, by the angel was present, and and the angel of his presence saved them In his love and in his pity, he redeemed them, and he bare them, and he carried them all the days of old. But, verse 10, they rebelled. Why? Why do we need to be turned again Why have we rebelled? Why have we strayed? Why is this atheist so necessary? You see there in verses 7, 8, and 9 of Isaiah 63 all the blessings that God has given to his people, but they repelled. We see in Psalm 80 all the blessings that God gave to his people, but three times they had to cry out, turn it together, old post. Cause thy face to shine Because we have trade. And last week Brother Tim shared with us part of the testimony of Robert Robertson Who wrote those words, prone to wander, Lord I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Here was a godly man, an earnest man who was a Calvinistic Methodist and then a Baptist and then was drifting towards Unitarianism And he was on trial in his own church because he was drifting towards Unitarianism to be removed from his pulpit, and he suddenly died. What a marvelous testimony that is to us! And a warning! Brethren, I would say to you that the fact that he suddenly died was was an indication that he was indeed God's child. Because whom he loveth, he chasteneth. And skirgeth every son. He receiveth And so that brings into sharper focus these three cries in Psalm 80 Because if you are a child of God, you'll cry these things early. If you are a child of God God, this threefold cry will be early on your lips. Oh God, forgive me, I've sinned. Oh God, I am strayed from your way. Oh Lord, I need to be turned. And Lord, if you do not turn me, I will not be saved. There is no deliverance in my own attempts to be good. Or to turn over a new leaf. Or to correct my ways, Lord, it must be you that turns me. Notice it doesn't say, oh Lord, calls us to turn. Oh Lord help me to turn. Lord help me to do better. Oh no, God, turn me. Turn me again. And so Robert Robertson, who wrote those words which have been such a blessing to us, he suddenly died. And the unrepentant church man who doesn't suddenly die, but goes on in his iniquity There is reason to question whether he was ever God's child at all. Lord, Lord, have not I done many wonderful works. But Christ And so in all these blessings we find here in Psalm 80, and in all these blessings we find here in Isaiah 63, we come to verse 10 of Isaiah 63, and it begins with the word but. An exception. But they rebelled and vexed his Holy Spirit. Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed into the day of reason. Redemption. Ah, they vexed his spirit. Therefore he was turned to be their enemy and fought against them. How long, O Lord, will you be angry Against the prayers of your people. Oh Lord, you feed us with bread of tears. Oh Lord! You cause our enemies to laugh at us. Verse 12. Lord, why have you broken down our heads? Verse 12 of 80, not of Isaiah 63. Lord, why have you brought Why have you broken down our hedge? Therefore he turned to be their enemy and fought against them. Verse 11 of Isaiah 63 Then he, the he in verse 11 of 63, is Israel. It's not God there in the first he in the verse. But then he remembered the days of old. In other words, when God was angry with Israel, and when God rebuked his people, then he, his people Israel, remembered the days of old. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. In other words, Lord, take us back to that place we remember. That place where we once were, that first love, that first fervent fellowship. That time when I woke up in the morning and I couldn't wait to pray. That time when your word was precious And it was not a drudgery. That time when I didn't have to find time to read the Word of God, I couldn't wait for the time. To read the word of God. At a time when temptation did not have the sway on me that it has today, because I was walking in the light of your word. Word. When I was walking in that sweet fellowship, oh turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. We'll be delivered. from these temptations. We'll be delivered from this failing, stumbling, lukewarm spoon out of your mouth. Christianity. That we have substituted for a true, fervent walk with God. Verse 11 of 65 three of Isaiah, then he remember the as Israel, remember the days of old. Moses and his people saying, Where is he? The second he here is Christ Where is he that brought us up out of idi out of i sorry? Where is he that brought them up out of the sea? With the shepherd of his flock. Where is he? The third he is Jehovah, that put his Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, in him The final hymn is Christ. You see what we have here? We see all three persons of the Godhead in this one verse. The first he in the verse is Israel, who remember the days of old. The second he in the verse is where is he which is It is Christ that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of the flock. The shepherd of the flock there is a small S shepherd. That's Moses. And then where is he that is Jehovah that put his Holy Spirit in him in Christ, or sorry, within him with Christ. That was the delivery. You see the Trinity here, all three persons. And then we go back to the first verse of our psalm, give thee, O Shepherd of Israel, that live But we're not quite done with Isaiah 63, and I do need to move on here quickly. 63 and verse 12, that led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the waters before them to make himself an everlasting name, as Jehovah, that led them through the deep as a horse in the wilderness, that they should not stumble. As a beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit of the Lord caused him to rest. So didst thou lead thy people to make thyself a glorious name. Look down from heaven and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory. Where is the zeal of thy strength? The sounding of thy vows and of thy mercies toward me, their restrain. How long may be angry with our prayers? We see again the confusion. Verse 16, doubtless thou art our Father. Remember, we we've said this return to God's people. And back in verse 8, we saw my people. Doubtless thou art our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledges not, thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer. Thy name is from everlasting. And we can spend the whole message just on this one verse because Israel, national Israel, rejects the church And says we're not of Abraham, and yet we find in the New Testament that we are children of Abraham by faith. And yet, even among the children of Israel themselves there is contention. And Disruption. But we'll we'll leave that for another time. Verse 17, and we'll finish up here in Isaiah 63 and then go back to the Verse 17, O Lord, why hast thou brought them or sorry, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways? That word is made, is the word suffered. How has thou allowed us to err? uh from thy ways, and harden our heart from thy fear. Return for thy servant's sake, the tribes of thine inheritance. The people of thine holiness have possessed it but a little The people of thy holiness have possessed thy holiness it but a little. Our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary. We are thine. Thou hast never bare rule over them. They are not called by thy name. Now forgive me for that was a long sidetrack. But coming back to Psalm 80, we need to recognize that it's talking about God's people. Return us again, O Lord God of hosts. Now I'm just gonna kind of give you a a taste here of where we're going next time we come to see. Psalm eighty. There are four elements here that we find in which God shows His grace in his judgment. Look at verse 4 of Psalm 80. O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry? Against the prayers of your people. God is angry against his prayers of his people, and yet that is a marvelous Mercy. It's a marvelous mercy! What happens to children that every time they ask they get what they want Doesn't matter how much they've backpoped, doesn't matter how much they've sassed, doesn't matter how they squandered the money they were given, doesn't matter if they haven't done their chores, doesn't matter what the kids do, they ask Daddy and he gives it to them. And the children become spoiled brats. Without discipline, without respect, and ultimately without the love of their father. But it is the loving father that says no You will conform. You will behave. You will respect You will obey, and if you do not, there will be consequences. My friends, it is the great mercy of God to cause us to cry out to him, turn it again, O Lord God of hosts. He's angry with our prayers. That's right. That's right. That's a marvelous mercy. That God would be angry. With the prayers of his people. And in a future message, I want to go more into what it means when God is angry with our prayers. But look at verse 5. Thou feedest them with bread of tears and givest them tears. That's the mercy of God, folks. When everything is fine and rosy. Watch out. We don't cry out to God. To the hungry soul, even the honeyc or sorry, to the hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet. I've got it wrong. I can't quote the verse in the moment. But to the hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet. Sometimes God has to feed us with some tears and give us some tears to drink to bring us to Christ. Turn us again. Oh Lord God of hosts, cause thy face to shine and we'll be delivered from the tears, because the tears were a spanking for our own good. What a great mercy! And then verse 6, thou makest them a strife unto us, or makest us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh us to scorn. And how often the Church of God is a strife in a community because of divisions and splits and disobedience. And how often the name of God is reproached because of the behavior. Of those who call themselves Christians. God sometimes has to take his people through the mocking of the community and a reproach before man. Thoughts people say, Turn us again on what God. Cause thy face to shine and we shall be saved. And then The ensuing verses from verse 7 and following talk about God driving out the heathen and the great blessings. And then verse 12, Why hast thou broken down the hedge? Sometimes God has to break down our protections. He has to break down our hedges to make us cry, to turn us again. Cause thy face to shine and we shall be saved. Dear ones, we're going to close there this morning. And if God allows. Next Lord's Day, pick up. And go into those four elements of judgment that God uses to revive his people. Let us stand for prayer today.