Father, we thank you for gathering us together this morning. Lord, we thank you that we have gathered not of our own will or volition. But Father, we have gathered because you have drawn us together. For Lord, indeed, if you had have left us alone, if you had not touched us with thy spirit, We would be out in the world today. There is no limit or exception to the evil of which we are capable and of which we would be engaged If you had not in mercy and grace arrested us on our Damascus road and pointed us to Christ. And so, Lord, we thank you today that we are gathered here. We are gathered for the purpose of the study of thy word, for the purpose of the singing of thy praises, and for the purpose of the exaltation of thy Son. And so, Lord, may those purposes be fulfilled in our midst this day. Lord, free our hearts and minds from all that would distract, drive from our midst the bird of the air that would steal away the seeds of the stone. And may this day we be improved in grace, and may this day, may Jesus Christ be honored and glorified in our midst. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me as I read our call to worship this morning, reading two verses from the 119th Psalm Salvation is far from the wicked, for they seek not thy statutes. Princes have persecuted me without cause. But my heart standeth in all of thy word. Amen. Amen. That's right. Let's Saul sing Like a River Glorious number 587. In our Blue Songbook, 587, Like a River Glorious. Five eighty-seven, where we will sing all three stanzas. My God will perfect peace over all victorious In his bright breeze. Every day perfectly Points are fully blessed, blinding as he promised, perfect peace and press. Yeah, towards great Nada shit, God of the Spain. I saw fully blessed. I need a comment. Perfect peace and bless Every joy or joy all the shallow All for us to do they who trust and holy I did only truth on the All my hearts are fully wet. I may as if he sent. Beautiful, beautiful hymn. Thank you so much. Thank you for that. This time we uh Turn to our confessional reading from the Belgian confession. So Brother Antonio, you would lead us through that. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we look at the third portion, or Article 26C, of the Belgian Confession regarding Christ's intercession. And this uh through the entirety of this article we are considering Christ's role as mediator and intercessor. And here, you might be confused if you don't get a little bit of context before reading, but it mentions the the flawed practice of turning to other saints for our mediation, for our intercession, some other things as well. Christian, in what do you believe? Therefore, it was only through distrust that this practice of dishonoring, instead of honoring the saints, was introduced. Doing that which they never have done nor required, but have, on the contrary, steadfastly rejected, according to their bounded duties, as appears by their writings. Neither must we bleed here our unworthiness, for the meaning is not that we should offer our prayers to God on account of our own unworthiness but only on account of the excellency and wordworthiness of the Lord Jesus Christ, whose righteousness has become ours by faith It has faith. And so the this article, as I said, is referring to Christ's intercession as we read through the entirety of it Or even more specifically, his mediation, that he's the only mediator between God and man. He's the only one that we can turn to. And this uh portion of the article today that we read from focuses on the denying of the need of intercession or mediation through saints. And it looks at the worthiness that we get in order to turn to the Lord. We don't worship the saints Saints is another word for called out ones, the holy ones, the ones that are set apart. Of course, other churches will make uh a big deal about the term saints and they'll uh ignore the fact that all true believers are saints and they'll try to make sainthood something where it only happens after you die and There's some council that comes together and determines, okay, this individual was holy and pious enough, so we'll consider them a saint. And now we'll give them special privileges. And now we'll turn to them and put them up in higher value. But we don't read of that in the scripture. Instead the scriptures speak of the saints being the true believers, the true ones that are called out to serve the Lord. And we don't turn to them, whether they're dead or alive, to be our mediators or intercessors. If we did, we would be downplaying the role of Christ. Now there's no problem in asking a believer to pray for you. That's a good thing. If you're concerned with having multiple people turn to the Lord and prayer for you about a matter, there's no issue with that. But this is much different than thinking that there's no way to get access to God than through turning to some individual that's so holy that they have some special footing with the Lord. that we have this other mediation, this other mediator that we have to go through, other than Christ. That is where it's very wrong. This is dishonoring the saint actually. True saints would be grieved by this. And the heretical teaching of Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches is that You can actually turn through saints, especially those who have died and have been extra holy or pious in some condition. You can turn to them and they can help you. They'll claim that they only venerate saints. They'll use a a fancy word to try to say, well, we don't worship them. We just honor them in this way and they were so holy and so we can turn to them But but this is uh not the way we're supposed to do it. And uh we're never actually supposed to turn to a dead believer and ask them to pray for us. No, they've already gone on. We don't see any communication or need to consult the dead. And there's actually scriptures that forbid that In Deuteronomy eighteen, ten and eleven it says, There shall not be found among you a necromancer. That's somebody who consults the dead. We don't need to be turning to anybody who is dead to think we need to approach them to seek the Lord. And we see even uh that saints, no matter where they are in their duty or service to the Lord, aren't to be worshipped or to to to be sought in order to reach God. And uh I like what the confession uses as a reference in Acts ten verses twenty-five through twenty-six. We read of how Cornelius met Peter. We see that, and as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up, I myself also am a man And that's what we need to understand of any believer. There's still individuals, there's still sinners. The only mediation that we have is through God. The only way we turn to him, to the Lord in prayer, is in Christ's name. As we read in John 16, 23, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. And the last thing I wanted to point out was that uh the the last thing that the uh confession points out in this portion here is that we don't pray uh because of our own worthiness We don't turn to the Lord thinking, well, we're worthy enough. We've achieved something. And you're all familiar with the scripture that says all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. But I also like this passage in Daniel that points this out as well, this concept. Daniel 9. 18 says, For we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousnesses, but for thy great mercies. Yeah, we don't come to the Lord pleading any of our righteousness. So we've achieved something, and so now he owes us. But instead we turn to the Lord through his mercy, which comes only through Christ Jesus And really when you think about turning to the Lord in prayer and coming to God, there's really only one of two doors that you go through The one door is the broad door. Come having any idea that you like. Come thinking that you're righteous enough. Or come through some other saint and pray through them. And what we'll find comes is that judgment of the Lord will come upon you, for you've turned to him in a wrong and a false way. And there's another door. That's the only one that the Lord's given that we can approach God through And that's seeking the Lord through Christ. Seeing him as the only mediator. That's where we obtain the blessing of the Father It's in Christ that we're made the righteousness of God in him and obtained that worthiness to turn to the Lord. And I've always found it odd in public places where uh minister who professes to be Christian is asked to pray, to pray in the midst of of people. And they'll pray and out of a fear of offending others They'll avoid using Christ's name. But it's interesting because that's the only way that they can have access to God is through Christ. So it's an odd thing that they would hold out Christ's name. I'll leave you with this reading from Ephesians that speaks of this access. Ephesians 2, verses 13 and 18, we read, But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. In verse 18 it says, For through him, through Christ, we both, that's Jew and Gentile, have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Thank you. Thank you for that excellent exposition, brother. I assure you that hell is filled this morning with Roman Catholic saints. And uh I'm not sure if they've sainted Mother Teresa yet, but I if you've ever read anything that that wicked woman wrote She was anything but a believer. And yet she is held up as this great godly woman who did not believe in God at all. So I'll I'll leave I'll leave that there. But um aren't you glad that we pray to the one true God Um I have often prayed in prayer prayer. I thank you, Lord, that we don't cry, O Baal, hear us. For those poor prophets of Baal on the mountain cried from morning to noon and cut themselves and there was none that did hear nor regard. But when we pray, the God of heaven hears our prayers. Let us pray right now. Our gracious Father, we thank you that our prayers are not in vain. We thank you, Lord, that you do hear and you do answer every faithful prayer. You may not answer according to our will. And so, Lord, we pray thy will be done. Father, we thank you for this great privilege. We thank you that we do not need some priest on earth to pray on our behalf. We thank you that we do not need some saint so-called to pray on our behalf, but rather there is one that prays to the Father on our behalf, and his name is Jesus Christ. For you find that he ever liveth to make intercession for us. And so we do pray in Jesus' name, because we pray only on the merits of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. We pray through Christ because he in his death rent the veil and opened the way to the mercy seat to the Holy of Holies that we might enter in there. And so the Apostle Paul, under inspiration, instructed us to come boldly to the throne of grace, that we might receive help in time of need. And so, Father, we've come boldly to that throne this morning, for indeed we are in a time of need. Lord, you know the weakness of our flesh. You know the sinfulness of our being. Lord, you know us better than we know ourselves. And so, Father, we pray this morning that you would meet the physical needs of the congregation. Lord, they they are known well to thee. And Lord, we cry out with tears and importunity, Lord, that you would heal your people. Father, we thank you that you know our innermost man. You know the spiritual needs among us. Father, you know our weakness. Lord, as we saw very aptly illustrated to us this morning from the prophets, Lord, the that you have used weak and sinful men, Lord, for your purpose. Men that were sinful in themselves, but rather righteous in thee. And so, Father, we thank you that in spite of our failings, you do not cast us off. And in spite of our failings, you can still use a message from Jonah, even though he had rebelled before he was turned back to thee. And so, Father, we pray that you would meet the spiritual needs of the congregation. Father, we thank you that you do own the cattle on a thousand hills. Lord, you know what things we have need of before we ask. And so, Father, we do pray that you would continue. In your faithfulness to give us this day our daily bread, to provide for us that which is needed. Lord, we thank you for some answers to prayer in that regard. And yet, Father, there is there is more healing needed. And so, Father, may you bless your people with employment. And Lord, especially those that are sole proprietors, those that are business owners in our congregation, Lord, we pray that you provide for them. Lord, we thank you for safety and travels. We've had some that have been on extended journeys and are now returned safely to their homes. That is an answer to prayer. And Lord, there are others that are still engaged in travel. And Father, we pray, Lord, today that you would uh would uh Bring them back to us safely. Bless their families as they visit. Lord, we thank you for the extended congregation. Lord, we thank you for the fellowship we have with many across the country. And Lord, we pray that you would bless them. Lord, it be with them especially, those especially, Father, that have very little in-person Christian fellowship. And Lord, we know that they are they are hungry for that. And Father, we pray that you would meet the needs of their soul. Lord, we pray that you would feed them on the Word of God. And Father, indeed, make them lights and testimonies. Lord, where they are. And Lord, we do thank you for so many. In our small number, that are greatly burdened for the proclamation of the truth, that carry tracts with them, that leave them behind, that speak to people as they encounter them in the marketplace. And so Father, we pray that you have bless that word. Father, we pray for our nation. Lord, if ever there were a nation that was in It is ripe for judgment. Lord, it is our own country. We confess that. It is time for judgment to begin at the house of the Lord. Father, we our faith is weak to see a true revival. But Lord, we know that with thee all things are possible. And so, Father, we pray that you would turn this nation back to thee. Father, we pray for our political leaders, some that we favor and some that we do not. And yet, Lord, we pray for them all. Lord, give them wisdom. Make them at least moral people. But Father, we pray even for the salvation of their souls. Father, we pray that the mouths of the wicked will be stopped because they're stopped by the by the grace of God. And Lord, we pray that you would have mercy on this country that continues day after day to slaughter babies. to offer them on the sacrifice of Satan. Father, have mercy on us. Father, we pray for our servicemen We pray for those that put their lives in danger day after day, both in the military and in the police and fire brigades. Father, watch over them and give them safety, Father, particularly those. There are um a few uh officers of the law that have association through family with this congregation. And Lord, we pray for their protection and their well-keeping. Father, we're not here today to consider politics We're not here today because we have physical needs. But rather, Lord, we are gathered in this place because our souls are hungry. We're gathered in this place because we need a word from thee. And Father, I have fished all night. Lord, I've been faithful to study thy word and to assembly a set of notes. Assemble a set of notes for this morning. And yet, Father, these things are totally worthless and of no profit, except that thy Spirit break to us the bread of life Except that thy Spirit open our hearts to receive thy word and open thy word to the blessing of our hearts. And so, Father, may you do this morning what man is incapable of doing. May you bless thy people with the Word of God. Father, you've chosen the foolishness of preaching, and you've even chosen some pretty foolish preachers. And so, Father, may you bless your word this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 126 for a responsive reading. Once you found Psalm 126 in your Bibles, please rise. We'll read all six verses of the Hundred Twenty Sixth Psalm. A song of degrees. When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed. And with our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing. And said they among the heathen, the Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us, whereof we are glad. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams to the south. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy, and altogether he that goeth forth and weapeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing Bringing his sheep with him. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy words. Ye that goeth forth bearing shees, bearing seed, weepeth indeed I felt touched by that on more than one occasion. We have a promise of God that we will have a tremendous harvest. A tremendous harvest beyond what we're able to even imagine. And that glorious place called heaven itself. Oh my, let's sing from our blue songbook number five hundred and ten. Thy loving kindness, Lord, is good and free. Fine reformed hymn from the CRC Psalter and one of my favorite songbooks. Trans this song transported out of this hymn book. I trust you'll enjoy it much. All four stanzas plus the Amen. My loving eyes for his good and free in mercy. Turn thou unto me I dart thy face from me in my distress in my Mercy Near my prayer, thy storm and blast. Then I will sing and pray thy holy name. My thankful storm. My first beach now broken with joy the beach out See my soul risk, your heart shall live. Yes, States that single knee and prequel. His breast will not despise. Well thank you all that in salvation to his people. God will give and they have this women shall we Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. Please be seated. Turn with me your Bibles this morning. We have two texts that I'm going to read The first will be from the Gospel as recorded for us by Luke and the fifth chapter. And then I'll also be turning to the Gospel as recorded by John and the 21st chapter. But we're going to begin in Luke chapter 5. And we'll go also to John chapter 21. I'll give you a moment if you want to kind of find both passages. That way we can flip between them quickly. I preached for these two passages in parallel maybe a dozen times over the last forty some years, and every message has been different. So I trust this morning the Lord will bless his word to our hearts Luke chapter 5 and John chapter 21. Beginning in Luke chapter 5 and verse 1 And it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret. And saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were going out of them and were washing their nets. And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people out of the ship Now, when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your net for a draught. And Simon, answering, said unto him, Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. And when he had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net broke, and they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship. that they should come and help them, and they came and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord! For he was astonished, and all that were with him at the drought of fishes which they had taken. And so was also James and John the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. And now I'll turn over to John chapter 21, and there I'll begin also in the first verse. John chapter 21 and verse 1. After these things Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberius. And on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathaniel of Canaan in Galilee, and the sons of Zebede, And two other disciples. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing But when the morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat They answered him, No. And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw the net for the multitude of fishes. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord! Now, when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he gird his fisherman's coat unto him, for he was naked, and did cast himself into the sea. And the other disciples came in a little ship, for they were not far from land, but as it were, two hundred cubits dragging the net with fishes. And as soon as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. Simon Peter went up and threw the net to land full of great fishes. and hundred and fifty-three, and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken. Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of them durst ask him, who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then cometh and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith unto him the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, feed my sheep. He saith unto him a third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, feed my sheep. Verily, verily I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest whither thou wouldest But when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hand, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, for the beauty of thy word, for its explicit, implicit teaching. For the glorious truths that we can glean from thy word. Father, bless your word to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. These two miracles, the first great draught of fishes and the last great draught of fishes, sort of are bookends For Christ's ministry specifically with the disciples. Both of these miracles were not done for the multitude. There are miracles that were done before great multitudes of people. These two were not. In the first great of throughout fishes there had been a huge multitude, so much that Christ had entered into Peter's boat and sat in the water. But after the multitudes left, then Christ says, launch out into the deep. And the multitude didn't witness this as they did the feeding of the 5,000. This was just a small group of disciples In John 21, the final great rod of fishes, again, it is just the disciples. Now, folks, why did Jesus do miracles? To teach, to instruct. There were lessons to be learned. The first great throne officius was at the beginning of his ministry. The second was at the end of his ministry. If we look there at the passage, we find that in both these accounts, but that Jesus is teaching the disciples, but Specifically in the John 21 passage, we find a bunch of discouraged guys. We find fearful disciples. We find those who had just recently been arguing who were over who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And now they found out the kingdom we were talking about isn't for now. The kingdom we're talking we're talking about isn't some throne where Christ is going to be on a throne here on earth and we're going to be his emissaries. It's something Future, it's something to come. There will be a throne, and Christ will sit on the throne, but he does that even today. So you find the disciples here in great confusion. It says it was after these things Jesus has been crucified, dead and buried. Jesus has appeared to Mary Magdalene at the tomb. He's appeared to the disciples without Thomas, and then appeared again with Thomas. And we find here that after the resurrection of Jesus Christ, he was only recognizably visible by a distinct act of his will. Mary Magdalene didn't recognize him in the garden until he spoke to her. The men on the road to Emmaus, they walked with him for probably several miles. And did not recognize him until they came into the house and he broke bread, and then he departed out of their midst. And so here we find, if you look down to verse 14, this is the third time he showed himself to them. Okay, he distinctly revealed his person to them. When they saw this guy on the shore that calls, children, have ye any meat? They didn't immediately recognize who it was until after the great drop of fishes. These discouraged disciples have gone back to the familiar. And we often do that. I don't believe Christ actually is condemning them here. They go back to the familiar. Everything, their whole world has fallen apart. In Luke 5, they've forsaken all. But now They are back and Peter says, look, I'm I'm going fishing. I love the way that our King James states it. I'm I go up fishing. I'm gonna go fishing and they said, Okay, Peter, we're we're going with you. That's that's comfortable. That that's a place where we we understand where we can figure things out. Have you ever been in that situation where you your life has just been in such chaos? And you're just going back to the familiar. He's going back to something that you feel like you can control. And if Christ shows them, you can't control anything, guys. You can't even catch a fish This is a great initial lesson to be learned there. 2 Thessalonians 3. 13, but ye brethren, be not weary in well-doing. Galatians chapter nine, verse six, and let us not be weary of well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. For which cause we faint not, though our outward man perish, yet our inner man is renewed. day by day while we not look not on the things which are seen, but on the things which are eternal. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are s not seen are eternal. Folks, there's nothing in this world that's going to encourage you. There's nothing in this world that's going to sustain you. There's nothing in this world that's going to satisfy you because you're not of this world. See, if you're a child of God, you've forsaken all. And that's what we find there in Luke chapter 5. They've forsaken all. They spent three years with Christ But now they've just come to a point where all of us reach some time where their life has crashed. It's all gone wrong I'd like to compare the two miracles briefly. In Luke 5, Christ simply tells him to let down the net 5. 4, launch out into the sea and let down your net for a draught. But in John 21, verse 6, cast the net on the right side of the ship, and you shall find. So in in the in the initial one in in Luke 5 Christ just says let the net down but now he says right side of the ship guys right here is is the is the spot where you're going to find the fish In Luke 5, the fish are not numbered. It just says a great multitude of fishes in 5 and verse 6. But in 21 and 11 of John, 153 fish were caught. And the net wasn't broke. And that's the next thing. In Luke 5, 6, the net broke. Some fish got in the net and then got out of the net. But in John 21, not a single fish was lost. Maybe the most significant is Peter's reaction in Luke chapter 5 and verse 8. When Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. And in John 21, verse 7 When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he gird his fisherman's coat unto him, for he was naked, and did cast himself into the sea. In Luke 5, Peter realizes it's the Lord, and he says, don't come near me. Just like the lepros, unclean, unclean. Depart from me. I am a sinful man. If you are here, you can only be here to judge me. Because I'm sinful. Stay away from me, I don't want to get hurt. But a John He throws himself into the water and does everything he can do to get as close to Jesus as fast as he possibly can. Peter's learned a little bit in the last three years, hasn't he? And folks, there may have been a time in your life when the problems came and you said, God, why did this happen to me? But as you grow in grace and the problems come, you say, oh, I need him more. I need the every hour. How can I get closer to him? That's right. Peter threw himself in the water once before, didn't he? He stepped down and began to walk and he took his eyes off Christ. And I don't think Peter can swim, even though he's a fisherman. Because when Peter walked in the water and looked away, he began to sink and he cried out, Lord, save me. But what happened when Peter was in such straits? The Lord saved him. The Lord stretched forth his hand. And now Peter says, I don't care if I can swim or not. I've got to get to Jesus. And so he casts himself into the sea and begins to head for Christ. The context, folks, of Luke chapter 5 is evangelism. Christ says, follow me and I will make you fishers of men. It's evangelism. It's the beginning of his ministry. In evangelism, a lot of fish get into the net, they get back out. A lot of people come through the church in the Bible study, right, brother? A lot of people show up and for a time they spring up but they have no root in themselves and they wither away. In Luke 5, Jesus is commissioning his disciples to be evangelists. Follow me, and I will make you fishes of men. Cast your net. We read in in Matthew 13 that the kingdom of heaven is like a net that is cast at Gathers up both the good and the bad, and the good and the bad are separated out. I know it in Jamaica they would bring in the net and there would be puffers in there which are not edible, and there would be eels and all the things and they would throw out the things they couldn't use, but then when they were done throwing out the waste, they had a net full of saleable fish. The context of Luke 5 is evangelism. Follow me, I'll make you fish as a man. The context of John 21 is the church, feed my sheep. Feed my lambs. And in the church there's 153 great fish, and the net does not break In Luke 5, the net broke. Here the net does not break. They bring them everyone in. In Luke 5, it was just a number that thrown out there. But the Lord knoweth them that are his is 153 fish and not a one of them is lost. And Christ proceeds into the teaching, feed my lambs, feed my sheep Not of one of Christ, all the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. And so that's the overview of these two not parables. If I mistakenly say parables, forgive me because my tongue gets ahead of my brain frequently, as you know. These are these are true miracles that actually happen. But the that's the overall view of the two But first of all, I'd like to see from these that Jesus Christ is demonstrating not to the world, remember this these were not done for large multitudes. demonstrating to his disciples, he begins by demonstrating the futility of human endeavor. The worthlessness of everything you do. I don't care if you make a hundred million dollars on this earth. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Folks, there's nothing that we do here that's going to outlive us. The only thing that lasts is the jewels in heaven. Only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ shall last. My father drilled that into me from the time I was able to understand what he was saying. This world is perishing. We may leave an inheritance to our children, we may leave a legacy of righteousness, but even that will fade away at some point. The futility of human endeavor. And the John passage in verse three Peter said unto them, I go a fishing. They said, We go also with thee. They went forth into a ship immediately. They didn't tarry. They went immediately. And that night they caught nothing Verse 5 is a bit amusing. Then Jesus came unto them, or said saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? And they answered, No. Do you ever ask a fisherman if he's doing any good? That is the common question. You see a guy with a rod in the reel, the first thing you ask him is, catching anything? And sometimes they'll pull up a big old stringer full of fish. And sometimes no, not nothing's biting. Take him a bait, but nothing's biting. In the Luke passage in verse five, Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. Folks, these guys knew how to fish. They knew what they were doing. These were not novices. I don't believe Christ condemns them for going back to their nets. They still had to provide for themselves. They needed food, they needed clothing, they needed housing. We're told in Genesis that by the sweat of our brow we're to eat. And so I'm not condemning them. I have preached this passage in a horrendous Uh condemnation of Peter because Christ had caught him by the nets and then he said, You love me more than you love these nets and you know I could I could be really hard on Peter. I used to be when I was a young man. I don't believe Christ is condemning them. It's a gentle question. Children, did your efforts in this world amount to anything? Children, have you any meat? Uh their business, they were skilled and profitable fishermen. Their business, if you look at Luke chapter 5, was a partnership. They called for their partners to come, and they had at least two trucks involved out in the highways of this business. They've got two boats. Okay. So this appears to be a thriving, profitable partnership they're engaged in We can be confident that they knew the lake. They knew where fish typically were in the lake and where fish typically are not. They knew the best time to fish, whether it be night or day, and they weren't lazy. They had fished all night. They hadn't gone out until it got to eleven o'clock and said, well, nothing's biting, let's go home. No, that they had fished all night. But both nights they call it nothing. Folks, the things of this world are not the motivators for the child of God. We need food and raiment. We need a roof over our head. Transportation is needful. Even cell phones have become needful in our day and age. But folks, those things are our motivators. We may even enjoy the house we live in and enjoy a few things of this world, but those are not the motivators for the children of God. These guys went back to their nets out of necessity. But Christ shows them that even in their necessity they can't accomplish a thing. The futility of human effort. And I believe they had their priorities right. If you look back to Luke chapter 5 and verse 11, and when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. They had a thriving business and they walked away from it. It doesn't even say that they sold their catch. This may have been the first catch-and-release tournament recorded in the in the world I don't think they left the fish dying on the shore. They had this the net was already breaking. They probably just let them loose and abandon their ships to follow Jesus Christ. These guys aren't laying out for themselves treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt. Their treasure is in heaven, and their heart is where their treasure is. They forsook all to follow. What does it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? What shall man give in exchange for his soul? But Jesus shows them in both these miracles that everything is in their under his control. Do you think that it's just a coincidence that after fishing all night in Luke 5, that suddenly a bunch of fish came by? Do you think there was no fish on the left side of the boat but a whole bunch of fish on the right side of the boat? You ever watch a school of fish? I mean they'll they'll they'll school together, but Do you think this is a coincidence? Folks, the disciples did not catch either bunch of fish because they threw the net. They caught fish both times because Jesus brought fish into the net. And folks, it is the same with every human endeavor. If you make a sale, it's not because you're a good salesman, it's because God brought you the sale. If your stock goes up, it's not because you picked the right one. It's because God blessed you If you get a promotion at work, it's not because you're the best man for the job necessarily. Though as a Christian, you should be the best man for the job because your work ethic should show that But if you receive in this world, it is only and always because of the one that you serve. Because of your master. These guys knew how to fish. But all of their knowledge And all of their skill and all the right equipment didn't mean a hill of beans until God ordained their labors. Turn over with me. Let's go ahead and turn this passage. We've got all afternoon. 1 Chronicles 29 records the gathering of the collection for the temple. And uh it's a glorious passage. There's actually a um a uh offering hymn that some churches sing, a lot of reform churches sing. when they take up a collection that comes from this passage. But in 1 Chronicles 29, verse 11, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty For all things that is in all that is in heaven and on earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted above all. Both riches and honor come of thee. Thou reignest over all, and in thy hand is the power and might, and in thy hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. Now therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? And what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thy own have we given thee. For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners as were our fathers. Our days on earth are as a shadow, and there is nothing abiding. Folks, don't you dare think that you've accomplished something in this world. All things come of thee. All things belong to him. If you prosper, it is because of God's blessing and not because of your intellect. If you are blessed, it is because God has blessed you and not because you deserved it more than the next guy. If you are promoted and not the guy in the office next to you, it's not necessarily because you do a better job, it's because God blessed you. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. That's the material. James 117, every good and every perfect gift is from above, cometh down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variableness nor shadow of turning. That's the spiritual. The physical gift and the spiritual gift both come from Christ. And so the first thing he's teaching these disciples in this private session. is the futility of all their own human works, activities, intelligence, equipment, nets. It means nothing without the blessing of God. So Christ begins by demonstrating the futility of human endeavor Jesus continues by demonstrating the certainty of God-ordained endeavor. The futility of human effort, the certainty of God-ordained effort. John 21, verse 6. And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. First of all, Jesus says, cast the net. And I've already alluded to the fact, do you think they caught the fish because they cast the net? Or you think they caught the fish because Jesus filled the net with fish? If you if you think about it, the times in Scripture where we find Jesus controlling fish. Remember Jonah's great fish? Mm-hmm. Remember the fish with the coin in his mouth? Uh if you go through scripture there's a whole Actually I could preach a message just on that. There's a whole series of instances where uh Jesus takes two fish and he feeds five thousand people with them. You think Jesus had power over fish? You better believe it. You better believe it. Cast the net. These men were export fishermen and they'd cast all night long Nevertheless, at thy word. Master, we have fished all night and taken nothing. God, it didn't work last time. Why do you want Go back over there again. I've made this sales call six times. Right? We got some salesmen in the room. I was a salesman for myself for a while. I've bugged this guy until he hates me Master, I have done everything I had can do, and it still failed. I have not been lazy, I fished all night. Nevertheless, Lord, you have promised to supply my need If you tell me to let down the net, I'm not gonna keep a net in the boat. If I've got three nets, they're all going in the water Well because you told me to let down the net. Cast your net on the other side. And of course I mentioned that the Luke passage, the context of Luke passage is, follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. And um a different message, but we can make spiritual application here. We've got to be cast in the nets, folks. Christ has chosen the foolishness of preaching to save them to believe. Christ has chosen the proclamation of his truth. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word, and so we cannot keep the net in the boat when Jesus has sent us forth to cast the net. But Master, we've toiled all night and taken nothing. God has instructed His children to be fishers of men. Cast your net on the right side. I mentioned before that these fishermen knew how to fish And I'm sure they knew the lake. They didn't need a fish finder. You ever see a guy with a fish finder? Uh I've I've never never done a lot of fishing, so I've never fished with a fish finder But uh years ago my brother in law gave my kids a fishing game, computer game. And uh one of the aspects of it had a little fish finder on the little boat that you could drive around with a computer and you could see what fish were underneath of you. These guys didn't have a fish finder. And a savior. Folks, where are you going to find the manna? The place Christ tells you to go get it. Where are you going to find the fish? You see, he shows them the futility of their own efforts, but then shows them the great blessings of the efforts he ordains. Cast the net on the right side, and ye shall find In the responsive reading this morning, we read there in Psalm 126, verses 5 and 6, that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth with reaping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again, bringing his sheaves with him. Now the sheaves there in the uh instant context is is that of wheat, of of earthly gain. Of course we understand that it's an evangelistic passage, and I think we can see that because we have two parallels here in these bookend miracles that Jesus did, not for the whole world, but for the church, for his own people. Cast her down the right side. And there is the assurance that ye shall find. When I sent you out without purse or script, lacked ye anything. And they said, Nothing. Folks, I can't tell you what a blessing that verse has been to my family and I. Because God has never failed us once. And folks, Mission Bible Church, when we started out, I was ready to get two different part-time jobs To try to carry things alone. And that was right when COVID hit and part-time jobs disappeared. Disappeared. And the annual financial report is available for anyone that wants to see it. And there's three lines there There is the line which is pasture only, which is just barely meeting the needs of my family. And then there's the line, which is the full ministry, which is being able to put money into our expansion fund and money into the diaconal funds and be able to have food when we eat and all these other things that we would like to be able to do, supporting missionaries and so on. But then folks there's always a line over top of that, and that's the actual giving line. Because God does not depend on monetary means. But God will provide monetary means for his faithful children. If the disciples had said, look, we fished all night, it didn't work, we're not going to cast the net, they would have had a net zero. Right? Mm-hmm. If they had said, we've tried the right side already, there's nothing there, they would have had a net zero Nevertheless, at thy word. They cast the net and they found And so Christ shows them the futility of human efforts. Christ shows them that God-ordained efforts are blessed. When they come into land, they find that Christ already has fish on the fire. Where did they come from? He didn't have a net. Yeah, he's already got fish. He didn't need their labor, did he? He did not need their efforts. He could do it without he's already got fish He's already got bread. Come and dine. You see, God is not bound by the things that bind us. He's God These things bind us and bother us and belay us. I can come with more bees if you want. But they don't bother him And so he begins by showing them the futility of human endeavor, he continues by showing them the certainty of God-ordained endeavor. But then Christ concludes this lesson. by demonstrating his mercy, forgiveness, and restoration of weak vessels that he's chosen after his will. Now I know that doesn't fit the outline, does it? Jesus concludes by demonstrating his mercy, forgiveness, and restoration to the weak vessels that he has chosen to do his will. You see, he didn't choose lawyers and doctors and he chose fishermen. He chose simple men. He chose men that were hard workers. He chose men that were obedient. Men that will do his will. And so there in verse 15, he calls Peter Simon. And it's been pointed out before that the name Simon is a name that means a listener, or God will hear. Peter was a listener. Peter, I've called you the stone. I've called you the rock. But now I'm calling you Peter again. I'm sorry, now I'm calling you Simon again. Because you need to listen, son. It goes back to the listener name, not the rock name, but the listener Simon. Simon. The listener. Listen to me, son. You know, sometimes God has to do that with His children too. And it's just stopped us in our tracks and say, hey, listen, listen, buddy. Come back to the roots. Come back to the bases. Listen. You see, this is only days after Simon's denial. After Simon denies three times, and now Christ asks him, Do you love me? three times. You see the mercy here? See the forgiveness that's going about. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these And that word these is is ambiguous. Most group there are very few group Greek words that are ambiguous. But this Greek word is ambiguous, and it's beautiful that it is. It's the Greek word tuton. It is a pronoun, but can it can either be neuter or masculine in its gender If we interpret it as neuter, then when Christ says these, love does not mean more than these, neuter would be referring to the nets and the fish, the business that he had forsaken all to follow back in Luke 5, the joy of fishing. You know, they say you find a job you love and you never have to work I believe Peter probably loved fishing. He had done it all his life. And in this time of crisis, in this night of distress, he goes back to fishing. If we translate it as neuter, then the these is referring to the nets and the fish, and that's a very good application of the passage. But at the same time, this word can also be a masculine pronoun. And if it's a masculine pronoun, then it's talking about people. Do you love me more than these? Thou all forsake thee, yet will I not forsake thee? Peter is the only one we find standing at the enemy's fire, denying Christ with a curse. And so Scripture in God's wisdom has deliberately left this ambiguous. Because both both applications teach us much. Simon the listener, love has found me more than these. And of course I won't go into all of it because we know the story that Christ is asking it. Peter has a devoted, committed love, and Peter says Lord, I have affection for you. I like you a lot. I have affection for you. Peter, lovest thou me in Christ now degrades Do you have affection? And Peter says, I have affection. And then the third time, Peter, lovest thou me. And I love the way Peter answers, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Oh folks, how many times I've had to pray that, Lord, I don't love you like I should. I don't love you with the love of which you're deserving. Sometimes I wonder by my own life if I love you at all. But Lord, I'm 153 fish. I'm a fish among 153. Your net's not breaking for me. You'll bring me home. Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. What a beautiful, what a beautiful picture we have here. And of course Christ's response is Peter, get back to work. Feed my sheep. Feed my lambs. Christ knows all things. Christ knows Peter's spiritual state Christ knows that he steeple disciples discouragement, and Christ knows the location of the fish. And so he teaches them, folks, it does not matter how hard you work, how much you know, what equipment you have, without me you can do nothing. He teaches them with me all things are possible. And he teaches them the most important thing you can do in this world is love me. But a stamp repair. Gracious Father, Lord, I thank you for this passage, which has been such a blessing and rebuke to me so many times in so many ways. Lord, bless your word to your people this day. In Jesus' name. Return to our closing hymn now, number 543 in your song book. 543 O Lord, I would delight in thee. Five hundred and forty three I trust you'll find the tune familiar once we begin to sing it. 543, and we sing all six stanzas. When all censor streams are dry, thy bonusness. They I pre Creatures can be found, but may be found in the cause that All things and about what God is got to me for All perfect To credit one by save yourself, whose voice can be Will be here all good provide while Christ is raised Can I be for what can I want to cast my career? My cry of another my great concern shall be to love. Amen, Amen. Please be seated. Well, thank you so much.