Opening your scriptures with me, please, to the book of 2 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 21. I'm going to be reading verses one through fourteen of 2 Samuel 21. This may seem like a somewhat odd passage to consider on Mother's Day. And yet I believe there is glorious uh nuggets of truth for us in this passage. The second book of Samuel The 21st chapter, and I'm reading verses 1 through 14. Then there was famine in the days of David, three years. Year after year. And David inquired of the Lord. And the Lord answered, It is for Saul and for his bloody house. Because he slew the Gibeonites. And the king called the Gibeonites and said unto them, Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites. And the children of Israel had sworn unto them, and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah. Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And wherewith shall I make the atonement? That ye may bless the inheritance of the Lord. And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver nor gold of Saul, nor of his house. Neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel. And he said What ye said shall say, What ye shall say, that will I do for you. And the answer the king The man that consumed us, and that they vised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coast of Israel. Let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto the Lord in Gilbach. Of Saul, whom the Lord did choose. And the king said, I will give them But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the Lord's oath. that was between them, between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul. But the king took the two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. whom she bare unto Saul, Armonai and Mephilisheth, and the five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel, the son of Barzili, the Maholite, and delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites And they hanged them in the hill before the Lord. And they fell, all seven together. And were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days of the beginning of the barley harvest. And Rizfah, the daughter of Ahai, took sackcloth and spread it for her upon the rock. From the beginning of the harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered new the birds of the air to rest on them by day nor the beasts of the field by night. And it was told David what Rizpha, the daughter of Ahai, the concubine of Saul, had done David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son, from the men of Jabesh Gilead, which had stolen them from the streets of Bethshan. Where the Philistines had hanged them, when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilbella And he brought them up from thence, or brought up from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son. And they gathered the bones of them that were hanged. And the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son buried they in the country of Benjamin in Zilah. In the sepulchres of Kish his father, and they performed all the king's command. And after that, God was entreated for the land. Let's pray. Father, this morning I pray that you would very clearly Beautifully and dramatically, open to the hearts of your people the signs and types and figures of this glorious passage. Father, may we see that in the Old Testament Christ is concealed, and in the New Testament, Christ is revealed And Lord, the people involved in these events at the time did not see the symbols, the types, the foreshadowings that we can see with 2020 hindsight. Father, cause us today to rejoice in the great redemption that we have in Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We have before us the very sad account of Risfa. It is often said that a parent should never bury their children, but children should bury the parents. But here we find poor Rizva. Her sons are dead. They died an ignominious death. Their bodies were left to hang. We read in Deuteronomy 21 that a body was not to be left hanging overnight. Cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree. But here the bodies of her sons, and the bodies of the others that were raised by Michael, the daughter of Saul, and I'll explain that a little bit later, but their bodies, seven of them, were hung. And the bodies were left there to rot. And here Rizfa, this loving mother, takes sackcloth. Sackcloth is the emblem of humility and the emblem of sorrow. And she spreads for herself a tent of sackcloth upon the rock. And all day long she spends her day defending these bodies from the birds that would pick off the flesh. And the flesh begins to rot. It begins to smell. It begins to fall off And as the flesh rots, the birds rush in, the buzzards come in flocks, and she spends her entire day fighting off the buzzards. But the nights are worse. Because in the night the beasts come. And folks, you have to remember that the land of Israel was a land of lions and bears. Scripture talks about the lions and bears. Samson faced a lion. David killed a lion and a bear. Young bears came out and ate those that mocked the prophet. And so through the night, this loving mother in great sorrow and in great grief is having to fight off the lions and the bears. Now David overcame the lions and the bears because God gave him strength. But this woman didn't have a flingshot. And so we have here this mother out of great overwhelming grief. And love for her sons yet dead. Folks, when we bury a body, we put it out of our sight. And when Jesus was coming to the grave, to the tomb of Lazarus, the word was, Lord, he stinketh, don't open it. But Rez Rizva is here with these rotting corpses. Folks, this is a horrible story. And yet the Bible, the Word of God, is so beautiful And so glorious. Why would such a gruesome tale be recorded in the Word of God? Quite simply, it's a picture of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is found in this passage. It's been said to open the Bible anywhere and head to the cross. And it is true. The Bible is a book of shadows, of types, of allegories And here in this passage is a glorious allegory of my Savior, who died for my sins. Let us look at it closely. We have the story of Abraham offering Isaac. Why would the Bible give us a story of a father who's ready to kill his son? Well, it points us to Christ. The Passover Lamb was the redemption of Christ in Israel Moses raised a serpent on the pole, which was a picture of redemption. So coming to the first verse, we find there in 2 Samuel 21 and verse 1, there was a famine in the days of David. three years, year after year, and David inquired of the Lord. Right in the first verse we find that in a three year famine And folks, three in Scripture is very often a sign of judgment. Jonah was three days in the belly of the whale. Christ was three days in the heart of the earth. When David sinned and number of the people, God said, I will give you three choices. Which do you want? Three. And right here we find that there's been a famine of three years, for some reason, there is judgment on the land. There is judgment on the people. And God had warned them in 2 Chronicles 7, if I shut up heaven and there be no rain, or I command locusts to devour the land. For if I send pestilence among thy people, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and heal their land. And here, David, in the end of the third year of famine, he starts to seek the Lord. There was a famine in the days of David. Three years. And it doesn't just stop there, but scripture very specifically, three years, year after year. It's not an insignificant number. Year after year, David inquired of the Lord. And the answer comes. The answer is this. It is for Saul and his bloody house because he slew the Gibeonites Now, what is significant about that? Well, in Joshua chapter 9, we find the Gibeonites coming to Joshua. And they have put on old ragged clothes. They have put shoes on their feet that are worn out. They have stale, hard, moldy bread, and they have bottles that have holes and are leaking out all the water and the wine. And they say, we have come from a far country. We've come from far, far away. And the children of Israel ask, Not of the Lord. They saw the raggy clothes. They saw the moldy bread. They saw the leaking bottles, and they just took their word for it. And the children of Israel made a covenant with them. It says in Joshua 9:15, and Joshua made peace with them and made league with them to let them live. And the princes of the congregation swear unto them. And verse 16, and it came to pass at the end of three days. At the end of three days, it came to pass at the end of three days after they had made a league with them that they heard that they were their neighbors and that they dwelt among them. And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. And the congregation murmured against the princes. But the princes of the congregation said to them, We have sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel Now therefore we may not touch them. We made an oath with the Gibeonites by the name of Jehovah that we would not kill them Therefore, by the name of Jehovah, we cannot touch them. What happened here? Saul broke the covenant of God. And God is very serious about his covenant. God will not let the breaking of his covenant go unpunished. There must be a redemption. There must be an atonement for a broken covenant. We have broken the covenant of God by sin. And there must be an atonement for that sin. In Numbers 30, verses 1 and 2, this is the thing which the Lord has commanded. If a man vow a vow to the Lord or swear an oath to bind his soul with blood, He shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth. Deuteronomy 23, verse 21 When thou shalt vow a vow unto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not slack to pay it, for the Lord will surely require it of thee, and it would be sin to thee. Folks, the problem was not The problem was not that Saul tried to kill the Gibeonites. The problem was that Saul broke the covenant of the Lord. God is judging his own elect Israel by the hand of the Gibeonites because Israel has sinned. And notice that we don't have a case of doing evil in order to do good here, folks It says there that Saul did this in his zeal. Verse 21, the second part, chapter 21, the second part of verse 2. Saul slought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah. Saul said, look, I love the children of Israel. I'm going to wipe out these Gibeonites that are in their midst. I'm going to get rid of them. No, Saul. There's a covenant with them before Jehovah. You're not going after the Gibeonites, you're going against the covenant of God. And this wasn't the first time Saul had done this. Remember, remember when Saul was supposed to commit to kill all of uh Agag and his people But Saul said, Well, well, uh the people kept back some sheep and some goats to sacrifice to the Lord. And the answer was, to obey is better than sacrifice. You see, folks, partial obedience is entire disobedience. You cannot serve God and mammon. Serving God a little bit is disobeying God entirely. If you break one part of the law, you're guilty of all. Soul has zeal, soul has energy, but not according to God's word. And that's how they got this problem in the first place. The Gibeonites came, and we read there in the count of Joshua that instead of inquiring of the Lord, they just made this covenant. They gave their word. In the name of Jehovah, when they should have kept silent, quite frankly. But now that covenant has been broken, and God demands a payment. And so, coming to verse three, wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And wherewith shall I make the atonement that ye may bless the inheritance of the Lord? And folks, you know what that word atonement is there? Atonement. It's the same Old Testament word that you find throughout the Old Testament, atonement. It's the same atonement as the Day of Atonement. It's the same atonement as the priests making the atonement for the people for their sins. David says, How can I make the atonement? What can I do to atone for this sin? In Leviticus 17, verse 11, for the life of the flesh is in the blood, and he hath given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your sins. But think about this. David is asking non-Israelites David is asking the Gibeonites who were not followers of God's law. He's actually the Gibeonites. How can I atone for the wrong of King Saul? Verse 4. And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver, nor gold of Saul, nor of his house. Neither for us shalt thou tell any man in Israel. And he that David said, What ye shall say, that will I do. Folks, David's just made a foolish joke. What do you want? I don't want any of Saul's silver. I don't want any silver or gold from Saul's house. I don't want you to slay anyone in Israel. Okay, whatever you say, I'll do it. David has now made a covenant before the Lord, just as Joshua made a covenant before the Lord without praying about it. Without forethought, now David is bound to do whatever the Gibeonites say is to be done. But notice what the Gibeonites say, folks, and here again is a glorious, unmistakable picture of the redemption, of the atonement of Jesus Christ. No silver or gold. For as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without spot and without blemish. Folks, silver and gold can't buy your atonement. Silver and gold won't do. You see what God is doing here in this story? You see the glorious picture? They say, we will have no silver nor gold of Saul nor of his house. Now his house is not talking about a brick rancher that Saul had. His house is talking about his lineage. Not from Saul, not from the family of Saul. And this is very important. Because the living cannot pay for the sins of the dead. Think about that. The Catholic Church will have you give money so your dead relatives to get out of jail early. In fact, I want to read to you from the the Catholic website called Catholic Answers, and it says this As faithful Catholics, we are taught that we should offer prayers and reparations for the dead. This is a spiritual work of mercy, a meritorious act on our part And so what they're saying is, hey, your granny is suffering in paradise, but if you give some money, she'll get out early. You could buy her a parole is what they're saying. Folks, the Gibeonites tell us here, your silver and gold cannot buy your redemption. The silver and gold of your family cannot buy your redemption without the shedding of blood. There is no redemption of sin. But further in this verse, we will have no silver nor gold of Saul, nor of his house. Neither shalt thou kill any man in Israel. Remember, the Gimeonites are not part of Israel. The Gimeonites are Gentiles living among Israel. The death of the individual that is to be atoned Cannot make atonement for himself. When the wicked die and go to hell, their sins are not atoned for because they died. It's appointed on a man once to die, and after this the judgment. But he faces the judgment with no atonement. If the death of the unbeliever atoned for his sin, then hell would be unjust. Because the sin was paid for. But the death of the unbeliever cannot pay for his sin, therefore the unbeliever suffers in hell for all eternity because his sins are never atoned for. The blood of Jesus Christ does not reach that soul. There's no atonement for that. And so they say, no man of Israel, the required atonement must be the sacrifice of one for whom there is no atonement. And that's a picture of Christ. Christ atoned for my sins, but there was no atonement for Christ. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but thy will be done. No atonement could be made for Jesus Christ because he was the atonement And here these unbelievers of Gibeon, without even knowing what they're saying, were saying it can't be someone of the elect. It can't be someone of Israel. It has to be someone from outside to pay, to make the atonement. We read that Christ suffered without the camp. He was God in man's flesh, but he was fully, absolutely, 100% the Son of God when he hung on the cross. He was the Son of God and the Son of Man in one body. And so they say, no one of Israel, no one of the elect. Can be sacrificed. Verse 5. Then answered the king, this is David. Uh uh then answered they then they answered the king, the man that consumed us, that devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any coast of Israel Let seven sons of sorry let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto Jehovah, unto the Lord. in Gilbeh Gibeah of Saul, whom the Lord did choose. And the king said, I will give them The blood of the Old Testament sacrifice was a sacrifice for the blood of the sinner. It was a substitute for the blood of the sinner. When the lamb's blood was slain upon the altar, it was a substitute for the slaying of the sinner. And this is very important with the firstborn, because there are all kinds of regulations for the firstborn's son, and a lamb is slain to redeem him. And the firstborn of the cattle. Would either be redeemed or killed. Okay? Now The blood of the Old Testament required a substitute. We've seen that there were three years of judgment, but then look at who the substitute is. seven sons of Saul. And folks, the number seven in scripture is not used randomly. Seven is the number of redemption. It is the number of perfection. It is the number of completion. It is the number of purity. It is the number of maturity. It's a very special number in the Word of God. Three years Of famine have come by judgment. I know I've got four fingers up. I'm not thinking about the fingers and put my hand out. Three years of judgment have come because of Saul's sin. A perfect substitute is needed. And so they say we want seven sons. Seven. And it says that we will hang them up unto Jehovah. Under the Lord of all capitalism. Folks, does God accept human sacrifice? Is that what this is? Is is God Being pacified? Is God accepting human sacrifice as an atonement? No, not at all. They say we are going to hang them up in the presence of the Lord, not as an offering to the Lord, but the Lord will see these 7. Just as certainly as Abraham on the mountain was ready to sacrifice his own son Isaac, and God said, Now I know that you believe In Egypt, when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And so the Gibeonites say, we're going to hang these seven up unto the Lord. We're going to hang them. On a hill, nonetheless, that God may see them on the hill That God may see the atonement has been made and that God may forgive the sins. And folks, God the Father Looks at the mercy seat. He sees the mercy seat whereon is the blood of Christ and we're forgiven. Folks, it's glorious if you'll see it. If you'll step back and look at the Word of God, it is beautiful and delightful and joyous to the soul. And so the Gibeonites say, give us seven, the number of perfection. Give us a perfect sacrifice. And we will display that sacrifice in the eyes of Jehovah. Remember as well that the Gibeonites are not of Israel, they are Gentiles. And yet the Gibeonites are going back to the Word of God. And the revenger of blood in Numbers 35, verse 19, the revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer. When he meeteth him, he shall slay him. This is capital punishment. This is the children suffering the penalty of that which their father suffered. Folks, I was born a sinner. You know why? Because my father sinned. Wherefore, as by one man, sin entered into the world, and death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And folks, we live under the curse because of the sin of our father Adam. And don't mistake me, we're not born innocent. We were born sinners, and we have added to that list of sin, our own pile of garbage. But this was capital punishment. The kinsman of the victim carried out the execution of the guilty. But also remember that the Gibeonites were outside of the covenant. The Gibeonites who were outside of the covenant required blood to retain their the retain the blessing of the inheritance of the Lord. You know what folks? When you sin, sometimes you have to pay Satan's price A sinning believer who runs up a debt sometimes has to pay Satan's price. Sometimes God will allow you to suffer the very recompense of your deeds. To turn you back to himself. And in order to remove the curse that was on the children of God, they had to pay the devil's ransom. And the play pay with the blood of Saul's son, that ye, verse 3, may bless the inheritance of the Lord. Seven stunts are required. Remember that Zacharias restored fourfold, and that in Proverbs we find that if we steal, we're to restore sevenfold. And here we find seven sons. Verse six Let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto the Lord and Gilbeel Saul, whom the Lord did choose, and the king said, I will give them But the king, verse seven, spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the Lord's oath between them, between David and Jonathan, Saul's son. David here, after giving a foolish oath, I'll give you whatever you want. Now he says, I'll give you seven sons, but I can't give you Mephibosheth. Him I must hold back, because I have an oath before God with Jonathan, his father. Isn't it beautiful to see how a godly man like David is learning the right way? How he he gets knocked down, but the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, though he falleth seven times, he shall rise again. And notice that verse seven times again. in scripture. And so we find that David spares Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan. Now this gives it quite a little bit confusing because we have two different Mephivasheths. in the accounts. Let me clarify that for you very briefly. We find in verse 8 But the king took the two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Ahai, whom she bare unto Saul, Amonai, and Mephibosheth. And the five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel, the son of Barzili, the Mehoe Mehol a thite. I practice those names. Some folks you know, I just don't do well with names. I practice some I'm still stumbling on them. But the two sons of Rizvah. Rizvah was a concubine of King Saul, and she had two sons, Armani. And Mephibosheth. Armani would be the half-brother of Jonathan, and Mephibosheth would be the half-brother of Jonathan. But Jonathan also had a son named Mephibosheth. Jonathan's son Mephibosheth is the one who was lame on his feet that David cared for. So here David spares Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, but offers Mephibosheth the son of Saul, the uncle of the Bephibosheth he is caring for. But there's more there. Because we find that Michael, the daughter of Saul, had brought up these five others for Adriel. When David slew Goliath, God had promised to the one that slew Goliath he would give his daughter to be wife. That was Michael, the oldest daughter of Saul. But when it came time for Michael to be given to Saul, I'm sorry. I've got him quick. That was Meribah Meribah, the daughter of Saul, was the oldest, and she was to be given to David. But when it came time for her to be given to David, Meribah was married to Barzilli And Merbah has five sons by Basilei, and she dies. Michael was the second daughter of Saul. She is the daughter that Saul gave to David instead. She is the daughter that Saul took from David when he fled and gave to another man. When David comes back to the kingdom, he takes her back to be his wife. But when David is coming into the city with the ark, he is dancing in exuberance before God, and Michael mocks him. And so David puts her aside. He does not divorce her, but he does not live with her, and she dies childless. But in the meantime, she raises the four orphan sons of her sister Merva. And now David takes those five. And the two sons of Rizvah. And they are given to the Gibeonites. Folks, not one of the seven was guilty of the crime. These seven men hadn't killed the Gibeonites. It was their father. Saul had killed the Gibeonites. Folks He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. The innocent are slain for the atonement of the guilty. Oh, it's a beautiful picture of vicarious atonement. Israel is suffering the curse of famine. And that curse is removed by the sacrifice of seven innocent men, the number of predictions of perfection. We suffer under the curse of sin, but our atonement is made by the one who knew no sin. And then verse 9. And he, that is David, delivered them into the hands of the Gimeonites, and they hang them in the hill. Christ was hanged on a hill. They hanged them in the hill before the Lord. And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of harvest. In the first days. In the beginning of the barley harvest. They were delivered to die. They were delivered to the Gentiles. To be put to death. Mark ten, thirty-three, behold, we go up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and he shall be delivered to the Gentiles. David is the ruler of Israel. The chief priests and scribes were the ruler in Christ's days. They were the rulers of Israel. You had Herod, who's a Jew, but he's not really part of Israel. The rulership of the Jews was the scribes and Pharisees, the high priest. Here, who took these seven and delivered them to the Gentiles to be hung? David Takes these seven and delivers them to the Gentiles to be hung. You see the fulfillment of the picture We write Matthew 27, 26, and they they scourged Jesus, and he delivered him to be crucified. But folks, there's so much more here. Because notice the emphasis on the timing when this took place And he delivered them verse 9 into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the Lord. And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of the harvest. In the first days, in the beginning of the barley harvest. Why doesn't it just say harvest? Why does it expound on the timing to tell us that it was the beginning of the barley harvest Folks, because the beginning of the barley harvest is Passover. See, there's not a there's not a bunch of extraneous words here But the inspired scripture is very clear. It wasn't just the barley harvest. It was at the beginning of the barley harvest, and that is the time of Passover. And when was Christ hanged? When was he given to the Gentiles to be crucified? It was at the barley harvest. Verse 10 And Rizbah, the daughter of Ahai, took sackcloth and spread it for her upon the rock from the beginning of harvest. Until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither birds of the air to rest upon them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night. Rizva guarded the bodies until rain came. What was the cause of the famine? No rain. What had God said that he would do when his people sinned? He said he would hold back the rain. And here, Rizpa stays with these bodies until the rain comes. And what does rain teach us in Scripture? What does rain depict? It is the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. Rain coming is resurrection, folks. The seed lies in the ground dormant until the rain comes upon the seed, and then it is resurrected, then it springs into life. And Rizvah stayed here with these rotting bodies, defending them from the beasts of the field, the birds at night, until God said enough. I have accepted the payment. And the rains came. When the famine was broken. God looked upon his son on the cross His son bearing the price. The eyes of God the Father were diverted away only when he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And yet God the Father saw the sacrifice. Christ the Son was placed in the tomb. He stayed there three days. And though God says the judgment is done. The sacrifice is accepted. And Christ rose from the dead. The price was paid. The resurrection came. And it was told David in verse 11 what Rizpah, the daughter of Ahai, the concubine of Saul, had done. And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son, from the men of Jabash Gilead, who had stolen them from the streets of Bethshan where the Philistines had hanged them, when the Philistines had slain Saul and Gilboah. When David and Jonathan were slain, their heads were chopped off. and their bones were were scattered in the street, their bones were hung up on the wall, and the men of Jabesh Gilead were commended because they went and took them at the peril of their own life from uh the Philistines and they buried them under a tree. And so David sends and gets now the bones of Saul and Jonathan. Verse thirteen And they brought up thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son, and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged, the bones of the seven. And the bones of Saul and Jonathan, his son, were buried in the country of Benjamin in Zilah, in the sepulchre of Kish, his father, and they performed all the king's command. Jonathan's body, Saul's body, were hanged and left hanging there overnight until the men of Jabesh Gilead got them. The bones of these seven men were left hanged overnight until David rescued their bones. But now they're all buried. The curse is over. The curse is lifted. It has been done away with. Cursed is everyone you own. Don't leave a body hanging on a tree overnight, because cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree. But now the curse is lifted. The bones of Saul, verse 14, and Jonathan, his son, buried they in the country of Benjamin in Zila. In the sepulchre of Kish, his fathers, and they performed all the king's command. And after that God was entreated for the land. Folks, I was born in trespasses and sins. I was born under a horrible curse. My own death couldn't pay that price. It had to be a sacrifice from without. My glorious Savior Jesus Christ. whose number is seven, who is the perfect sinless Lamb of God, who was not guilty of any of the crime. But was delivered unto the Gentiles and put to death for my crime, was hung upon a cross But God did not suffer his body to see corruption. Rizvah was not successful. She strived to prevent the corruption of her sons' bodies. But God the Father was successful. Christ did not see corruption. And Christ was raised from the dead in beautiful evidence and token. Receipt, received, payment. Paid. God the Father has accepted the sacrifice and the resurrection came. And new life through that resurrection Folks, here is a grieving mother tending to the bodies of her dead sons. But folks, it's the glorious picture of the redemption in Jesus Christ. Do you know Jesus Christ? Do you know this Savior? Will you attempt for all eternity to atone for your sins and never succeed? Or will you accept the atonement of Jesus Christ that the rains may come again? Let us stand for prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the intricacy, the beauty of it. Father, we thank you that there is so much in your word if we will simply stop and meditate and dig and find these glorious treasures. Blessed Him to our hearts today. Father, we thank you for this passage which brings such honor and such glory to the name of our Savior. Blessed be his name. Amen.