Gracious Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering before you. Lord, we thank you for the voices of children in our midst. Lord, what a great blessing that is. Uh the the the lips of children will praise you. Uh if the if the adults don't cry out, the children will cry out and the rocks will cry out. And so, Father, we thank you. Lord, we thank you that we can gather. Lord, we thank you for Mission Bible Church. What a blessing it is. Lord, it is it is such a precious place of worship, of learning, of fellowship. Uh Lord, I I I just thank you and rejoice. Father, there is much today in the world that is wrong. But there is much in the heart of the believer that has been made right. Because we are new creatures in Christ. And so, Father, today we pray that you would open your word to our hearts. And open our hearts to your word. We pray that you would open our eyes to behold Christ in the Word. We pray that you would open our lips that we might bring forth praise to you We find in your word that glorious truth that God declares, you declare, I create the fruit of the lips. Oh Lord, it is by you creating the fruit of our lips that we can ever worship you. It is by you creating the fruit of our lips that we can ever testify of Christ. It is by you creating the fruit of our lips that we can sing a new song unto the Lord. For Lord, the old man cannot worship thee. The unbeliever can open his lips, but it is not worship. It is nothing more than the singing of the birds, which may have a pleasant sound, but has no distinction. But oh Lord, the voice of the church crying out to the Creator and the husband of the church is a true and indeed truly an intelligent sound as you create that fruit within your people. And so Lord, may you be worshipped and honored and glorified in our midst this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. Stand with me as I read our call to worship this morning, reading just one verse from First Corinthians sixteen Watch ye, stand fast in the faith. Quit you like men, be strong. And that word quit doesn't mean stop, it means prepare yourselves as men and be strong. Amen. Amen. Alright, we turn to our opening song today in our blue song book, number 32, The God of Abram Praise. Number 32, the God of Abraham praised. It's a wonderful song. Number 32, and we will sing all six stanzas. Abraham praise Who claims in Pro In general everlasting days and God I heard that contest, by thou and bless the sacred name for blessed. For God of Hambra Supreme Coven, from birth I rise and seek the joy. And his rightness I hold on forsake it with something and car. Am I only for some I am so pass of faith then I shall need those things up more. I shall be holy, for I shall his power on the door. And single wonders who is this forever. With these transplanting blessed, our land of stay transverted and And will honey float and order mine up town and dreams of life forever broke with me. Mercy There wells the Lord our king, the Lord our justness. I am normal though please for thy sacred eyes. And glory say, say like or rains. Give thanks to God on hear God's son and holy girls. I joined the heavenly face for my sand. At least we see the marvelous song God of Abraham. Indeed, indeed. We enter into all those rich blessings. We don't replace Israel, but we enter into the true Israel of God and all of the promises that if you're Born of God, you are indeed the son of Abraham by faith. Anton, if you would please Good morning. Good morning. Please turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we continue through the 29th article. Of the Belgic Confession regarding the marks of the true church and wherein she differs from the false church. Christian, in what do you believe? With respect to those who are members of the Church, they may be known by the marks of Christians, namely by faith. And when they have received Jesus Christ, the only Savior, they may avoid sin, follow after righteousness. Love the true God and their neighbor, neither turn aside to the right nor left, and crucify the flesh with the works thereof. But this is not to be understood as if there would not remain in them great infirmities. But they fight against them through the Spirit all the days of their life Continually taking refuge in the blood, death, passion, and obedience of our Lord Jesus Christ, in whom they have remission of sins through faith in Him. Last week we looked at the marks of a true church, and this week we consider the marks of a true member of the church. The marks of a true believer. How is it that a member of the church can be known? One that's a genuine member, one that's been born of the Spirit of God This is important to know to be able to examine this, both for self-examination and for discernment of others. The scriptures call us to examine ourselves to see whether we be in the faith. And the scripture also tells us that you will know them by their fruits. Sadly, there's many without discernment, and they're so afraid to make any judgment calls on themselves or others. Uh that that they'll they won't comment on anything, they won't observe anything, they won't try to discern anything Now don't get me wrong, it's it's not a good place to be to try to judge or condemn others because you want harm to them or something of that sort. But it is important for us to have discernment, to be able to tell what what a true Christian is, what a true believer is, and where somebody's falling or slipping away. Some will claim, well this person openly says that they don't believe in Christ, but I don't know where their heart is. I can't say anything. Well that's false. The scripture says that you can know, you can say If you don't have Christ, then you don't have life. It's just that simple. And some people might say, well this person, they uh they don't want to gather with the the saints. They never read the scriptures And they get mad when you bring up the scriptures. But at the same time, what can I say? How can I uh cast any judgment or discernment on this individual, they said that they believe in Christ, even though all these other things are going on. They don't care for the fellowship of the saints. They They uh they don't like any preaching, they don't like any of uh the scriptures, yet they say they love Christ. So can I have any discernment there? Well yes, the God says that out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. You can know what's on an individual's heart based on what's coming out of their mouth. And uh the true believer really is identified, I think, uh, in a way that I could sum it up well from what this confession is saying by two marks, the things that they put on and the things that they put off. As a believer, there's some things that you put on. Romans thirteen fourteen says, put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. If somebody's a true believer, a true member of Christ's church, they're going to have put on the Lord Jesus Christ. They're going to have faith in him. They're going to believe in him. They're going to take their stand with him. They're going to take a stand with his word. And they'll serve him. And uh there's further in Colossians 3:10 we read, put on the new man, which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him Yeah, there's the if you're truly born again, you're a new creature. All things are made new. You have new affections, a new desire to serve the Lord, to read his word to serve uh his body, his members, and even to know about him. There's also things that are put off, and the scripture talks about this. Even the confession points out there's many things that are being put off as uh a person becomes a true believer there's many things that they put away, their sin, their unbelief, the ways of the old man. Colossians three eight and nine says, But now ye also put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy. Build the communication out of your mouth Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds Yes, this is the mark of a believer. They actually hate their sin. They can agree with God that this thing is wicked, and they have a desire, they have actual effort to put those things away. Put off those ways of the old man. If you're a new creature, old things are new. You put off those wicked things, those things that are displeasing to the Lord. Galatians 5. 24 says, And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. There's something that must be put to death, those old affections, those old lusts. These things of putting on the new man and putting off the old man, you know, they kind of go hand in hand. If if either of them is missing, then there is a problem. You claim can't claim that you have Christ, that you're a believer of his, and yet you haven't put off the ways of the old man. You're still walking as a worldling, as somebody who rejoices in their sins, and yet you say, Well, I'm a Christian, that's okay. No, there's something missing there. And you can't claim, well I've had you can't claim on the other side, I've had victory over my sin, and yet I I have no desire for Christ. I'm okay where I am. I'm a moral being. I'm I'm okay. No, that's there's a problem there as well. You should have an affection for Christ, an affection to be more like Him. The last point that I wanted to make here is that the believer still fights with their sin. A true believer isn't some someone that's living here on the earth and a s a true believer isn't somebody that is uh fully reach perfection and they have no more sin at all. Otherwise they wouldn't be here. They'd already be in the heavenly kingdom No, but you're still here, you're still battling with the flesh, with the the pulling of it that it has on you. But there is a real fight. The true believer will have a desire to fight. They'll have a desire not to fulfill the lust of the flesh, to actually walk in the Spirit. There's a continuous desire to walk with the Lord. And um this is uh what Romans 8. 1 uh shows to us. This is the the thing that identifies the believers. They're actually walking with the Lord. They have a desire to be with his Spirit. I'll leave you as Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Amen. Thank you, brother. I feel like we should say now for our closing hymn, we'll sing the same thing. Appreciate that message and exhortation. He's halfway there, it's good, but it's not yours. Yeah, my my dad used to say that preaching is like drilling for oil If you don't hit something in thirty minutes, quit drugs. Quit boring. Quit boring. We have much to be thankful for, much to pray for. We do not mention the our Brethren and sisters, by prayer in our morning prayer, because we are recording it online, but you know well those that we mentioned by name on Wednesday, and there are great needs in our congregation. Let us go to the Lord in prayer at this time. Gracious Father, Lord, I thank you for the privilege of prayer. Lord, I thank you for several that I know of that in this past week were within our congregation, that were witnessing to friends and loved ones. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would prosper your word. Lord, to the salvation of souls. How shall they call upon him and who have not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher? And Lord, that preaching is not simply the ministry of the pulpit, but it is Philip finding Andrew. It is going to our friends and our neighbors. And Father, we thank you that you've given that spirit to the people of this congregation, a Mission Bible Church. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would uh prosper that that burden might bring forth much fruit for the glory of God. Lord, There are a multitude, percentage-wise, a huge multitude, within our congregation that either have or are continuing, Lord, to battle with cancer. And Father, we uh we hear doctors say, Well this one has so many months And Lord, the the physicians of this world will say, well, one in ten thousand might this. But Father, you don't deal in percentages, you deal in absolutes. You heal. And we find, Lord, in your word, the promise to Israel that one should taste a thousand. And so, Father, that one in a million chance is not a chance with the child of God. It is not a probability. But Lord, it is a certainty, if you ordain to heal a body, that body will be healed. When you called Lazarus from the grave, there was no chance that he would remain there. So, Father, we pray that you would call those on our hearts from the bed of sickness. Lord, that you would call upon the one let down through the roof. For Lord, we don't let them down through the roof. We raise them up through the roof, O God, to thee, that you might heal them. Lord, we pray in particular for our dear sister, over whom we labored in prayer, I believe, over three years that she might receive a transplant. And Lord, you answer that prayer after a multitude of false hopes and failing starts. And yet, Lord, now that liberty liber does not seem to be in agreement with her body. And so, Father, I pray that on Tuesday the report will be good, O Father, and that you might strengthen, and you might heal, Lord. This request has been through before you since we learned of it. And we agree is touching this thing. Father, we cry out to you for, we've already prayed, Lord, for our lost loved ones, but especially, Father, for the children of our congregation, both those that are here And those that are in Alaska, O Lord, Father, that you might visit them with thy salvation. Oh God, reach them. And then, Father, there are those that are not uh attenders with us, but they are our grandchildren and our children afar. And oh Father, what a tragedy it would be that our families have both Jacob's and Esau's. O God, give us all Jacobs. Give us no Absaloms, O Lord. Give us, Lord, prodigals that return. For Lord, they have been brought up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. They have had hymns sung in their infant ears, and scripture poured into their developing minds. And yet, Lord, some of them walked not aright before thee. Lord, we know that Jacob and Esau were raised in the same home, but one despised the truth And so, Father, we pray for our children. Father, we pray for our nation. Lord, we we acknowledge that if you pour out your judgment on the United States just as you did on Sodom, it would be justly deserved. But Lord, we find that glorious truth in thy word that you would have spared Sodom for the sake of a few righteous. And so, Father, for the sake of thine own elect in this place, may you spare. And Father, we raise up before you with very concerned hearts the needs in Jamaica, Lord Pastor Dalbert Pastor Maggie uh Lord that uh have suffered great damage to their residences. We thank you Lord that the that two of the churches were only minimally damaged. One has lost its entire roof. But Father, we pray for them, Lord. I I hear reports last night that it's dangerous even to go out on the streets because food and water are in short supply and Evil men are doing evil things in the streets. Father, may you bless and protect your people and may you enable us as a congregation to help to bear that burden. Father, we pray for our brother Burves in the Philippines. We thank you, Lord, that the typhoon apparently did not affect his local area. And yet, Lord, having gone through the Philippines, it will cause a shortage. It will cause an increase of prices. And so, Father, may you help and bless and protect him, I pray. Father, I thank you, Lord, for the message that's on my heart this morning. Lord, I believe there is great truth and great edification for your people this morning. And Father, the faith that cometh by hearing is by the hearing of the Word. And though you have chosen the foolishness of preaching, the preaching of man is but a worthless sound, except it be anointed by thy Spirit. And Lord, the Puritans prayed for what they referred to as that divine aid. And O Lord, how greatly it is needed in the preaching of thy word that thy people might be blessed. That thy people might be convicted, that thy people might be encouraged in righteousness. O Lord, this is our aim this day. May it be met by thy Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm fifty three for a responsive reading. Once you've located Psalm fifty three in your Bibles, please rise. We'll be responsible reading all six verses of Psalm 53. To the chief musician upon Mahaleth Maskill, a psalm of David. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity. There is none that doeth good God looked down from heaven upon the children of men to seek that did understand that did seek God. Every one of them is gone back. They are all together become filthy There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Have not the workers of addiction knowledge who eat up my people as eat bread. They have not called upon God There were they in great fear, where no fear was, for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee. Thou hast put them to shame, because God has despised them. And altogether, Oh, that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion. When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. That's a marvelous song. It's parallel to Psalm 14. And it's a divine view from above. It's a marvelous, marvelous passage. We're going to sing as our psalm selection, number 108 in your song book. Praise ye, praise ye the Lord. Andy, do you think this is familiar enough uh to us? I don't know, but I can run through it once it's uh out. Marissa, what do you think? Is this a familiar enough tune? It's not a familiar enough tune. You ladies will run through it once so that we can get familiar with it. Okay. Ah yes, very familiar to it. Now I know it. Alright, we sing all five stances in the Amen. Praise be called in God the heavenly high, angels all his voice. Enjoy all praise. Oh John declares my so forth, praise before. Praise will be high and we can go created by him. When I call it well the stand is turn only his further The preachers and the sea and preachers all day your mighty. Praise him, his for me wins that blow me for a day. And snow The Hills and Mountains praise It's free and decent And realms of work now let your face I am low by gong and all the I will let God be praised for the loneliness praise. Praise him, he says, to know his grace and Every more Thank you very much. I would encourage you right now, before you forget it to either make a mental note or scribble it down somewhere to read Psalm 148 sometime between now and the lex next Lord that Lord's Day. What a great psalm that is. Turn your Bibles with me to the book of 1 Chronicles. After Samuel's and Kings is the book of 1 Chronicles and the 12th chapter. 1 Chronicles 12. Let me thank our musicians for their efforts. We do appreciate the labors that they put in to be ready. If you were right-handed, have you ever tried to brush your teeth with your left hand? Yes. I hear a few a few people say yeah. Only because you've injured your right hand would you try to brush your teeth with your left. Well my dear wife is playing melody with her left hand. And if you understand the piano, you know that the pinky becomes the thumb. And the thumb becomes the pinky. It's a total reversal. I could never do it. But somehow she's managing first time she did it I was in my office and I heard her playing and I thought, oh, her hand must be okay to play And then I came out and realized she was playing melody with her left. So thank you to our musicians. They did indeed have a ministry among us. If you have your place now in 1 Chronicles chapter 12 I'm going to begin with verse number 23 and read through verse 38. And verse 32 is actually going to be our textual focus for this morning. But I begin in verse 23 of 1 Chronicles chapter 12. And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed to war and came to David, to Hebron. to turn the kingdom of Saul to him according to the word of the Lord. The children of Judah That their shield and spear were 6,800 ready armed to war. Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valor for the war, seven thousand and one hundred. Of the children of Levi, four thousand and six hundred And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were 3,700. And Zadok, a young man, mighty of valor, and of his father's house, twenty and two captains. And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, 3,000, for hereto the great part of them had kept the ward of the house of Saul. And of the children of Ephraim, twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous throughout all the house of their fathers. And of the half-tribe of Manasseh, 18,000, which were expressed by name, to come and make David king. And of the children of Ishkar, which were men that had understanding of the times to know what Israel ought to do The heads of them were two hundred, and all their brethren were at their commandment Of Zebulon, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with all instruments of war, fifty thousand which could keep rank, they were not of double heart And of Naphtali, a thousand captains, and with them shield and spear, thirty and seven thousand. And of the Danites, expert in war, twenty and eight thousand and six hundred And of Asher, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, forty thousand. And of the other side of Jordan, of the Reubenites and the Gadites. and the half-tribe of Manasseh with all manner of instruments of war for battle and hundred and twenty thousand All these men of war that could keep rank came with a perfect heart to Hebron to make David king over all Israel, and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart. To make David king. Let us pray. Father, now may you open thy word to show us glorious truths. May you instruct us your people this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever read the begats of Scripture? And this one begat that one, and the other begat his b the other, and so on. And thought, oh, what a drudgery this part of Scripture is. Do you remember any one particular lesson that your mother taught you? Think about that. The one lesson above all, my mom taught me many things. The one lesson above all that stands out in my mind that my mother taught me was read those very carefully. I remember my mom very clearly saying, and I see Penny shaking her head because I think she shared the same thing with Penny at various times. that when you read these lists of names and list of statistics and lists of facts, there is always something amazing. Yes. Because all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, correction, for reproof, for instruction in righteousness. And so my mom, when I was a teenager, taught me to read those carefully. Look with me at verse number 32. And of the children of Ishkar, which were men that had understanding of the times. To know what Israel ought to do. The heads of them were 200, and all their brethren were at their command. These men of Isgar were men that had understanding of the times. They were men that knew what Israel ought to do And they were men that their brethren followed. Their brethren understood and followed their direction. On the very basic level, these men of Ishgar are described in the commentaries as maybe have been been astrologers. Okay? They could read the the movement of the stars. Now, why would that be important did I s astronomers? Pardon me, not astrologers, astronomers Two two very words that are very similar but have very different meanings. They were astronomers. They could read the movement of the stars in heaven. Why was that important? Well remember all the feast that Israel was to keep And so they were men that could help the nation of Israel stay on track with obeying God in the keeping of the feast. That's the base. So the basic level, they were astrologers. Primary astronomers, if I say it wrong again, please hear the other and correct me On the practical level, they understood the seasons actually to locate the feast. But on the most important level, these were men that were spiritual leaders among their brethren. Now I read to you all the twelve tribes, thirteen if you want to say the half tribe of Manasseh on both sides But think of them as one, I read to you the account of these men that now are coming to David to make him king. And this tribe had so many thousand mighty men of valor. And this tribe had so many thousand that had shields and spears. And this tribe, they were not afraid, they were not double-hearted. But among them is one tribe that is mentioned differently than the others. It says nothing about the spiritual with the other tribes. But it says Ishkar was only 200 men, not thousands. Just a few that had understanding of the times and they knew what Israel ought to do. Folks, we need to be men of Ishgar in our day. We need to be men that understand what's happening around us. That know what the church ought to do and are able to lead others in the good and the right way. By understanding the times in which they lived, they were able to warn their brothers of the dangers of the time and the catastrophes that would follow departure from God. By understanding the times in which they lived, they were able to instruct the assembly of the righteous in the right way. And because they were faithful, they were made able ministers of God to sound forth the truth, even though they were few in number. It doesn't say that they were able to tell Ishkar, their own tribe, what to do, but they knew what Israel ought to do. Three verses that I believe relate to this. First of all, John 10, 27. My sheep hear my voice, and they know me, and I know them, and they follow me. God says, My sheep hear my voice, Christ speaking, and they I know them and they follow me. And the promise of Jeremiah 3, verse 15, and I will give you pastors according to mine heart. Which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding. These men of Ishkar were given to the nation As pastors. Now the word pastors doesn't mean, oh Pastor Joe, he has a title. No, it means men that were shepherds. Men that that led the sheep in the right way. Unfortunately, I have the title. I never sign my name. Well, I shouldn't say never. I only sign my name Reverend McKnight when it's on some official doctrine document that needs that But this word pastors is not talking about the pulpit ministry. It's talking about men within the assembly of the faithful that are shepherds to others of God's people. And so Christ said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them they follow me. Christ said, I'll give you pastors, I will place among my people godly men who will be godly examples. And then the third verse, by way of introduction, is Acts 20, verse 28. Take heed therefore to yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. To feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. Take heed to yourselves Because God has placed you in a position to lead other believers in truth, and that flock that you were admonishing was purchased with his blood. In the contemporary setting of 1 Chronicles chapter 12, it was a time of great concern and turmoil within God's people. You see, God has rejected Saul. And God has withdrawn his spirit from Saul. God no longer speaks to Saul And the Philistines have invaded, and Saul, rather than be captured by the Philistines, has committed suicide. He has fallen on his own sword. But before that took place, God sent Samuel to anoint David king. And so there has been a division within the nation where some are following David and some are following Saul. Samuel has done what God told him to do, but now Samuel is dead. And so the nation has lost its spiritual leader in two senses. It has lost its king and it has lost its prophet. And there's great concern and turmoil within the nation. But these men of Ishgar, in that very point of history, could do what? Discern the times. And know what Israel ought to do, and lead their brethren in the right way. Folks The Church of God has never been in a time when it wasn't in turmoil. Right? The Church of God has never been in a time when there weren't men who were supposed to be spiritual leaders that failed in spiritual leadership, like Saul. And there has not been a man given to the church of God to be a pastor and a testimony that has not died. And so you can't put your faith in a man, put your faith in God, because a man may be removed from his place of leadership by moral failure or by death at any moment. But him that think that he stands, take heed lest he fall. And so you see, the Church of God is not dependent on man Because men come and go, but it's never been lacking them either. God has never lacked the witness. Remember Elijah? Oh Lord, they've slain the prophets and they killed the uh I'm I alone left. God says, now I have 7,000 left. You just don't know about them. God will have his man. And so in such a time We have these men of Ishkar. Now, I said Brother Benson a note this week and said, oh, by the way, I'm not preaching a message on prophecy. Because uh Brother Vincent and I communicate on messages frequently. And uh you you know that we're not big on predictions and prophecy as some some churches try to tell you what's coming and so on So I just stand in and say, brother, by the way, I'm not preaching on prophecy. Don't worry when you see the Bulletin information. And yet Christ spoke to the Pharisees in Luke chapter twelve and verse fifty-four and following. And he rebuked them because he's um and he said unto the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower, and it is so And when you see the south wind, you say, There will be heat, and it cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth But how is it that ye do not discern the times? But as believers, we need to discern the times We need to understand the times we live in that we may be able to know what the church ought to do. And that we'd be able to lead them aright. And so that's what we're going to consider this morning. And there are five elements that we find in Scripture that are prophesied to come about That are coming about today. And that doesn't mean that it's the end of the times. That's not where we're going with it, though I believe it is the end of the times, but that's another point. But there are five things we're going to see that the Scripture warns us are going to happen. That are going to happen in our day and are happening in our day, and we must be men of Ishkar to see them, to know what the church ought to do, and to warn our brethren. And so in Matthew 24, and I'll give you time to turn to these if you'd like to, but in Matthew 24, starting in the fourth verse, we find the warning that there are going to be false prophets. And they are going to be very prominent. This is in Matthew 24, starting with the fourth verse. Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many, and ye shall hear of wars, see that ye be not troubled For all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. All these things are the beginning of sorrows. Now, what is the first thing we notice about that passage? What does God mention before he mentions wars and earthquakes and pestilence? False prophets. False prophets. Beware, lest ye be deceived. Many shall come in my name and say I am Christ. You see, uh I had a post on Facebook this week where I mentioned the hurricane in Jamaica, and some people right away responded, Oh, it's the end of the times, the signs of the times. Folks, when have there not been hurricanes? When have there not been earthquakes? When have there not been wars? The first thing that Christ mentions here is not the elements of this world It is the spiritual conflict which is more important. And Christ says, beware. He doesn't say beware that it's going to be a war. He doesn't say stock up food because there's going to be a hurricane. He doesn't say build your building right because there's going to be earthquakes. He said beware lest any man deceive you because many will come. And I'm sure all of you heard about the guy in South Africa that said the that the rapture was going to be in September and then it didn't happen in September. It said, oh no, I was using the wrong cop calendar. It's October. And we're in November, folks, and we're still here And we see in our day a multitude of false prophets. Now, first of all, we have to see it. Okay, I see that these people are false. Secondly, we have to know what we should do. We've got to speak out against it. We've got to stay true to the Word of God. God's kingdom is not of this world. We do not measure the coming of the day of the Lord by political or catastrophic circumstances. We determine God's truth by the spiritual. We must remember that the coming of false prophets is not something new. And folks, we've seen many. You know, Harold Camping comes to mind. Harold Kemping was a great preacher at one time, and he went totally off the rails And uh I know many godly men who stood against it, said, look, no, this is wrong. He he was saying the truth, now he's not And uh yeah, I know of of two churches in particular that that lost a third of their congregation because he was saying, come out. Folks, we have to discern what's happening We don't just say, well, you know, I I've always listened to him, so I'm going to listen to him now. No, when what he says doesn't agree with God's word, we stop. We stand aligned. We have to speak out and discern the times. Peter told the folks in 2 Peter 2, verse 1, there were also false prophets among them. That's talking about the Old Testament. And it it's interesting. Um the the divisions in scripture are verses and chapters were added um around eleven hundred, twelve hundred is when when they started doing just for to find things But the verse, no script prophecy is of any private interpretation. The prophecy came in old time by the will of not by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That is the last verses of chapter 1. And then chapter 2 says, but there's also false prophets. And so it's in that same context. And so we see the rise of false prophets. We must discern, that's not true. That's not what God's Word says. We must say, you've got to leave that alone, you've got to get away from it. And we must warn our brethren. But also, as men of Iskar, we live in a day when men will not endure sound doctrine. Men will not endure sound doctrine. And here I'm going to turn to 2 Timothy chapter 4 and read verses actually verse 1 down through verse 9, but I'm going to stop and comment. There in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 1, the Apostle Paul, instructing the young pastor, says this: I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge The quick and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom. You know, that's what the context is. The tick context of this message is end times. Preach the word, be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine, verse 3 For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall keep to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned to fables. Verse 5, but watch thou in all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. Doesn't that sound like the Minavishkar? They were 200 captains among all the thousands and hundreds of thousands that are mentioned of all the other tribes. But there were two hundred men who could discern the times and know what Israel ought to do and could command their brethren. Their brethren were all under their commandment. And then going over to Galatians chapter one and verse six, Paul talking to the Galatians says, I Marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into grace of Jesus Christ under another gospel. Which is not another, not another gospel. But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. Folks, men don't want to hear a sound doctor. We live in a day when when men want to hear pleasant words. Men want to hear that God is love. Well let me tell you something, folks. God is love. God is love. But every coin has two sides. God is love, but God is angry with the wicked every day. The psalmist said, I hate the works of them that turn aside. And God said, Jacob have I loved, and Esau have I hated. Well folks, that's doctrine that men don't want to hear. Right? Men will not endure sound doctrine. Men want to say, you know, I'm the master of my soul. Whosoever will may come, that means that it's my decision, that it's my choice. Whosoever believe that. And see, as soon as God says whosoever, he puts a qualification on it. It's whosoever believeth. And Christ said, You believe not, because you're not my sheep. See, and so man wants to hear something that pleases him. Man wants to hear something that is on the surface. Did you ever dig through gravel? Well, to get to the dirt below, you've got to do some heavy digging before you get the gravel out of the way. Well, that's the same with sound doctrine. It's not pleasant to get down deep. We live in a day when men will not endorse some doctrine. And that is why we have churches ordaining homosexuals. That is why we have pulpits with divorced men. That is why we have all kinds of immorality in the church Folks, come on and repent. We need to be men of Ishgar in our day. These were men of discernment. They could see what was happening in Israel in their day. They could see what Israel should do about it. And there were men who had their brethren under command. There were men that were able to do something about it. And that leads us right in to the third thing we see in our day. For we read there in Fir Second Timothy four, going back to verse three, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust Shohe can himself teachers having itching ears. Doesn't mean the people all had eczema, folks. Doesn't mean these funny things on the side of their head were scratching. It meant they found somebody that would tell them what they wanted to hear. You see, when you start preaching on sin and hellfire judgment A lot of people will go someplace where they hear something better. They'll go where they hear something they want to hear. And folks, the greatest illustration of this is found in the Old Testament in 1 Kings chapter 22. And this is a longer passage. I'm going to actually read through a lot of it and we'll stop and comment it. But turn with me to 1 Kings 22. You were there in 1 Chronicles for our scripture reading. 1 Chronicles is the book before 2 Kings, and of course 1 Kings comes before that. Just back a little bit. 1 Kings 22, we find Jehoshaphat and Ahab. Now you probably know more about Ahab than you know about Jehoshaphat, because Ahab was a wicked king. Jehoshaphat we find actually was a righteous king. He did that which was right. So we find that war is coming, and in 1 Kings chapter 22 and verse 5 And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, as he said unto Ahab, Inquire, I pray thee, at the word of the Lord today. And the king of Israel, as Ahab, gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go up against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I prevail? And they, that's the 400 men, and they said, go up, for the Lord shall deliver it into thine hand into the hand of the king. Verse 7. And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not a prophet among the Lord besides that we might inquire of him? Now, isn't this interesting? Ahab's 400 prophets said, Oh, yeah, this is what the Lord says. Go ahead, follow him. Jehoshaphat Who was a man of discernment said, well, hold on a second. Is there any other prophet of Jehovah? Is there somebody else that can tell us something different? Verse 8 And the king of Israel, that's Ahab, said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man Meciah, the son of Imel, by whom we may inquire of the Lord. But I hate him, for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, let not the king say so. You see, there was one prophet, you got four hundred, saying what the king wants to hear. And one saying, no, that's not what the Lord says. And Ahab's opinion was I hate him Because he always prophesies evil against me. I don't want to hear what he has to say. But it was one among four hundred that was speaking the word of the Lord. Verse 10, and the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, each sat on his throne, having put on their robes in a void place at the gate of Samaria and all the prophets prophesy before them. You know what they did? They had a great big religious conference. They rented out a stadium. And they filled it. They gave the prophets a state visit. Come on, guys. Come on. This is gonna be a big show. We're gonna put on our priestly our kingly robes We're going to have a smoke machine and light show, folks. Verse eleven. And Zedekiah, the son of Chimiah, made him horns of iron. And said, Thus saith the Lord, with these thou shalt push the Syrians until thou hast consumed them. Boy, Ahab liked that, didn't he? Verse 12 And all the prophets uh and all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Rameth Galeab and prosper, for the Lord shall deliver it into the kings. hand. Folks, there's never a shortage of preachers that will say what you want to hear. The Joe E ol Joel Oldsteins of the world love to tell you, you know, I just feel like something good is about to happen. old song says verse thirteen and the messengers that were the messenger that was going to call Micaiah spake unto him saying Behold now the words of the prophets that the words of the prophets declare good unto the king with one mouth Let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak that which is good. You see, you've got one man of God who's truly listening to God, and there's pressure on him. Don't say that. Don't preach that. How dare you say that homosexuality is a sin when I like it? Well, I've got this nephew, and he's a nice guy, but he's a homosexual. He must be okay. How dare you! Say those things. Don't you say anything other than what the rest of the prophets are saying And Micaiah said, As the Lord liveth, what the Lord saith unto me, that will I speak. So he came to the king, and the king said unto him, Mekiah, shall we go up against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall we for Baal? And this is Micaiah speaking. And he answered and said, Go up and prosper, for the Lord shall deliver it into the king's hand. He's mocking the missing. That's what you want to hear, isn't it? Go ahead. Go up. Do you really want to hear the word of the Lord or do you want to hear the truth? Verse 16. The king said to them, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou shalt tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the Lord? Wait a minute, Ahab, you hate him. Because he's doing exactly what you're telling him to do. He's telling you what is true in the name of the Lord. And you've already declared you hate him because he always prophesies evil. Verse 17. Micaiah says to Ahab and the Jehoshaphat, and he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills. as sheep that have not a shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master. Let them return, every man to his house in peace. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did not I tell thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me but evil? Now, what's happening here, folks? 400 prophets are saying exactly what the king and the president and the senator and everybody else wants to hear. One is saying the truth, and he's hated for it. Folks, I would submit to you that Micaiah was like the men of Ishkar. He discerned the times. He saw what was happening. He knew what Israel ought to do. And he faithfully proclaimed the truth, regardless of whether he was hated, honored, or despised. And so he too was like the men of Ishgar. Number four, and we're moving along closely now. We find in scripture that men will be lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. Men will love their own pleasure. This is found in 2 Timothy 3, starting at verse 1. And this know also that in the last days perilous time shall come. For men shall be lovers of pleasure of sorry, shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasting, proud blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful and holy, without natural affections, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, from such turn away. Folks, we love it, live in a day when love men love pleasure more than they love God. Dear, dear friend of mine. Told me the reason he picked the particular church he attends is because they have an early service during the fall. And he said I can still make kickoff at M and T Bank Stadium if I go straight from church. Folks, that's so emblematic of of the church today. You see, church is fine as long as there's not a ballgame. I'll go to church when it's convenient. Worship is good, but I worship my own plans first. My family's vacation time is more important than worship. My kids are playing in some sporting activity and so we're not gonna be able to be at church. These things that I want to do are more important than they than anything else to me. And so I yes I'm a Christian, yes, I'll serve the Lord, but you know this little thing it just happens to fall at the wrong time of the week, and so that's where I will be Folks, men of Ishgar have to look around and say, you know what, there's nothing more important than my service to God. There's no nothing more important than worship. I will set aside the things that please me in order to do the things that please the Lord. Men have become lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. The men of Iskar were men that could discern the times and know what Israel ought to do and lead their brother in the right way. And then finally, we live in a day when the killing of Christians The killing of Christians has become acceptable. Christ warned the disciples. He said in John 16, verses 1 through 3, and these things have I spoken unto you that ye should not be offended They shall put you out of the synagogues, yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you thinketh that he does God a service, and these things will they do unto you because they have not known the Father nor me. In Isaiah 57 verse 1, the righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart. The merciful men are taken away, and none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil that is to come. Both Paul and Barnabas were described in Acts 15 as men that have hazarded their lives. Men that hazard their lives for the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Folks in Nigeria. In Nigeria, Christians are being slaughtered by the thousands, by the Muslims. They're s in such multitude that they're not having a funeral. I saw pictures online of Or I not have it shown for a person, picture online of a grave fifty foot long with forty bodies in it. And one funeral because they're going into churches and slaying Christians and the world doesn't care a thing about it. We have seen a man who Regardless of associations, boldly proclaimed Jesus Christ assassinated in public. We live in a day when churches and Christian schools are invaded by gunmen and the world says, well, you know, uh he said something that wasn't very nice and therefore he deserved it. Have you heard that? Have you heard that? The folks, the men of Ishkar, the 200 among the thousands, the one prophet among the four hundred. Have to first of all discern the times. Look around, see what's going on, and say, yeah, Lord, this is bad. And then secondly, the men of Ishgar have to say, okay, this is what the Church of God should do, because this is what the Word of God says. And then the men of Ishkar should take a bold stand. You see, with all of these different things, I've said, you know, that this is what they did and we ought to do the same. We who understand the times and know what the church ought to do, first I'll almost pray for our brethren that are suffering to death. And secondly, we must be willing to join them. And see, if we are truly to be men of Ishkar, we have to be men that saved for me to live as Christ and the die as came. Mm-hmm. Men that say, if it costs my life, I will not deny Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 5, verse 12 to 14. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers. Ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. Even those who, by reason of use, have exercised their senses to discern good and evil. Doesn't that describe 200 men of Ishkar among the thousands that came to make David king? May God make us menadishkar. Let's stand for prayer Father, we thank you for these words. Lord, we thank you for the diamonds of truth that are scattered in among chapters that are just a matter of list. chapters that we could so easily skim over with little attention to to who these men are and how they lived. Father, bless thy word and thy truth to our hearts this day. Oh God, in this evil day, make us men of Ishgar. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, as you turn to your closing hymn number 400, I'd like to point out a uh slight word change that I'd like to make by the song. Wife and I were discussing it some time ago and it's a it's a beautiful song, but the uh the third stanza needs a correction on one word If you look at the very last part of the third staff, third stand-up, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Oh, um, no, let's see, where is it? Where is it, Gabe? Help me here. I'm trying to remember where it's Huh? Which one? Third? Uh third line. I wish I'd written it in here. Oh, uh third stands a second line. Let that grace now like a fetter bind my wandering heart to thee. We're going to change that word wandering to yielded. We're not going to say wandering, we're going to say yielded. The child of God doesn't have a wandering heart, he has a yielded heart to thee. Bind my yielded heart to thee. There's actually a version of this song that uses that, and so that's what we're going to sing there. in the uh third stanza, second staff. Let that grace now like a fetter bind my yielded heart to thee. Alright, so let's try that today. Alright, we're going to sing all three stanzas of number four hundred. Come thou fountain every blessing. Will thou thought every blessing to my heart to sing thy praise, strings of mercy, never ceasing. Tall for songs of loudest praise. Teach me some loudest song and sung by claiming songs of war. Praise God thou thy face thou god stranging floor. Here I praise my head on easy. Gillar by help my power and I hope by good pleasure safely through I'm Jesus sought me when a stranger, wandering from the home of God, is to rescue me from danger. Enter closes precious blood. Go to praise how great a deserter Daily I constrain to be. Let thy grace down like a better I are yielding or to thee Go to wander Lord I Before yourself Amen, amen. Please be seated. Thank you so much. Thank you so much.