Bear with me in your Bible, please. The gospel is recorded for us by Luke and the second chapter. This is a chapter that I preached from Probably twenty to twenty-five times over the last uh forty years. that the Lord has allowed me to be preaching as we're actually more than forty. Wow. How time flies the first time I preached I was fifteen years old. The Lord is good. But I preached from this passage many times So it's familiar, I'm sure, to you because I preached from this chapter probably three or four times in the last five years. And yet the message this morning is not a repeat. It's not leftovers pulled out of the fridge and reheated. It's amazing that we can look at God's Word again and again and new things jump out of passages that are the most familiar to us. And so I'm going to read verses 1 through 7 and then jump down to 14 and read 14 through 34 of Luke chapter 22, if you have your place now in God's Word. Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover. And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them. And they were glad and covenanted to give him money. And he promised and sought opportunity to betray him into their pres into Betray him too unto them in the absence of the multitude. And that then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed And then drop down to verse 14. And when the hour was come, he sat down with the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took the bread and gave thanks and broke it and gave it unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise also after the cup, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you But behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. And truly the Son of Man goeth as it was determined. But woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed. And they began to inquire among themselves which of them should be do should do this thing. And there was also a strife among them which should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them The kings of the Gentile exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors, but ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is cheap also as he that doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth, is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. Ye are they which have continued with me in my tribulations, and I appoint unto you a kingdom as my father hath appointed unto me. That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you. That he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison and to death. And he said, I tell thee, Peter, That the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me Let us bow briefly for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we open thy word together and look therein, we pray that thy Spirit would guide and direct our hearts into all truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The key verses that we're going to consider this morning are that 31st and 32nd verse of the chapter And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Our theme this morning, or our title, if you will, is Unfailing Faith For here Christ warns Peter that Satan has desired to have him. But Christ declares, I prayed for you that your faith will not fail. But before we get to Peter's situation, we have to consider the context here. And actually, we have here a comparison of two individuals. On the one hand, we have Judas And on the other hand, we have Peter. We find here that Christ is praying for Peter in verse 32 that his faith fail not. But back in verse 34 3 and 4, we find that Satan has entered into the heart of Judas among the number of the twelve. He was sitting here in the congregation, we could say. We knew which seat was his. He was numbered among us. And if you asked the other eleven about Judas, oh yeah, yeah, Judas is one of us. And yet Satan entered into his heart. And in verse 4 we find, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them. And that word communed is a word that means to hold counsel. Remember at the Mount of Transfiguration when Moses and Elias appeared? This word is a rare word in Scripture. It's only used five or six times But when Moses and Elias appear and Christ communes with them on the Mount of Transfiguration, it's the same word. In all three Gospels that record that event, it talks about Christ communing with them or holding counsel with them and uses the same term. And yet that is what Judas does with the chief priest. And when Moses and Elijah met there on the mountain of transfiguration with Christ, their purpose was to bring glory to Christ. And remember, the disciples later said, let's build three tabernacles. And Christ said, No, you don't know what you're talking about. And so Moses and Elijah were there to bring glory to Christ. But here Judas is communing To betray him. Go ahead and turn with you to John 6. This isn't really a side trail, but in John 6, if you're in Luke, just turn back a few pages and you're in John. John chapter 6. And we find in John 6. 4 that the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh at hand. John 6 is taking place exactly one year before. This Passover. There are three Passovers in the life of Christ. This is the first one. John 6 records the middle Passover. The first Passover is when he cat uh drives out the money changers. This is the middle one, which follows immediately after the feeding of the 5,000 in John 6, and then we have the final one, which is the one in Luke. So a year before the crucifixion takes place Jesus declares that he has uh come to call the righteous um come to to call those, he says in verse 36 of John 6 I say unto you that he also has seen me and bel ye also have seen me and believed not. All the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. If you look down to verse 48, Jesus says, I'm the bread of life. They were at the first Passover and it just had the feet of the 5,000. In verse 60, many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is a hard saying, who can hear it? Verse 63, he says, It is the spirit that quickeneth the flesh profeth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life. 64, but there are some of you that believe not. Judas was present there, wasn't he? There are some of you that believe not, for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him Here, a year before Luke 22, it declares that Jesus knew who would betray him and who believed not. It's talking about Judas, isn't it? A year before. And so in verse uh seventy of John six, Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen 12 and one of you is a devil. You see, Judas did not become a devil, he was a devil. There was an evil spirit within him. And in John, when it says that Satan entered into him, it's not meaning that was a new occurrence, but Satan has entered into him, and from the very beginning. Judas was a betrayer. From the very beginning, Judas was an evil man. And it really occurred to me as I was studying Luke 22. Some people started to say, well, Judas thought he would bring about the kingdom, that Judas thought he was doing something good. If Judas really thought he was doing the right thing, why did they have to pay him? Why did they pay Judas to betray Christ if Judas thought he was doing the right thing? If Judas really was right trying to bring in the kingdom of God, don't you think he'd do it for free? But the love of money is the root of all evil. And Judas, they knew, didn't care for the poor when he talked about this ointment could have been sold and given to the poor. He kept the purse. He was skimming off the top. He was the first white-collar criminal recorded in the Word of God. Judas had a devil. And so, here we have this contrast. And we find the disciples, when Christ says, the hand of him that's going to betray me is here on the table, and Judas knows that it's him. Because he's already made his arrangement with the high priest. Now it's just a matter of meeting Christ in the garden with the disciples. And yet the disciples turn to an argument over who's going to be greatest. And Peter says, Simon, Simon, Satan has desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, feed thy brethren. So you have this contrast between Judas the betrayer. What was Judas' response after the crucifixion? He ran demand for forgiveness. Hmm. They went to the chief priest and threw the money down and said, This is blood money, can't take it. What was the response of Peter when he was confronted with his denial? He went out and wept bitterly. Judas didn't repent. Peter did. And so we come to this matter of unfailing faith. And folks, it's a very serious matter. Because I believe that every true child of God has had a crisis of faith. And many of us have had many crises of faith. In times when we knew we believed in Jesus Christ, and yet we begin to doubt. And we look at something we have done and said, Lord, why did I do that? How could I possibly have said that or thought that or done that? And truly be a child of God. And yet, Satan is our adversary. He is the accuser of the brethren He's a roaring lion walking about seeking who he may devour. And I remember my father, and I I know I refer back to my dad so often, but my dad was my pastor, he was my teacher, he was my mentor. Saying that God that Satan will come along and whisper in your ear constantly. A believer wouldn't do that. A Christian wouldn't say that. You see, if Satan can keep you in that doubting position If Satan can keep you warming your hands at the enemy's fire rather than weeping bitterly, he can destroy your effectiveness of service. It can destroy your ability to witness and be a testimony. And so this morning, with that rather long introduction I would like us to consider this matter of unfailing faith. And the first thing we must consider is where do you get it? What is the source of unfailing faith? You see, I'm sure Judas had a faith. He wouldn't have followed Jesus for three years without some kind of faith. And the devils believe and tremble. And I was sharing with some of you before the service that that passage Ye believe in God, believe also in me. The world believes in God. They believe there is a God. There are no true atheists. But simply believing that there's just some grandfather in disguise, as the world likes to portray him, is not salvation. You see, Judas was a Jew. The name Judas comes from the name Judah. He was a Jew of the Jews. He had been raised in a synagogue He probably had sat at the feet of the great teachers of his day. He had all the blood of Abraham in his veins. And he believed there was a God, but he did not believe that Jesus Christ was the Son of God. He did not believe that Jesus was the Messiah. You see, he had a faith. But it was not an unfailing faith. It was a faith that failed when he saw the money bag. It was a faith that failed when there was an opportunity for gain. It was a faith that failed that led him to betray Christ. And so where did Judas get this faith? And where did Peter get his? Because I want Peter's. And so The source of unfailing faith is the gift of God. God gave to Peter a faith that he did not give. To Judas. And the proof of that is in the familiar passage in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. In Ephesians 2, verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherein he loved us Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ By grace ye are saved. And then dropping down to verse 8, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For by grace you save through faith And that. What is the that? Well, a lot of people try to say, well, it's the gift. No, the that's the faith. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that the faith, not of yourselves. Not of your good works, lest any man should boast. And so you see, when Satan comes along and says, look at your bad works, you must not be saved. My salvation isn't based on my bad works or my good works. It's based on the gift of God. God has given me this gift. And folks, if my faith is based on whether I did something good yesterday or something bad yesterday, then that's failing faith. But if my faith is based on the fact that I know I did nothing good, because even the good things that I may claim as good in finger quotes are not good For all of our righteousnesses as filthy rags. I have no good works. I have some works that may be considered better than well, but others But they're still filthy rags. They still have no merit. And so when Satan says you can't be saved because look what you said. The answer has to be, I'm not saved because of what I said, I'm saved because of what he said. You can't be saved because of what you did. I'm not saved because of what I did, I'm saved because of what He did. He died on the cross for me. And so, first of all, unfailing faith is faith that is given by God. And not based on anything good or bad that I have done. But I mention that it's a matter Of what God has said. And that's the second thing. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Who are you listening to? Are you listening to that voice in your ear that's saying, you can't be saved, you can't be saved. Or are you listening to the voice of God that says, Come unto me. All ye that are happy and joyful? No, all ye that labor. Folks, Judas wasn't laboring when he hung himself. But old Peter was when he wept bitterly. It comes by the gift of God And it comes through the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. You see, Judas sought salvation by association. Peter sought salvation through faith. Judas When he was faced with the opportunity to make a make some money, make thirty pieces of silver by betraying Christ, he leapt at the opportunity, and there was no restraint upon him Peter, when he came to the point that he actually denied three times that he knew Jesus Christ, his faith did not fail. Because his faith wasn't in what he did. His faith wasn't in acknowledging or denying. His faith was not preserved by acknowledging or denying. His faith was preserved because Christ had prayed for him. And so, first of all, unfailing faith has a source, and the source is God Himself. But secondly, folks, and I hope this will bring great blessing and comfort to your heart, what is the substance of unfailing faith? The source is the gift of God through his word. But what is the substance of this faith? Turn with you to the book of Hebrews. We've been studying Hebrews in Sunday school. And I if uh again I'll put in a plug here for Sunday school. If you're missing Sunday school, you're missing a great blessing. I don't get preached to during the worship hour because I do the preaching. But I get preached to during the Sunday school hour, so it's a two-for-one sale, folks. Come to Sunday school as well as to morning worship. Hebrews chapter eleven and the first verse. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. That word is the word hoopostasis It's only found five times in Scripture. And these words that are only found a few times have so much to teach us. This word, substance, means literally to set under or to set the foundation. It's a foundational word. Faith is the substance of things hoped for. It is the evidence of things not seen. It's the foundation. Now you can't see faith. I can't hold up faith here and show it to you visibly. But faith is the substance of things hoped for. But that word that means foundational is talking about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the substance of things hoped for, and I'll prove it to you. Look at chapter 1 of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1, Burley Bence referred to these verses in study school this morning. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 1. God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake unto us in times past in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds Who, this is Jesus Christ, who being the brightness of his glory and express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power. You know what the word person is there? Hopostasis. It's the same word, folks. The word faith now faith is the substance. of things hoped for is the same word person referring to Jesus Christ. What is the substance of my faith? It is Jesus Christ. He is the foundation. Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. What is the substance of unfailing faith? It's Jesus Christ. Because he is the express image of the person. And if that were the only reference, it would be enough. But there's more. Because turn to chapter 3. Of Hebrews. Chapter three of Hebrews, verses twelve, thirteen, and fourteen. Hebrews 3 verse 12. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God, Judas. Do you see Judas in verse 12? Take heed. Lest there be an evil heart departing from the living God But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end. Do you have any clue what the word confidence is? Hu postasis. It's the same word. And so in chapter one, faith is the substance of things hoped for. Faith is Jesus Christ. In chapter, or chapter 11, verse 1 faces up. In chapter 1, verse 3, he has expressed image It's talking about Christ. And then again in chapter 3, this is the confidence that we have. Folks, what is the substance of unfailing faith? It's not my works. It's not the good I did yesterday. It's not affected by the evil I did the day before. The substance, the reality, the foundation of unfailing faith is a person. It is Jesus Christ. It is Christ alone. And you know why sometimes our faith begins to fail? We're looking at the wrong person. We're looking at ourselves. But what does Scripture say? Looking unto Jesus, the author. The author, the one who wrote the book, and the finisher of our faith. Folks, if you want unfailing faith, there's only one source. It's the gift of God. If you want to know that you have unfailing faith What's the substance of your faith? Is your faith based on what you've done? Or is your faith found in the one who's done it all? The substance of unfailing faith. Coming back to our text on the matter of substance, And he took bread and gave thanks and said unto them, saying, This is my body. Here's the substance, folks. Here it is. This is my body. This is a picture of it. This is what I'm about to do. I'm about to sacrifice my body on the cross. This is my blood. You want a substance? Here's the substance. It is not my physical body. We're not cannibals But the taking of the bread and the drinking of the wine is a picture of receiving into ourselves what Christ did on the cross. There's a substance to my faith, folks. It's not just some ethereal idea. Christ is the substance. But finally, the sustainer, the sustainer, the source, the substance, and the sustainer, the sustainer of unfailing faith. Judas tried. There have been many. King Saul tried. Cain sought with tears. Or not Cain, I'm sorry. Yeah, Cain, no, Esau. Esau sought with tears. Who is the sustainer? How can I patch this faith up and keep it going? How can I drive in some nails and put some bracing that my faith doesn't fail? Peter's faith did not fail for one reason. I have prayed for thee. You see, my faith comes from Jesus Christ. My faith is Jesus Christ, and my faith is preserved by Jesus Christ. If you want unfailing faith, you'll only find it as a gift of God. If you want unfailing faith, it'll only be in Jesus Christ. And if that faith is to endure, it will only be because he holds the up. Because folks, Jesus declared that you're in my Father's hand. And you're in my hand. And no man can pluck you out of my father's hand. Judas was surely plucked away. But he was never at Jesus Christ's hand. Judas was numbered with the twelve, but he was not of them. Unfailing faith. May we find it in Christ alone. Stand with me for prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the blessings that we find in your word. Father, deafen our ears to the voice of the adversary, and tune our hearts to the voice of the shepherd. Bless us, Father, with unfailing faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.