Let's start with Isaiah 61. In verse twenty eight, and all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath, and rose up Yeah, that certainly he is uh this divine one here because he's gonna proclaim the year of the Lord. You see, they understood that God is the only one who can forgive sins. God is a spirit, right? A mother comes in the kitchen, what is that substance on the floor? So used that way, he conceived that there were three persons who could share one substance. Let's go take a look at that. So they started off by saying, We believe in one God. And I've got color coding. And I'll tell you something, every heretic has his verse. He's speaking to a ruler in Israel. You don't know about the Spirit of God quickening a person into life? Uh I can't that's one word I can't pronounce too well, so you'll bear with me. The heaven was opened, and the Holy Ghost, that is, the Holy Spirit, descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him. I mean four fifty one to I mean, you know, that we're over four hundred years of people really wrestling with this and struggling with some very real issues, very big heresies that were coming up and great Or the Almighty God, sure, El should I, right? That ain't talking about water. who believed that Jesus really wasn't God. We have seats here. And they knew that very much he was divine, he was God, but what about the his flesh? uh a unitary a unity view of God. Because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. Here he read, Isaiah 61, that the Spirit of the Lord is upon him to preach the gospel, that marvelous prophetic statement from Isaiah during a very trying time of Israel's history. The Lord God is upon him. And they understood it as such. And thrust him out of the city, and led him to the brow of the hill, wherein their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. Who would announce them? the the political leader, somebody like David. So again, our topic is the Trinity and the unfathomable mystery of it. and of the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit is something that we had no prior experience with. Sometimes they ask really penetrating questions. Uh but of course the theologians would shred that into a lot of pieces. And they all share something called the omnis. when I ventured into teaching this particular assignment. Uh that breaks down because that doesn't truly depict God. explanation that I've heard that would probably be helpful for young children is like if you think of say yourself, you are a father Okay. If Jesus isn't God, He has no power to forgive sins. Can we really say God the Father is in charge and the Son takes orders and then the Spirit is kind of doing what the Son tells him to? through the through the Word of God. There were many, many disputes as to the divine nature of Jesus Christ, just really who he is. He was an early church father, and he's the one that defined the word Trinity, and I think that's interesting. called the 100 Most Important Events in Christian History. The Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit all claim that same divine property. And there's three claimants to that. That doesn't make him fully God, and maybe grace isn't as full as God had intended it. And the Arians were trying to rule that out. You've kind of got him linked up with an angel or something like that. And it begins in verse 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being or existing, in the form of God. And he didn't think it uh robbery to be uh equal with God, meaning uh uh uh I'm not exactly sure how to unpack that phrase, so I'll just put that over here for a moment. To see Jesus in his full glory is going to destroy you. uh walking into a laser beam that's full power that we use to bounce signals off of planets. So there wasn't much talk about the Holy Spirit. And at the Council of Constantinople in 381 A. uh that are now currently in what you and I would recite as the Nicene Creed. Alright, so they added of heaven and earth and of all things visible and visible. Now remember, one of the difficulty with the Arians is that they were using Bible verses to support their point. of the essence of the Father, God of God, light of light, very God of very God. And Jesus Christ is the one by whom all things were made. How did Jesus Christ come into being? That got added tremendously in the next part where they put in, I believe I believe, dot dot dot, in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and Giver of life. Who proceeds from the Father and the Son. They are using that. I'm going to pray to the Father, and God the Father is going to give you another comforter. And verse 26, but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. uh people who believe in his name, trust in his promises, look forward to their fulfillment, who follow him by faith, whatever means or dispensation was at the time. And the life of the world to come. In the unity of the Godhead there be three persons, of one substance, power, and eternity God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost eternally proceeding from the Father and the Son, and they give two, four, six, eight scripture references for those points to nail it down. It's the human nature because God has forsaken the human p uh the sinful each person. So Christ on the cross in his flesh, but also in his soul existence, he would cry out, My God, why hast thou forsaken me? I'm the way, the truth, and the life. Some might try to uh subdue that teaching, but in fact it was an undeniable truth that the early church grasped Many things about who Christ was exactly that caused a lot of uh difficulty for the first 300 years of the church's existence. Now there's an interesting play in the Hebrew there. Now, if you're familiar with this passage, you know that it's quoted somewhere in the New Testament. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. the Lord himself to that congregation. And that's the part we just read. of how God went to some Gentiles with some of his famous prophets, Elijah and Elisha. I'm the Messiah, I'm God. No, he surely was not. Done in what whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country. They wouldn't they would be able to throw off these Roman shackles. Uh Gabriel's insight to Mary, she is told that the Holy Spirit is going to come upon her and produce a child. And that child would be called the Son of God. The Lord Jesus was born into this world. So here you have Jesus at his baptism. Matthew 28, 19, the last verse, it says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name singular, of the Father and of the Son. So I open the question to the floor here. I want to come up to you and say who is Jesus Christ? Because we have no other experience of reading day one. different times. After you said that you left this with a whole list for it. Well, Terry, if you could help me with that. Born of four friends, they broke up the roof and they let this paralytic man down in the middle of the house. So there's a lot of difficulties in that. How do we relate him? concepts of legal importance that the Romans picked up and used in their law system. Most of the world spoke in Greek, which is very precise, but Latin was very good for conveying uh certain But unfortunately, he would subordinate the Son and the Holy Spirit in essence. In fact, it was a fellow named Athanasius who stood the day and insisted and held on the fact that homooesis, one substance, I think I'm pronouncing that Greek term correctly. So what happened after Tertullian came along when he defined that term Trinity is after that there was a fellow named Origen that came along in 205 A. They took both Jesus and the Holy Spirit and said, Well, that was the first creature of God. the appearance of submissiveness as does um uh first Peter said when he was reviled he reviled not again when he suffered he threatened not but committed Okay? So he humbled himself. Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, and so forth. to to not bring to your attention because it does have such a wealth of attention paid to it and it is wrestling and struggling with some very intense issues. to to to walk our way through the validation of some of these points. We worship one God, so that's consistent with what the Jews believed. What they changed is then to say maker of heaven and earth, because apparently all things visible and invisible wasn't clear enough. as the Father Almighty. They said, well, um, yeah, but Jesus did that over here on the side. Why would they add that phrase, the son of God? All things refers to everything that God the Father made. Because that's the language that the Bible refers to it as, that He's the Creator. So we can say God of God, right? You know, he had bad food. He's in the lineage of the scriptures, again tightening up the language to show that no, this is one who came from the scriptures. I mean, look at this language. Very good, very good connection. Why can't you fix this creed? Abraham had a few promises, had a voice from God. We look for the resurrection of the dead. cite what the heretics were saying and say that was wrong. So there were some people speaking like that. And he was made out of nothing. studied how the creeds have come together, but there was a reason why these things were put together. Well, the Bible teaches that three named individuals, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, have the same divine attributes, and yet insist that there is one God. I can't relate to that. So he's the same substance, you see. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. So here Jesus says to the woman, you've got to worship God in spirit and in truth. Being very coy about who he is. I think I'll uh close out uh in this section and offer you a few closing remarks. That they're all three right there. There's biblical paradoxes about God that require precision to explain. uh mode or rank or essence, things of that nature. while fencing out the wolves who also held a Bible in their hand. uh that does hold a large tent for the umbrella of Christianity. So from Christ's very own lips on the cross, we hear somebody who's either heavily deranged or is omnipresent because he's going to be enduring the wrath of God. I I don't understand that kind of person. uh uh taking up the sins of the feet of the thing. Fear not them who destroy the body and afterward can do nothing with the soul. Just who was or who is Jesus Christ? There's only one God. In Genesis 3. They did not recognize a personal God, that is, that Jesus, that God would come in the flesh, and certainly not the Messiah would come in the flesh. illustrating that God speaks of himself in the plural, and yet he insists, as we read in Deuteronomy 6, 4, the Lord our God is one Jehovah. So let's go to Isaiah chapter 61 so I can prove that bold assertion. And we discover this particular encounter. At least that's what they would have thought about. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he says in verse 21, he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. That's a pretty harsh reaction for the Messiah to stay to sit there and say, this is going to begin to be fulfilled in your ears. And so they went to cast him away. couldn't possibly be in human flesh. They were looking for what we would call political salvation. to restore a um uh all of the uh prophetic uh language in a hi in a physical way that you would have seen from Ezekiel. And the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant whom ye delight in. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. Those are the quarter-inch pads which I'm trying to get rid of. What difficulties would we face trying to answer those questions? I was kind of holding to an idea known as modalism, and Edward, I'm not picking on you, but you happen to mention it, so that's a good one. When he's solid, he's like the father. God's not modal in that respect. Created angels, you know, there's like God, then there's Jesus, then there's angels and everything else. Um the the the you' you're you're you're getting close. Yeah, he says a lot about forgiveness of sins. And the prophets. If I borrow money from uh Abina and you know $500 and refuse to pay it back, that might cause some consternation in a relationship And uh if Anton comes along and says, ah, don't worry about it, it's forgiven. Uh, who who said you didn't owe me the money? relationship is? Is it authoritative for gospel truth? Your stuff, as it were. So what he was doing is the terminology came from the Roman law courts. The uh uh there were many uh claims that one could make. Frankly, stir up more questions in your mind than answers. Colossians says that he created all things by the word of his power. himself to him that judges righteously. It says verse 87, excuse me. that are connecting Christ with the Father. So it's a struggle. detached from the Jewish history. That part they wanted to add to insist that he was very God. modern translations. The begotten of the Father. before all eons, before all ages. He is uh he is man of God, not God of God. God made everything. They they got rid of the word men, so they didn't want to disenfranchise the ladies. came down from heaven. And then the middle part, he suffered. whose kingdom shall have no end. And he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth. You see how that language gets difficult? And we believe in one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. Universal? Catholic means universal throughout all time. through grace and they're in heaven with Jesus. Or some that say he is of another substance or essence. what was in those early creeds to get what they were battling against. Anybody who's a true believer in God has always condemned that nonsense. So uh uh next time your kid asks, uh may not be a bad idea just to go find, you know, the Trinity hymnal, look in the back for the Nicene Creed and say, well, you know, here's a succinct way, and it's as succinct as the church could get it. Now, here's the difficulty and here's the struggle with some of these things. All three declare a creative ability, yet each come to us revealed at different times that implies rank or having been created. We sense that God as a creator is obviously more complex than us creatures and thus not fully comprehensible. revealing much about his character in very simple terms. I think John is one of the toughest books to start with. In the beginning was the Word. They were created. Listen to this language in John chapter 3. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, we speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things and you believe not, how shall you believe if I tell you of heavenly things? We just tend to think of Jesus as just a regular guy. In spite of all this, the largest umbrella of Christianity, I'm talking Protestants and frankly even Roman Catholics, hold to the doctrine of the triune God as expressed in these confessions, the Nicene Creed. Talking about the uh the difficulty would be when Jesus was on the cross and said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? um to pay for the sins of all who would believe in him, Jesus Christ endured. All right, we'll wrap it up there. So that's a thumbnail introduction to it, and I hope I've piqued your interest in trying to figure out why this is a difficult topic and also why it's hard for some people to that he's Elohim. And he goes even further than just to quote it. them seeing that yeah this this will be the Lord. You and I know it as eternal God, uh-huh, and especially the Lord of the Covenant, they would have seen it as the uh the There's kind of a a lineage. precisely describe this relationship between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. uh substance that is both liquid solid and vapor all at the same time. that the scriptures doesn't describe God that way. cre creature that God made and through that first creature then created everything else and you know had tremendous powers was I understand what what what you're saying. Right? Man is God, uh the head of uh the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man. Whatsoever Jesus Christ asks for, he receives. They would you could shoehorn something in there to make Jesus less than God. Because he is. And stick with it and give some clarity. And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary and was made man. I'm not Roman Catholic. You obliterate the simplicity of the gospel in Christ Jesus. How would they have conceived of God to begin with? The Messiah himself announces to them, what you've just read, what I've just read of Isaiah, I'm here to fulfill it. Then you have Matthew chapter 28 and verse 19, where the Holy Spirit, along with the Father, also appears. So I'm just covering a few verses to try to illustrate certain things about the difficulty that we face in trying to. I really was a little befuddled, or at least I thought I had a clear explanation of how to explain the Trinity to someone, you're a son to someone, and your husband to someone. the um uh uh uh I'm trying to remember what the difficulties are with that right off the top of my head, but I don't remember. lead up to what you're about to look at as we're going to look at the uh the the Nicene Creed. Is he divine? Sins be forgiven thee. So that's a big problem that you have if in fact Jesus isn't God. that uh Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit and God the Father laid hold of that same divine claim Jehovah Witnesses is one group of people. Subservient order between God and Christ is likened in the home between the man and the woman. Notice the resurrection they're attacking this on. So Jesus is saying, no, I'm coming to you. Universal throughout all time. We acknowledge one baptism for the remission of sins. Okay? His nature to us, he says to this woman at the well, he says, God is the Spirit flesh and bones and talking to me, you must not be God. with me in paradise. The Jews will start there on this topic of the unfathomable mystery of the Trinity, and it is unfathomable. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn, and to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning. What what passages do we have that point to them believing that the Messiah was going to be God himself? Their expectation was that God would send forth a prophet, somebody who would come in the power and spirit of Elijah, perhaps. Clearly the Holy Spirit's from heaven. And so the Pharisees would complain, who is this look at Mark chapter 2. But if you don't have to be in that position, if you step down from that to a servile position, that's a different story. Thought it not robbery to be equal with God. created, he was literally found in the fashion of a man. The Father Almighty, maker of all things visible and invisible. They removed that apparently duplicative phrase, the only begotten that is the essence of the Father, God of God, and they simply said, He was begotten of the Father before all worlds. A lot of the miracles of Jesus, John doesn't have a lot of those, just a handful. The garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, if they might be called trees of righteousness, planting of the Lord, that He might be glorified. In Luke 1. Luke chapter 1 and verse 35, we read this: The angel answered, speaking to Mary, and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Um up there is another thing we I take too much this gonna do also And then we read, certain of the scribes, verse 6, sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why does this man thus speak blasphemies? You didn't have anything to do with this. lack of comfort in the church. Point number two. Catholic means universal throughout all time. Okay. So here you see that. He's not God, he's he's able to be corrupt. One thing I would point out is the thing the parts that I have highlighted here I like to write in my books, so if you ever borrow a book from me, I'm sorry I write in my books, I just do that. It's no big deal if you're already in a servile position to be subject to a master. So he emptied himself. And some of the language was okay and some of it was not okay. Obviously, there's a whole lot going on with Jesus Christ. The whole Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, just told Nicodemus, we know our testimony. I'm going to hand out some things for you here because we're going to start to look at some of these things. Because of what? Thomas, in Luke 24, 39, he said to doubting Thomas. Nicodemus verse 9 answered and said to them, How can these things be? Verse 14, it says, Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit unto Galilee. No. Is not this Joseph's son? He laid down a helpful formula. Later the Arians came along picking up on that, and they denied the deity of the Son and the Holy Spirit both, and he simply, the Arians called them the first creatures. It means universal, so I thought why don't they just replace it with the word universal? So you can see why this is very difficult to explain because of how it comes out into us in the scriptures. I personally prefer the term triunity, but you know, who am I? There's a passage in Malachi chapter 3 that uh reads, uh Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me. What he sought to do in his definition was he tried to preserve the unity of the Godhead to show that they were all the same. We read this. Yeah, three offices. Because that's what the scriptures call him. Feel free to jump in. Uh the Jews, I don't know that they thought the Messiah would in fact be God Himself. Somebody who would be like King David, who would once again restore them to great national prominence, where they would have a great kingdom Somebody after the flesh, but certainly not somebody who claimed to be God. Jesus and the Holy Spirit they are one but they happen to be at different places Is it like uh you know a a five-star, three-star, two-star general type of thing? And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. The exhortation in this is to not be high-minded, right? We have the word of Jesus in the Bible, and so there's always been clearer revelation given, but they all believed in one God, and they're all saved by faith. The only begotten, that word begotten, is like a dozen times, but in modern translations only about three. And again they kept the rest of the language. The Bible teaches that. is one Lord, again Jehovah. 22, it says, The Lord God said, Behold, the man has become as one of us, to know good and evil. I'm glad you bring that up because you're thinking through this. And was made in the likeness of men. Ah, maybe Jesus was the first creature. What's that? No, you're correct. Verse 14. This is why it gets difficult. That the Spirit of the Lord God's upon him, yeah. Jesus Christ is at the same time God the Holy Spirit is at the same time God the Father And so when we break it, we're not breaking Moses' law. And I'm going to kind of go a phrase at a time. I mean I haven't seen anything do that. He insists that. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to preach the gospel, dot, dot, dot, all the way through down to verse 19 to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. 35, we see that Jesus Christ is introduced right alongside with the Holy Spirit. When Jesus came, they rejected his divinity. Like God is God. Maker, notice capitalized M, of all things visible and invisible. Amen. No, he wasn't. There's three people that lay claim to that, and that's as far as he could go with it. He took upon him the form of a servant. Right? He's God of God. It meant he died on the cross and was under Pontius Pilate, where nailed down a specific person, suffered, and was buried. They were so focused on trying to answer the male, who is Christ, that they really didn't pay much attention. Well that's very interesting. Okay. In 325 A. He says, you know, let me just cut the chase. So that was their view of God. They knew that all of that was the expectation, the hope of Israel that would be fulfilled by the Messiah. To make himself like unto God. Thank you. We have an answer where his flesh came from. Yes. Verse 23, and he said unto them, You will surely say unto me this proverb, physician, heal thyself. That was a very big question. There, it's the Spirit of God that regenerates. Well boy, if the Spirit of God doesn't come in, you raise him from the dead, I don't know who does. In Matthew chapter 28 and verse 19, the very end of the book of Matthew, if you hit the back book of Mark, you can back up one page and you'll hit right where we need to be in Matthew So the early church wrestled with this. Now, they started to add, they initially added some other language in there. Notice they want to make it clear. Who with, they continue in the Creed, who with the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified, who spake by the prophets. No man comes to the Father but by me. It says, When all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also being baptized and praying. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, we don't worship ten different Christs. So I think they did a nice job by indicating the Holy Spirit is sent from the Father and from the Son He was just the first creature. We see that very clearly in Genesis 1, where it says, Lo now, behold, excuse me, Genesis 3. Certainly we know he laid aside his glory when he came down here. They needed to bolt that on. He's not fully revealing himself to her. We speak what we have seen and what we hear, and our testimony is true. I just understand that. Right. Who can forgive sins? So let's kind of walk our way through that briefly. They have to nail that down. Why is it hard to answer the question, who is Jesus Christ? And that is a view that some people have where he's just kind of like this superhero character that keeps morphing into these different characters and these different figures. And the Holy Spirit, what do we say about the Holy Spirit, whom Jesus sent? So that's the struggle. If we have time, yep. Excuse me. It says, excuse me. It's the Spirit of God. They absolutely do indicate that he was submissive, which all the more validates my point. Church. Have a brief period of desserts. Why do you suppose they would have taken such a sharp reaction to the Messiah? Oh, I'm going to need to keep No, I don't need to keep one. And so you rightly would still hold that debt out over my head. They added that the Holy Ghost comes from the Father. You look at John 14. Why do we say, I'm not going to say I believe in the Holy Catholic Church. Notice what was removed, and you can see what they were battling in 325, and this is this fourth point that they took out, because they're now directly trying to They were really looking for David's son. Who is the Holy Spirit? You know, who is Jesus? He is all three at the same time. Uh so that I have uh uh I I'm at the same time a husband and a father and yet I have somebody I'm a son, so there's th there's a three office. To this day we have uh Arians. Yes, yeah. On the cross he cries out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? There's a uh a transmission, if you will. In Mark chapter two, and the early the very first few verses, there's this man who came down. Now I don't think he came for forgiveness of sins. So some scriptures are kind of just make it He's brighter than seven sons. That was a big Jewish name of God, the Father Almighty. So that's nice. We don't have to be on the hard seats. And that's something the Jews believed as well. What is he saying when he says that this scripture is fulfilled in your ears? That's why they considered it blasphemy for him to say that. So now you have the Holy Spirit begetting the Son of God. It's a really good, easy read. Not many gods, right? That's what Jesus called himself. The resurrection was according to the scriptures. Water doesn't remit your sins. When uh people first profess faith in Christ, uh they get interested. Then you have, let's look now at another aspect where Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit together are introduced. Candace, you have some thoughts? That they're in essence the same. So now do you see what they've connected? And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. It's quite complex. Verse 17, there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. They would be a great and strong and mighty nation, a a a grand people on the face of the earth again. Then you go to Luke chapter 3. Does that have anything to do with him personally? All right, now why is that important? The word worlds is ages or eras or epochs. It flows. John 14, verse 16. And so let me wrap that up real quick. Or he was not before he was made. No, he wasn't. No. In other words, he is God. D. The word Catholic is a word. So that's what we believe. Or the Son of God is created or changeable or alterable. So there's the Aryan heresy there is that, well, he was made. Jesus is standing there speaking to Nicodemus. So there was a struggle in the early church for, as I mentioned in my prayer, for the first 300 years concerning the nature of the Godhead. But the bad thing about the Jews is they did not recognize a personal God. That was their vision. So that's a big problem. God is one substance consisting of three persons. They're connecting these two. I like that. And years ago when I first did it, I realized, no, I actually had some bankrupt ideas. You know, obviously some child has done something vile on the floor and you're trying to mop this thing up. The third day he rose again, ascended into heaven. In other words, God has only had a people, has always had a people for himself. at the Council of Nicaea, and that's what we're going to look at here, the Nicene Creed, they declared the Son to be co-essential with the Father. That's beyond my comprehension. Look at verse twenty-two. The third part, by whom all things were made, both in heaven and on earth. You, a teacher in Israel? He was very great, very powerful, but not divine It says, The Lord, that's Jehovah, our God, Elohim, which is plural. In other words, you're just a man. They're all omnipresent, meaning everywhere present at the same time. Is he really divine? And he's God of God. I'm the Holy Spirit, right? They thought he was blaspheming God. Uh it's not his to forgive. The Son of God, begotten of the Father, you know that's a word that's torn out of a lot of The Son of Man is from heaven. Ex nihilo, God creating out of nothing. The language is difficult. We read this, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. So here he goes in the form of God. D. Well, Jesus, if you're telling me God's the spirit and you're standing there with However, these paradoxes demand simplicity to be understood. Yea, rather fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. He's coming out of the water. So here we see that there is one name of God. It's just very significant events since Jesus Christ physically left this earth, how things have progressed along. This is Jesus Christ, the fulfillment of Jewish prophecy. The stuff that we touch, this isn't some way out there somewhere. How can you say he's of God? Notice that part three in three twenty-five, they weren't thinking much about the Holy Ghost. So what this creed is saying is, I believe in one holy What else? Verse 22, all bear him witness and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. You have Jesus coming out of the water. The substance would be his turf. We'll look at those next week. I'm trying to get you to appreciate the difficulty of dealing with this topic I think also the Mormons have a deficient view of Jesus Christ. And then in 451 A. I'm going to do it that way. Every heretic has his verse. So let's take a look at what he did with this passage. Verse 20, he closed the book, he gave it again to the minister and sat down. He's all three of those at the same time. That's what Jesus said. , they amended the Nicene Creed and added the deity, the Holy Spirit. And uh and then we'll wrap it up. So at the same time he's he's eternal. If you have an ESV Bible, uh it claims that he was, because they make a grievous mistake in one passage where they said Jesus was the son of Joseph. So yes, it would be hard to understand and that's the same reason that we have trouble comprehending the Trinity. Uh because uh we the difficulty is that We're just let's get that right out of the way right up front. Now for years years I got upset at that. It's difficult for us to comprehend because God Himself insists that he can't be compared to anything But they saw Lord as ruler. So the Jews turn to Luke 1. Are you playing with the thing you have? At the same time trying to consider when Jesus prays to the Father that has Made is literally having been found in the likeness of men. But I just want to get you thinking about it here. being of one substance with the Father. And the Word was with God. Over the millennia, God's leaders, bishops, and elders in the church have labored to succinctly communicate biblically derived truth to the sheep They would come with Bible verses. That he did notable miracles wasn't in question. The scriptures does speak of the Lord Jesus uh in Corinthians, you know, the head of every Look at John 14 for a minute. Well, the implication is Jesus is the first comforter, and so he's going to give somebody else. We're the church isn't didn't just pop up in Acts chapter two. Turn to John 1. How can words become flesh? God is a spirit. We're not breaking the prophets' law. I'm picking at the Greek here. We're just going to soundly run it out. Unless you're born from above, unless you're born of God, you're not going to see the kingdom of heaven. How would you, Edward, answer that? What what's wrong with that if Jesus isn't fully God? And time went on and they said, well, we've got to stamp this out some more. He called himself the Son of God. When he's liquid, it's like the son. If you just want a thumbnail snapshot of some of the important events in Christian history, it's worth having on your shelf. When he used the word substantia for substance, it doesn't mean material like you and I would use it, you know. You can't separate that. But made himself of no reputation. As it were, he calls the shots. You have to be baptized by what? In other words, he's not the same as God. But no, it says in the beginning was the Word. But praise God. So there's some difficulty there, isn't there? Um and I say, that's great. He's simply disclosing basic gospel truths. Maybe sometimes I fall in that trap and you don't. And so we see there that God speaks of Himself in the plural. Somebody who would come and restore and rebuild the temple and and to and to cleanse it, not rebuild, but to cleanse it from all the wicked elements around it. The atonement has no power to pay for sins either. The Jews, when they entered in the promised land, had prophets and they had the law of God. Look at the end of that. Jesus came to the head to be with us. I've got my copy here. The reason being is because it's his law that we violated. They're in that lineage. The Arians could not own up to that phrase that Jesus was God of God. So now this is where they're realizing, hey, we've left the Holy Spirit out of this. This wasn't a surprise. I'll tell you in John 3, this passage raises the hair on the back of my head when I read it. Yes, Caddis. And we just have to look at it and say, yes, Lord, you're it. He hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. How would you answer that? And good you know, we had a hard time fathoming things that we haven't experienced directly. They they couldn't have uh that connection like that. Notice I've upgraded my seat today. The the the long the great great great great grandson in the line of David. So here you have God the Father speaking, a voice booming from heaven, you have the Holy Spirit coming down, and you have Jesus standing up and You're there in Matthew, turn over a few pages to Mark chapter 2. Let me just give you some dates and time in terms of how this developed, and then I'll go through this Nicene Creed for you. That was the best he could come up with. It's one of the oldest creeds of the church. Then for the next part here, who for us, men, and for our salvation came down, it was incarnate, and was made man. He also comes from the Son, showing that the Father sends both. If there's three baptisms, there's three names. They understood that there was a plurality in the Godhead, but they clearly knew that he insisted that he was one God. And he said, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. It was this pecking order like I described, and that's a problem. You can't, they're not tearing, they're trying to glue it together. And you can see it's difficult. Look at Luke 24. Jesus says, You're master of Israel, you know not these things? I'm sorry I'm cutting it off short tonight. So here he is. You're from Joseph. Is he really God? Right? Philippians 2 tells us this. He's extraordinarily powerful. You know, you see this order and it the or this God the Father made this other stuff. There's a big difference. Um the uh Westminster Confession of Faith has some comments about this. You are all of those three at the same time, but it's a different role to play towards each other. I think what he came for is to be healed, or at least that's why they brought him there. I'm just kind of introducing the topic today, uh, and I'm gonna be a little brief because I just want to Does anybody know what the name of modern-day Arians are? They were you can see they were dogpiling the point. He came down from heaven. Turn to Deuteronomy 6, verse 4. They were just glued. He was taking on the sins of his people, right. So they were asking, is he divine? Three persons, God is one property, one set of attributes consisting of three claimants You know, that's a pretty bright and pulv- pulverizing uh form of light One God. Alright? Well, the Bible answers that. Of the Virgin Mary and was made man They knew that God was one God, but they didn't believe really in a personal God. Yeah, so there's there's no prior experience to that. Some would argue, sure, he's perfect, he's fine, he didn't sin at the garden. Jesus saw this in verse five. It was pretty helpful. No, you go back to Genesis 1. You see how they're connecting these parts together? Why would they think he's blaspheming God? Sure. D. What they added was he was crucified for us. How did you show up in this? So that doesn't work. You might want to look at this. Maybe it's pretty powerful, more powerful than man could do, but it's not God-sized grace. Now he takes on the form of a servant. They don't have all the verses, but they'll have their verse. Let's just take a another walk through the book of John. That gives the insight there. Huh? It's an exhortation to humility in Philippians 2. I rarely go into creeds, but this one is one that I would be pretty ignorant and arrogant You could still look at that like a Philadelphia attorney and say, well, no, I that doesn't mean Jesus made all things, right? They said, part one, God the Father is the maker of heaven and earth, all things visible and invisible. Yet we don't see or feel or touch him, and yet he operates through his word. , we finally have the Council of Chalcedon, which amended the phrases. To show how they started off and then what Constantinople did, and then other changes that were made at Cal Sedan at 451. The Lord Jesus says, I will pray the Father. Does anybody know what the word Catholic means? And in fact, it's quoted by no one other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. He's in Galilee. So here under He came into his own, his own received him not. I suppose it would be hard to answer and hard for us to fathom because the nature of Jesus and the I'm good. Alright? That's the word eon. Jesus didn't just die for physical men, right? But those who say there was a time when he was not We believe him as God. And I say, Well Anton did. It's a spiritual salvation that we're dealing with. And persona didn't mean person like we use the word. And being found, or having been found, and fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He's not going to leave you. But I mean, anywhere you start in the scriptures is a good place. You may deal with it in the future, but something that came into my mind while we were Uh Anton, would you mind closing us in prayer? Verse 16, he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up The Holy Spirit comes down. What was that one? Around 196 A. No man can see me and live, and yet we saw Jesus Christ. They're exactly using that term from the Hebrew right here into the Latin, which we now translate and have in our Bible. So they're trying to use biblical language. Jesus wasn't a very powerful angel that did something that wasn't foretold in the Bible. The Holy Spirit. It's simple. Right. Only God. No. But that's what the Arians did, and the church to a high degree was being greatly impacted by Arian doctrine. And Jesus says that So that was just a stretch too far for them. Uh yeah, uh that's true, because God is ultimate perfection, and so he can't So he's the creator. I am not Catholic. Luke chapter 3 and verse 21. If one of your kids comes out, so who is Jesus? When it's boiling and you've got vapor, it's like the spirit We don't have a What's what what problem might we encounter if we say Jesus Christ isn't really God? Yeah. And of course we borrowed much from that. They're not Why would they add that phrase, the son of God, speaking of Jesus? Then you look over in what Constantinople did now some uh 50 some odd years later. Okay? Well, does that mean that Jesus is simply That was I think the sixth statement on the cross. In Luke chapter 4, we begin reading and uh We're breaking God's law. I say start in Matthew. He is God. That that was just something that was just totally off their radar screen. The Jews understood that God was one God. Now Tertullian was trained as a lawyer, and he was using the lingua de Franca of the day for attorneys, which was Latin. He doesn't have the same claims to divinity. You're not anything special. You know, we don't see him, touch him. He's of God's form, he's of God's substance. So they insist that God the Father Almighty, does that phrase ring a bell? Let's spend a little time on that That sounds like somebody spoke and They didn't particularly like to hear that. There's almost like a father-son relationship that's being described there. You know, how do you explain that very simply? This says the only begotten. Ascended into heaven and sits on the right hand of the Father. Good addition I mean, grief, four hundred years, great day. No, he was the in the beginning was the Word. Sometimes the nuances would confuse the sheep, other times man striving over words generated new heretical leaders And why would that be difficult? But wait a minute, Jesus is not a creature. They are condemned by the Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. So the early church had questions about just who is Jesus Christ. And then I see them again and I say, yeah, thanks, you know, everything's everything's good. We are not talking about we don't worship three gods. Christ boils it down to Now he's in Nazareth, his hometown. And it was helpful. So that would make no sense if he was already in a servile position. We have one Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. They would verse isolate. We might have a hymn or two. What is this man going to say? Unless you believe in him, you have no forgiveness of sins, right? So I walk you through that very carefully. How did you get here? They're all omnipotent, and they're all omniscient. It's hashed out by So the first council of my C I think you've got your hand out. And I'll uh For instance, ontology versus economy. I just want to kind of explore this a little bit and get our head around it because frankly He's pure light is what the scripture describes. Oh is there anything he asks for and not received? He says, I'm coming to you. Universal means everything that exists in the cosmos right now Yet He has come down to us in a very personal, intelligible way. So the Lord Jesus Christ in Luke chapter 4, he returns to his hometown of Nazareth. Whatever we've heard you But uh but that's a that's a reasonable one uh to try. It's the Spirit of the Lord that created the universe. How does it answer it? So there's a time element that the word universal misses He tells them that, verse 7, marvel not, but I said unto thee, you must be born again. And now lest he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. That was Matthew 2819. Only God can forgive sins. He saw their faith. The Greek there is interesting. This God made the stuff we're on. No, it's one baptism, because Jesus said baptism in the name singular of God the Father, Son, the Holy Spirit. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. He told Thomas to reach forth his hand and touch me and feel me. Why is it hard to answer the question, who is Jesus Christ? I've uh photocopied for you an excellent excerpt from a book We believe in one God, because there were Jews who would say, no, there's only one God. And the Word was God. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written. And he was God of God. But Jesus is making it plain here that the whole Godhead is speaking. In Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 4, we read this And you have a voice saying, This is my beloved Son, referring to Christ as the Son, in whom he's well pleased. It's the Father, it's the Son, it's the Holy Spirit. And they said, Who's Anton? How does he relate to God the Father in essence and in ranks? Um the submissive submissive part you're We've got to clarify this because this is still plaguing the church Alright, so Jesus says So that would be a problem. Keep your finger in John 4 and just back up a few pages and consider what Jesus said to All that whatever God required So in Edward's explanation, uh and and that's uh I suppose is uh as as good as uh one could do. And that's what the scripture presents. You can see how So now you have the Father sending him, but it's in the name of Jesus Christ. Psalm 139 tells us, if I make my bed in hell, lo art there. That he rose from the dead. Clearly, the Spirit of the Lord hovered over the waters and created uh He's creator. I was like If they are three in one, how can The Jews' view of God. D. He wasn't created in the skies and then floated down. Excuse me. The Word always existed. The Father is of none, neither begotten nor proceeding. We have plenty of room over here. Modalism is exemplified sometimes like this. Even so. Why would we start off with the phrase, we believe in one God? He's going to appoint them that mourn in Zion. And a voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased. Is that how that That's not what he meant by that. He wasn't It's not too terribly helpful if you're so precise that And so what we found was that the question was this. He willingly came down, right? And that's what they were running with. They've really ripped that out. That would not be something they would swallow. Now that's a bold statement. We saw him. , a famous man named Tertullian came on the scene. What do we do with that? They felt they had done the Holy Spirit short shrift. It's an actual word. That's pretty ominous. They would have viewed it as ruler. Or who is the Holy Spirit? He said unto the sick of the palsy, apparently the man was paralyzed, he said, Son, die You don't really have a Savior at the end of the day. If you subordinate the Son. They were really trying to make sure that this Jesus Christ is the only begotten of God. Well, he was incarnate by the Holy Ghost. They couldn't really work out all the details of the Holy Ghost and try to get that language. So the payment for sin involves both body and soul Who can forgive that? One he's one substance, one one set of properties. They really wanted to underscore that. Mm-hmm. Again, the mystery of even the atonement, because of who atoned for us. But Jesus instead says, Son, my sins be forgiven me. He kind of fits closer to our idea of God They're still in our midst. They made a first pass My first question was, you know, why is it difficult to answer who is Jesus Christ or who is the Holy Spirit? Look at Jesus' answer. And the fourth or fifth statement was when he said to the thief on the cross, Verily, verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be He's the lawgiver through Moses. He's always had uh uh uh This is what the Arians were saying, and so I think it's helpful to see Sure. How dare you say that? Uh now what if we tried to go with a very simplistic explanation? Is he man or is he God? So they moved that phrase back up to God Almighty, by whom all things were made. You get to be the first recipients of it. Okay. I think Matthew's great. Does Jesus say anything about forgiveness of sins? It referred to it as a party in a legal action. It's literally he emptied himself. You don't know about the new birth He's there in the synagogue. But John's particularly difficult. Who can forgive sins but God only? We'll start with this, and let's get some historical context to this. He then begins to go on and give a couple of accounts Oh, the comfy chairs over here. You can't subordinate them. He operates in his heart. Next week we're going to get into a ton of scriptures So the bottom line. Okay, thank you. That's very much what they're looking for. Is there a problem? Man did. Why? They made it clear what suffered, man. Again, that's Bible language. Well, no. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And while you're passing these around. The third day he rose again, according to the scriptures. And so when he says these things are fulfilled in your ears, he's essentially saying He is God Verse 18, I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. Because he is he is now That that was just, they would say, no. Uh it it's it's the people of God has always been has always been around You're it. It was nearly overrun by a group called the Arians Very nice addition in there. The word substance really had more of the idea meaning property rights Look at Philippians 2, right? Because he laid his glory aside. We worship one God. That just simply cannot happen. They don't show him as fully God either. This is an easy one. They've really taken swipes at the Trinity with that Many times people hand them the book of John. And then he goes on to say. Theirs is very short, they say He's one Lord, one supreme ruler, one God. Why is that such a bold statement for him to make? And then the Holy Spirit Um oh yes. So Jesus connects forgiveness of sins to who he is and what he's done. D. It's like I don't know if you've ever uh This is not something that, you know, can be easily hashed out John 4. Let's turn to that just briefly, or I'll read it if you don't want to turn there. There appears to be that kind of a relationship. That is Again, Bible language. You can't enter in. How would you answer that? So he's got his own righteousness. He came off of a high position He's answering in the plural. He was in Alexandria. I'm looking at the first column over here. Does that matter? I believe in one God and in one Lord Jesus Christ, verse three, and in the Holy Ghost. Matthew's a great place to start. That still makes the hair of my arms raise up when I think about it. Because for someone said that. He operates in the heart of God's people. Who for us and for our salvation, just leave it as to whoever's reading it. They didn't see that at least, and here's the reason for that. That's what they're looking for. Not in this living room, I hope. In other words Those are some high-powered theological terms. There's no other game in town. He's not created. Look at John 1 in verse 1. Isaiah chapter 61 Jesus is speaking in the plural. At the same time, he's in paradise with the thief on the cross. You got any ideas, Caleb? So here's how the church wrestled with this. He's fallible. 24, Jesus speaking about God and describing That gets a little closer to it. And they go, well, I don't think so And it's useful information. They make that very clear. Yeah, that's God Very nice addition. The hometown boy, as it were, has come home. You cannot have God Almighty in human flesh. Have any of you ever heard of Tertullian? That's a problem. It's just not going to happen This is a prophetic passage that points clearly to the Messiah. Trust me. He actually, his home is heaven and he came here. He read that passage. It wasn't just You know, a lot of parables. Because clearly You can't make it that way. We believe in one God. That's where Christ is at, the right hand of the Father He's the creator. Is there really a pecking order? Did we ever study anything about God the Father Almighty? The Son is eternally begotten of the Father If I take the wings and descend into heaven, lo thou art there. And there's Another um sort of simplistic They were trying to get at these words, coessential, trying to get at certain terms. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. In 33 A. Some of what Origen did was good. These are the comfy chairs. What if he really is just the first I mean that that's that's There's nothing wrong. Now They all start reading the book of John. He's very living, very real. We're not pantheists, we're not God is like water We haven't experienced John doesn't have any parables in it Pretty impressive Alright Uh some of you have little ones and So they have to start off there. If you go to seminary, you might come across those words. Um and um uh They're called the There's a big difference. That's what they'd argue. That doesn't work either And yet And he's standing there, as it were. That is one fairly common creed. Now was he Joseph's son? D. No, by the way But Let me uh uh uh So they had a a A good chunk of it wasn't so good. But um Absolutely.