The sermon text today comes to us from the responsive reading portion, John chapter 17, so that I don't have to read it for you. We've already gone through it. During the summer, while I was busy with other tasks, I did have ample time in the morning to spend time slowly going through the book of John, and I was particularly struck. with this what some might consider to be an obscure passage. It's obscure because the language is unusual. Perhaps as you were reading through it you Might have had some mental difficulty keeping up with just what is Jesus saying here. But when I went through it, I was particularly struck with this unusual prayer. Let's think about the context for a moment. It's a distant time in the past Your own charges that lead to capital punishment. The evidence is in The judge, a regional governor, who is not known for his reputation of mercy or even fairness, he's in town. The prosecution is scheming and there's quite a few of them. Your defense, frankly, isn't looking good at all. You know where this is going. You want to enjoy one last day of freedom. So you're going to have a meal for some of your Christian friends. As you sit there at the table, you tell them what you think is going to happen. They partly believe it, and partly don't And you say, let's have a season of prayer. And you lead them in prayer. I have one question for you today. What would you pray for? Well, if it were me, I know what I'd pray for. A miraculous deliverance would be the top of the list. A fair trial, you know you're innocent, that lies and falsehood would not prevail. What's my purpose? Very simple. To set me free. That's my purpose. But there's one catch. You're the Son of God If you were Jesus, what would you pray for? Turn to John chapter 17 and follow with me. at some constant things the Lord Jesus prays for as we look at this text. Excuse me. Verse 11 is where I will begin. And I'm going to walk us through, oh, about eight to ten verses. In verse 11, he says in the second sentence, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me. That they may be one as we are. Right up front, Jesus presumes the doctrine of electron, the doctrine of predestination. Right up front, he's not embarrassed about it, he's not ashamed to speak about it You see, the Father gave Jesus a people in a covenant. They're identified as the elect. The Son atoned for the sins of those people, his elect, on the cross. And the Spirit moves to seek and to regenerate God's elect through his word. All three working together to a unified purpose. Jesus, it says here, desires us to, quote, to be one, tightly connected to this triune Godhead. Elsewhere, Scripture said we are to be in Him. It says, fittingly, for the Lord's Supper today, we being many are one bread and one body. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. So we being many are one body in Christ. You've seen these passages There's one foundation, apostles and prophets, one body, one Lord, one savior. That's interesting Let's keep going as he develops this further in his prayer. What else does he pray for? Verse 15. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but thou shouldest keep them from the evil. When Jesus is prosecuted, his disciples are scared. They hide in the houses, and they know they're next, because if they capture the leader, they'll go after them next. And they're afraid. Lord, take me home now. Have you ever been afraid? Some people have wondered how come I'm saved and I immediately don't go to heaven. After all, I'm considered righteous. He's given me eternal life. Why not just be immediately transported to the glories of heaven? Why not? It's very simple. Jesus doesn't want that. He didn't pray for it here. We are to be kept, quote, from the evil, which here refers to the degenerative effects or the influence of hurtful ills, that which degenerates your essential character. In a word, the damaging effects of sin. Keep them from that. Proverbs says, a just man falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked fall into mischief. They like it. They like the taste. They like to keep falling further and further. But the righteous, his soul is preserved, protected. He is kept from the evil. The prayer of Jabez ended with, Oh, that thou wouldest keep me from the evil, that it may not grieve me. When the Lord taught his disciples how to pray, he concluded with lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, the evil effects, a harmful degenerating part that would ruin your character. And your good testimony in Christ. The end of Jude in verse 24 we read: God indeed will answer that prayer. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling. And to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. His prayer will be answered. It will be answered. Move to verse 17a as we continue in this unusual prayer. He says to sanctify them through thy truth. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. It seems good in God the Father's sight to allow you to remain in this sin-cursed world for the purpose of your sanctification and edification. God apparently uses trials to teach you something. And until you learn those lessons, the trials won't disappear. Evils will come, but they won't corrupt you. They won't condemn you. They won't drown you. They'll be used of God to drive you to his schoolhouse, to his word. I was struck by this deeply when someone shared with me this passage from Psalm 119. In verse 71 it says this: listen carefully, it is good for me that I have been afflicted. Good for me? Why? And I might learn my statutes. You've heard me often speak of my mentor, Brother Bernie, whose Bible we have up front. And I'm not having it as a you know relic that has any special radiation coming from it. I do it to give him a measure of honor. As he began to slip into his last days when he couldn't walk from his bed to his desk to sit and read his Bible, and he couldn't leave his bed, and I would visit him. One time I remember visiting him, and he reached out with his withered hand and put it on my hand next to his bed, saying, Vince, he looked me in the eyes and said, Vince, I'm learning to lean. Oh Jesus. He used to tell me, You ought to be thankful if you can go to the toilet, son. Trials will come. Difficulties will be there Are you learning his statutes from them? That's what Jesus is praying for. He will sanctify and cleanse the church with the washing of water by the Word. Jesus will have no spiritual dummies in his house. They're going to be taught a few things. Look down now to verse 20, back in John 17. He says, Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. That kind of confused me a bit. I thought about that for a moment. I had to dissect the sentence. It's clear Jesus prayed for the apostles, but now he prays for those who will believe on Christ through their word. Who's their? Well that would be the word of the apostles. They're the ones that are going to go and take this message, which up to this point is kind of limited to them. But who's those who will believe on Christ through their word? Well, he's already told a crowd of Jews in John chapter 10, Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold. Them also must I bring. They shall hear my voice. There shall be one fold and one shepherd. So who are these other people who will believe? It's you. It's you. You realize that? You can read your name in that sentence right there. Jesus is praying for you right there. Let's view it this way, shall we? Jesus says, I don't pray only for Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother. Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the publican, James the son of Alphaeus and Labus, whose third name was Thaddeus Thaddeus, and Simon the Canaanite But for all of God's elect, who shall, not may, believe on me, Yvonne, Anton, Carol. Put your name in there. Who through the word preached, taught, and disseminated by these apostles, that these will believe on me. Did you know Jesus prayed specifically for you some 2,000 years ago? That he had you in mind as he was going to the cross? Now before your great-great-great-grandparents were even born. He knew about you, cared enough for you, thought about you. Yes, he even prayed for you. Right there. You talk about having the long-term view. He's got his eye on the end zone, folks. His prayer was answered, wasn't it? Because you did believe in his woman. An unusual prayer when you're on charges and a capital punishment imminent. Look at verse 21. He continues in his prayer. He says this, that they all may be one. What is this? He keeps saying that they may be one How can this be? Jesus continues. He says, As thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. How close is that? Is this a description of heaven? Well consider these passages which describe our eternal relationship to our God. He refers to us as a temple. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Know you not that you're the temple of God and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. Folks, the only temple the New Testament knows about is you. We're referred to as a house in Hebrews 3. Moses verily was faithful in all his house, but Christ over as a son, over his own house, whose house are we? If we hold fast the confidence, the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. Peter says, He also is lively stones or built up a spiritual house. I know you know these verses. I'm just stirring up your pure minds by way of remembrance. We're also referred to as a dwelling place, God dwelling in us and we dwelling in him. This mutual connectedness. O Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. The Psalm of Moses in Psalm 90. Zechariah is bold. He says, Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo, I come and I will dwell in the midst of thee. Saith the Lord, for God will dwell in the midst of us. Jesus said in John 6, He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me, and I in him. No, that's not these elements. They do not become the body and blood of Christ. If it tastes like a wafer of bread and smells like a wafer of bread, and you bought it at the store as a wafer of bread, it's probably a wafer of bread. It's a symbol, it's a memorial. He's talking about the Word of God that you must eat and live. This is the bread of God. This is the water of God. This is the testimony for the blood of God. Ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be the Spirit of God dwell in you. That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost, which dwelleth in us. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. Folks, this is a pretty close relationship. Imagine going into a house and it's utterly unfamiliar to you. You don't know where the bathroom is You don't know where the doors are. You're not quite sure where the bedroom is. And you're just unfamiliar with, you'd say, are you sure this is your house? Maybe you have a mistaken key and you've opened up a door that wasn't really locked and you walked into something that you thought was your house Now imagine if the house could talk back and says, I don't know who you are, don't touch my light switch. Stay out of my pantry. Get out of my fridge. Who are you? No. When you live in your house, you become very familiar with it You know every inch of it. You know where the pantry is. You know where the stale food is. You know the part of the siding that needs repair. You know the good, the bad, the ugly of the house. You know it. You know it very well. Why? Because you dwell there. God says he will dwell with us, and we with him. It's a close relationship. Why is it that Jesus doesn't save us and take us to heaven? Look at the second half of the verse as he continues of verse 21. That the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Ah! Well, that's why we're not taken out of the world. That's why we're at one with the Father, because God the Holy Spirit has a job to do. It's called evangelism. And how is he going to do it? He's going to do it through you. Jesus said, Except I go to the Father, the Comforter can't come. The Comforter has a mission. He's going to work that mission for you and I. If there's no evangelism, there's no church building. There's no other believers. Do you move into a house that isn't finished yet? They think not. You want to have all the materials, you want to have all the parts gathered, you want to have everything finished. True believers hear the message of God, the good news and the bad news. In fact, I would assert you can't go on with the good news until you tell them the bad news first, that they're in trouble with God. that they're in need of a savior and convince upon them the demands of the law of God and show their shortcoming that by their own admission. They're lying, thieving, blasphemous, adulterous For God. And if they have to face him on judgment day, where would it be? Heaven or hell? And let him pronounce the sentence upon themselves When they hear that message, the saints of God, the elect of God, are convinced that God the Father, the only true God, sent God the Son into this dark world to redeem a people for himself. They'll believe Jesus' testimony. And that's why Jesus doesn't call you out of this world. We have a task to do. We have a house to build. And he continues with that house. He says in verse 22, And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them. That they may be one even as we are one. Somehow, God giving his glory to his elect is for the purpose of unifying us to him. What does that look like? You know, earlier Jesus said the hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. He's referring to his imminent time on the cross. It's referred to as a glorious work on the cross. You look at a cross and say glory. That doesn't sound like a lot of glory to me. But you see, we too bear our cross. Every man bears his own cross. We bear our own burdens, our trials, which we, of course, we share with our brothers and sisters. We ought to count these evils, if you will, these trials that we face the same way the Apostle Paul did. Because he wrote God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I into the world. I reject this world's values. I reject this world's system of thinking I reject the ways of the world, which are for the world, the flesh, and the devil. I reject all that. I follow one king, King Jesus. It's him that I'm casting my lock with. Well, that may sound a bit underwhelming, but fear not, we're like undercover agents at the moment. We're God's agents, his little hidden ones. The hour will come when it will become far more evident, more fully revealed. Oh, it doesn't stay with the glory of the cross, which was but a short painful moment, even as your life now is but a handbread, but a vapor It's a brief season of trials. Believe it or not, college students, college doesn't last forever. I know you feel like you're going to die in class and they're just going to find your bones under a desk somewhere, your head on top of a heap of books But it actually does end at some point, and you're done with all the lessons. And you enter into something else. Somehow, at that time, Jesus said, At that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you, will more fully partake of his glory at his glorious return. Philippians write, Our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body. We're getting a complete makeover, Freddie. It's a complete renovation. The bulletin insert has a return to the lessons from the job site where I talk about old parts. You might want to read it because it's relevant to this particular point. In verse 23, back in John 17. He says, I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one. Mark that phrase, made perfect. A day is coming when all of God's people will be absolutely perfected. There won't be an ounce of pain. It will be a distant memory. There won't be a tear to be shed. There won't be bad plaguing memories. All will be changed. All will be new. Behold, God says, I make all things new The Bible declares that we partake even of his divine nature. Hold your finger in John 17, and if you will. Turn to 2 Peter 1 and verse 4. I wondered about this verse, and I think Jesus' prayer. Gives us insight into this word that the Apostle Peter captures, who was there when this prayer was made. In 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 4, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these, these promises of God. That ye might be partakers of the what? Of the divine nature. Folks, I'm not saying the words of the devil this morning that you're going to be God. There is a closeness that comes that we truly can't fathom or understand. How is it that we dwell in him and he dwells in us and that we are at one with the Father? The closest illustrations and analogies that the Lord God uses is that of a temple where his presence was, and it was a holy, guarded, beautiful temple. He uses the analogy of a house, where you dwell in a house, and you live in it, and it's there, and there's a closeness and a proximity to it. We partake in fact of His wisdom, His righteousness, His sanctification, His redemption. All those we have in Christ Jesus Frankly, all of that's required to be with him. We have to be perfected to be with him. There's no unrighteousness in God. He's a holy God, he's a just God, and he'll have no unholy people with him. That's why I sometimes say, folks, we've got to learn to get along with each other. We're going to be with each other for a real long time. Go back to John 17 and look at verse 23. Again, Jesus says, that the world may know that thou hast sent me. It has to love them. Notice again this request for evangelism. He's praying for you. He's got you in mind, even though you're not on the scene yet. He wants them to succeed, to get that word out. By the Lord saying this, it establishes the authority and the purpose for the church to go forth with his message. Jesus insists that the world, meaning here, the elect, whether Gentile or Jew, is to know, to understand that God the Father commissioned and sent his only begotten Son to and for a task which only he could fulfill. And he did it because of his great love for his people, the elect of God. You could read John 3. 16 this way. You could understand it this way, for God so loved his elect from around the world, a people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation, that he gave his only begotten Son. It's an incredible glory that we should be loved by God the Father even as the Lord loves Jesus. Look at verse 24. Jesus says, Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. Jesus specifically asked that all his elect, whom the Father has given him, be with him wherever he is. He's the great I am, the ever-existing one. You're going to live in eternity. It's a whole new ballgame. I know from mathematics when I was studying math, and a professor told me when you divide or do anything with that little symbol called infinity, the rules are out the window. Zero divided by infinity, still infinity. Can't make it the rules break down. New heaven and new earth, totally new set of rules, folks. It's a different ball game, as Brother Bernie used to tell me the action's not here. It ain't here He was with us before our great-grandparents were around. He prayed for us at the doorstep of the cross, and he's with us even now and forever, never to leave nor forsake us. His desire is for us to behold his glory. What a privilege! Even Moses couldn't do that We read in Exodus 33, Moses said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. And God said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee. I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee, and I'll be gracious to whom I'll be gracious and show mercy to whom I'll show mercy, but Thou canst not see my face. There shall no man see me and live. In him in a cliff to the rock. And just the backside of God was enough for him to come down from the mountain glowing. Glowing. They had to put a veil over him, he was too bright. They couldn't pull the dura cells on him. Yet with the advent of Christ and the promulgation of the gospel message across the Atlantic and eventually here to this private home, we see the glory of God. 2 Corinthians 4 says, For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We see the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Christian, can you pray like David? One thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Because that's your final home. That's your long home. Look at verse 26, as I wrap it up here. I have declared unto them thy name and will declare it that purpose statement, that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them. And I in them. He kicks up this unity of the Godhead, one more notch. That the love, that the love that you have loved me may be with them. God the Father would love you as much as he loves the Strangely enough I can understand that from a legal perspective because God the Son imputed his righteousness to me. All of my sin was imputed unto him. He took care of it at the cross. All of his righteousness, his life. The very equity of this righteousness was imputed, reckoned unto me. It's in my accounting column. Legally I can understand that. Emotionally. I can't. How can that be? You know how you feel when you willfully sin against the Lord. Oh, I've blown it. Oh, he's not going to come. Oh, he's not going to be displeased with me. God the Father, his aim and goal in life is that his love may be for you even as that of his son. Jesus is closing his prayer by asking the Father to form an ultimate, loving, perfect union. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife And they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Well, in conclusion, I go back to my original question. Put yourself in that distant time. The trial will begin soon. The immediate future doesn't look good. You're with Christian friends and you ask for a season of prayer. What would you pray for? What should you pray for? There's one catch. If you believe in Jesus, you are a Son of God. Think about it. It's closing prayer. Our Heavenly Father, thank you for allowing the Apostle John to be present. And to record this beautiful prayer. Lord, what an insight into your thinking. What a gracious Snapshot of your mind, how it sails and soars above the worst that this world could offer And lays hold of the promises in the future ahead of us. Lord God, help us. Help us. To have that kind of prayer. Help us to have that kind of faith. Help us to reach beyond the present distress. To lay hold of the promises you give to every one of your children. We ask this in Jesus' name, amen.