Morning. First Samuel chapter thirty one. We'll be reading that entire chapter. It's only Thirteen verses. 1 Samuel chapter 31 beginning at verse 1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel. And the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines. And they fell down, slain in the Mount of Gilboah And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons. And the Philistines slew Jonathan and Abinadab and Meltishua, Saul's sons. And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was sore wounded of the archers. Then said Saul unto his armor-bearer, Draw thy sword and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through and abuse me But his armor-bearer would not, for he was sore afraid. And therefore Saul took a sword and fell upon it. And when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword and died with him. So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men that were his personal bodyguards That same day together. And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were on the other side of Jordan saw that the men of Israel fled. And that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelt in them. And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul. And his three sons fallen in the mount of Gilboah. And they cut off his head. And they stripped him of his armor. And they sent into the land the Philistines roundabout to publish it in the house of their idols and among the people. And they put his armor in the house of Ashtarath. And they fastened his body to the wall of Basha'an. And when the inhabitants of Jabesh of Gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul, All the valiant men arose and went all night. And they took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bashan. And they came to Jabesh. And they burned them there, and they took their bones and buried them under a tree at Jabesh and fasted seven days. We began this book some time ago, the book of Samuel with the birth of Samuel. And today this book ends. With the death of Saul and Jonathan and many others This battle was almost identical to one fought earlier by Gideon in Judges chapter 6 and verse 33 in the same area. But on this particular day, there is no Gideah leading the armies of Israel, only a sinful man named Saul. Is in command on what becomes a very dark, dark day in Israel. Verses 1 and 2 tells us that The men of Israel fled the Philistines. They fell down slain and Jonathan and Abinadab and Melchishawa, Saul's sons. If nothing else strikes you, it should strike you that Jonathan was dead. David's dearest friend is the first one reported as a casualty here, and probably the hardest for all of Israel to hear about. The death of Jonathan. The death of one dearly beloved. I don't know how else to put that in perspective except to say to some of you, you've lost loved ones And all of you will eventually lose someone very beloved to you, and you have to begin to feel somewhat what this must have felt like to the people of Israel. I have to say this that the death of Jonathan was ordained of God. I have to say this that It was the predestine is another word we use. It was predestined of God that Jonathan would die. He wasn't the sinner that Saul was But he falls this day, not surprising God. It was ordained, it was predestined to God. And that's not my opinion. That's Hebrews 9 and verse 27, where it says, It's appointed unto man who wants to die. We all have an appointed day. God, who made that appointment? God made that appointment. He has determined when we're going to die. He's ordained it. He's predestined it And unless you think that the writer of Hebrews is a little out of context, look at Deuteronomy 22 and verses 49 and 50, where God says to Moses, Moses! Yeah, Lord. I want you to go up the Nebel. And when you get up to Nebel, you will die. That's predestination, friend. God determined where Moses would die and when Moses would die, and we find the same thing in the New Testament when When Peter is talking to the Lord, he says, Lord, he says, You've just told me how I'm expected I'm going to be carried away and and uh you know that I'm gonna be it sounds like he's gonna be crucified as well, the description in the book of John. And he says, Well, what about John? What's gonna happen to him Peter knew that the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord, God in the flesh, that he was in control of when we died, where we died, how we died. All ordained of God, ordained of the Lord Jesus Christ. How's he gonna die? And he points to John, and the Lord said, That's not for you to know. If I want, he'll still be alive when I return. And we cannot neglect that Christ Himself was crucified and died on the cross all ordained. preordained, predestined, for we read in Daniel 9 and verse 26 that the Messiah should come and he would be cut off From his people. He would die. It was told us in Daniel chapter 9 and 26, the Messiah is going to die. It's predestined. It was ordained. And we praise God that Christ did die on the cross for our sins. It's a great verse to use of the Jews to show them that the Messiah is going to die, and not only to show them the Messiah is going to die. It gives them an idea of when the Messiah would die. If you read chapter 9 of Daniel and verse 26, it says that Christ would die. And then sometime thereafter the temple would be destroyed. Bulletin, the temple is destroyed. Bulletin when? In 70 AD. The Messiah of the Jews came sometime before 70 AD. It's in their Old Testament, not in the New Testament, that their Messiah was predestined to die before the temple was destroyed. The only problem is most Jews don't know their Old Testament. They don't know about the book of Daniel. They couldn't probably recite you most of them, the first five books of the Old Testament. But it's a place to start with them. And so we start or we finish, however you want to phrase it, we start and finish the book of Samuel this morning. With the death of Jonathan. But his death his death, um, and perhaps some of you can point to the death of others Has accomplished some good things. It accomplishes here two good things, probably many, many more, but Jonathan's death expedited David's rule to the throne. Because if Jonathan had lived, what would have happened? Well, he's the heir apparent of Saul, and everyone loves Jonathan, and he's also a war hero. And we want him at the throne, not not the shepherd. We want the bloodline to continue. And so the death of Jonathan Expedited, though Jonathan would have refused the throne, it may have been a force upon him, but he wanted David to be the king. But by Jonathan's death, it expedites David's rule as king, and that was a good thing And the second thing it does is it fulfilled prophecy, for in 1 Samuel 16, God's word and God Himself had promised to the prophet Samuel that David would be king after Saul This is the fulfillment of prophecies of the death of Jonathan, expedites and proves that God's word is trustworthy. And so the loss of Jonathan ordained of God. Absolutely. Predestined of God. Absolutely. And when you lose a loved one Ordained of God. And I know we all have the stories we read in the newspaper all the time. Some drunk driving down the road, crash into a car, and he kills a little child, or he kills a pastor, or a Sunday school teacher, and the drunk gets up and walks away. Ordained Hard sometimes to know that good things will come From the death of good people. And good things certainly come from the death of bad people. I'm I'm glad that Hitler met his end. And Mayo and Lenin and Trotsky And soon Castro. However, the Philistines now think that their gods are greater and mightier. The Philistines now think that the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob has been defeated. They now think that the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob is not able to give Israel a victory. That the God of Abraham, a Isaac and Jacob is not able to protect the king of Israel. This is what they think of The God of Israel. This is what they think of this God that the Jews have been worshiping. And Satan and his crowd thought the same thing when Christ was crucified on the cross: that God wasn't all that mighty He couldn't even protect his son. That's what they thought. When Christ, our sin bearer, died on the cross. That God was defeated. That's what Lucifer, Satan, the devils were thinking, and their crowd was thinking. But what really happened that day when Jonathan died? And Saul died and all the men died? What really happened there when Christ died? The truth is that God's hatred of sin was expressed at Golgotha. God didn't lose some battle at Golgotha when his son died. He was shown his hatred of sin and that sin must be punished and the price of sin, the wage of sin is death, and someone must pay that price. And so we have The truth is that it was God's hatred of sin that was expressed at Golgotha when Christ was crucified. It was God's hatred of sin that was shown on Mount Gilboa when Saul died. That's what was accomplished. And for those who don't believe that Saul's death was showing God's hatred of sin, 1 Chronicles 10, 13 and 14 says this. Saul died for his transgressions, which he committed against the Lord. Even against the word of the Lord, which he kept not, that is the word of the Lord. And also for asking counsel of one that had a familiar spirit. and also because he inquired not of the Lord. Therefore God slew him. What happened at Gilgol Gilboa this day was that God showed his hatred of sin and the sinners. And on the cross, God showed his hatred of sin. Christ was our sin bearer. And in this story we find that Saul dies because he didn't inquire of the Lord, and he didn't inquire of the Lord. in his latter years. He didn't inquire of the Lord on Mount Gilboa. He never inquired of the Lord with his heart. And so I would say this morning, children, when the going gets tough, do you inquire of the Lord. And do you continue to keep his word when things get tough? Or when things get tough, do you start to lie and cover your way through a situation? Or do you curse uh because you're irritated by the situation, or you just steal to make ends meet. What do you do when the times get tough? We are to inquire of the Lord. Saul didn't do that. He didn't keep his word, God's word. And so in verse three and four we find Saul He is sorely wounded, badly wounded. And he said unto his armor-bearer: Thrust me through, lest these uncircumcised Philistines abuse me But his armor bearer would not thrust Saul through. And so we find in Saul's last moments that Saul, his last command as king, is disobeyed. Saul had never had anyone disobey him before when he said to Dog, kill the priests of Nob. Dog says, surely, and he kills him. 85 of 86 priests he saw him. Who disobeys King Saul? But there he is on Mount Gilboa, and he's got a just an armor-bearer who's now disobeying him. Saul's last command: his king is disobeyed, his army is decimated, his three sons are dead, and now he's afraid of the indignities that we've forced upon him if the Philistines capture him while he's alive. Oh, we we know that there were indignities that could have been done to Saul. We look back to the book The Bible. And we see how conquered kings were mutilated and tortured by the Canaanites and the Philistines. Malachites. There was a king named Odonai Bezek. We read about him in Judges 1, verse 2. And when he was captured by the Israelis, uh by Israel, and and they were that uh they dealt with him Adonai Bizek says, Whatever you do to me, I understand, because while I was winning victories and destroying other nations, he said, I captured seventy kings and I cut their thumbs off And I cut their toes off. The reason for that was when you captured a king, if you cut his thumbs off, he couldn't hold a sword and fight you anymore He couldn't hold a bow because his thumb was missing and shoot an arrow at you anymore. And if his big large toes were missing, he couldn't keep his balance and he couldn't run. And he just couldn't fight. They made him an invalid. Prayed him round the chain on his neck for all the public to see. Yeah, mutilation and torture. Saul had something here to be concerned about. And his time apparently was running out. And so he asked the armor bearer to dispatch him to kill him, and he would not do it. So Saul took his own life. He fell upon his own sword. And we read in verses 4 and 5 that the armor bearer seeing King Saul dead followed suit and did the same thing. Saul's causeless, sinful hatred of David had destroyed many a soul. He destroyed the priests at Nob. He had destroyed the men in these battles, especially on Mount Gilboard. It had destroyed his sons, his causeless hatred of David. had destroyed many a soul, many a good soul, we need to add. Ecclesiastes 9 and 18 says that one sinner destroyeth much good. And Saul was but one sinner, but oh the s he destroyed much good. And the killing of the priests at Nob How about the sinner who was flying and directing the plane in the Twin Towers that killed about 3,000 people in New York? One sinner, he destroyeth much good. How about Adam in the Garden of Eden? One sinner. How much good did Adam destroy that day that we're still paying the consequences for? How about the Pharaoh who knew not Joseph? One sinner. What did Pharaoh do? The slewing of babies? And much, much more we could talk about in the days of Moses. And how about Herod, one sinner who slew the children in Bethlehem and all about Two years and hunger, Matthew 2 and verse 16. The damage that one sinner can do, the damage that Saul had done here. And so we read what he had done. He'd gone against the Word of God. He'd gone to a familiar spirit. He had not inquired of God. All these transgressions soul had committed. And so verses 6 through 8 it said, So Saul died. Look at those verses six through eight. You find that the Philistines came On the morrow the Philistines found Saul fallen. It was not until the next day that the Philistines came upon him. Saul had been struck by the archers. You know, when you're in a battle like that, you've got maybe hundreds of archers and they line up and they just fire the arrows, you just just at a lark and the and the arrows come flying in like like hailstones or something, and some people get hit and some do not. They didn't even probably know they'd hit Saul. They didn't know he was wounded. They didn't know he was in that flight of arrows and he consumed a couple of arrows and was sorely wounded. They didn't know. But Saul Things seemed so dark to him. His conscience, his sin in his life, everything seems so dark, and it was coming upon him so fast he thought he had little or no time left, and so he kills himself. And the fact is here That the Philistines didn't find him till the next day. Saul's situation wasn't as dark as he thought. He had more time than he figured. Sometimes we get in that situation where we think things are so dark. The disciples on the second day after the crucifixion of Christ. Things were dark. On a third day, early that Sunday morning, before they got the word that he was risen, things were dark. We tend to think that things are dark and worse than they ever are. Does your life ever seem dark? Meaningless? Hapless? Hopeless? Nowhere to turn. That was Saul. There's nowhere to turn. It's hopeless. It's dark. I've got little time left. He was wrong. He had time. He had time until the next day. He had time to pray. He had time to repent. He had time to praise the Almighty God, but he didn't. He fell on the sword instead. We can and Saul should have prayed and repented and praised the Almighty God, but he didn't trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not upon thine own understanding, or lean not upon thy own perceptions of what's going on around you. In all thy ways or in all thy situations, acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. I have problems with my situations. You think I have a ride and I can take everything that falls my way and I I struggle. I sometimes Think things are darker. They are. Gotta pray. Gotta lean on the Lord. Gotta praise him for whatever he's ordained, because it's for his glory. the good of the church, the good of God's people. You think you believe that? And then the arrows start flying in. And you're sorely wounded. Saul had more time than he thought, and things weren't as bad as he thought, and that's generally the outcome of my 60-some years. How many times I've thought, this is it. And it wasn't. Someday it will be, but it wasn't. We tend to overreact. To our trials. While there is yet breath in Saul's soul, while there's yet breath in our soul, it's not too late for Saul. It's not too late for us. While we still have breath in our bodies, we if you don't believe that, ask the people of Nineveh. Boy, it was getting late for them when Jonah arrived They must have thought it was a pretty dark hour. Jonah per certainly presented them there were a very dark and difficult situation. But sometimes I just want you, it's never too late to repent. Ask the people of Nineveh Ask King Nebuchadnezzar. Ask the thief on the cross if it's ever too late to ask of Christ to forgive me. And to remember me, Lord, when thou reaches your kingdom. Luke 23 and 42. Oh so If only the armor bearer had said to him, Saul, Saul, don't fall on the sword. It's not too late. Ask God to forgive you and repent. It doesn't have to end like this. But the history of Saul took a different turn, didn't it? Than the Ninevehites, than the thief on the Cross in King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. And in verse 8, the Philistines found Saul And in verse 9, they cut off Saul's head. And according to 1 Chronicles 10:10, if you can see this, the Philistines didn't have one God. They had lots of gods And they wanted to get every god should get a piece of this, a piece of soul, and every god should have something to represent in their temple. They would call it the house of their their gods or the temple of their gods And they just kind of they have just they just cut him up and spread him around a little bit to all the temples. In first Chronicles ten it said they fastened his head in the temple of Dagon That's where the Ark of the Covenant was taken and Dagon fell down and hands broke off and his head fell off. But he they still worship him. And they bring Saul's head, it says in 1 Chronicles 10, 10, and they fasten his head in the temple of Dagon, and they take his dented, dinged, and damaged armor with all the holes and so forth in it And they take that to the house of the temple of Ashtaroth. We read in 1 Samuel 31 here this morning and verse 10. So the head is in the is in the temple of Dagon. They they take his armor into the temple of Ashkaroth And then it says they fastened his body to the wall of Bashon, Beth meaning house, or the house of the god of Shon. Alright? So they've they've got to swear up in three different directions. They just want They've got three gods, they want all three gods in all they really appreciate how they've given them the victory against the God of Israel, Yahweh, Elohim. They want our three gods, they're gonna get all the credit, they're gonna get they're gonna get some memorabilia of the great Of the great defeat of the God of Israel. His body hung there on the outside of the temple of Beshan, to be devoured by the birds of prey, and to decompose. to rot. Young people, how many here remember when President Kennedy was murdered Remember that day? Do you know? You remember the moment? You remember where you were. When the leader of a country is murdered, and you young folks haven't seen that. That is, you didn't have to be a Democrat to weep that day. You knew something horrible had happened to this country, and you didn't know what was coming next But you knew something horrible had happened and you saw God's hands smacking us for whatever reasons or were And what if they'd taken Kennedy's body and beheaded it and put the head in in some Muslim temple somewhere and and put his body in some other Muslim temple elsewhere and do you begin to grasp what this was doing to the people of Israel? I mean, Saul didn't have to be beloved by everybody. It still struck the nation of Israel, something horrible has befallen us. And now the desecration of our leader Where is God? People often ask. Is there a God? Why is there so much evil in this world? We hear that all the time from the non-Christians. Why is there so much evil in this world if there's a God? Because this world is overflowing with sinners who have rejected the Son of God as their Savior. They've rejected Isaiah 9 6. They've rejected the Son. Isaiah 9 6. talks about God who has a son who is also God. He said, God in Isaiah 9 and 6, the Son, the mighty God, the everlasting Father. They have rejected the mighty God. They have rejected God's Son. They have rejected the everlasting Father, a title for the Son of God. That's why the world is overflowing with so many horrible things. And when you go in the New Testament, first John two and twenty-two, John describes uh that that what that blatant sinner looks like. John says that that the blatant sinner, he's an antichrist. He is an antichrist, John says. That's why there's so much Horrible evil in this world. The world has of some of the sinners there are some that are actually labeled as Antichrist He is the anti, and he's a and he describes who they are. He is the Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. That's a whole different step in a worse direction. There are sinners and then there are sinners. There are sinners and there are sinners who have denied the Father and the Son. And they are titled Antichrist or the Antichrist Spirit. And John continues the writing, and he says that this belief has produced many antichrists, he says in 1 John 2 and 18. And I want to say this morning that the Islamic doctrine that comes from the Quran teaches that God has no son and that God is not a father. And John here says in the Epistle of John 2. 22 and again 2. 18, he says, this is the Antichrist spirit. And there are many Antichrists So why is the world so wicked today? Why is it so bad? Why is are you talking about jihadists and murder and terrorism and and the beheadings that are going on under their under the the the the the uh promotion of the Quran and the Islamic faith, they have denied the Father and the Son It's not because there's no God, it's because they denied the God, God the Father and God the Son. And Jude chapter one verses four and again fifteen describes a particular type of sinner. And I think the Antichrist Spirit is a very particular type. He calls them the ungodly men and their ungodly deeds and their ungodly sinners. In other words, there is no God. There is no God of Israel. There is no God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Who are these people who denied God the Father and God the Son? They are the ungodly sinners. They are the ones, ungodly men, who have done their ungodly deeds or have committed atrocities Against the followers of Christ. We live in a time when our government doesn't want to recognize Islamic, Muslim, jihadist terrorism for what it is. It is anti-Christ. Have they been grabbing little children from the Buddhist temples and taking them off to prostitution? No, they've been grabbing young ladies, young girls from Christian schools and taking them off prostitution. Off and using and abusing them. Why? Because they are of the Antichrist spirit. So, is there a reason for once godly nation, Israel, to hope in this hour of darkness That's the question. Can a nation that's once been a very godly nation, a very god-honor, the god of Abram, Isaac, can a nation like Israel At this point in time with Saul dead and and the army decimated and no apparent ruler to step forward because John does go on, can can such a nation Have any hope in such an hour of darkness? That was the question that people had as the word spread, Saul is dead and his head is at Bashan and his body is at over in the other temple in his armors. That was a question they had. In their darkest hour, is there any hope for our nation? And we read that when the inhabitants of Jabez Gilead heard that the Philistines had done to Saul, the news must have come at a very gloomy time. They'd already seen the armies retreating, they'd already seen the armies fleeing through the valley of Jezreel and uh across the Jordan. They'd seen all of this And that was gloomy enough for them that they're being defeated or being chased away. But then the news came that Jonathan's dead, Saul is dead, his three sons are dead. It couldn't have come at a worse time They couldn't go to the priest of Nob because Saul had already killed 85 of the 86. They couldn't go to the priest of Nob and say to the priest, what should we do? You know, lead us, direct us, pray for us. They were dead 1 Samuel 22, 18 shares that story with us. The prophet Samuel had died, 1 Samuel 25 and 1. Israel was now scattered like sheep without a shepherd across the cities, and they were they were fleeing to the Philistines. And as we close this chapter, the Philistines had now invaded the cities along the Jordan, and the Philistines were everywhere in Israel. It couldn't have been a darker hour. Saul's godliness, or godlessness rather, Saul's godlessness had brought Israel to the edge of destruction. And so I say to you again, in the darkest of hours can God quickly give his people a reason for hope? And many Americans feel that way today. We're living almost in the dark ages again. Can God quickly give us people a reason to hope. May I remind you of God's people at the Red Sea, how quickly He gave them A reason to hope. May I remind you of Saul coming down Damascus with saliva and you know blood in his eyes and desiring to kill the Jews and the Israelites, or rather the believers and Damascus and the panic of what he'd already done and what he was about to do, and then Saul is struck down on the road of Damascus. And quickly the people of Damascus had hope. May I remind you of the sorrowing disciples on that Sunday Sunday morning. Gloomy, dark, hapless, hopeless Until someone shouts to the door, he is listen, just as he said, and so quickly God's people were revived But here, gloomy time, dark days Verse 11. The inhabitants of Jabus Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul. Oh What can God do for them? Verse twelve And all the valiant men arose. There were still some valiant men, and all the valiant men, not some, but all the valiant men in Jabas Gilead. Oh the valiant men and Jabez, they arose and they went all night in the darkest of hours, in the darkest of times And they took the body of Saul and his sons from off the wall of the temple of Bashan, and they brought it back to Jabesh, and they buried him under a tree. And they fasted seven days. I want you to note that in the worst of times there are always valiant men who will rise up. God's got them And there were still the and not only were they valiant men who arose, they were valiant believers because it says the very last words, and they fasted for seven days. That's chapter one. That's 1 Samuel, the book ends with, and they fasted for seven days. Who did? The valiant men. They were believers. They were godly men, and God raised them up And they risk in the dark. They travel. It's a distance from Jabis Gilead or from Jabus to Bashan across the Jordan River. It's twenty-two miles in the dark round trip carrying these These decomposed, filthy bodies, plus going to the temple of Bashan, and there's what are they doing? This whole area has been infiltrated with the Philistines, and so at night they're working their way through eleven miles of infiltrated Philistine territory and they walk right up to the walls of the temple and take down the poor bodies and carry these decomposing bites back eleven miles and don't get caught. Boy, is there a God still in Israel or what? And are they valued and are they brave or what? And are they believers? They fasted seven days. And this place of Bashab was perched on a lofty cliff. This was let's just go across this flat desert, get in and get out. This was an arduo arduous task to go up the mountain, up to the cliffs of Besha. They always put these temples on high places And these people are probably there celebrating what they've done, and they've got the buys and so this is an exciting time for the Philistines. And they made their way through all of this. Valiant men God raised up at the darkest of hours for Israel. The question is, why would these people from Jabash of Gilead risk their lives for a dead king? You have to go back a few chapters, chapter eleven. One of the first things that King Saul did is the king, word had come to him that the Ammonites had surrounded the city of James. And Jabus was outnumbered and outgunned, and they knew they were outfought, and they said, We're going to destroy all of you unless you surrender. And Jabus said, Well, we can do that, we can surrender. Oh, one other term, when you surrender, we will pluck the right eye out of everyone in the city of Jabez that we might disgrace all of Israel. And they say, whoa, we gotta think about that. You know plucked one eye out of my daughter, my son, my wife, and myself, all of us And the word went out, a pleading for someone to save the city of Jabesh. And King Saul, in those greater moments, arrived destroy the Ammonites and save the city of Jabesh. And we're talking maybe 20 years or more before this last chapter of 1 Samuel. These valiant men came at night for Saul because Saul, we read in chapter 11 of 1 Samuel, Saul came at night for the people of Jabus, and so they of Jabus came at night for Saul's body. They were a grateful people for what Saul had done, though it was 20 or 30 years prior. They still remember what Saul had done for them. They were a grateful people. And they were not only that, they were grateful believers. They fasted seven days, verse 13. And I just want to say this this morning: true gratitude has a long memory True gratitude has a long memory, and that memory doesn't fade. True gratitude does not fade. And I say this morning: are you grateful that Christ died on the cross for you? Are you grateful for your salvation? If you're truly grateful, if you're truly grateful, you remember the day you got saved, and you were so grateful, and if you truly were saved, that gratitude has not diminished. Your gratitude desire is still there to serve your King Jesus the Christ. Now that's a test of your salvation. Are you still full of gratitude? And desire to serve your king again. And again. And again. Have you the heart of a bad Valiant man like those of Jabesh. And that should be the heart of those who are of the Lord Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day. That dark times come and dark times go. But may we hang on to our Savior. May we understand that the darkness of hours are ordained of thee. May we also understand, Lord, how quickly you can revive us and revive us and revive us again. Oh Lord, may we be a grateful people. May we may we always be grateful And have a desire to serve the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of kings, the Lord of Lords. And all God's people said, Amen.