Or if you just want to stay in Psalm eighteen, exact same verses. I had mentioned a couple weeks ago, repetition is good. So these verses are recorded almost verbatim in 2 Samuel 22 and again in Our response reading this morning, Psalm 18. And though we did a response reading in 18, we're now going to uh read the words again in Samuel chapter 22. And if you follow with me, they should sound familiar to you, having just recited them uh in our congregation a responsive reading. Samuel 22, 2 Samuel, beginning at verse 35. Here in Psalm 18, it begins at verse 34. This is going to end at verse 51, but in Psalm 18 it ends at verse 50. Very, very similar. Beginning at verse 35, David says, He teacheth my hands to war. I thought some people think war is so terrible we shouldn't go to war ever. But God actually teaches us to war. He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms When you uh set up a bow and arrow, if you ever have a bow, you put the bottom part of the bow on the ground and you bend it to get the string on the other end so it's nice and taut. That's what called stringing a bowl or it's called breaking a bowl. And he could break a steel bowl. Uh those are were really hard. You had to be very strong to do that. So that a bow of seal is broken by my arms. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation. Thy gentleness hath made me great. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me so that my feet did not slip. I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and turned not again until I had consumed them. And I have consumed them and wounded them that they would not arise. Yea, they are fallen under my feet. For thou hast girded me with strength to battle. Them that rose up against me hast thou subdued under me. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me They looked, but there was none to save, even on the Lord, but he answered them not. Then did I beat them a small uh as the dust of the earth. I did stamp them as the mire of the street, and did spread them abroad. Boy, he sounds like a pretty nasty guy at this point. But we'll discuss why he was feeling this way as he wrote this in a little bit. Thou hast also delivered me from the strivings of my people. Thou hast kept me to be head of the heathen, a people that I knew not, shall serve me. Strangers shall submit themselves unto me. As soon as they hear, they shall be obedient unto me. Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of their close places. The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God, the rock of my salvation. It is God that strengtheneth me, that bringeth down the people under me, and that bringeth me forth from mine enemies. Thou also hast lifted me up on high above them that rose up against me. Thou hast delivered them from the violent man. Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O Lord. Among the heathen I will sing praises unto thy name. He is the tower of salvation for his king. And showeth mercy to his anointed unto David and to his seed forevermore. David begins with how he teaches me to war and to consume and to wound and destroy. And he gives God here the glory for all of it. He teacheth my hands to war. God gets the glory for every one of David's victories. God gets the glory for David's dexterity, uh David's speed, David's strength, David's boldness and courage, David's ingenuity, uh uh David's army. None of them, none of them get the glory. It's all of God, not his ex dexterity or his strength or his boldness. David gives all the glory to God for his dexterity, boldness, ingenuity, and the army that he has leading him. God gets all the glory And then David in verse thirty-five, he moves to verse thirty-six and he says, What he appreciates most of God is this thou hast given me the shield of my salvation Or Ephesians 6. 16 says the shield of my faith. He appreciates more than anything else not the victories in battle and not his dexterity and his strength and his ingenuity and the army that he's able to lead. He appreciates most from God. his faith, his salvation. Wow. Bodily deliverances and David had many. He fought the Philistines and the Ammonites and the Moabites. David had lots of deliverances from bodily diseases and plagues and enemies. But what he appreciates most is his soul is saved. What are bodily bodily deliverance worth if our souls aren't saved? He weighs all the victories and battles and puts them aside as nothing compared. to his salvation. Look at your own lives this morning and weigh all the things that you may have. Good health, prosperity. But do you have salvation? And if you have it, do you appreciate it more than anything else? And if you don't, question whether you have salvation. David continues and he says, Thy gentleness in verse 36 hath made me great. Who has made him great? His Father. In heaven, his heavenly father, he said, thy the heavenly father, the creator of all the earth, the one who taught his hands to make war, he says, Thy gentleness has made me great The Heavenly Father, in correcting David, David said he was gentle to me. No. Gentleness nourished David to a point where he attained greatness. And not just to the fathers here this morning, but when you are correcting your children, moms Or sometimes if you're maybe you're an aunt or an uncle and you're correcting somebody you're you're watching over, do you use gentleness? David said, His heavenly father has gentleness has made me great. His gentleness nourished me and prodded me and drove me to be what I am today. We need to use gentleness in correcting and speaking to people. Do you address those who are straying from the Word of God? Do you address those who are straying from righteousness? Do you address those who are maybe toying with sin? Do you address them with. Gentleness. Gentleness. That's what Christ did with Peter. Peter had denied him. Three times. Oh, denied him three times. He not only denied Christ three times, he denied Christ three times in his presence. Oh, he not only denied Christ three times in his presence, he denied Price with cursing and swearing, it says Prior to them crucifying him. And Christ comes to Peter after the resurrection, and he says to Peter, here's the correction. What were you cursing and swearing for? What got in you? You went back to being an old fisherman or something? How could you do that? Deny your best. That's not what he says Peter, lovest thou me? Boy, is that a gentle rebuke or what? David says, My Heavenly Father, his gentleness has made me great. I don't think there's anyone here that couldn't be a little more gentle in correcting others. I remember correcting my daughter one time. I don't remember how gentle or ungentle I was And she was about four years old. And she says, but Daddy, the widowed girl, it broke my heart. I obviously had not been as gentle as I could have been. David continues in verse 37-39. He says, My feet did not slip. Boy, how many of us have tripped or Fallen or slipped sometime or another. But he's in battle. Not a good time to slip or fall when you're in battle and the enemies all around you. He said my feet did not slip, I pursued my enemies And we talked about I wounded them and I I smote them like dust and and I just I wounded them and I struck them down, I consumed them, I destroyed them. Boy, this guy, he really sounds like he's really irritated over something here. And he just seems to be rejoicing in what he's done to his enemies. But this is the time at which the Amalekites had gone into the city. David had left to go out and fight some of the Philistines and uh fight some of the uh the enemies up north, not the Philistines, but others. And we returned to the city The Malachites had been there. He burned the city to the ground. He captured his wives and his children. And the wives and the children of his men. He had about 600 men. And they took them and left. And talk about being distraught. They may were ready to stone David because my goodness, we left them, we we left them unguarded, and now the Amalekites got him. And what do you think? It's been three days together, three days sorted us, and what are they doing to our wives and to our daughters? We we gotta do something. It's been three days. It's probably too late. And David said, we're going now, and we're going after him. And they got a three-day head start at us So we will pursue and he talks about the swiftness of his feet and the speed that God gave him. And when he got there, he didn't know as he attacked the Amalekites what he would find in those tents When all the battle was over, would they be alive? Would they be molested? He didn't know what he would find. And so he smote them and he struck them and he consumed them and he destroyed them. Is that what you'd want to do? Just want to grab your wife and your daughters and your children. So happening in the United States, I know you watch the news. You don't get it all. Can't watch it all. It can be very depressing anyway. Let me give some good news for you In the thirty days, the last thirty days in this country under President Trump They've made 1,500 raids. Oh, you hear about the raids. Oh, they caught this this fellow and he's an alien, or he's an illegal, or or he's a he's a drug dealer, or he's he's uh he's he's shot somebody or knifed somebody, He's really a bad dude Forget all that. He has also made 1,500 raids on child porno rings. 1,500 raids. They actually captured one group in California and released over 20 children who have been forced into pornography. Fifteen hundred. They have wrestled. Fifth I'm sorry, they've remembers fifteen hundred people. I don't remember how many raids it's been But CBS and ABC is not covering that. Because CBS and ABC, they do movies about that kind of stuff and they make it look like it's okay. Hollywood does the same thing And how do you think that he feels? Well, President Trump before his president said, oh he got in, he's gonna stop all this this child pornography that's going on, he's gonna take care of it. He said they should be caught and they should be put to death. And I say amen to that. I don't think that will happen, because our country just isn't up for that yet, unless it's your child that's been caught. But that's where David was His children were gone, his daughters were gone, his wives were gone, and he he's he wants to consume them and destroy them. And he says in verse 37 through 39, My feet did not slip, I pursued mine enemies, and I destroyed them and I consumed them and I wounded them. And David's army, by the way, was a very small army. Took about four hundred men into battle. The odds were unbelievable. But he was so angry he didn't care if he lived or died, he had to go back and and destroy these men who were probably Molesting his family. He said in verse 40, and God girded me with strength to the battle. I I just love when you read David not just here in 2 Samuel 22 but all throughout it when he has a battle And he comes back and the people say, Oh, Saul is throw is slain as thousand, David has slain as ten thousand. David says, No, no, no. It's always of the Lord. It's always of God. It's always of Jehovah. You put Jehovah's name on the trophy in that case You give the ribbon to Jehovah. You don't give it to me. It's all God getting the glory for any conquest, for any victories. For any answers to my prayer, give God the victory. It's Jehovah. Carve His name on the victory trophy. I'm just God's instrument. My strength and my victories. Give them credit to God. And if we don't give God the credit, how can we expect future victories? How can we expect future accomplishments? We give God the glory And future accomplishments will follow and future victories. But we always take it upon ourselves, oh yes, I did a great job, and I deserve this promotion, and I deserve this. And things are really going well. I've I've I've I've worked so hard for this and I deserve it. And it's finally I've accomplished what I wanted to accomplish. Ay, ay, ay, ay, aye. You know what? God will stop the accomplishments The answers to your prayer and your reach is you give God the glory for everything. And when David came to the camp of the Malachites and he destroyed them all and drove them out, he found his wife and children had not been Touched. Probably was getting close because he found the Amalekites drunk and celebrating and pardoning, and you can imagine what would have gone on after the drunkenness We oftentimes don't give God the glory. We will, in a situation that will readily lift up the medical doctor or the medication or the modern technology, but we don't give Christ, our Messiah, all his due doing. Oh, thank you, doctor. Oh, the medication prescribed it's really working. Oh, this is great. No, you give God the glory that the medication is working. You give God the go ahead that the doctor made the right diagnosis. You give God the go ahead and even made the wrong diagnosis, it worked out anyway Someone was telling me this morning that that there was surgeon performed that thought fellows' appendix had burst. They cut him open and go in. And the appendix had burst, but there was a large cancerous tumor there. Well that wasn't a smart doctor. That was God just leading the man, going to get the appendix out and take care of the cancer. We need to give God the glory. Paul declared, I can do all things. That sounds pretty braggadocious, doesn't it? I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. Philippians 4 and 13. You can never thank God enough. You know what happens when you thank people? Someone does someone buys you flowers or buys you candy or buys you a little gift or something And you thank them, you know, they they might do that again sometime. But if you don't thank God for something he's done, don't expect God to do something again for you sometime. It's just not going to work that way. God does something for you all your life, but maybe by the time you're 18 or 20 years old you realize that God has done so much for you, and you start going back over all the years and thank God for all the things He's done for you. You need to do that Unfortunately, if you're if you're saved by the time you're fifteen or eighteen or twenty five or whatever, you've got time to say, Hey, I never thank you before Lord for my salvation and for that car accident I survived and for that that uh uh pneumonia that I had when I was young. You you need to thank God if you want him to take care of the rest of your life. You need to thank him. You cannot thank God frequently enough because he has done so much for you. that you can't imagine what he's done for you. We get to heaven someday. Oh. If he said, I'd like to have a video, Lord. Can you show me a video of all the things you did for me that I never acknowledged, I never observed? He'd say, sure. There you are, five year old kid playing out in the backyard. Here comes a bee buzzing by that you are drastically allergic to. Any wizard like bias doesn't sting you. God's I saved your life that time Or you're driving down the highway and you get a flat tire and you're mad at the flat tire and you pull over and kick the flat tire. And remember this happened with Dr. Auger? Somebody remember Dr. Auger? They had the they actually they pulled over because a daughter saw a swing set along the side of the road and she wanted a swing at it Okay, we fold with swing on the swing set. They got on the swing set. And just up ahead of them was a tremendous car accident. Multiple cars, people killed. And God says, I put that in your daughter's heart that she wanted to swing that Day. I mean, can you imagine the video we could watch of our lives what God has done for us that we've never thanked him for? I can do all things, Paul says, through Christ would strengthen me. Never thank God frequently enough for what He's done for your body, your soul if you're saved, and your spirit. Boys are saved. I cannot count the number of times I thank God for saving. Me. I know people say, oh yeah, I got saved, verse 15. I got saved verse 12. I wrote them in my Bible. How many times do you thank God? Well, I thanked him when he did it. How many times you thanked him since then? I'm into the thousands right now, and I don't know which thousands, but I just thank them every day Now if you're not thanking God, you don't have to thank him every day, but if you're not in a in a situation where you're just thanking God, when things go wrong, I just think that I'm saved. Question whether you're saved. It puts a spirit in your heart that you just can't help but say thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh, thank you, thank you. Take another breath and say it again. You ought to really appreciate your salvation. Now that sounds a little But I look kind of worried about you. Some people receive less in life for not praising God more for what He's already done. You can't thank him enough. Who maketh thee to differ from another? You're healthy? Why are you healthier than somebody else If you think you're better looking than somebody else, you might be wrong about that, by the way. But you know, if you think you are, who has made you to differ? Well, my parents' genes and my dad was good looking, my mom was good looking, you know. No Well, I've seen some pretty mediocre people, and they got some great-looking kids, you know. It's not the genes, it's God Who's made you different from another if you're intelligent? If you're a brain, if you know, if you've got an IQ, if you're a mensza, I think they call it, if you're really, really intelligent That's not your parents as I choose and they mesh together. It's of God. Who hath made thee to different? What hast thou thou dost receive? Why do you glory as if thou hast not received it? There is not you know these baseball players you can hit home runs and football players, they can throw touchdowns And and sh at the very most and I watch more football and baseball than I should, but always at the very most this is about all the glory God gets. They throw the touchdown and then they run down the field. Wow. That's a lot, isn't it? That's all God gets. Well, once though somebody drops their knee and prays in the middle of the football field, but how did that turn out? Not too well for Tebow Yeah. But he was right, wasn't he? Giving the God the glory. What have we got that we've not received from above? First Corinthians four and seventeen. David continues in 41 and 42. He says, My enemies looked onto the Lord. So he said, I'm beating him, I'm consuming him, I'm wounding him. The God of Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He just He has sent me into the battle. I'm the captain of his host here of Israel, and I'm destroying these people. And finally in desperation, they're dying and they're bleeding and they're being beaten by a much smaller force And they turned and they said, Wow, this Jehovah, this God. He must be the real God. And they turned to him in desperation and they began praying to him. And David said, My enemies, they looked onto the Lord. But he answered them not. Look at that, verse 22. He answered them not. I want you to know first that prayer is noted by the ungodly. And these Amalekites were ungodly and they were drunk. We read also we go back in the second 1 Samuel. They were drunk and they were ungodly, but they turn to David's God when they're dying, when they're desperate. The ungodly in this country as well, they note the power. They note that prayer is a powerful tool. They know that. That's why they don't want you praying in school, praying in the courthouse, praying in public. They are afraid of prayer. They know it's powerful. And that's why they oppose it. Until they're desperate. And then they'll try that as a last resort. And as for the Amalekites, it was their last resort, and it was their last effort, too, because they died. There are people who will pray to our God. They'll even pray in Jesus' name when they have no other options. When all other options are run out, the doctors can't do anything for them, the medication can't do anything for them, science and technology can't do anything for them, their parents can't do anything for them, their company, their boss, their friends. No, when no one can do anything else for them. When the pair of men survive with a car accident and they cannot do anything for them, then in desperation, they'll pray. They did a Columbine, didn't they? You read the stories of Columbine where that massacre took place? Those two uh men who were walked in there. The two savage kids that were shooting the children and teachers all over the at Columbine school? And you remember the teachers who we got in the room, we barricaded the doors, we hid down the corner, and I led the children in prayer. Desperation The same teacher would say you couldn't do a book report on the book of Jonah or in Genesis or on Noah. The same teachers who were opposed to you praying in school and the school system that would have been opposed to that prayer would have had a teacher fired for having a Bible on a desk That same system never took any of those teachers to court. There were no lawsuits As teacher upon teacher came out of Columbine and said, there was nothing else to do. We were desperate. We were fearful. I led the children in prayer. I prayed with them. In Jesus' name, one said Same with Hudson Bay Landing. Remember the plane that both engines died? And the plane is going down and I forget the captain's name, Sudlow or something like that. Sul Sully, Captain Sully, he takes the plane in into the bay and he lands on the water and and people film some of that. And you say and and he's he said people are praying in the back of the plane? And nobody said stop that We don't like when the Muslims do it, we don't want when the Christians are doing it. We don't want this praying. I remember I was in a similar situation, not as bad, where my brother began praying, calling on the God as the plane was going down. We lost electricity Nobody complained that my brother shouted out to God. When things are desperate, it's okay. And it was desperate for the Amalachites. But it says that God listened not. He answered them not. Some of you have had some situations in life that have really been tough. Some of the young folks view the toughest thing is some scratches the side of your used car. You you get upset about that. Shoestring brakes and you're running late. But some of us have had some really difficult situations in our life. And let me ask you, if life was just a bowl of cherries, whatever that means, if life was just really good Would you have prayed less? You know you would have. God brings things in our lives to improve our prayer life And we may not like the things that happen in our life, but boy, they do turn us around, don't they? We talk to God more than ever Forget about just praying at breakfast, dinner and lunch if we do that. But I mean we're praying while we're driving to work, we're praying while we're at work, we're praying at night with the wife at the most unusual times. You wake up at two o'clock in the morning, you'll wake you up and wake, let's pray about such and I mean God brings things if if things were just perfect and wonderful, what would our prayer lives be like? For some of you, you think you pray. Lord, bless these gifts which we're about to receive. Amen. Now I lay me down to sleep. That's not praying You'll know when you've prayed because you're probably sobbing as you pray. And your prayer lasts longer than twelve seconds. And you don't quit until you feel God has hurt. That's prayer. Delayed prayers for mercy. I want you to see this. They called on the Lord, he answered them not. You may be delaying asking God to save you. Delayed prayers for mercy may fail. The Amalekites prayed, and God answered them not. And if you've never really asked God to save you, And I realize you can't ask God to save unless God puts it in your heart. So just pray that God puts it in your heart. Well, I've said that to unsaved people Ah, prayer doesn't work. Reading the Bible. I said, just say this prayer. Oh Lord, put it in my heart to save me. Put it in my heart to pray that you would save me. I'm not praying that prayer. I said, why not? Because of my work. Okay Prayers for mercy may fail Does that sound strange? The Amalekites were praying for mercy at failed. Esau found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully Esau sought for his salvation. He sought for in repentance. He sought carefully, it says in Hebrews 12. 7. He sought carefully with tears, and God doesn't answer him Because Jacob have I loved and Esau have I hated. And his prayers for mercy were not answered as the Amalekites' prayers for mercy were not answered and as Saul inquired King Saul inquired the Lord and the Lord answered him not 1 Samuel 28 and 6. You're sitting this morning and you've never really, with a broken and contrite spirit, got on your knees, oh God, save me. Save me, save me. I'm going crazy. I'm going to die about. Oh you need to do that prayer. If that sounds unfamiliar to you, you need to pray like that to God in desperation before it's really desperation in the last seconds of your life because he may not answer you David continues, as they are in desperation, and Malachites calling on David's God, David said, I beat them as small as the dust of the earth. My wife's out there somewhere, and my children are out there, and there's not going to be any mercy, and my God is not going to answer their prayers either. They didn't have a prayer And if you're waiting until you're in a car accident and you're bleeding out and the pair of makes can't stop the bleeding out, and they're trying to cut you out with the jaws of light, and you're bleeding out and you call on God, you may not have a prayer You pray now for salvation. Seek him early while he may be found. Call upon him when he's near. David. God enabled David. He made David who was the the praying, praising psalmwriter. He gave this this praying praising psalmist and poet an ability to pulverize his enemy. I mean would you want a poet to lead you a Would you want a poet to lead the United States Army? Or a poet to lead the United States Navy or Air Force or Marines? Would you want a poet? But God took this poet, this praying, praising, songwriting poet David And he made him one who could pulverize his enemy. And that's to encourage us to pray and praise God as well. And you know when you need to pray to God and praise God? You need to pray to God and praise Him before the struggles appear. And then you can pray to him when you're going through the struggles. And then you need to pray when you're out of the struggles and thank him. We need to be praying. Paul says, pray always. Not just when things are tough, not going right. Verses 44 and 45, David says, Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of my people. Wow. Now of course David had strivings of his people. Look at his own household. Absalom trying to kill him, Adonai's going to try to take over, his daughter Tamar, you know. She is molested by the one son and he's also killed. I mean David had strivings among his own people, among his own family And we can have a lot of problems out there in life, but boy, when it strikes within the family, and there's strivings within your own household, that strikes you harder than anything else we can imagine We'd we'd choose places with somebody with maybe with cancer rather than what's going on in our own household sometimes. And David says he delivered me from the strivings of my people. How about the strivings within a congregation? Boy, there's been times I wouldn't want to talk about that. Well, we've had struggles here. Families have left or somebody has left. over a misunderstanding or whatever. A minister will tell you, I've talked to plenty of 'em, that the toughest thing in life is to watch the strivings within the congregation A sheep over here butting a sheep over there, you know. Sheep aren't supposed to butt. Supposed to frolic in the field and get along with everybody. I raise sheep. butt. Tried to butt me one time. I've probably told you this before, but I've often thought about writing a book someday. My life as a goat herder. You know, I sometimes think we got more goats than sheep. David said the strivings, God delivered him from that. So there must have been some Think of the Apostle Paul, the long list of things that Paul went through, beaten with rods, stone, shipwrecked, and then he adds to it there and In 2 Corinthians 11, among false brethren, the goats instead of the sheep, but he talked about sheep. And he said in the care of the church. Oh, he he adds that in with all these other horrible things, those things that are really tough You think the beatings of the rod and the stones were bad and left for dead and the shipwreck? Hey, I gotta tell you I gotta tell you about the care of the church and the false brethren. Oh my he throws that right in with the rest of it. That's hard. And some of you know that. You've had strivings in your own household. Maybe you've been through some church struggles over the years. Not this church, another church. David says, Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of my people. And strangers submit unto me as soon as they hear David's coming. David's coming with an army. What do we do? Bow down, worship him. We don't want to have any problem with David. We don't have any problem with the armies of Israel. We're going to accept whatever he says That's the way the gospel works sometimes. The gospel, we hear we talk about missionaries, they go out in the missionary field, and as soon as they present the gospel, the people just accept it. They just submit to it. They love it. We see that in the life of Naaman the leper in 2 Kings 5, of Rahab the harlot. She said, we've heard what happened, how you came across the Red Sea. I was part of it. And we've heard how you beat uh uh Og and the other kings and and she said, I believe. I'm here with you, I'm gonna hide you spot these two spies. Sometimes the gospel of Christ comes to people, they just they just accept it They call it love at first sight. Missionaries running there all the time. People almost pulling the tracks out of their hands and taking them home to read them. How different it is in England and America and places we've heard the gospel for years and years and decades and decades, and we can become almost immune to it, and it means nothing to our people But David says, strangers shall hear and so submit. As Ruth the Moabitus did. And the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts 8, he hears the gospel, and he's just captivated by it. You ever been captivated by something in the Bible? Wow. Second thing David says about these strangers, they shall submit to him. David knows there will be future victories. The strangers will submit to him. There will be future victories. David has prayed and praised God. He's had victories before. He knows there's future victories coming. And if you are really a prayer warrior, if you've prayed about things And you've gotten the victory over a situation or a struggle you're in, or you know, whatever, you know that God has answered that prayer, and you know with confidence that God will answer you again. And that's what David's trying to tell us here. They shall submit. David says, I know them and have future victories. And what a wonderful place that is to be and to know that God answers prayer, that He's answered some unbelievable, miraculous things in your life. It kind of gives you confidence to know that God will do it again. But if things just turn out okay, you've held your breath and it worked out okay and you didn't ask God to fix it, then you don't have confidence that God will Answer your future prayers over your dilemmas that you're going through. David says that they will. Have your prayers in Christ's name ever brought you previous victories Previous mercies? Previous answered prayers? If they have, you're going to pray again, aren't you? More frequently More fervently. If you had answers to prayers, they should encourage you to anticipate future mercies As you pray. Or if you listen to others around you praising God for an answer to prayer, I'll encourage you to pray as well. Job, boy, he knew how prayer worked. If you're not familiar with Job, you can tune out for the next five minutes, okay? If you're not familiar with Job, uh you know, what can I say? I mean Job's got you know the ten sh children that die and the camels and the sheep and he's everything's destroyed and he's got his health is destroyed. And Job says in chapter five and verse nineteen I love this verse. He says, He shall deliver me in six troubles. Yea, seven shall no evil touch me. Well a lot of stuff touched Job. He said that's okay. He's delivered me. I've gotten through the loss of my children, the loss of my goats, the loss of my camels. That's that's number two I've gotten through the loss of it. That's number three. I've gotten through the loss of my friends. That's number four. I've gotten through the fact I haven't lost my nagging wife. That's number five. You've got to be familiar with Job to understand that one. He said, and I know God has delivered me through six things, and he'll deliver me through seven things. What a confident prayer warrior Job is. Yeah, I didn't it didn't escape me, it didn't not happen to me, but God brought me through it. And whatever you're going through this morning, if you pray, God will take you through it. Four things, five things, six things. Yea, Job says, even seven things shall not touch me. And then David closes with a burst of praise in verses 46 through 41. Strangers shall be afraid, for the Lord my God liveth, he says. This is Christ said, because I live, you shall live also. I am the light, the truth, and the way. And he's confident. His God is alive. Be grateful and thankful when favors come to you. Our God sees. And our God hears. And our God speaks through his word to us and speaks to our conscience. And our God moves on our behalf, whatever's going on. We don't serve God's carved of stone and wood. You know as long as a God carved of stone and wood, it can't hear. That wooden or stone God can't see. And that wouldn't have stolen God can't speak to you. That wouldn't have stone God. You look at it, all those other gods who are out there in David's life that are out there today. The Buddhas, you know, people go and they bow down to the Stone Buddha, they bow down the Jade Buddha, they bow down to all these different things Other gods can't hear, see, speak. They can't even mobilize themselves. They can't get off their own. Buddha can't get off his own behind. He just sits there. Other gods, they couldn't mobilize one flea, one raindrop, or one angel to intercede and help you. Do you realize that? But we got a God that liveth. He can see and he can hear and he can mobilize myriads of angels for our defense. And David says in verse 47, Blessed be my rock. God's my foundation. He cannot be moved. He cannot be pierced. He is my foundation. He is my rock, David says. I said repetition is good a couple of weeks ago. Let me say it to you again. Because David says in verse 47, Blessed be my rock. God is my rock. He repeats that twice in verse 47. Repetition is good. But you go back to the first part of 2 Samuel 22, where we've been for a couple weeks. David calls God his rock in verse 2. He calls God his rock in verse 3. He calls God his rock in verse 32. He calls God is rocking verse forty seven twice. Repetition is good Praising God is good. He doesn't grow weary. He has a saved heart. He has a grateful heart. And he repeats again and again. My God is a rock. My God is a tower. My God is a shield. He just goes on and on. That's the heart of a saved person. Can't say enough about his God. And if he's repeating himself, he doesn't care. It needs repeating. God who sent his only Son to die on the cross for us. He does not grow weary of answering your prayers. He does not grow weary of you banging on his ear and telling him your problems. He does not grow weary of you thanking him. He does not grow weary of you praising him. Christ said, ask and you shall receive. He does not grow weary of you asking him. The Christ who has rescued us from deserved ruin. The Christ who has rescued us, yea, from deserved damnation. Does not grow weary in hearing from the thankful and grateful people. Your salvation, if you've got it, it is dear to you It is more dear to you than anything else. Salvation should be the very dearest thing that you have in your life. If there's other things dearer, like a mother, a father, or children. Question your salvation. There should be nothing dearer than the fact that you will never face damnation Verses forty eight through fifty, it is God that lifteth me up on high, that delivereth me, and his church is his flock that he lifts up, and his people are his people whom he lifts up And what he's saying, if it is God that has lifted me up on high, I want you to look above the tumults in your life, the troubles in your life, the terrors in your life, the tears in your life. You need to look up, look up, your redemption draweth nigh. Sitting back about where Candace is sitting, I remember a Thanksgiving service where a young lady, Lynn Everett, stood up. She was dying of cancer. And she knew it. And we have to all give testimonies that day. And Lynn stood up. She stood up and she quoted the 23rd Psalm of verse 3, and this is all she said. And everyone in the congregation knew she had cancer and it wasn't going well for her. her and then ever said this you know we ever but some people get them tall for five or ten minutes and she gets up and she says He restoreth my soul. He restoreth my soul. He restoreth my soul. Three times. And he sat down. I'll never forget that. She was going through a rough time. And what kept her was knowing that God restoreth her soul. Boy, you can't buy that. You can't even give it away David said, God lifted me up on high. Lynn was lifted up on high. She was dying and she said, He restored my soul. I'm good. I'm good. Christ is up there right now, whatever you're going through. And He is observing all that you're enduring at this very moment. We read the story of Stephen when he's being stoned or about to be stoned. And he says he looked up and he saw Christ standing beside his throne. Now that's an unusual sight. Because Christ is sitting on his throne. Well when they're about to stone Stephen, Stephen looked up, the heavens opened up, and he saw Christ stoning. He was about to be stoned, he saw Christ standing. He got up out of his throne and he's looking down on Stephen about what they're about to do. God is totally aware of what you're going through. And he cares if your one that's in communication with him and praying to him He observes everything you're enduring. And therefore, David said, I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen. I give thanks, O Lord, among the heathen. Pilgrims, do you bow your head in prayer at the restaurant where you're eating and give thanks? Among the heathen? Isn't that what we're doing? We're giving thanks among the heathen? David says, I you know, he said, I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen. He said, Well, I I don't always pray out upon the rest of it because some of those people don't like it. I don't care whether they like it or not. They do plenty of things out there that we don't like, and they don't care if we don't like it We are to give thanks on the Lord before the heathen. And if we don't, it's isn't that an act contrary to Scripture? Giving thanks always for all things unto God in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, Ephesians 5 and 20, isn't a defiance of that verse and other verses to neglect our public prayers? Christ gave an example in public before the five thousand. He broke bread and gave thanks and he fed them. Were they all saved? No, there were some heathens there in Matthew fifteen and thirty six and in John six eleven Paul's on a ship in the storm in fourteen days and they're praying they're all gonna be swamped and they're gonna all be destroyed and all gonna die. And Paul says, No, take some food, we're gonna survive this. And Paul gave thanks and then handed out the food to the s the men on the the seamen, the heathen. He gave thanks. Before the heathen. The principles there, the verses are there, and we don't do it. What a fine opportunity to bow in public before the heathen and give thanks. Are you afraid of your saints among the heathen? Save soul is trodden by the Holy Spirit to promote Christ before the heathen. where the opportunity is there. And with gratitude, it says we we ought to have a grateful heart. And we ought to speak as we give if we as we pray in public in a restaurant somewhere, we are to speak. And David is in verse 15, hey, we should sing. Praise it onto his name as well. Save souls. Never lack a reason to thank God. And it encourages others who are watching us struggle that we can still thank God. Boy, that was an encouragement to me. He restored my soul. We we encourage others and we encourage others when we're singing. We're gonna close the service in song today and you're gonna be singing and looking around and you're gonna see somebody singing that is really going through it They're in the midst of the storm and they're and they're over there singing. Wow, how'd they do that? Grace of God, salvation It says he showeth mercy to his anointed. The Holy Spirit has anointed you, washed you. The washing of regeneration. If you're saved, he showeth mercy to you. And forevermore, he says. You know, there's an evermore, it says in verse 31. He showeth mercy to his feet forevermore. There is an evermore. God promises us there is an evermore. Call out to God to save you, and you'll be a part of the evermore. Well, does that seem like a big jump, you know, a big jump of faith? They boy got to know all kinds of stuff in the Bible to just call out on God to save me. When Christ was making the triumphant emperor into Jerusalem, the children gathered out and they said, Hosanna to the seed of David. Hosanna, which means save us, save us now. If children can call out to Christ and say and recognize that He is the seed, the promised seed of David, the promised seed of David that was coming. Grant us salvation forevermore. If these children can do that, if that's sufficient for a child to just call out and say, save me now, pilgrim. May God, if He hasn't already, move you to cry out. You can do it anywhere. Most people aren't even know what you're saying. Just say. Hosanna. Hosanna. If you have to say it fast, say it fast. Hosanna! Oh dear friend Pilgrim, you need to pray, God, save me, and save me now if you're not saved. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you for David's Psalm 18. We thank you for the writing of 2 Samuel 22. How David goes through the whole gamut of things that happen in his life, and he closes with the salvation of the Lord, the Hosanna's. The evermore that's there for those who are saved. Oh Lord, may there not be anyone here who's not a part of the evermore. And we ask this. In the name of our great God, the Elf and the Omega, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is from all eternity, fromevermore, existed. It will exist into the future forevermore. Save us now, Lord. Everyone sitting here Touch their heart. Touch a heart that's not been touched. Touch it forevermore. Forevermore. Amen.