I hope that you have been enjoying the study in the book of Zechariah, a fraction, as much as I've enjoyed it. It has been a great blessing to my heart and continues to be so. And this morning we're going to be in Zechariah chapter four. And uh I had originally intended to try to preach the entire chapter, and it became obvious early in the week that that would not be feasible just because there's so much here. So I'm going to read all of the verses, 14 verses of Zechariah chapter 4, as we begin, but then we're going to focus our attention this morning On the first six verses, and then Lord willing, we will look at the balance of the chapter on the next Lord's Day So if you have your place in Zechariah chapter 4, as I said before, if you have trouble finding Zechariah, turn to Matthew and then start going backwards a few pages, and you'll come to those minor prophet books very quickly. Zechariah chapter 4, verse 1. And the angel that talked with me came again and waked me. as a man that has wakened out of his sleep, and said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked And behold a candlestick all of gold, with a bowl upon the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps which are upon the top thereof. And two olive trees by it, one upon the right side and a bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, What do these are, what are these, my lord? Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my Lord Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord undeservable, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Who art thou, O great mountain, before Zerubbable? Thou shalt become a plain, and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof, with shouting, crying, Grace, Grace unto it. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me saying, The hands of the rubbable have laid the foundation of this house, his hand shall also finish it. And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto you. For who hath despised the day of small things? For they shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of the rubbable, with those seven. They are the eyes of the Lord which run to and fro through the whole earth. Then answered I, and said again unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof? And I answered again and said unto him, What be these two olive trees which the through the golden o which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves? And he answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my Lord. Then said he, these are the two anointed ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth. Let us bow for prayer. Oh Father, Lord, we thank you for this glorious portion of your word. O God, bless it to our hearts this day. Open thy word, Father, for there are such beautiful pictures and symbols and truths in this passage. And oh Lord, how prone we are to walk along ticking rocks not realizing they are diamonds. How Easy is for us to trample upon gold without seeing it. But Father, this day, may your spirit open our understanding. May your spirit grant utterance to your word, that we might receive glorious truths of thee. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to consider primarily the first six verses of this chapter. We are going to uh drop down to verses 12 and 13 at one point. But we're going to focus on the vision of the candlestick itself. And then next Sunday we'll get into the imagery of the Surabbable, Lord willing. But here we find in verse 1, the angel that talked with me came again and wakes me as a man that is waken out of his sleep. This is a common Form of expression, a common way of expressing that which was taking place with these visions We find that the prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. And in Daniel's vision, in Daniel eighteen, he says, Now, as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep upon my face toward the ground. But he touched me and set me upright. Daniel gives the illustration, he was sleeping on his face, but the angel touched him and stood him up. There's something you have to see. Wake up out of your sleep There's something important here, and that is what Zechariah is expressing as well. He's in this this sleeping state, and the angel wakes him as one that is waken out of sleep This word waken is a beautiful word that we find in the Old Testament. It's often translated stirred. Or arouse. So this is the same word that's used in the beautiful imagery of Deuteronomy 32, verses 11 and 12, where we read, As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her Young spread abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings. So the Lord alone did lead, and there was no strange God among them It's the same word, just like an an eagle stirs up its nest, and those of you that have chickens, I'm sure at some time or another have seen a hen fluff herself up and then kind of bring her chicks under her wings. And that's the picture that God gives of his care of his people as an eagle would gather her chicks under his wings, but he uses that same word, stir. Now what is it that the hen is doing when she stirs up herself? Well, she's coming to alertness. Her chicks are cold. They need her. There is danger. Her chicks need her. And then the word is used again in Psalm eighty, verses one and two. Give ear, O shepherd of Israel. Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, thou that dwellest between the cherubim shine forth before Ephraim And Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength. And so we have this picture here of the prophet. There is great and glorious truth Right in front of him. Look at it. Here it is. Wake up. Come to alertness Cast off the fog of sleep. And we talked uh last week or week before, when we when we find the visions, he saw them at night. And we talked about the fact that that which is at night, you have to strain your eyes and pay close attention. And you have to be very close to it in order to see it because the darkness of night shine shadows things. And at night we sleep. But here this angel messenger is saying to Zachariah, wake up. Stir up. It is time for you to see. May God be gracious to us as we approach His Word to wake us up To wake us out of our spiritual slumber. How easy it is for us to read through the Word of God mindlessly. And there are so many truths in God's word that are not comprehended just by a casual reading, but rather as we dig into them and begin to consider the nuances of what's said with the Holy Spirit. Spirit guiding us, not understanding by human wisdom, but rather understanding us. The Spirit of God opens up the Word of God. It is beautiful. And in prayer I mention, because it's of my heart that we walk along kicking rocks, not realizing they're diamonds. When you find a diamond, it is not the sparkly thing which you find on a ring. But rather it looks like a piece of quartz. It is a rock, it has some clarity to it. But it has to be refined. It has to be shaved down and trimmed and cut to become beautiful. And so it is with these truths of God's word. Their beauty is not instantly seen The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, because they're foolishness to him, neither can he know them. To the unsaved man, this book is is no different than any other book. But to the child of God it's a rich a living book. And so Paul said it's high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than we believed. And in Thessalonians he said, Therefore let us not sleep as do others. But the verse I would like to take our attention to if Like to turn there is Isaiah 52, verse 1. Isaiah 52 and verse 1 Now give you a moment to turn there because I would recommend that if you mark in your Bibles, maybe you put an asterisk beside this one and come back to it for further study. Isaiah 52 in the first one in the first verse, awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion. Put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth there shall no more come in unto thee the uncircumcised and the unclean. What is being said in that verse? Zion there is a picture of the church. It is the church of the Old Testament. It is the church of the New Testament. And God is calling upon his people to wake up. Because the uncircumcised, that which is unclean, are not to enter in, but rather we are to live in holiness and righteousness. And so this angel comes and he says, Wake up, wake up, Zechariah, there is something. important for you here. And then we come to the vision itself in verses 2 and 3. And he said unto me, Zechariah 4 and verse 2, and he said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and behold, a candle all of gold with a bowl upon the top of it And his seven laps thereof, and seven pipes to the seven lamps, which are upon the top thereof, and two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side. thereof. What do you see, Zechariah? Zechariah says, I've looked. I've looked. I have looked What he says there. He says, I have looked. But it's obvious in that state. Well, I've looked, and I see a golden candlestick, I see bowls, I see seven lamps, I see seven pipes, I see two olive trees. But what does it mean? I've looked at it. But the the meaning is as beyond me. I haven't comprehended it yet. I don't understand what is being said there This is the mystery of the kingdom which is not given to the world at large. God who commanded the light to shine has shined in our hearts. But these things, even to the child of God at first, are are hidden. They are veiled, and so in verse four. So I answered and spake to the angel that talk and me saying, What are these, my lord? What is this? I want to understand it. And verse 4 is the first of three times. Three times that Zechariah will ask for an understanding. In verses four and five, so I answered and spake unto the angel to talk with me, saying, What are these, my Lord? Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what they speak? And I said, No, my Lord. And then look down to verse 11. Then answered I and said unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left thereof? And then verse 12, and I answered again and said unto them, What be these two olive trees, which through which the golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves? And he answered verse 13 and said, Knowest thou not what these be? And he answered and said, No, my Lord. Three times we find Zachariah, who is the firsthand recipient of this vision. Yes, I looked. I see it. I can tell you the structure. I can describe the candlesticks. I can define for you their various parts. But Lord, what's it mean? Open it to me. Open it to my understanding. Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my Lord, I don't know. Please help me to understand. There is a longing we find here in the testimony of this prophet. There is an earnest desire to perceive spiritual truth. God has promised that they that seek me shall find me when they seek for me with all their heart. And God has promised that He is the rewarder of those that diligently seek Him. And my dear friends, I would say to you this morning that if the prophet Zechariah, who's just been woken up by an angel, needs to ask three times, Lord, please open this Open my understanding, I want to know spiritual truth. If he had to ask three times, then I need to ask three thousand. If he had to inquire three times, how much more do we need to hunger and thirst after truth? To hunger and thirst after righteousness. Jeremiah 29, verse 13. And ye shall seek me and find me when ye search for me with all your heart. Blessed are those Which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Now are they blessed? They shall be filled. My friend, do you really want to understand spiritual truth? Or are you as interested in it as you are as some golf scorer. I couldn't care less about golf. Never played the game. I've hit a few balls just for the fun of it and didn't really go after them after I hit them. You see, there are many things that it means nothing to us. And the preaching is foolishness of the world. God has chosen the foolishness of preaching. But for the child of God, there is an inner hunger to know what these things. I I believe this longing is well expressed by Solomon when he gave the expression of the bride that is seeking her husband. And in Song of Solomon 3, verses 1 through 4, we're By night upon my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth. I sought him and found him not I will rise now and go about the city streets, and in the broad way I will seek him whom I so loveth. I sought him, but I found him not. The watchmen that go about the city found me, to whom I said, Sold ye him who my soul loveth! It was but a little time that passed from them. But I found him whom my soul loveth. I held him and would not let him go. until he brought me into my mother's house, into the chamber of her that conceived me. There Solomon gives a glorious picture. of the bride longing for the husband. Of course the bride in Song of Solomon is the church and Christ is the husband And that is, I believe, what we're finding here in the first part of this chapter of Zechariah. There is intense longing. What do you see? I see a candlestick. Do you know what it means? No, I don't know what it means. What do you mean you don't know what it means? Lord, I don't know what it means. Lord, tell me what it means Lord, please tell me what this means. May God give us that kind of a hunger for truth And so, Zachariah sees this vision, and he's able to describe it. And the description that he gives is very similar to the description we find in the tabernacle, isn't it? Remember that the people of God in this context here of Zechariah are recently returned from captivity. The walls of Jerusalem have been knocked down, the gates have been burned with fire. The temple has been looted and destroyed. Now they've come back to rebuild the temple, and they lay the foundation for the new temple, and they're expensive. Excited about it, but the old men that remember the old temple, they wept. And we find in Ezra that they were not able to discern the noise of the people, for some were shouting for joy and some were weeping because they realized that they could never reconstruct the beautiful temple. That Solomon had built. Anything they built would always fall short of that old temple. And so the people of God are discouraged. They are downtrodden. They are weeping because they cannot succeed in their earnest. Desire to make something beautiful for the Lord. Their best will never be enough. That's the context in which this vision comes. But in this vision God chose Zachariah a candlestick. And we must go back. Uh I won't have you turn there, but let me read to you from the book of Exodus where the instructions are given for this candlestick in Exodus 2 five verses thirty one and then verse thirty seven and thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold, of beaten work shalt thou make the candlestick The shafts and his branches, his bowls, his knobs, and his flowers shall be the same. And thou shalt make seven lamps thereof, and they shall be light uh light the lamps thereof, that they may be light. over against it. And so there in the tabernacle in the wilderness, not the Temple of Solomon, but the first tabernacle, we find this candlestick. And the candlestick, throughout all ages, has been around Representation of God's presence with his people. And God's people have been represented in the candlestick itself and God there with them. The purpose of the candlestick in the tabernacle was what? Light. It was to give light. And we are to let our light so shine before men that they men may see our good works and glorify our Father. So we come to Revelation chapter 1 and verse 12. And I turned to see the voice that spake unto me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to his foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest. my right hand and the seven golden candlesticks the seven stars of the seven are the angels of the seven churches and the seven candlesticks which thou saw are the seven Churches. And so here we find at a time when God's people are discouraged, a time when they're trying to restore the worship, the vision of the candlestick is that which comes back You still have a light, Zechariah. You still have a witness. And God is still with you. God is here with you. That which I began in the beginning, I will continue to the end, for I am Alpha and Omega. And so first of all, this candlestick presents a continuity of worship. The worship is being restored. Maybe it's in a little bit different place than it was before. But I will never leave you nor forsake you. I am always there with you. Remember the Sermon on the Mount, which we considered a few weeks ago, and we said that the Sermon on the Mount was not preached to the multitude, but rather was preached to the disciples And it was in that sermon that he said, Let your light so shine before men. You're the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. The unbeliever has no light to shine. But the child of God has the true light within him. And we find this candlestick is all of gold. I have a golden ring on my finger. And if you look at my ring, you won't see any spots of of other minerals or rocks in it. It is gold. The only thing you'll find out is a nick where one of my dog's tooth caught it at once and and nicked the edge of my ring. But this is not the way the gold was found. When they found the gold from which my ring was made, they had to take that gold and they had to melt it in very hot fire. And by melting it in that hot fire, all the impurities, the dross came to the top and were thrown away And then this ring was not in this shape. It didn't have the beautiful milled edge on it. They had to take it and shape it and form it. And we read there about the candlestick in the tabernacle, that it was all of gold, and it was beaten work And the candlestick in the Old Testament representation of Christ pre-incarnate and him with his people. It was a beaten work, but it was pure. In Revelation, we find that the seven candlesticks, which are all of gold, are the churches. They have been worked upon. They are no longer in the natural state in which the gold was mined, but rather God has taken his people from the world and removed from them the impurity. And worked upon them to make them something beautiful that they may give light. And so the church of God is not in its natural state, but rather we are purged. We are washed by the Spirit of God. But there's more that's that's beautifully illustrative here. And uh I do not profess to be able to purposely expound what is what we find here. It's glorious and it's mysterious. But there is a distinction between the description of the candlestick in Exodus and the description of the candlestick in Revelation. The candlestick in Exodus is described as having six branches which come out from the central stump. Whereas the candlestick in Revelation is described as having seven candlesticks. Six is the number of man. It is the number of imperfection. It is the number of sin And in the Old Testament, we find Jehovah, who is the center light, depicting himself as Christ, and three branches coming out each side from him, just as the children of Israel in the Old Testament. Testament proceeded out from Jehovah, for God had taken Abraham from Ur the Chaldees and had made him his own. And so you have in the Old Testament the number six associated with the tab with the candle, with the candlestick. And Jehovah, the central light, as the central stalk from whom all proceeds. But then when you come to the book of Revelation, we find the candlestick, and it is seven And Christ is walking among it. That's what I read there in Revelation 1 and verse 21. That he saw the seven candlesticks, and the Son of Man, one like unto the Son of Man, clothed with a garment and a golden girdle, walk Among the candlesticks. And the difference is this: in the Old Testament, they were still in imperfection. They were still looking forward to their Messiah. They were looking to the completed sacrifice. What was the whole purpose of the tabernacle? It was the place of sacrifice. It was the place where the lamb was slain, and the blood of the lamb was brought into the Holy of Holies, and it was sprinkled upon the mercy seat. And it all looked forward to Christ. Christ. And God was in the midst of his people, and God's people proceeded out from God. But in Revelation, when we find the picture of the same candlestick, it has changed. Now it is not proceeding out from God, but it is described as seven, and God is in the midst, and he's there. And so you see the continuity of God's people, a glorious picture from the Old Testament, always looking forward to the Messiah. And the New Testament, when the Messiah has come, it is finished, the purification of his people is done. It is no longer six, it is seven. For we are the people of God. We have been worked upon by the Spirit of God. The impurities have been removed by the grace of God. The hammer of God's word has beaten upon us just as the candlestick of Exodus was a beaten work. By hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And Christ is in our midst, and our number is seven. We find the candlestick with a bowl upon the top of it. This bowl upon the candlestick holding the golden oil. I'm sure all of us at some time or another have lit a candle when the electric was out, or maybe at a wedding or a funeral or someplace, we've lit a candle. And the candle has a limited life the candle burns out. When we were in Jamaica in the early days, one of the churches was in an area where there was no electricity. And so we had kerosene lanterns that we would hang in the building at night for evening services. And before the service, the first thing I had to do was gather up all the lamps and refill the kerosene. To make sure that the lamp would have enough oil for the service. And of course, we know the story of the virgins. Five were wise and five were foolish. And the foolish virgins, they didn't have oil in their lamp. Or was it ten Ten versions. Ten ten versions pardon me. Ten versions had oil and ten versions did not. Five and five. Five okay. Uh pardon my my senior senior moment there. I read it this morning, I was in the moment. But they didn't have all the lamps and their lamps ran out. But here we find this candlestick that Zachariah is sitting. And it's not going to run out. There is a constant supply. And then we find with the seven candlesticks that there are seven pipes to the seven lamps. And actually, uh, Calvin and several of the Reformers uh indicate that the language here is a seven of seven. In other words, it may not be seven lamps and seven pipes to the seven lamps, but it might be seven lamps and seven pipes to each of the seven lamps. In other words, a double seven. And we've talked before about the doubles, verily, verily, and so on in scripture. The text does not clearly indicate that, but apparently the the uh original languages give some indication that it's a seven. of seven. In other words, there's a big supply of oil coming to these lamps, folks. And it's coming from the bowl It's not going to run out. The children sing the song that comes from the the um five virgins, give me oil in the lap, keep me burning, keep me burning till the break of day. This lamp, which represents the people of God, and Christ in the midst of the people of God, it's not going to run out. Zechariah You small little group of refugees from bondage, trying to build your new temple And weeping because it does not have the beauty of the old, the same candle that you saw in the tabernacle before Solomon built his beautiful temple, it's here with you today. The supply is coming. The golden oil flows through the golden pipes to the seven lamps. And so it is fitting that in verse six the declaration is made, stated as irrubbable. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. What is the picture we find of the Holy Spirit in Scripture? It is oil. Golden oil in all its purity. Zerebbable. Zerubbabel, of course, if you don't remember, was the governor. Zerubable. You're trying to build this tabernacle. Zerubbabel, you're trying to get the people to unite. Zerubabu, you're rebuilding the city, but it's not by might, it's not by your arm. It's not by power. It's not your strength. But it is By my spirit, and the vision to Zechariah is of a lamp with an endless supply of oil. The supply will never run out And so it corresponds with Revelation 1 in verse 4. John to the seven churches which are an age of grace be unto you and peace from him which is and which was and which is to come and from the seven spirits of God. which are before the throne. In Revelation three and verse one, the angel of the church of Sardis write, These say things saith, the seven spirits of God, and the seven pipes, or forty-nine pipes, whichever the case may be, flow to the seven churches. But there's another element of this vision which we have not considered yet And that is found in the third verse. And it is actually this third verse, more specifically, to which we find in verse 11, 12, and 13 that Zechariah is pleading for an understanding. And two olive trees, verse three, and two olive trees by it, upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof. two olive trees. Okay, it's time for a test. Someone tell me, what do olive trees produce? One hundred percent. You got it. Olive trees produce olives. I like to eat olives. Maracina olives, any kind of olives. My wife doesn't like 'em, but I green olives, black olives, I like them all. But the olives that they were using were not as much for eating as they were for Oil, oil, oil. And so here we have the bowl, and the pipes from the bowl go to the lamps. And so there's this endless supply from the bowl. But there's also two olive trees, the source of the oil itself. And so Zechariah asks here three times, but what about the olive trees? What do they mean? And the angel says, Don't you know? No Lord, I don't know. What about the olive trees? Did you ever have have have your your child come up? Is it time yet? Is it time yet? Mommy, Daddy, is it time yet? Well that's kind of what Zachariah is doing to sort of circle back to where he began. There is a pleading. Let me understand this. What are these two olive trees. And if you look with me at verse number, my eyes not falling on it. Uh the two witnesses I'm I'm not not seeing it immediately. Verse 14? Verse 14, I'm sorry, yeah, thank you very much. I was I was looking up at verses six five, six, and seven. Verse fourteen, then said he unto me, These are the two anointed ones That stand by the Lord of the whole earth. What are these two olive trees? They are the two anointed ones. And to understand this, we have to go back to the book of Revelation once more. For in Revelation 11, in verses 3 and 4, we find this, and I will give power to my two witnesses. And they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and three score days clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees. and the two candlesticks standing before God, the God of earth. The two w olive trees are two witnesses. Now in our prophetic understanding, that's most likely Moses and Elijah But it's also Paul and Silas. It's also Matthew and James. It's also Peter and John. The two witnesses, the two olive trees from which the oil comes that supplies the lamps are God's servants. They are his special servants, Moses and Elijah, through whom the Spirit of God flows. You see, the olive tree doesn't have oil of itself, but rather it grows and God gives it oil. The fruit, the fruit of the spirit, fruit of the spirit is love Joy, peace. And so here we have a picture of the church of God's people in the golden candlestick with the supply of oil, and the supply of the bowl is always being replenished. By God's servants, through whom the Spirit of God is working, through whom He's leading. And so the church becomes a perpetual operation. It cannot fail because God will always have His what? His remnants. He will always have his chosen few. Sorrubbable. You've come back from captivity. The temple has been destroyed. You're building another one. It can't come up to the old one. But the candlestick is here, which represented the presence of God. The candlestick gave light and you still have light and there are still my witnesses even when the world is turned away I will have my witnesses. The oil of the Holy Spirit will be provided to the church, and the light will not go out. And so in Psalm 58 and verse 8, we read these beautiful words. I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I see you turning. It's Isaiah, or so sorry, Psalm. Psalm 52, verse 8. I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. And in Hosea fourteen, verse six, his branches shall spread forth, his beauty shall be as the olive tree and his smell as of Lebanon. And then one more. The beautiful first Psalm which talks about the righteous man and what does it say of him? And he shall be like a tree. Planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. Ah, be not discouraged, because the temple isn't as beautiful as the old one. Be not discouraged because we are few in number. Be not discouraged because The same image that God used in the tabernacle, it's here with us today. You see that candlestick that was in Solomon's temple had been looted, it was gone by this time But in the vision, it is here again. And in the vision that John had of the revelation, here it is again. And God is in the midst of it, now perfected through the sacrifice of Christ. May God give us grace to stand as his candlestick, giving light in an evil day. Let us stand for prayer.