Turn with me your Bibles this morning to the Book of Luke and the second chapter. Luke chapter 2, and this is indeed a chapter that we frequently turn to when we consider the incarnation of Christ. Luke chapter 2, and our scripture reading will begin in verse 25, and I'll read through the 38th verse. Luke chapter 2, verse 25. And behold, there was in Jerusalem, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit unto the temple. And when the parents brought the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary, his mother Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And there was one Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Pennael, of the tribe of Asher. And she was of great age, and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, and she was a widow of fourscore and four years Which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day And she, coming in that instant, gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake unto him of all that looked for the re for redemption in Jerusalem. Let us bow for prayer as we begin. Gracious Father, Lord, this morning we pray that thy word indeed would have free course and be glorified. May thy word reach deep into our hearts. May we learn the true meaning of waiting upon the Lord. Father, bless thy word to us. May it be profitable. May we not be forgetful hearers. May we have ears to hear. Lord, bless us this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. In this passage, we find Simeon, the aged man, who was waiting for the consolation of Israel. And then in verse 38, actually verses 36 through 38, but in verse 38 in particular, Anna we find who has been a widow now for 84 years, and she spake of him to all that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. These people were waiting. They were waiting for the consolation of Israel. They were waiting upon the Lord. And that is the theme I would like to take this morning. Waiting for the Lord. There are 36 different words in the originals that are translated waiting in English Mm. A wait, waiting, waited, uh wait s those English variations come from thirty six different Words in the Hebrew, in the Aramaic, and in the Greek. We find this word wait, waiteth, waiting, in our English Bible 155 times. Think about it, 155 times, 101 times weight, 35 times weighted, 11 times waiteth, and 8 times waiting. But then consider this. We have these 36 words in the Hebrew, in the Aramaic, and in the Greek that are translated as this one concept in English But those 36 words have multiple other translations in the English. Those words are translated Look for, carry, receive, be silent, vision, long-suffering, be in expectation, watch, and watching So if you take those other translations of these 36 words, you come up with, I didn't try to count, folks. probably a thousand or more different words in our English Bible that come from these 36 words. So this morning we're going to consider all thirty-six and we'll be here till Christmas Day. I'm kidding. This is one of those concepts that you get into. And the old phrase biting off more than you can chew is so apt. Because I got into this study and I I thought, well this this this is all here right on the surface. You can pick up the diamonds at hand and yes, there are so many jewels of truth. that are right on the surface of scripture, but you begin to follow the rabbit trails down and and uh all hundred and fifty five times that weight and waiting are used, uh doesn't even begin to explain. What is here? This is a glorious concept. A Simeon God told him he couldn't die until he'd seen the Lord's Christ. And if you look at what he says, he said, now Lord, let me depart in peace. It seems the age Simeon probably had the aches and pains a lot of us have. And Lord, how long? I can't limp on this knee anymore, Lord. This old hip just can't carry me in and out. And here is Anna. She's of a great age. It doesn't tell us exactly how old she was, but She probably married at 14, 15, 16. And she lived with a husband after her virginity. And now she's been a widow for 84 years. Four score and four. She's been waiting. She's been watching. She's been tearing. She's had expectation for so long. He's coming. He's coming. He's coming. So If you wanted to divide our message into two parts this morning, we're going to begin by considering this term waiting and seeing a few of the various ways that this term and concept waiting is used. But then the second half of the message, which will probably be about three in the afternoon, is going to Consider some examples from Scripture of how we can apply this weight this weighting to ourselves. Make it practical How are we, as believers, today, to practice this biblical waiting? And so this word wait. Of course in Scripture we find people waiting, lying in wait In Psalm 59, the psalmist says, For lo, they lie in wait for my soul. And we come to the New Testament. In Acts 23 and 21, we find 40 men who have bowed themselves with a vow and they're lying in wait for the Apostle Paul. And so that's one of the uses of this word. Another one that's very common that we won't even get into at all today is that the Levitical priesthood, the sons of Aaron, were to wait at the tabernacle. That was their job. They were in service, they were waiting. We find gloriously that God waits. Jehovah waits. This is one that really had not occurred to me at all under this study. The idea of Jehovah waiting in Isaiah 30 and verse 18. And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon us For the Lord our God is a God of judgment. Blessed are they that wait on him, wait for him. So God waits that he might bless us And blessed are those that wait on him. And then we carry that same concept of Jehovah waiting to the New Testament. and in 1 Peter 3, verses 19 and 20, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. which were sometimes disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. And so we find this concept that Jehovah waits. But when we find Jehovah waiting in Scripture, he's waiting to be merciful. And folks, you've heard me pray before, and I hope you pray in agreement with me. God, I thank you that I'm not in hell right now. Because if God hadn't waited That would be justice. Yes, it would. That would be justice. But God is long-suffering to usward Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, instead of God smiting me dead the moment I sinned the first time as an unknowing infant. Rather, God waited. God waited for my soul. And so we find the concept of Jehovah waiting as well. But where we're going to focus our attention this morning as far as how this word is used in Scripture is that biblical waiting. Is the expressed attitude of the believer towards God. Biblical waiting Is the expressed attitude of the believer Godward. I wait on him in all things. So let's break that down a bit. First of all, waiting Waiting demonstrates an expectation. And that's what we see in Simeon and Anna. They had an expectation. Something is coming. And no, we're not going to break into a course of something good is about to happen. That's not what we're talking about. Not that surface emotional idea that is so popular in modern religion. But rather, as the children of God, we have a holy expectation. We read in our call to worship this morning that promise that not a hair of your head will be harmed. I guarantee you, when they chopped off Paul's head, some of his hair got caught in it. And so when God says, not a hair of your head will be harmed, he can't be talking about these hairs we have here. But rather, it's an expression of our personage. Nothing bad's gonna happen to me, folks. Doesn't matter what happens in this life. It's but a vapor. Pierce for a little while fashion. But I have a God word expectation. Just as an infant child has no thought of going out and getting a job and buying food. But he has a parental expectation that because my parents love me, they will feed me, they will clothe me, they will house me, when I'm sick, they will heal me And so that idea of waiting upon God is so apt to the children of God. I'm a helpless infant! But I have a God-given expectation. I wait on the Lord. And He'll take care of all of it. He will supply all my need. And so the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons. of God. And second Peter three, seeing then that these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking, and that word looking there in Peter is one of these words that goes back to the Greek word waiting. Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of the Lord, where in the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with forever and heat. What matter does my car or my house or anything I have here is all going to be burnt up. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look, and again it's one of those words, wait, look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Oh, isn't that glorious? There's no sin in heaven. There's no politics in heaven. They don't even have a stock market. Hallelujah There's no four oh one K Bs R C D's, there's no what's this currency thing just failed? FtX. When are that stuff's all been burnt up? It's gone. Folks, we have an earnest expectation that is godly. Godward. We expect all things from him. We wait on the Lord. And so this biblical concept of waiting is is demonstrated in the expectation as Godward But secondly, this biblical concept of waiting is demonstrated in a heart that longs after God. What are you hungry for, folks? What is the longing of your soul? We all know that this world can get a hold of us and make us lusty. Make us lusty. And I'm not talking about immorality and whatever. We get lusty in this world. Gotta have this and gotta have that and gotta have the other and build, build, build, grow, grow, grow. But we're to lust after Christ. And this concept of waiting brings with it a demonstration of a heart that longs after God, longs for his calling, longs for his direction, longs for his will, and longs for his glory. Psalm 62, 1, truly my soul waiteth upon God. From him cometh my salvation. Psalm 62, 5, my soul, wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from him. Psalm 33, verses 20 and 21. Our soul waiteth for the Lord, for he is our help and our shield, for our heart shall rejoice in him. Because we have trusted in his holy name. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth. after my my soul after thee, O God. That is one of the is what the Bible's teaching on waiting is That our expectation is all of Him. Our heart longs after God. And we come to the New Testament. Blessed are they which do hunger. And thirst after righteousness. That's an expression of waiting upon God, of waiting for Him But then thirdly, this concept of waiting on God expresses a listening ear. Remember when Peter was preaching, and he was preaching Christ, and they stopped up at their ears and ran upon him? Yeah. They don't want to hear that. And remember what Christ said to the disciples? Blessed are your ears, for they hear And we read of the wicked that will not hear a Christ, that God will send them a strong delusion. They can't hear truth. They'll hear anything. But truth but this idea of waiting upon the Lord expresses itself in an opening open ear lord i i want to hear it I want to hear what you have to say. And one of the most beautiful illustrations of this is Mary and Martha. Because Martha, she's upset because Mary is sitting there listening to Jesus and she is baking the potatoes. And she's so busy about needful things. I had to eat. She's busy about necessary things, but she's missed the best thing. And Christ says to her, Martha, Martha. Let me get the words right because it's it's it's it's precious. Um Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled That's that's Luke uh ten forty one. Thou art careful, full of care, and troubled about many things. But Mary hath chosen a good part, which shall not be taken away. You see, Martha was waiting on Christ And Mary was waiting on Christ. But they were doing two totally different things. This biblical concept of waiting expresses itself in an ear that's willing to hear. And folks, sometimes the things we hear aren't exactly what we want to hear. Sometimes we read scripture and we say, I don't like that. That's not comfortable. That's not my will. That's not what I want to do. That's not what I want to hear. But this concept of biblical waiting on the Lord expresses itself in an ear that's willing and eager to hear the truth. of God. And then further, this biblical concept of waiting is a waiting that supersedes all other desires. It's more important than anything else in the world. One thing, Psalm twenty-seven four, have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire at his temple. One thing have I desired, and that's what I'm going to seek after. Can you honestly say that verse this morning? There's all kinds of things we desire. And there's an awful lot we're seeking after. But you see, this concept of biblical waiting is we're waiting for one thing. Simeon wasn't looking for a whole bunch. Anna wasn't waiting for many. They were waiting for one. And so if we are truly to be conformed to this biblical model of waiting, our focus is centralized. It is all about Jesus Christ. And the food we need to eat next week is important, and God's going to provide it, but that's not the focus of our life. And the retirement we're storing up for someday is not the focus of our life. And what we want to do that's gonna keep us away from the house of God is not the focus of our life. We can find all kinds of excuses not to be in church. But here we find this biblical concept of waiting as an all-consuming desire, a desire that supersedes everything else. In Psalm 37, 25, the psalmist says, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee. I desire him in heaven, and I don't desire anyone or anything on earth more than him. I find Anna this probably close to a hundred year old or even a hundred and five possibly. Prophetess, and she departed not from the temple, but served with God with fastings and prayer night and day Anyway, people talk about fulfillment. I want to be fulfilled. She would have been a young widow. She would have been widowed well before thirty. Probably twenty-five, twenty-seven. To be a widow in that day and age. Uh she didn't get her husband Social Security folks. And the norm would be to seek to be married again But here we find she now has been 84 years. And she departed not from the temple, but she served the Lord with prayers and fasting in the morning. Is that what it says? No, night and day. All she did. All she did. She was consumed with it entirely. Are we consumed with God? Do we wait on Him in the morning when we have our devotions? And then wait on the world the rest of the day? Or is our waiting on God that all-consuming passion? That supersedes everything else. It just takes over. Takes over and controls everything we do, everything we say. How different would our witness be? If we waited on the Lord all the day long. How different would our workday be if we waited on the Lord day and night? It's a all consuming thing. It takes over everything. And so that is An overview very quickly of what the Bible teaches, what how this waiting is to be exercised, what it looks like. But then I want us to look specifically at some examples of people in scripturally waiting or the way in which we are to be waiting. And of course we read there in Luke 25. But I would point out to you, if you look at Luke, I'm sorry, Luke 2, verse 25, if you look at verse 25 of Luke 2, we find And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same was just the bout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And then further down, he refers to the Lord's Christ. Keep those two concepts, the constellation of Israel, the Lord's Christ. And then go down to verse 38. And she, that's Anna, coming in incense, gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for the redemption of Jerusalem. So we have Simeon and the phrase that's used is the consolation. We have Anna and the phrase that is used is the kingdom of God. But then turn with me to the end of the book of Luke in chapter 23. Chapter 23 of Luke. And there in verse 50 and 51 of Luke 23, I'll give you a minute. I'd love to hear the pages turning, so I'll give you a minute to find it. And behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counselor, and he was a good man and just. The same had not consented to the counsel and deed deed of them. That's the crucifixion He was of Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who also himself waited for the kingdom of God. Okay, you see what we've done there? We've compiled three phrases that Luke records for us, or three concepts. One is Simeon, who's waiting for the consolation of Israel The second is Anna, who's waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. And the third is Joseph of Arimathea, who's waiting for the kingdom of God. What's the difference between the three? You see they're all three waiting for the same thing. They're all waiting for the same thing. And it's beautiful that we find in John 19, 38 that Joseph of Arimathea was a disciple of Christ, but secretly for fear of the Jews. He was a secret disciple, but secretly for fear of the Jews. But then in Mark chapter 15, verse 43, we find that Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable counselor, which also waited for the kingdom of God. There it is again. Came and went boldly to Pilate and asked for the body of Christ. So here is a man who's waiting for the kingdom of God. And he's a disciple of Christ, but secretly, for fear of the Jews. But after Christ is crucified. His fear is turned to boldness. Boldness. And he goes boldly. Folks, what are these fe what are they waiting for? They're waiting for the kingdom of God. That term that is used there of Simeon, the consolation of Israel, is a word that's used that really mean Sorry, that same word is also translated comfort, and that's what it means. He's waiting for the comfort of Israel. What is the Old Testament prophecy? Comfort ye! Comfort ye my people! Declare unto them that their iniquity is past, they've received double for their sins And that's what Augustus Toplady was referring to when he, in Rock of Ages, be of sin the double cure. Save from wrath and make me pure. In 2 Corinthians 1, the first three verses, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. It's the same word as consolation there in Luke. who comforteth us in our tribulation that we may be able to comfort them which are in trouble. Those two comforts are a different comfort. Let me read the whole verse. Who comforteth us in our tribulation that we may be able to comfort them which are in trouble by the comfort, the third comfort in that verse is our word consolation again. Whereas we ourselves also are comforted, the fourth comfort is a different one. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation, and is that word again, also aboundeth in us. I hope it didn't thoroughly confuse you with that. We have comfort in those verses seven times. Three of them are the same word consolation. Now what's being spoken of there when Paul is addressing the Corinthians? He's talking about our salvation. He's talking about the remission of sins. What was Simeon waiting for? Don't let me die until my sins are remitted. Oh Lord, don't let me die till my sins are forgiven. The Old Testament saints were saved by faith looking ahead to the coming Messiah. But here Simeon says, Lord, I want to be saved on the other side. And we have Joseph of Arimathea, who before the crucifixion, he's afraid of the Jews. But after they have crucified his Lord, now he's bold. Now he goes boldly to Pilate, and he wants to the body. And of course we have Peter, who in Christ is being beaten and mocked and spit upon, Peter denies him three times But after the crucifixion, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they took note of them that they had been with Jesus. Folks, we're on the other side of the cross. We are waiting for the consolation of Israel. Yes, Christ has come, he's been crucified. But we're waiting for the fulfillment of it all. We're eighty And so that is is the testimony we have from Simeon. But then we have Anna. And Anna is waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem, is the way she states it. Waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. Early Vincent and I talked a lot about that term Jerusalem in Scripture. And Jeusalem, the peace of Salem. It is Jerusalem, certainly, and there is a Jerusalem in Israel. And not to get far off of our topic this morning, there will be a further temple. But it does not matter that there's a mosque sitting on top of a mountain in Jerusalem. They're not going to have to remove a mosque for the temple that's coming. Because it's a heavenly Jerusalem. And when we read of Jerusalem and the city of God, we find that those phrases are synonymous with the church We are the Jerusalem of God. God's people are his city. He dwells in us and with us. And so we find that Anna, she was going to everyone and proclaiming to all those that waited for the redemption of the people of God. The redemption of Israel, the redemption of the church. And that word redeem that Anna uses is the same word we find in the previous chapter, Luke chapter one, verse. For in the first chapter of Luke, we find Zacharias, who is fulfilling his duty in the temple, and an angel appears to him and tells him he's going to have a son, and he is struck with dumbness. He cannot speak. And he comes out and he's making signs to the people because his tongue has been frozen by the Lord. But then his tongue is loosed. When he declares that his name will be John, and in Luke 1 and verse 68, Zachariah says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed His people. And the word redeemed there is the same word that Anna uses when she, the people that are waiting for the redemption of his And yet when Zacharias is declaring this, he's declaring the birth of his son, who is not the Messiah, but the forerunner. But it's accomplished. And then we find Joseph Arimathea, and he refers to it as the kingdom of God. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. So In Luke chapter 12, verse 29 to 31, you'll recognize the passage, but you usually hear it from Matthew's passage. But in Luke 12, 29 And seek not that ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of a double mind. Remember we're talking about that singleness of heart, singleness of mind, neither be of a double mind, for all these things do the nations of the world seek after. They're not part of the kingdom of Jerusalem, Kingdom of Heaven. And your father knoweth that ye have need of these things, but rather seek ye the kingdom of God. And so first of all we find that these folks in Scripture They were waiting for the kingdom of God, waiting for the redemption of God's people, waiting for God to fulfill all things. What are we waiting for today, folks? We're waiting for the constellation of Israel. We're waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. We're waiting for the kingdom of God. Hebrews 11, 39 to 40. And these all having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise, God having provided some better thing for us. That they without us should not be made perfect. Anna was so intent on waiting for the kingdom of God that she Spent 84 years day and night in prayer and fasting. Simeon was so intent on waiting for the kingdom of God that he prayed, Lord. I've got to hang around here till it comes. Let it come soon, because my knees are hurt. And Joseph of Arimathea was afraid for his life. Until the crucifixion of Christ, but now he has boldness. That should give us some frame of reference to how we're supposed to live today if we're truly waiting for the same thing. And so the first thing that we find, the first example we find is that we're to be waiting for the kingdom of God But then the second thing, and I know I know you're not clockwatchers, so that's good. We wait for relief from present trials, folks. We're waiting for relief from present trials. And I think we see that in Anna. I think we see that in Simeon. I believe we see that in Joseph Arimathea's. Well, we're waiting for relief from present trials. Psalm 57 finds David, not in the palace. Not out in the open field with his sheep. I'm sure he would have been rather there in the field with his sheep than where he was, but Psalm 57 finds David in a cave when he fled from Saul. And in the first verse, David says, Be merciful unto me, O God. Be merciful unto me. For my soul trusteth in thee. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I take my refuge. until these calamities be overpassed. Folks, are you facing hard troubles today in this life? Waiting for the kingdom of God. Oh yeah, Lord, just wait for the Wipe this all out and start over again. Make all things new. But do you find yourself waiting, Lord, how much longer is this going to continue? This thorn in my flesh, how much longer will I deal with it? This problem, Lord, you you know this problem at work that is just a weight on my shoulders. You know this situation that I'm having to deal with, this person that's annoying me, this this Bother from a neighbor, this broken vehicle, this all these things that are weighing on us and so frustrate us And yet we're waiting for relief in present trials. And we find David again in Psalm 142. And Psalm 142 is like Psalm 57 because Psalm 142 is also in the cave. It's a prayer of David when he was in the cave. And there David says, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, with my voice unto the Lord, did I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my troubles. Lord, here it is. This is my problem. This is my complaint. I'm waiting on you. Lord, when are you going to get me out of this? And my spirit was overwhelmed within me. Thou knewest my path, and the way wherein I walked, they have privileged laid a snare for my feet. Now let's think about this. We see two passages where David is waiting in a cave. What else happened in the cave? Saul comes in and lays down to sleep. And David's companions say, David, the Lord has given you Saul. The Lord has given you an easy way out. Get the sword, take care of it yourself. God forbid, David says That I should raise my hand against the Lord's anointed. You see, we are praying for the Lord to deliver us from current trials. But so often we're tempted to take a shortcut. So often we're tempted to find a way out. And I knew a young man many years ago who got himself into financial difficulties, and for some reason or another, he began to pill for money at work. And he got caught and ended up in jail. Lost his wife, lost his children. God is going to get David out of the cave. And God is going to get me out of my problems and you out of your problems. But the wait on the Lord is not to take a shortcut. The wait on the Lord is not to try to work things out on our own. Because that's what Abraham did, and we ended up with an Ishmael. God's got this as Brother Vince says so elegantly so often. God's got this And so this concept of waiting on the Lord, if it is truly all about his glory, if it is truly hungering for nothing but him, if it is truly an all-consuming passion, it is such a keep us, keep us It will teach us to wait when we're waiting. And to keep waiting. And to keep waiting. And even when we see an easy way out to say, no, Lord, I'm going to let you take care of it. Rather than me raising my hand against my enemy. That is true waiting on the Lord, and so it's waiting in present trials And the next one follows right along with it. We're waiting for divine justice. Waiting for divine justice. It is so easy to want to lash out of the wicked. Folks We do not condone in any way, shape, or form balming abortion clinics. Abortion is an abomination. But it's not ours to raise our fist against it. It's not ours, you know what I mean. It's not ours to take action against it. against it. We can protest, we can scream, we can try to elect good put up politicians and so on, but God's gonna judge 'em. And the the same with with the homosexuals and everyone else. Looks we're waiting for some divine justice. And we say, Sick em Lord! Sick em, get 'em! But God says vengeance is mine. I will repay. And so as believers Part of our testimony in waiting for the Lord is waiting for divine judgment. God, you're gonna have to take care of them. I'd love to. But Lord, take care of them. Psalm seventy-four ten. O Lord, how long shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme thy name forever? How long are you going to allow these homosexuals to be pastors and to be in churches as if everything is good, fine, and dandy? How long are you going to allow them to have drag queens story time in our libraries and our schools? We pray against them. But we wait for them. For divine justice. God's going to take care of it. Psalm 89, verse 50 and 51. Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people for they've got the power Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O Lord, wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. In course, Revelation. Revelation 6. We find the martyrs under the altar. How long, oh Lord. How long? But you see, all these we find in Scripture that are waiting for divine justice wait with a confidence that they're not waiting in vain. That's right. God's got this. He's going to take care of it. And here's one that that strikes very close to home with with with all of us in some way or another. Waiting for divine healing power. Waiting. for divine healing power. And we have two examples that briefly I'd like to point out to you. The first is in John 5, where you find a man lying beside the pool of Siloam. And in verse 3, in these lay a great multitude of infinite folk, of blind, haught, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. And there was a certain man, verse 5, there, which had an affirmity 38 years. 38 years There was a pool there. There was healing in the pool. He couldn't reach it. Mm-hmm. Didn't matter how close he was. He couldn't get there. He could see it. He could see it. Lord, that's what I need. Right there, that one. Second shelf down, third thing over. It's right there. Lord, that's what I need. Christ healed him instantly. When the time came to heal And then we have the woman with the issue of blood. She spent all of her living. Well, many physicians None the better, but worse. She had exhausted every possible resource. She had done everything she could And it had failed. She was waiting for the divine power of healing. But when Christ came, she was in Instantly healed. And so weary saints. God's got this Sometimes we have to wait. We can see him, it's right there. But it's beyond our human reach. And then finally, we find that we are all waiting for the redemption of the body. And this actually takes us right back to Simeon, Anna, and Jezebel. They were waiting for God to finish it all. They were waiting for it to all be done. In Jamaica, we used to say in course, it'd soon be done with troublesome trials. Yeah, it soon be done. I'm I'm leaving this world Paul said in Romans 8, for I reckon, verse 18 of Romans 8, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy. to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. And the sentence doesn't stop there. It says, to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Don't you love that? It's not just gonna be revealed, it's gonna be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth. There's our word For the manifestation of the sons of God, for the creature was made subject of vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who has subjected all things in the same hope. Because the creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption, under the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. And not only they but also ourselves, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves. Waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of our bodies. We are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? But we hope for that we see not, then we do with patience waiting For it. This corruptible must put on incorruption. So turn with me in closing to the three verses. That I read as our call to worship this morning in Luke 21. Luke 21, Jesus speaking to his disciples. Luke 21, verses 17, 18, and 19. And I'd like to take these three verses very briefly. Sort of individually and let those sink in. Luke 21, 17, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. First of all, he told it was gonna happen. Second, we don't we don't doubt it. We see it. We know it's true. He knew it was gonna happen. You're going to be hate it, he told us. Verse 18. But there shall not a head if you shall not a hair of your head perish. And I mentioned before, when they cut off Paul's head, I'm sure they got some hair with it. But not a hair of your head's gonna perish. How many hairs fall out of your head every day? Some of you, I mean some of you don't have any head left to to fall out, but but uh how many hairs fall out of our head every day? Um, you know, you not to be crude, but every one of us has seen the hair in the bottom of the shower. I mean, you know, it you know you gotta clean the hair out of the shower drain because we're losing it all the time. And yet, not a hair of your head will perish. So it can't just be talking about these hairs. It's an expression of our our being, of our state before God. He'll take care of everything, even down to the hair and the toenails. So verse 19 is the verse I want us to take with us. And in some ways, I've kind of thought, boy, that needs to be my theme for 2023. In your patience, possess ye your soul. Doesn't that one verse express in just a few words what it truly means to wait on God? In your patience, possess your souls. May that theme be ours. May we truly wait upon God hearing. Ah Like Mary, let the dishes stay in the sink. I want to hear the Lord. May it be an all-consuming passion That controls our finances, controls our employment, controls our attitude towards the world of the wicked, controls everything we do. Teach us to wait for the Lord. Let us pray. Oh Father, help us to in patience possess our souls. Lord, we thank you for thy word. Apply it deeply to our hearts. Use us for the glory of Christ. Exalt thyself in our mortal bodies. We pray this in Jesus' name.