Chapter of 1 John, and this morning we consider the first two verses of chapter 2 of 1 John. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Let us bow for prayer. Our gracious Father, we thank you for this glorious and joyous text that is before us this morning. Father, it is of no value to us if all we do is approach it intellectually. It has no value to our hearts if we only hear it with the mind. And so, Father, today, may we not be as those who seek teachers having itching ears. But Lord, may we be as those who dig deeply into your word. And Father, may your spirit be the exegete May your spirit teach our hearts truth. May your spirit bring conviction. May your spirit bring edification. May your spirit bring teaching to us this day And Father, we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. You may notice that starting part way through Verse 1 and continuing through the entirety of verse 2 is one sentence. It begins the sentence begins if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Charles Spurgeon, the great preacher, said, This one sentence is worth the whole of all the kingdoms of the world. What would you trade for this one sentence? He is the propitiation for our sin. If we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, and that advocate is Jesus Christ. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world? And lose his own soul. Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? What is of greater value than this truth? My little children, if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father. And our advocate is Jesus Christ, and He is righteous. And not only is He our advocate, but He is the promotion. We find here that John begins this second chapter and actually The obviously the the chapter divisions were not in John's letter. He didn't write chapter two in verse one. It had been added for our aid in study, but the thought here is a continuation from what we have in chapter one. But here he says, my little children, These things write I unto you. And if you remember back to our introduction to 1 John a few weeks ago, we saw that there's actually 13 times in this book when John says, This is what I'm writing for. This is what we're talking about But John here addresses the child the hearers as his little children. And we find this address seven times in this book where he refers to them as my little children. five times where he calls his readers his beloved. And that's significant because what is the name by which we know John? Well, John the Beloved John the beloved disciple. And how do we know how to love because we experience love? Greater love hat hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. How do we know that? Because Christ laid down his life for us. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, that ye have loved one to another. But how do we become his disciples? Because he loved us and gave himself for us. And so John, who knew the love of Christ, now addresses his hearers as my beloved children, my little children. And it's interesting because in John chapter 313 and verse 33, when Christ is getting ready to go back to his father. He is approaching the cre the crucifixion. And there he says, Little children, yet a little while I am with you, and ye shall seek me, as I said unto the Jews, whither I go, ye cannot come. And so John, who recorded the words of Jesus in John 13, now uses this same term for his hearers, my little children. My dear ones, you who are precious to me. And by John calling his readers, his little children, he is showing on the one hand his apostolic authority. That what he is saying is not just the words of men, it is not just his thoughts, but he is conveying to them the truth of God. And so by calling them his little children He is expressing to them, I am a spiritual father to you. I am speaking on behalf of the Word of God or behalf of God when I speak these things But also, on the other hand, by calling him his little children, he is showing them their obligation to obey the word of God. My little children. My little children, discipline yourselves. Live according to righteousness. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And you remember back to the first chapter when we read there in verse 4. These things write it unto you that your joy may be full. These things write unto you that your joy may be full. These things write it unto you that you sin not. And I would ask you, are these two unrelated concepts? Are these two totally opposite thoughts? Or is John telling them, I write these things that your joy may be full, and I write these things that you sin not, because if you sin, you won't know joy. Because you see, holiness and happiness are inseparably linked together. And iniquity and sorrow are inseparably linked together. You see, the world does anything it can possibly think of to find joy And instead they find sorrow. Instead, they find pain and suffering. The drug addict who desires to escape reality through drugs. Has to come down or die in his stupor, one of the two. Every drunk has a hangover. You see, my friend, the world and Satan dangle before us that which looks good, that which I think might bring me joy, that which might bring me happiness, that which will satisfy the long of my soul, and yet it all fails But the joy of the Lord is my strength. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. It says nothing about wealth or power or position or even health or being comfortable. It just says, great peace have they that love thy law. And nothing shall offend them. You see, this concept of I write to you that your joy might be full, and I write to you that you sin not, are no are not two separates, but are one and the same. Because for the child of God, there is great joy in knowing forgiveness. Ah, we find David, when the Lord has removed the burden of his sin, rejoicing in the righteousness that he has found. Rejoicing that now there is open fellowship with God again because he knows his sins are forgiven. If you want grief Live in guilt. If you want joy, live in forgiveness. If your pathway is dark, if you find nothing but discouragement and depression around you, what is going to help? A new car that moth and running What is going to help? A new job. What is going to change your darkness? Nothing but the light of Jesus Christ. And so, my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And I'm glad that by divine inspiration, John didn't put a butt in this verse. It doesn't say, My little children, these things write unto you that ye sin not, but if any man sin. It's not what it says. It said, My little children, these things I write unto you that you sin not, and if any man sin, we have You see, this is not a permission to sin. What? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall they that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And you see, this Truth that if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father is tied to these things I write unto you. These things I write unto you that you sin not And these things I write unto you that if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ. the righteous. And if you think back to the first chapter we saw there in verse 8, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar. And the truth is not in us. Brethren, there is sin in every one of us. And I write unto you these things that your joy might be full. I write unto you these things that ye sin not. We are to discipline our lives. But we live in bodies of clay. We make no excuse for sin. We give no place to the devil. But if of any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Let us consider this word advocate, which we find there We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. This word advocate is the Greek word parakletos. And folks, I am not a Greek scholar. I don't pretend to be a Greek scholar. I remember enough of my Greek from Bible school to make a fool of myself But as we go to the Word of God and the resources that are available, there is great truth That can be a great blessing to our hearts. And so I don't tell you this is paraklatos to act like I am some kind of scholar. I am not. But I do know that this word parakletos is the same root as paraclete, as Holy Spirit. And that's glorious. Because John very clearly tells us: if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, and he tells us who the advocate is: it is Jesus Christ. And yet, John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, here uses the name for the Holy Spirit to define the advocate. It is Jesus Christ the righteous. And if you turn back to John chapter 14, the Gospel of John, I'll give you a moment to turn there. In John chapter fourteen and verse sixteen John says, and I will pray the Father Christ, Christ says, John recording what Jesus said, and I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter that he may abide with you forever. It is the same name there in John that Christ says God the Father will send another comforter that John uses here in 1 John. to describe Jesus Christ. Why is this important? Because when John refers to Jesus as the parakletos He is showing us the deity of Jesus Christ. I and my Father are one. And throughout Scripture, we find the concept that the Spirit itself also maketh intercession for us. And yet we find that Jesus Christ is at the right hand of God, there to plead for his people. If we sin, we have an advocate. And what does this word advocate mean? Well, it is one who is summoned to the side of another. It is one who is called to someone's aid. This word advocate is very similar to our English concept of an attorney. It is one who speaks on behalf of someone else. And as we sinners Stand before the righteous judgment throne of God. As we stand in that holy court, we do not stand to defend ourselves. There are some who go to court and try to be their own lawyer. And it's been said that their lawyer is a fool. But when we stand before the righteous judge of all things, we have a defense attorney. We have an advocate, and that advocate is called the paraklatos. That advocate is one who is called to our side, one who pleads on behalf of another, one who is our intercessor. And this is not an obscure concept that's only found here in 1 John 2. But rather through the whole of Scripture we find this truth. And Paul said in Romans 8 and verse 34, Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is ever at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. who also stands to plead our cause. And yet in that same chapter, John 8, Romans, in that same chapter, Paul refers to Jesus. Jesus Christ, or so the Holy Spirit as the one who intercedes. And so we see the mediation of Jesus Christ. Now what else does that teach us? It teaches us that there is a a Trinity. There is one God who is three manifestations and yet one God. But also, there's one mediator. There is one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. Now we are to pray for one another. And there is a sense in which we intercede for the brethren. We have the prayer list on the back of our bulletin. And yes, we cry out to God with the needs of others. We can intercede in terms of, yes, we pray for one another. But I cannot stand before the judgment throne of Christ, the judgment throne of God, and plead your cause. Nor can any Romanist priest forgive your sin. Nor can you purchase for yourself any form of pardon. There is one God And there is one mediator. And that is exactly what John is telling us here. And if any man sin, we have an advocate singular. And that advocate is Jesus Christ. And he can advocate because he's righteous If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. Now, how is it that we have an advocate? Or to put it another way, why is it we need an advocate? Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 59. The fifty-ninth chapter of Isaiah, and again I'll give you a moment to turn there. Isaiah fifty nine and the sixteenth and seventeenth verse, these verses uh relating to Israel in their contemporary setting, and yet looking down through the ages of history as well Isaiah 59, 16, God speaking, and I saw that there was no man, and I wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore, his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him, for he put on righteousness as a breastplate And an helmet of salvation upon his head, and for his garment of vengeance. And he put on the garment of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak. Why do we have this advocate? What is the source of our attorney, of our defense? Well, if you are called to court here in our court system and you are unable to provide for your defense, Our governmental system, our taxes provide for you a public defender. No man in our court system ever has to stand alone. And yet there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And so it is impossible for me to make my own defense And there is no man that could make defense on my behalf. But here we see that God, seeing that there was no advocate, God made an advocate for us. And so God saw the fallen state of man. God saw that there was no one who could stand between me and my sin. And the scriptures tell us this story throughout. For we find in the book of Genesis in the third chapter that God said the seed of man would bruise the serpent's head. There would be someone sent to make defense for man. And in the Passover, which we looked at last week, we find that they needed some sort of sacrifice. They needed blood to stand between them and the death angel. And so the Lamb looked forward to the Lamb of God. And we find Abraham on the mountain, and he's ready to sacrifice his own son, but there is a substitute. There is an advocate. There is one who stands forth. And so God sent his own son. There were priests of earth, but they were sinners. They had to confess their own sin before they could go before God with the sins of the people. But we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. The righteous. The righteous one. And so God sent his son to intercede on our behalf. And Christ put on the perfect breastplate of righteousness, as we find there in Isaiah 59, a breastplate of righteousness. And remember the priest of the Old Testament who wore the breastplate with the twelve stones on their breasts, covering their heart, picturing the twelve tribes of Israel And so Christ, the perfect sacrifice, put on the breastplate of righteousness, and he put on the helmet of salvation. Remember, David said, My sins are gone over. My head. Ah, how I need that protection and the garment of vengeance. And so Jesus Christ is this one who comes to my side. and stands as my advocate, as my paraclete before the throne of God But the sentence doesn't end there, does it? Not only is Christ our advocate, not only is he the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sin. Ah, he is the propitiation. That word propitiation literally means the appeasement. He is the appeasement for my sin. And this word propitiation is only found two times in the New Testament in this form. The word there is Helosmas. And John is the only one who uses it. And both times he uses it, uses it here is what we call a masculine noun. The nouns in Greek have have gender. They are masculine, feminine, feminine, or neutral. Neuter. And John says he is the propitiation for our sins. And then again in John 4 and verse 10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation, the appeasement for our sins. He is the one who makes the atonement himself. He is the appeasement. But again, this word, when we begin to dig into its background, is fascinating because it is only used two times by John as this masculine noun. But there are two further times in Scripture where he's used as a neuter noun, as a noun without gender One of those is found in Romans where we find that God has sent him forth to be the propitiation for our sins in Romans 3 and verse 25. But the one that's more significant to us this morning is in Hebrews chapter 5 or 9 and verse 5. Let me read that verse to you. Hebrews 9, verse 5, and over it, speaking of the Ark of the Covenant, the cherubim of glory, shadowing the mercy seat. Of which we cannot now speak particularly. That word there in Hebrews chapter 9, verse 5, mercy seat Is the neuter form of the same word. He is the propitiation. He is the appeasement for our sin. He is the mercy seat. For our sin. What was the mercy seat? Well, it was the covering of the Ark of the Covenant. What was in the Ark of the Covenant? Well, there was the pot of manna And there was the law which I could never keep. But what was happening there on the mercy seat? Well, the mercy seat was the place where the cherubim covered, and God said, I will meet with you at the mercy seat. I will speak to you from the mercy seat. But what is of even more significance is that the priest would come with the blood of the sacrifice and he would put the blood upon the mercy seat. The blood stood between God and the law. And as God looks upon the law, he looks upon the law through the blood of his son. And Jesus Christ is my propitiation. He is my appeasement. He stands there as my mercy seat. Am I guilty before this judgment bar? Yes. Do I plead not guilty before the judgment bar? No. Oh Lord, I plead guilty Guilty! Guilty! And what should the judge do to the guilty? He should condemn He should punish. Retribution upon the head of the guilty But as I plead guilty before the throne of God, my advocate stands forward and says, I am here as a defense attorney, but I am also here as the mercy seat. I am also here as the propitiation. My blood has already paid the price of these sins. Yes, he's guilty, but he's innocent. Because I am his propitiation. Because I am his mercy seat. I plead not his sin, but I plead the blood. That I have shed for him. That's what my advocate does. My little children, these things write out into you that you sin not. And if an amen sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sin But there's more. Because the same word that is used here in 1 John for propitiation as a masculine noun And used in Romans and Hebrews as a neuter noun or a neutral noun, it is also used as a verb. And where we find this word as a verb, first of all, is in Luke 18 and verse 13. And the publican would not so much as lift up his eyes to heaven. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And brethren, that word merciful is the same word propitiation, it's the verb form. It's the same word mercy seat. It's the verb form of the same word. God, be my propitiation. Oh God, I cannot so much as lift up my eyes to heaven. I beat upon my breast. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. God, propitiate. A peace my sin. And then one more time we find this word is a verb, and that is in Hebrews 2 and verse 17. Wherefore, in all things that behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation For the sins of his people. And brethren, that word reconciliation is the verb form of propitiation. The appeasement, the reconciling. What does it mean to reconcile? Well, the term reconcile actually is in its root has relation to building If you've ever laid a block wall, you've got to have a string line. You've got to have a string line. Without a string line, it doesn't matter how good your eye is, that wall will wander. But to reconcile is to bring things into proper relationship. I won't ask you how many of you have a balanced checkbook. But when you balance your checkbook, you reconcile. You balance the accounts. You bring everything into proper relationship. All the parts. Parts now fit. All the parts now agree. They are reconciled. Think about that. He is the propitiation for our sin. All of my sin is reconciled with God the Father. It is all brought in the proper relationship. It is all brought to right. My brethren, no man can do that for me. I cannot do it for myself. But if any man sin We have an advocate with the Father. And that advocate is Jesus Christ Himself. He is both the Son of God and the Holy Spirit in one, for he is God. And he is there to intercede on my behalf. He is there to stand forth to my defense, and not for my defense only, but he's also there to make a piece. He's there to pay my fines. He's there to bear my punishment. He is there. I do not go from the judgment seat of God into the prison of hell. But rather, I leave the judgment where I should have been condemned as redeemed. I leave the judgment where I should have faced eternal hell, and I go to the glorious house of God. He is the propitiation for my sins. And not for mine only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Ah, my friend, there is no soul that Christ cannot save by his grace We believe very firmly in the doctrine of election, and we find in Scripture that God has chosen his own in him before the foundation of the world. And yet it is not just for the Jews alone, but for the sins of the whole world. That's enough to make a Presbyterian shout, isn't it? Hallelujah. What a Savior. Let us stay Oh Lord, we thank you that you have not left us at the judgment bar without defense. We thank you for our glorious Savior. We thank you that He has stood forth for the salvation of His people. He has paid the price. He has purchased our redemption with his own blood. Father, help us to rejoice in this truth. Lord, may we take heed that we sin not. May we discipline our lives. May we indeed be a people that are ordered by the law of God. But Father, we thank you that we have an advocate of propitiation, Jesus Christ the righteous. Burn these truths into our hearts. And Father, may we be evangelists to tell all men that Jesus Christ has come to seek and to save that which is lost. In Jesus' name. Amen.