Open your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the book of 1 John and chapter 3. We're continuing in our study of 1 John that we have been involved in sporadically through the year. 1 John chapter 3. And our text this morning will actually be the 14th verse, but I'm going to read verses 14 through 24. As we begin to consider God's word together. 1 John chapter 3, and we'll start our reading with verse number 24. First John three, verse twenty-four. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother, hath need, and shutteth up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? My little children, let us love, not in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God And whatsoever we shall ask of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight, and this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his Son, Jesus Christ. and love one another, as he hath given us commandment. And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him, and hereby we know that we abide in him by his Spirit, which he hath given us. Let us bow for prayer now as we begin to consider God's Word. Heavenly Father, our gracious God, We thank you that you have given us your word, that you have preserved to us your word. Father, we thank you that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But Lord, we acknowledge that the hearing by which faith comes is not the hearing of the ears, it is not the hearing of the mind, but rather it is the hearing of the heart. And Lord, we read of those that had rejected your truth, of uh Israel, that they had heard, but they had not understood. Father, today, may we not simply hear with our ears, may we not be as men beholding our face, natural face in a glass, and forgetting what manner of men we are. But Lord, this morning, may your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your word and open your word to our hearts. Bless our time together today. May it be profitable unto the soul. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We read there in the 14th verse, and we will look at this chapter more in depth and other items in it, Lord willing, on another Sunday. But I would like to take the first phrase of that 14th verse and use it as a starting point to look at verses throughout this book of 1 John. And in that first sentence we read, we know that we have passed from death to life. In other words, we know we're saved. We have an assurance that my soul was once dead in trespasses and sin. But there has been a change, there has been a transformation, and my soul no longer dwells in death. But rather, my soul is passed from death to life. So we refer to as the assurance of salvation. Do you know that you're saved? And when John is using this phrase, pass from death to life, here in 1 John chapter 3 and verse 14. He's actually quoting the phrase that Jesus himself used. If you turn over to John 5, the Gospel of John. And the 24th and 21st fifth verse of John 5. I'm sorry, I should have given you more notice to turn to there earlier. But if you look at John 5, verses 24 and 25, Jesus says this. Verily, verily, or truly, truly, verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my words and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life Verily, verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. The dead. Remember Lazarus, who was dead in the tomb? Lazarus, come forth! Could he hear Jesus call him? No, he was dead. But the dead heard the voice. I sometimes go to the graves where my mother and father are buried. And I know some people go to graves and they try to, you know, they oh dear so-and-so, I'm here to visit you. I don't do that. I go there to pray, actually And I go there to thank God that He gave me godly parents that raised me in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I go there to worship, not them, the God that gave them and the God that they worship today But Christ said the dead will hear his voice, and he speaks of men that pass from death. to life. And so it's obvious in Scripture that there are two categories here. There are the living and there are the dead. But it's not simply two categories, for we find in Scripture that it's two places. It's two abodes. Isaiah talked about those that dwell in the land of the shadow of death. They dwell in a place where death exists. In the 23rd Psalm, we read: Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. And in Matthew chapter 14, verse 16, Jesus says, quoting from the Old Testament, the people that sat in darkness saw great light And to them which sat in the regions of the shadow of death, light has sprung up. So there's two abodes being spoken of here. Now, we we read for our responsive reading this morning. The true account, not the parable, but the true account of the rich man in Lazarus. A lot of modern quote-unquote theologians will try to say, oh, that's just a parable. That's just a parable. But Christ said there was a certain man named Lazarus. And he said there was a certain rich man. He he sp singles out these two. And we find that the rich man in this life, in this world, in this abode, had everything he could want. He fared sumptuously, he ate the best food. He had donuts every morning. And Lazarus, the beggar, sat at his gate, hoping that maybe there might be a crumb or some morsel for him to eat. They both died. The rich man died and was buried. Lazarus died, and he was carried into Abraham's bosom. And we read that the rich man saw Lazarus afar off in Abraham's bosom, and he says, Father Abraham! Send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and touch my tongue because I'm tormented in this flame. This is a horrible place. This is a terrible abode. It's a place of death. Send Lazarus. And the answer is this there's a great gulf fixed. Those that would go to you from us, they cannot cross that gulf. Those that would come from you to us, they cannot cross that gulf. You see, there were two abodes, and the time in which Lazarus could have passed from one to the other is over. It is done. He is dead. When I was in Jamaica, they used to say about loved ones we prayed for that were unsaved. While there is life, there is hope. But when we pass from this life into the regions of death, into hell itself, there is no more hope. So we see this contrast in Scripture, this dichadomy that is set up between those that dwell in the life of Christ and those that dwell in the death of sin. And we find here in this third ver or fourteenth verse of chapter three of 1 John, we know that we've passed. From death to life. Assurance of salvation. The assurance of salvation is a peace That many don't have. It's a peace that many people that are believers don't have. And I believe that many, if not most, if not all, believers at some time or another doubt their salvation. And there are many reasons why we might doubt, and I'm not going to go into all those today, other than to say if you're not reading your Bible, you'll probably start doubting your salvation. If you're not spending time in prayer, you'll probably begin to doubt your salvation. And if there is rebellious sin in your heart that you're not willing to to repent of, you're not willing to turn from, you will find doubt of your salvation. Did you ever have somebody that says they love you and they never send you a Valentine? They never communicate with you, they never talk to you? Well, alone, you begin to doubt that they love you, don't they? Don't you? It's the same with this love letter we have from God. If you don't read it, you'll begin to doubt that he loves you. But this matter of assurance of salvation is something that many, if not all, if not most believers struggle with at some time or another. Secondly, the assurance of salvation, first of all, it's a peace that many people don't have. Secondly, it's a peace that no man can give you, nor should any man try to. As a pastor, it is not for me to give you the assurance of salvation. Nor is it for me to try to convince you that you are saved. And the reason for that is number three. A lot of people don't have the assurance of salvation because they're not saved. You see, it's easy, especially in our American society, to conform to what our family does. I was baptized when I was two weeks old, and I was raised in Sunday school, and I I went to the youth activities, and I I learned all the verses and I was in the Christmas program and I did all these things, surely I must be saved. Well, except ye repent, he shall all likewise Perish. And so, my friend, if you were doubting your salvation this morning, I'm not here to convince you you're saved. I'm here to convince you that you need to seek the Lord. Because he alone can convince you that you're saved. But then, fourthly, by way of introduction. The assurance of salvation is the will of God. God does not want his children to wander in fear. He wants us to know that he loves us. Why do I tell my children that I love them? I want to make sure that no. Why do I tell my wife that I love her? Well, I want to remind her. I mean she's got a ring on her fingers, surely she knows I love her. Well no, I I I want to I want to make sure that she that she knows But she has that peace and that comfort and that assurance that I love her. Don't you think our Heavenly Father wants the same for his children? The assurance of salvation is the will of God. God does not want us to wander in these doubts. And that is why John says to us here in this verse. We know that we've passed from death to life. And of course When we come to this book of 1 John, probably the first, the two most familiar verses are 1 John 1:9. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And 1 John 5. 13, these things. This book of 1 John and the entire scriptures, these things are written unto us that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal. And so with that introduction, let us go into this book and see what 1 John tells us about how we know that we're saved. And the first one is that we know we are saved by the keeping of his commandments. Not that we are saved by keeping his commandments. That would be worked. But rather, the keeping of the commandments of God is the evidence of salvation, and the first commandment is belief. Look over to chapter two and verses three through five. First John chapter two. And verses 3 through 5. Hereby we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar. And is not in the truth. But whoso keepeth his word, verily in him is the love of God perfected Okay, how do we know? We know by keeping his commandments. And what are his commandments? Go back to chapter 3, where we read earlier. Chapter 3 and verse 23. And this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his son, Jesus Christ. If you do not have assurance of salvation, have you believed on the name? Of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Not do you believe that there's a historic character that was born in Bethlehem and walked about doing good and did some miracles? I think most people believe that Jesus is a historic character. But do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God? the Savior of the world. That's the first place to start if you don't have assurance of salvation, because God's commandment is believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Son of God. You see, the devils believe and tremble. The devils know for certain that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. But they have not this faith, which is a belief that he came to die for my sins. I am a sinner, and I have no hope before God except that the righteousness of Jesus Christ is given to me by faith in his atoning work. He shed his blood for me. And if we believe, it is natural that we will love him. And that's what we find as well. That were to believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and to love one another as he has given his commandment. Verse 24: He that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And we know that we abide in him by his spirit, which he has given us. And we're going to say a little bit more about the spirit later on. In Deuteronomy 6, verse 5, and we looked at this a few weeks ago, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. This is the first commandment with promise. We're to love God. Do you love God? Well, you know, a lot of people actually hate God. Oh, Pastor, I don't hate God. Well, compare the way you behave toward a family member that you love. And the way you would never do anything to hurt them, you would go out of your way to please them. And then they compare the way most people treat God. Do they truly love him? In Deuteronomy fifteen I'm sorry, Deuteronomy thirty verses fifteen and sixteen We read this. See, I've set before you this day life and good and death and evil. Okay, I've set two things before you. Life, good, death, evil. In hell he lifted up his eyes in torment, Abraham's bosom, valley of shadow of death, region of death, light has shined, etc. You see the comparison here. And so I see, I've set before you this day life and good and death and evil, in that I command thee this day to love the Lord thy God. To walk in his ways, to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments, that thou mayest live and multiply. And so we see the two ways set before us. And so, first of all, if we don't have assurance of salvation, we must be sure, first of all, that we've obeyed his commandments. Have we believed and do we love the Lord? But then, secondly, how do we know that we're saved? We know by the work of the Holy Spirit. And this is why it is so important that no man try to convince any man that he's saved. It must be the work of the Holy Spirit. I can convince you of some things. Some people convince people, you know, hypnotists convince people that they're monkeys and cows and horses. But we're not talking about a hypnotist here. We're talking about the work of the Spirit. And so look with me at verses 23 and 24 of 1 John 3. Back to the chapter we're looking at this morning. 1 John 3, verse 23, this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another as he has given us commandment. He that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him, and hereby we know that we abide in him by the Spirit, which he hath given. We know that we abide in Him. We know that we dwell in Christ by His Spirit. His Spirit, we read, in Romans 8 and verse 16, the Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. It is the Spirit of God That reassures me day by day that I am the child of God. Now again You will not know fellowship with the Spirit of God outside of the Word of God Certainly the heavens declare the glory of God, and I've heard people actually say that, well, I don't go to church. I just go out in nature and I worship. Well, I do that too. But it doesn't keep me out of church. It's not a substitute for the Word of God. It's not a substitute for prayer. When I scuba dive, my favorite verse is they that go down to the sea in ships that do business in great waters. These behold the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep. I see all the beautiful things that God has made, and my heart says, Hallelujah, my God made that But that's not a substitute for the Word of God. We know that we're saved by the Holy Spirit, which He has given. And I don't want to take all the time to go into the Gospel of John in chapter 14, but I would encourage you this afternoon to read that chapter. St. John chapter 14, because it's that chapter is where Christ gives the promise of the Spirit, and he begins by saying, Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me, and my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, and you know the chapter. Let not your heart be troubled He says, where I'm going, you know, and the way you know. And Thomas said, How can we know the way? And the response Christ gives him is: I've been so long with you, and you have not known me. But when the Comforter has come, whom I will send in your name, and my who the Father will send in my name, he will guide you into all truth, and he will show you things to come. The Comforter would be the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit would be the one that would give. Let me let me read that to you. That's verse twenty-six and twenty-seven of John fourteen. But when the Comforter which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have commanded you Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Now, what is that talking about there when Christ promised the coming of the Holy Spirit? It'd be peace. What is the lack of salvation assurance? What is the lack of assurance of salvation? It's the opposite of peace. You see, if you as a Christian are going to find peace in your soul of the assurance of your salvation, it will only be by the Spirit of God. And that will only come about by diligence of your soul. Going back to 1 John, look with me at um Chapter 2, verses 27 and 28. First John 2, verses 27 and 28. But the anointing which we have received of him abideth in you. What is the anointing? Well, that's the work of the Holy Spirit, isn't it? But the anointing which he received of him abideth in you And ye need not that any man teach you, but as the same anointing teaches you of all things, remember what Christ said of the Holy Spirit, he will guide you into all truth. Okay? Teach you all things, and is the truth and is no lie, even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. Verse 28, now little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear We may have confidence and not be ashamed before him in his coming. What is that confidence? Well, it's the assurance of salvation. It is the assurance that when he comes, when the trumpet sounds, I'll hear the trumpet. I'm going to be with him. I have overcome the world through Christ. We will have confidence. Remember the wise virgins and the foolish virgins? When the Lord came, the foolish virgins, they didn't have much confidence, did they? They were fearful. They were shut out. And so Jesus Christ sent the Holy Spirit through the Father, or from the Father, through Christ. That we might know. And if you do not know that you have the assurance of salvation, you will only find that assurance through Christ. But beyond that, we find the assurance of salvation through the answer of prayer. Look with me at verse 19 and 20 of chapter 3 of 1 John. And hereby, chapter 3, verse 19, and hereby we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before Him. That sounds like assurance, doesn't it? For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God. And whatsoever we shall ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things which are pleasing in his sight. Do you remember when Christ healed a blind man who had been born blind, he had never seen And the scribes and the Pharisees were upset as usual because Christ had done a great miracle and it was showing them up, and they they began to question this man and grill him Who was it that gave you sight and how did he do it and so on? And this man Christ, he's not a good guy, because he's not of us And in John chapter 9, verse 31, as they were grilling this blind man, the blind man said to the man who's now no longer blind, said to the scribes and to the Pharisees, Now we know that God heareth not sinners. But if any man be a worshiper of God and doeth his will, he heareth him God heareth not sinners. If you're not sure of your own salvation, if you're not finding peace in the Spirit of God, Ask yourself this question, does God answer prayer? And then follow that question was, has God answered my prayer? Have I seen the working of the Spirit in my life? Have I seen God answer prayer? If I regard iniquity in my heart, David said, the Lord will not hear me. Psalm 35, verse 15: the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ear is open to their cry. If you doubt your salvation, if you've never seen a prayer answered, You need to seek the Lord. But if you find in your life that, yes, God answers prayer. I've seen his working, and I know it was him. No man could have done what happened. I could not have done what happened. I have seen the evidence in my own life that God has answered my prayer. There you can find some assurance. God doesn't hear sinners. Well, he hears them, but he doesn't answer their prayer. We know what we mean when we say he doesn't hear. Is God answering your prayer if you were struggling with this matter of assurance of salvation? And you find yourself lying awake at night saying, Lord, am I saved or am I not? And folks, I've been there, I've done that. Has God answered your prayer? And then fourth, we know that we are saved. We know that we have assurance of salvation by the evidence of a new creature. You know what? After God arrested Saul on the road to Tarshus, road sorry, road to Damascus. And made him a Paul, he never persecuted another Christian. Never sent anybody else to jail. You see, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Has there been a transformation in your life? Has there been a change? And this is an area that truth that you too can struggle with because uh Many of us grew up in Christian homes. My father was a pastor. I was carried to church. I had enough Sunday school pens long enough to trip on them just about. Because I never missed Sunday school growing up. I was always there. And when I was six years old, I found myself to be a sinner in violation of the holy law of God, and I cried out to God to save me. But most of the sins I could think of as a teenager were since then And I went through periods of deep doubt and burden of soul, Lord, I want to be saved, but I don't know if I'm saved. But God changed my life. He changed my heart, and that took place Not when I was six, but actually as a missionary in Jamaica in many ways, when when finally I got victory over these doubts. And when I realized it was nothing that I had done, but everything that he had done, he made me what I was not and what I could not be by myself. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. And we find that here in this book of 1 John. Look with me at 1 John chapter 2. And of course, the chapter divisions we have in our scripture were added later for us to be able to find things easier. But we find a bridge between chapter 2 and chapter 3 of 1 John. Chapter 2 of 1 John and verse 28 And now little children abide in him, that when he shall appear we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him in his coming. Verse twenty nine If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. There's that transformation, there's that change of life. Chapter 3 Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for he shall see him as he is. Every man that hath this hope in himself purifieth himself even as he is pure. Do you see the transformation there? You see the change. Now, we spent a lot of time on those three verses maybe a month ago, so we're not going to belabor that. Other than to say, if you do not know for sure you're saved. Are you the same person you've always been? If you were the same person you've always been, you need to seek the Lord. Lord. But oh my friend, can you look at your life and say, you know, if it wasn't for God's grace, I'd be locked up in jail right now. If it wasn't for the grace of God, I would have been killed as a teenager when I was out drinking. If it wasn't for the grace of God, I would have ruined everything. And I have ruined everything. But God took my ruin and he made it into a child of God. God took my disaster and he made beauty from ashes. If you doubt your salvation, can you look back and say, you know what? God changed me. And I'm a new creature in him. We read in verse nine of chapter three, whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. In this are the children of God manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. And again, we covered those verses extensively a few weeks ago. But what is being taught here is that the true child of God will not and cannot live in sin. You see, if the Spirit of God is dwelling in you and you sin, you'll know it. And oh, it'll bring grief to your heart. Oh, it'll weigh you down, Lord. I didn't mean to do that. I didn't want to say that That's not what I want to do. That's not the way that I want to live, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death for the good I would that I do not, and the evil I would not, that I do I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Are you a new creature? Has God changed your life? One of the ways we know that we're a child of God and have assurance is that God has transformed us into something that we were not and could not be by ourselves. And then finally, number five, we know that we are children of God by the love of the Brethren. And this brings us right back to our text there in 1 John 3 and verse 14. And we know that we pass from death to life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in. death. And we spend a lot of time in this study of 1 John talking about the love of the brethren. And it's very apt that we do, because it's found throughout this book. I if I remember correctly, it's like 57 times we find this word. Love. Do you love the brethren? Why do I love my family? Well, they're my family. And even when family do things that hurt us, deep down, we still we still love them. Them, their family. There's a bond that's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, which is Christ. But do you love the brethren? Do you love to be together with God's people? Or would you rather be at the ballgame with the world? Do you love to to fellowship with God's people? Do you find More relationship here with the people of God than you even find with your unsaved blood relatives. Do you love the children of God? If you lack assurance, seek the love of God. How do we conclude this? How do we make application? First of all, this God wants the believer to have assurance. We want the best for our children. We want our children to feel loved and secure. God desires that you have the assurance of salvation And your adversary, the devil, does not. The assurance of salvation is the will of God for the believer. But not only is assurance of salvation God's will for the believer, it naturally follows that the true child of God can have this assurance. There are those that teach that you know we can never be sure, we can never know. We'll find out when we get to heaven. My father used to say he wouldn't give anything for a hope-so, maybe-so, think-so salvation. He said, I have a no-so salvation. Salvation. The child of God can know these things are written unto us that believe in the name of the Son of God, that we may know that we have eternal life. Christ talked there in John 5 about those that have passed from death to life. We see in the story of the rich man and Lazarus the evidence of those that pass from death to life. And we know That we pass from death to life. You can know. Seek the Lord. And then finally, if you lack the assurance of salvation, seek Him. Trust Him. Obey him, believe in him, and know him. You see, many times the reason we don't have assurance is because we're just Give all diligence to make your calling an election. Sure. You see the lazy man that never reads his Bible, that never has his devotions. That never applies his soul, that kind of goes to church when it's convenient, that man will lack assurance. But these things are written to us that believe on the name of the Son of God, that we may know. I hope you know. I want you to know. I cannot make you know Let us stand for prayer this morning. Our Father, we thank you that you do not ordain that we live in doubt and fear. Father, I thank you for this wonderful congregation, this blessed fellowship that we have. Father, I pray that each one here may truly know that they have eternal life. I pray that your spirit may whisper peace to their hearts. I pray, Lord, that the comforter might give them that comfort. I pray, Lord, that we individually and as a body would seek the Lord diligently. That we would apply our souls to knowing the Lord our God. Father, help us to love one another. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.