Open in your Bibles with me please this morning to the book of Joel in the Old Testament, one of the minor prophets, not as easy to find as some other passages The easiest way to find the minor prophets is to turn to Matthew, which is easy to find, and then start turning backwards And the end of your Old Testament, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habalk, Zephania, Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi is the end of your Old Testament. So I'll give you a moment to find it. Joel chapter 3, the third chapter of Joel. And I'll start our scripture reading with verse number 9. Joel chapter 3, verse number 9. Joel three, verse nine proclaim ye this among the Gentiles. Prepare for war. Wake up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up. Beat your plow shares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am strong. Assemble yourselves and come, all ye heathen, and gather yourselves together round about. Thither cause the mighty ones to come down, O Lord. Let the heathen be wakened and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. For there will I sit in jud sit to judge all the heathen round about. Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is right. Come, get ye down, for the press is full, the fats overflow, for their wickedness is great. Multitudes. Multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. The sun and the moon shall be darkened, the stars shall withdraw their shining. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion and utter his voice from Jerusalem And the heavens and the earth shall shake. But the Lord will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of Israel So shall they know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in the midst of Zion, my holy mountain. Then shall Jerusalem be holy And there shall no strangers pass through her anymore. Let's bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for your precious word. Lord, we thank you for the glorious unity of thy word That though we think of this book as sixty-six books, yet Father, it is one book. And though you used a multitude of men to pin the scriptures, And their personalities and their voices are not obliterated in the style of their writing. Yet, O Lord, we hear one voice. And Father, we thank you that it all fits together. The Old Testament and the New Testament speak of the same truths The Old Testament foreshadows that which has come to pass, and foreshadows yet that which is yet to come. And so, Lord, as we endeavor this morning to open this glorious book of thine and to expound upon it, we acknowledge, Lord, that we are frail and weak men. And so we pray that thy Holy Spirit would indeed be our teacher and our guide in thy truth. And Father, may we be edified in thy word. May we be convicted of sin. May we be encouraged in righteousness. And Father, above all, this morning, may we look to thee with great worship and praise, for Lord, indeed, we know how the battle will end. Reassure our hearts in troubled times, we pray. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Whenever we come to prophetic scriptures, we have to tread lightly. We have to set aside our own idea that, hey, I've got this, that I understand all this, that I've got a good handle on prophecy. For indeed the Word of God is a rich treasure, it is a mine, and it is fresh and new, and as we look at it, we have to compare scripture with scripture and forget about all that the men of this world have said about scripture. Let it speak for itself. This is a glorious, glorious prophecy. And uh I share with our brother during the week that There's there's far too much here for us to absorb and understand. So basically we're going to take an outline from the Second half of verse 16 and into verse 17. But in order to get there, we need to do a quick run-through of the prophecy itself. This morning we're going to see the glorious victory that is promised to the children of God And we're going to see why in the midst of this wicked world that is so ripe for judgment, the child of God has cause to rejoice and to be glad. We indeed know how it's all going to end. We don't know what's going to happen in between necessarily, but we know how it ends. And so let me start with verse 9, and we're going to basically do a running commentary through verse 9 to verse 16. And you'll notice, first of all, there in verse 9, it says, proclaim among the Gentiles. Well, this is Old Testament, when the Gentiles were dogs When the truth of God was revealed within Israel and the family of Abraham. So when it talks about Gentiles here, it's not talking about we as believing Gentiles of the New Testament. But rather you could rightly substitute heathen or wicked or abominable here for the Gentiles. Proclaim among the Gentiles, among those that are right for destruction, prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let them come, the men of war draw near, let them come up. Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say I am strong. Now, our world that knows nothing of God and nothing of Jehovah loves to go to the Isaiah passage and says, oh, we're going to beat our Swords into ploughshares and our our uh weapons of war. We're going to let me get it right I've got it here somewhere. They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks in Isaiah 2. But here is the opposite verse. And what we find here is a call to the Gentiles, a call to the wicked. You better get ready, because there's a battle coming, and it's a battle you cannot win. And there's a popular quote-unquote Christian song that has a line, Let the weak say I'm strong. What the weak here are is Goliath. Let the wicked say, hey, we can win this thing. We're greater than God. Let the weak say, I'm strong. It's a mocking taunt from Jehovah. Just as Goliath said to David, Come to me and I'll feed your carcass to the animals, the birds And David said, No, you come to me with sword and spear, but I come in the name of the God of Israel. I come in the name of the Lord who you have defied. David said in 1 Samuel 17, verse 46, This day will the Lord, will Jehovah deliver thee into mine hand. and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee, and I will give the carcass of the hosts of the Philistines this day into the fowls of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And folks, the Old Testament actually happened. David actually killed Goliath But so many of these things in the Old Testament, though they were actual events, also are metaphorically looking forward to the future. And when David says, I'm going to take you Goliath, who said you were strong, who defied the armies of Israel And I'm going to feed you to the birds of the air, is looking forward to the final judgment of God, which we find right here in Joel chapter 3. For we read in Revelation 19, verses 17 and 18. And I saw an angel standing in the sun. And he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto this great supper, uh to the supper to the gr of the great God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings. And the flesh of captains and the flesh of mighty men. You see how it all fits together. And so it is God's elect It is God's own people that will someday beat their plowshares and their swords into plowshares because God will give us true peace, but there is no peace. saith my God to the wicked. Verse 12, verse eleven. Assemble yourselves and come. All ye heathen, gather yourselves together round about. Thither cause the mighty ones to come down, O Lord. Let the heathen be waken and come up to the valley of Jehosaphat, there will I sit and judge all the heathen round about. Now we could make the full sermon out of this one twelfth verse. First of all, it says, let the wicked come up. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before the throne. The wicked are called to come up. This isn't just the wicked living in the days of revelation, but this is the wicked The unbelieving, the non-elect from all ages that are called up from their graves to stand in judgment. And then look what else it says. And come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. Have you ever gone up to a valley? No, no, we we go down to a valley. But here the wicked are called up to the valley. And the name Jehoshaphat is God has judged, or Jehovah will judge, is the origin of the name Jehoshaphat. There's not a valley on earth. You can't open up your atlas and find the valley of Jehoshaphat. But this is God calling all men to come before him in judgment. Let the weak say I'm strong. You weak, flimsy men, shake your fists in the eyes of God one last time before I smite you. You mighty Goliath, with your sword and your spear and all your weapons, I have five little stones that will slay you. Let them come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. There will I sit to judge the heathen roundabout. Verse thirteen. Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come Get ye down, for the press is full, the fats overflow, for the wick their wickedness is great They're in the winepress and ready to be crushed. And here I'd like you to turn with me to Revelation chapter 14, the last book of your Bible. Revelation chapter 14. Put ye in the sickle. Revelation 14, and I'll read verses 15 through 19 of Revelation 14. Revelation 14, beginning with verse 15. We're going to get to verses 16 and 17 and they're outlined, but this is the foundation. Revelation 14 verse 15, and another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice unto him that sat on the cloud. Thrust in the sickle and reap, for the time is come for thee to reap. The harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out of the temple, which is in heaven, having a sh a sharp sickle. And another angel And another angel came out of the altar, which had the power of fire, and cried with a loud voice, crying to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe. And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth and gowered the vine of the earth and cast it into the winepress of the wrath of God. For our responsive reading this morning, we read from Matthew chapter 13. And we read about the tares among the wheat. The tares had been planted there by the wicked one. And the servants of the landowner wanted to go and pluck out the tares, but they were forbidden to do so, lest in ter in plucking the tares they harmed the wheat. And the command was, wait, give it time. Because in the end of the world I will send forth my servants, and they will reap the tares. You see how this is one book written by one God with many human authors, and it all fits together. It is one unity. Gather ye together at first the tares, and bind them into bundles, and burn them. Verse 14 Multitudes Multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. Most of you know that my background is in missions. And I heard this verse preached many times as a child. And it was preached in a way that really corresponds to our reading this morning from the canons of Dort because it was preached there's multitudes, there's multitudes of the valid decision, and you've got to go convince them to make the right decision You've got to convince them to pray the sinner's prayer. You've got to convince them to walk the Romans' road. You've got to give them one good work to do that they might be saved. But folks, that's not at all what this verse is saying. But rather, this word decision, this word decision is a word that means a threshing instrument. It is a word for an instrument that is put in to thresh the grain. It's also a word that is used for refined gold. In Isaiah 41, verse 15. Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth. Thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shall make the hills as chaff That threshing instrument in Isaiah 41 verse 15 is this same word, decision. Multitudes, multitudes in the threshing instrument. Multitudes, multitudes. Remember Matthew 13, the tares and the wheat? The separating of the good and the bad, the sheep from the wolves, the goats, the wolves from the sheep. God's dividing. And then again in Isaiah 28, verse 27, for the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument. In other words, the threshing has not yet come. And Proverbs 8, verse 10, receive my instruction, and not silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold And the choice gold there in Proverbs 8 is this same word, decision, gold that has been refined. There's multitudes, multitudes that are in this time of judgment. And remember the disciples' questions, are there few that be saved? Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction, but narrow is the way that leadeth to etern everlasting light, and few there be that find it Folks, this battle that is foretold here in Joel chapter 3 has multitudes of the earth. The millions and billions that have lived and died in rebellion to Christ are called up from their graves. To fight one last battle with Jehovah. In verse 15 The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining. Where did the sun come from? How do we get our moon? Who made the stars? Well, they're all controlled by God, created by Christ. He hung them in their place And they stay in their perfect orbits by his hand. And so what does it mean when it says they're going to be removed? Well, in Matthew 22, verse 13, then said the king to his servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. All source of light is being removed from the wicked. Remember, remember the children of Egypt, of Israel Who had light in their dwellings while the Egyptians sat in darkness? And remember the great call, the great rejoicing over the Gentiles, the people that sat in darkness Have seen a great light. I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Revelation 21 and verse 23. And the city had no need of the sun. Neither of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it, and the lamb was the light thereof. And so we find this great day of judgment coming, when God will send forth his reapers. The sickle is put into the tares, they are cut down. All light, all hope. All knowledge of God is removed from them. They have nothing but the darkness of eternal death. It's a great judgment. Verse sixteen. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion. Our brother this morning in Sunday school talked extensively of the voice that came from heaven acknowledging that Christ was the Son of God. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Hear ye him. And it's a glorious study to go through Scripture and find the times that God has spoken audibly. The first is when he spoke the worlds into existence. Let there be light. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear ye him. But here in the end of all things, God speaks audibly as well, and his voice is not a voice that is blessed. His voice is not a voice that is calm. It is not a cheerful voice, but rather the Lord shall roar. Oh, what judgment is wrought on the wicked. And utter his voice, and look where the voice comes from. From Jerusalem. From his people, from Jerusalem, from within the body of believers, because he is with us. He shall utter his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake. But And that word but is the most important word of our message this morning. But. This little conjunction means something other than, or something in spite of. From verses 9 through the first part of verse 16, we've seen a prophecy of unimaginable judgment. We've compared it with Revelation and seen the wine press of God's wrath. We've compared it with Matthew and seen the separating of the tares from the wheat. But But for the grace of God, I would be on that side. But by the grace of God, I'm on this side. And so, folks, this morning, the heart of our message, what I want to see is the glorious the glorious hope that the child of God has and how we know how it's all going to end. And we find that first of all in verse 16, where we find that Jehovah is the hope of his people. And all of our points this morning will have an H. Jehovah is the hope of his people. Look at verse 16. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion and utter his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake, but the Lord is the hope of his people. How do I know that I will not be a part of this judgment? My hope is in the Lord who gave himself for me. He is my hope. I trust in him. And this word hope is not our touchy feeling. I hope it happens, hope of our English language, but this is a hope that is a certainty. This is a reference to what we call the blessed hope This word hope is a word that's also translated refuge. And it's also translated shelter, this same word. Listen carefully, you won't have time to turn to keep up with me. But listen carefully to these verses Jeremiah 17, 17. Be not a terror unto me. Thou art my hope in the day of evil. It's the exact same word. Psalm 46, verse 1, God is our refuge and strength, a very present hope, help in trouble. It's this same word. He's the refuge of our people. Psalm 61, verse 3, for thou hast been a shelter for me and a strong tower from the enemy. Psalm 62, verses 7 and 8. In God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge. Same word is in God. Trust in Him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before God. God is a refuge for us. And Psalm 71, verse 7, I am as a wonder unto many, but thou art my strong refuge. And Psalm 142, verse 5, I cried unto the Lord, O Lord, I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. Folks, how do we know the end? How do we know how it's all going to end? Because God's my refuge. God is my shelter. Christ shelters me from the wrath of his father. God is my hope. I trust in him. And so we know that this world is going to be full of cares. And we know that the wicked are going to be all around us. Millions, billions of wicked have died, but they will all come up to judgment. Do you think? Do you think that the axemen who chopped off Paul's head will escape judgment? Well no, he will come up. Do you think that the men that stoned Stephen will escape this judgment? No, they will come up, they will come up to a valley, and it's a valley whose very name is judgment. We find in Revelation the saints under the altar, the martyrs under the altar crying, How long? How long, O Lord God of hosts? Oh folks, it's a long wait. It's a rough road. But we trust in the Lord. He is our shelter He is our refuge. He is our hope. And so the Lord is our hope, and therefore we know how it's going to end. But also we find that the Lord is the health of his people, and that's our second H this morning. Again, verse 16. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake, but the Lord will be the hope of his people and the strength. Of the children of Israel. He is our strength. He is our health. He is the health of his people. In Psalm 27, verse 1. We read the same word as we find there. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. He's the health of my life He's my help. And again in Psalm 28, verse 8, the Lord is my strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. And then we come to Psalm 42 in verse 11, and it's not the same Hebrew word, but it's the same Hebrew concept I don't want to confuse this there. This is not the same word, but it's the same idea. In Psalm 42, verse 11, why art thou cast down on my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of thy countenance God is our health. God is our saving strength. Yes, we fight against the elements of this world. Yes, the wicked rage and the people imagine a vain thing. But he is the health of his people. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the elements will melt with fervent heat. Did you ever get near a hot furnace? What's it do to you? It burns. But the Lord is the help of his people. God is our hope. God is our health. But then third is the Lord is the home of his people. Look at verse 17. So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion. Making my place of residence in Zion. Making my place with you. He dwells with Zion. Jehovah dwells with his people, and his people dwell in him. In chapter 2 of this same book, we read in verse 27, and ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel. Folks, this world's not our home. And the sun, the moon, and the stars are going to be darkened. And this earth is going to melt with fervent heat. But we're at home in Jehovah. We are resting in him. And so we know that we don't need to fear the judgment because he is our shelter. He is our hope. He is our home. He is our help. from the judgment. In Zechariah chapter 8, verse 3, thus saith the Lord, I am returned into Zion and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Psalm 46, verses 4 and 5, there is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God, the holy place of his tabernacle. And it's the same word. the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. And so the Lord is our hope and our health and our home. But fourthly, we know how it's going to end, because the Lord is our holiness. The Lord is the righteousness, the holiness of his people. Look again at verse seventeen. So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God, dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain, then shall Jerusalem be holy. And we've looked at that word Jerusalem many times. It's the the the word in the prophetic word Jerusalem, prophetic name Jerusalem, is a reference to the church It's a reference to his people. Jerusalem will be holy. His people are made holy by his dwelling among us. Come up, let the weak say I'm strong, that they may be destroyed. The wicked are destroyed, but we are saved. Why? Not because of ourselves, but because we have His holiness. He is the holiness of his people. Then, when he dwells among us, shall Jerusalem be holy. The problem that mankind has is the lack of holiness. Ever since the fall, man has had a great deficit. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The great deficit that man has is the lack of holiness. Why does God send a man to hell? Because he's not holy. Why does God take the believer to heaven? Because he is holy. Not of himself, but of Christ. We have great confidence because the Lord is our holiness. God is the righteousness of his people. Jeremiah thirty three verse sixteen in those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell in tw safety, and this is the name whereby they shall be called he shall be called the Lord our righteousness First Corinthians one verse thirty, but he hath made him to be sinned for us. I'm sorry. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That's first Corinthians 1 verse 30. And the one I start to quote is 2 Corinthians 5, 21, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. What's your title? Oh, professor of such and such. No, what's your title? Oh, inventor of such and such. No, what's your title? Manager or of such and such. What is the title of the child of God? The righteousness of God in him. That's what I'm made to be. And so the believer has great hope in the Lord. Because he is our health, and he is our home, and he is our holiness. But finally we find that God is the heritage of his people. We are his heritage. Verse 17 again. So shall ye know that I, the Lord your God, dwelling, I am the Lord your God, dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain. Then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall no stranger pass through her any more. We're his heritage. The strangers are removed. The chaff is gone. The wheat and the tares have been separated. The goats have been driven off. And we are all that's left. We are the heritage of the Lord. If you look up to the first two verses of this same chapter, verses one and two, which we have not read, there we read this. Verse 1 of chapter 3 of Joel. For behold, in those days and in that time when I shall bring again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, I will also gather all nations, and I will bring them down and notice the down there into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and will plead with them for my people, for my and for my heritage, Israel. That's where I got the H from. We're his heritage. We're the inheritance of God, and we are the inheritors of his kingdom. It says no strangers will be there. We preached before from Isaiah thirty-five, verses eight through ten. And a highway shall be there in a way, and there shall be called the way of holiness For the unclean shall not pass over it, but shall be for those the wayfaring men, though fools shall not err therein And again in Zechariah fourteen, verse twenty-one, Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto the Lord. And all the sacrifice, that sacrifice shall come and take of them and see them. In that day, there shall be no more Canaanite in the house of the Lord of hosts. The heritage of God's people is a place of perfect holiness And we are indeed the heritage of our Lord. And so we see a great battle going on. We see this prophecy repeated over and over again in Scripture. But we find that the people of God have hope because our hope is in the Lord. We have health, we have saving strength, because Jehovah is our strength. We have a home in him, though the earth be removed, and though the elements will melt with fervent heat. This isn't our home, folks. Let it burn. Burn, baby, burn. Yeah there's there's wildfires consuming people's homes as we speak. And yet this will all be burned up. And why do we have this hope? Well, because He is our holiness. Because our righteousness is in him. And we inherit all his blessings. That is our heritage. And God will remove all tears. He is our heritage, and we indeed are the heritage of the Lord. And so I'd like you to turn with me as we wrap this all up to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. The second chapter of Thessalonians and the first chapter 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 and beginning in verse 7. And to you who are troubled, rest with us. Are you troubled folks? Do you see the gay pride marches and it turns your stomach? Yeah. Do you hear the news media saying these crazy Christian nationalists believe that their liberty, their rights come from God rather than from us. And they don't even understand that it comes from our own declaration of independence. That all men are created equal and are endowed by their Creator with certain inalites. Does it grieve your soul when you See the iniquity of man abounding worse and worse, and there's not a word you can believe from any politician to you who are troubled. To you who say, Lord, judge it. To you who look to Christ, whose hope is in him, and whose health is in him, and his home is in him, and whose holiness is in him, and whose heritage is in him, to you that are troubled. Rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, come up You better take your plow and make a sword because there's a battle coming. But Goliath, you can't win. But the weak say I'm strong. Flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and obey not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints and to be admired of all them that believe, because our testimony among you is believed this day. And then one more passage as we close. Turn with me to Revelation 21 and verse 22. Revelation twenty one and verse twenty two Revelation 21, verse 22, and I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. Next time somebody talks to you about a temple being built in Jerusalem, point them to Revelation 21, verse 22, because it tells us very clearly what the new temple is. It's not a building in some city in Palestine. For the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. And the city hath no need of sun. Isn't that interesting because we read there in Joel that the sun and the moon are going to be put out? The heathen will have no light. But here the redeemed And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it, and the lamb was the light thereof And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it. And the kings of earth do bring their glory and honor to it. We saw this morning in Sunday school about how God the Father honors the Son and the source of true honor. Here we find that all the redeemed are coming with honor to the Son. And the gates of it shall not be shut all day, at all by day, for there shall be no night there. There shall be no night. And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations unto it. And there shall in no wise enter in anything that defileth. Oh, how this world defiles us as we walk through it. The Apostle Paul said, I die daily. Why? Because if you turn on your computer, you're going to see iniquity. If you open the newspaper, you're going to see iniquity. If you turn on the boob tube, you're going to see iniquity. It's all around us. If you walk down the street, you're going to see it. But folks, we're going to live in a city. Where nothing defiles enters in. We don't have to wash our clothes, folks. Our robe of righteousness stays a robe of righteousness at all times. And there shall no wise enter into it anything that defileth. Remember the Canaanites not there, the the wicked are driven from it. Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of the Lord. life. Folks, there's a great battle coming. We know who would end, how it would end, because God is our hope. He is our health. He is our holiness. He is our home, and he is our heritage. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let us stand in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, that we do know how it's going to end. The battle rages all around us and sometimes tries us, and we are often troubled. And yet what comforting words that to you that are troubled rest with us when Christ shall be revealed. Lord, we pray, even so come, Lord Jesus. Bless thy word to our hearts this day. Make us lights as long as we live in this world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.