Gracious Father, we thank you and praise you for who you are. And rejoice that we are not what we used to be. For Lord, when you found us in the gutter of sin, You redeemed us with the blood of Christ. And though we still live in these sinful, failing bodies of flesh Yet we are the children of God. And though we still walk daily in this world of sin, yet our righteousness is impeccable in Christ. For he has indeed subdued all of our iniquities, and he will indeed subdue all of our iniquities. O Lord, we come together this morning, earnestly desiring that we might be pleasing in thy sight. We come this morning to present ourselves before God for your inspection. We come to present ourselves before our God for your glory. And we come this morning to present ourselves before God as hungry souls, understanding our need for spiritual enrichment and for spiritual food. And so, O God, may we not go away this day hungry. But Lord, you have promised that you fill the hungry soul. And you have promised a blessing on those that hunger and thirst after righteousness. O Lord, that is how we come. We are pulpers before the King of Heaven. And so Father, bless our assembly, bless us, thy people, convict and chastise us where chastisement is needed. Encourage us where we are weak and failing. And Lord, may you continue your work within us and make us and mold us into what you would have us to be, and may all glory and all praise be to Jesus Christ, our soon-coming kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship this morning is from the 147th Psalm and the 11th verse. The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those who hope in his mercy. You hope in his mercy, open your songbook today to number 255, and we'll sing our opening hymn, Fairest Lord Jesus. 255 in your blue song what? And we will sing all four stanzas. Soil like so. Done, do fashion, five plate. Harris Lord Jesus Thou my soul glory joy and cry Fair are the medals, where still the wood blessed. Jesus is better, Jesus is cure. There is our sunshine, there we still like the three play. Jesus shines brighter shines pure You say your location. Now and for everyone. If you would, please turn now to the back of your bulletin for our instruction in mutual confession together today from the Belgic Confession, where we read through Article 15 concerning the original sin of man. Christian, in what do you believe We believe that through the disobedience of Adam, original sin is extended to all mankind. Which is a corruption of a whole nature and a hereditary disease wherewith infants themselves are infected even in a mother's womb. And which produces in man all sorts of sin, being in him as a root thereof Therefore, is so vile and abominable in the sight of God that it is sufficient to condemn all mankind. Nor is it by any means abolished or done away by baptism, since sin always issues forth from this woeful source as water from a fountain. Notwithstanding it, it is not imputed to the children of God unto condemnation, but by his grace and mercy it is forgiven them. Not that they should rest securely in sin, but that a sense of this corruption should make believers often describe, desiring to be delivered from the body of this death. Therefore, we reject the error of the Pelagians who assert that sin proceeds only from imitation. This is a very full and comprehensive treatment of original sim. It may in fact include some parts that seem a little confusing, and you might wonder why are certain things included. But I submit to you that here in the year 2025, some 450, some odd years later, 460, whatever the number is. Still relevant. The Pelagian heresy continues to remain with us, but it just changes names as bad products often do. The point that is being driven at here is the complete culpability and total depravity of man, stemming from his fall at the garden. while at the same time safeguarding the personhood of Jesus Christ and his sinless birth, and at the same time showing that man is not utterly condemned to hell because of it, but that he is in fact redeemable So it's kind of making a nice cut through the middle of all of those things. I also like the point that it puts forward that it Original sin is not washed away by baptism. And this was a very big teaching of the Roman Catholic abomination. The Roman Catholics teach even to this day that when their infants are baptized, that we're, quote, cutting off horns and tails today, nothing could be further from the truth. The child went in a wet center and came out a wet center. The fact that sin is original in the sense where it says it's a hereditary disease Uh this is very true because the infant does die. And it is evident that they are sinners because eventually they will die. If someone is perfectly righteous, there is no need for death They will live forever. But they don't, and we don't, and that's because there has been a corruption of the inward man. And it's also evident to anybody who has been a parent to know over time, over seasons, that as that child grows older, that mommy and daddy did not teach that child to lie. Now, David, when you go and steal a cookie from the cookie shop It's okay to tell mommy and daddy a falsehood to say, no, I didn't take it. Okay, you can say that. No, no parent ever said that. And yet this is one of the first things that they can learn to do. Uh where is that coming from? How did they get that? Husband, you can't point to your wife and say it's her side of the family that does this. And the wife can't point to the husband and say, well surely it's your side of the family that does this No, fruit does not fall far from the tree. It's both sides. Both are contaminated, and both are subject to death. And so we need to hang on to these ancient teachings and these clarifications concerning original sin, because without them, you give fruit and ground to a works gospel. Because after all, if man can pull himself up by his bootstraps and he's really not that bad off, then everything is just fine. That's what the Church of Scientology is all about. They believe salvation because there is no sin. And as soon as you get this sin problem out of your head Everything's fine. You're released. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Bible holds forth one solution to man's sin problem, and that is Jesus Christ and him crucified. You accept that or you perish in your sins. Thank you, brother. Gracious Father, we thank you. Lord, as the old gospel song says, Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin has left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. Lord, we thank you for such glorious truths. Father, we come before you this morning, joining our hearts together in prayer, agreeing as touching these things. Lord, we come not informing you of our needs, but rather according to the promises and instruction of thy word, we bring our needs before you. And Father call upon you. Lord, as the man who had a friend come to his house at midnight, and he knocked on the neighbor's door, So we uh figuratively through prayer, we we knock on the door of heaven. We call upon the true God who can hear and answer prayer. And Lord, we lay our needs and requests before you. Father, we do pray for those of our congregation that are traveling. Lord, we have a family traveling here in the U. S. and an individual in travel at this time. Father, watch over them and keep them in safety. And then Lord, we pray for our dear friend who is now returned to China. Father, we pray that you would bless and keep her there. And Lord, we pray in your providence that you would bring her back to this assembly. And that very soon. Father, we pray your blessing and your Help upon this dear lady who has become so much a part of us, and uh our heart yearns for her in her absence Father, we do pray for the sick of the congregation. Lord, each week there are those that we pray that they will be with us and they are unable to be here because of the infirmity of the flesh. And yet, Lord, we they're not the only ones we pray for, we pray for others, and they are here. And we thank you and rejoice in that Father, we thank you that you are able to heal from passing common illnesses, and Lord, you are able to heal the gravest of illnesses as well. Lord, you know all about eyes and shoulders and backs and joints and internal organs and all the things that plague your people. You know the effects that simple aging has on these bodies. And Lord, we commit all these things to you, Lord, praying that you would help and heal. Lord, there are two of the sisters within this congregation who have sisters in the flesh that are racked with cancer. And Lord, we we've had these requests brought to us in recent days. And Lord, we pray that you would work in each of these ladies who are not a part of this congregation but are physically related to members of the congregation. Father, we pray for your healing upon them, if it be in thy will. We pray, Lord, that you would work a work of righteousness and redemption in their hearts where it is needed. And then Father, there is a daughter as well that is related to this congregation through uh family relations and Lord she is struggling mighty with cancer at this time and has seemed to beat it back at various times over the years And yet, Lord, now she is battling it again. Oh Father, we pray for your help upon her. And Lord, we pray for the needs of her soul as well. Father, we know that our congregation has many unspoken requests. And Lord, I'm sure as I pray that individuals uh in my hearing are calling before you specifically for these needs and concerns that are so close to the heart That they can't even share them with their brethren, and yet they are shared with the God of heaven who hears and answers. And so, Father, work in each of these situations. Father, we do pray for the financial needs of the congregation. The economy is gives concern, retirement plans. seem to rise and decline at whims. Business is needed. Better employment is required. Father, these things are not with thee. Lord, these these are our minor issues. Uh Lord, y you can put a coin in a fish's mouth. And and you can send ravens, we've all seen birds eating pieces of bread. And yet when ravens don't eat the bread, but they take it to your servant instead We have to say what a mighty and powerful God we serve. When a widow's little bit of meal and small crews of oil lasts through a famine We have to say what a mighty God we serve. When a widow only has a small cruise of oil And she begins to pour it into barrel after barrel after barrel until there were no more barrels in which to pour the oil. We say we serve a mighty and a powerful God. When a wedding runs out of wine And Jesus instructs them to bring the barrels, and they pour into the barrels water, and it comes out wine. We say, what a mighty God we serve. And so, Father, we bring the financial needs of your people before you, knowing with full confidence that it's naught with thee. And so, Father, meet the needs of your people. Father, we pray for the needs of our nation. We thank you, Lord, for the leadership you've given us. There may be a few believers of sorts among them, but Lord, by and large we judge by their speech that they know thee not. But Father, we thank you that the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of water he turneth it whither so he relist it. And so, Father, you were able to make a sirus of a wicked man. You were able to turn the heart of your pi of your ruler to the blessing of your people. Father, the big prayer we have for our nation is revive this nation. Turn us back to thee, we pray. But Lord, in praying that we realize that often revival comes through great trials and great persecution. Father, we pray for our family members that know thee not. And Lord, we pray that even you would bring hard providence upon them if that is what's necessary for their salvation. For Father, we find in your word that it's better to enter the kingdom halt and blind than having two eyes and two limbs to be cast into eternal fire. And so, Father, do that, which is necessary for the salvation of our loved ones. Father, we pray for Mission Bible Church. I pray, uh, Lord, for myself And for the brethren and my brother beside me who labor together for the cause of this ministry. Will God protect us? For Lord, your word is warned, smite the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. Protect us from the wicked one. Protect the congregation from our misspeech, from our errant interpretation from the uh infirmities of our flesh which could so easily lead astray But Father, may we be as Christ before your people. And may we be blessed by thy Spirit to rightly divide the word of truth. Father, may we always live in awareness and fear of the fact that we will stand before you. And give account of how we have conducted ourselves among the people of God. For you have commanded, feed my sheep. We own no sheep, O Lord, but we are charged with the feeding of thy people And so, Father, if your people are spiritually malnourished, the under-shepherds will give account. Oh God, help us. We pray. Bless Mission Bible Church. Bless our outreach. Bless the Gen Z outreach and those that labor to make it possible. Bless the Sermon Audio Outreach and those that faithfully wear headphones. through Sunday school and worship services that can't be comfortable. But it is necessary that our our what we put forth be crisp and sharp and and ready for for the hungry souls. And so Father, bless those that labor in that. And bless those even this morning who were there on the campus in South Carolina. Tending to the computers to make sure the message goes forth from thousands of churches. Bless their labors, we pray. Father, in a little while I will endeavor to open the Word of God. You have blessed, encouraged, and shown me great truths out of thy word this morning. And Father, my preparation and my study cannot benefit this people here gathered. And so, Father, I pray that your Holy Spirit would accompany the Word to the blessing and edification of your people. And Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please locate in your Bibles Matthew chapter 6, beginning at verse 19. Responsive reading comes from the New Testament. The Gospel account of Matthew chapter 6, beginning in verse 19. If you located that and are able, please rise. for the response of reading the Word of God. Matthew 6, 19, and we will read through verse 34. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt And where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be filled with light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, How great is that darkness. No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to the one. And despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Therefore, I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat For what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them Are ye not much more better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature And why they eat thy framing. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore if God so clothed the grass of the field which today is, tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith Therefore, take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed For after these things do the Gentiles seek, for your Heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you, and altogether. Take therefore no thought for tomorrow For tomorrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. May God add a rich blessing to reading and hearing of His Holy Word. Please now open in your red Psalters to Psalm one hundred, Psalm one hundred A. The tune will be to the old one hundred. We will sing all four stanzas and at the end sing the Amen. All people had honored to dwell sing to the Lord with your voice. Call me before him and rejoice. Know that the Lord is calling me with thou not making dead. We are his talking daughter and for his wiki. With grateful hearts, your voices pray to West and magnifying. It is cause the Lord our cause good It is true that all times the shall promise to Thank you. You may be seated. Open in your Bibles with me, please, this morning. The Gospel as recorded by John and the 12th chapter, John chapter 12. And I'll begin our scripture reading in the 20th verse of the chapter. John chapter 12, beginning with verse 20. If you have your place there, read silently with me as I read aloud John 12, starting in verse 20. And there were certain Greeks among them that came to worship at the feast. The same therefore came to Philip. which was of Beth Seda of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus Philip cometh and telleth Andrew. And again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily I say unto you, Except the corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have glorified it and will glorify it again. The people therefore that stood by and heard it said it thundered. Others said, an angel spoke to him Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. Now is the judgment of the world, of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, I uh will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now we thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth. Lord, I pray that you would open your word to our hearts this day. Show us Christ in the Word. Show us His glory, His majesty, His wonder. For just as these Greeks came to Philip and Andrew, our cry this morning is, sir, we would see Jesus. Bless thy word to us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. It's interesting to note that these that came to Philip and then Philip to Andrew were Greeks They were not of the covenant people of Israel. They had not been taught the law and the prophets from the time of childhood as the Jewish young boys would be. They were more like Timothy, whose father also was a Greek. But it's interesting that we find that these Greeks have come to the feast to worship. Now the feast they had come to was the feast of Passover. Isn't that interesting? The Passover was a remembrance of God's redemption from Egypt. And the Feast of Passover looked forward to the redemption in the Messiah. These were people who it would seem may have been waiting for the Messiah as we find other Gentiles in Scripture who were waiting for the Messiah, though they were not of the bloodline of Abraham If you were here in Sunday school, you understand the connection. They were not of the bloodline of Abraham. And yet their spirits, their souls had been awakened to the need of the soul. And they came up to the feast for to worship. He came unto his own, and his own received him not But to them that received him gave he power to become the sons of God. The Old Testament instruction in Numbers chapter 9 in verse fourteen was this, and if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the Passover unto the Lord, according to the ordinance of the Passover, and according to the manner thereof So shall he do, ye shall have one ordinance both for the stranger and for him that was born in the land. Isn't that marvelous? Because we're the strangers. We Gentiles were not born under this Old Testament covenant of the law, but we are engrafted in To Christ. And we observe the Passover. Next week we'll observe the Lord's table. We look back to the slain lamb These Greeks who have come to the Passover to worship are fulfillment of the promise that in Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek. But we're all one in Christ, Galatians chapter 3. These Greeks have come to the Passover. The first part of this chapter is the triumphal entry, where they cut down the palm branches, and Christ rode on a donkey, and they cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, blessed is the Son of David. And these Greeks heard that. And their ears were turned on. That meant something to them. It didn't mean much to the Pharisees. To the Pharisees, to the Sanhedrin, it was a challenge. It was a danger to their authority. But to these hungry Greeks, when Jesus is welcomed with the Old Testament cry, Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord. When he is welcomed, meek and lowly, riding on an ass's colt, they say, we've got to see this guy. We have got to learn about him. And so these Greeks come to Philip. Sir, we would see Jesus Now folks, this morning, I would like us to consider together the ramifications of seeing Jesus. What does it mean? And we do not see Jesus as a 700-foot whatever rising up out of the ocean. We do not see Jesus in some great dream or vision, but Christ is revealed to us in the Word. But what does it mean to see Jesus? Well, I'm going to give you the outline straight off the top, because I have three points this morning. But they are so intertwined that you cannot draw a clear line between each one. Because they they overlap each other continually. But the point of this, to see Jesus will cost your life. To see Jesus will cost your love, and to see Jesus will cost your labor. Or to put it in a different way, to see Jesus will change your life. To see Jesus will change your love, and to see Jesus will change your labor. And that's what we find here in the context. For when these Greeks come desiring to see Jesus, he does not begin with a Sermon on the Mount. He does not begin with an exposition of the prophets, but rather he begins by talking about death. Look with me there in verse 24 again. Verily, verily I say unto you, except the corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. Oftentimes when people say, Oh, I want to see Jesus, they come because they want to see a miracle. I want to see Jesus. They come because they have some need that they want met. They come to Jesus because everybody wants to see him. It's a sensational thing to do. These Greeks are coming because the promises of the Messiah, and they now are brought to understand he's not coming to conquer the Jew the Romans. He's coming to conquer Sinat death. He came. Now you've seen him led into the city, but before the week is over, he's going to be crucified. And so Christ, rather than jumping into some flowery exposition, goes right to the point Except the corn of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abides alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit And the corn of wheat had fallen into the earth 33 years before in the incarnation. And now that corn of wheat is to die in this earth. Because he gives his life a ransom for many. That was what the Greeks really needed They needed to understand that this message was a message about life and death. If you'll notice there in the verse 24. Verily, verily, and we've seen and talked about that little phrase before, truly, truly, this is something that's absolutely certain. Verily, verily, I say unto you. This isn't somebody who doesn't have the authority to say it. It isn't stated by someone who knows not what he speaks of. Christus, I say unto you. Except a corn of wheat fall on the earth. That word accept is interesting. It's actually, if you look it up in the concordances, uh except is the the minor interpretation It typically is no, not, never, is the way it's typically it's only translated except in a small handful less than a dozen times out of, I think it's 630 sometimes. the word is found in the Greek New Testament. But consider two other places it is found. John three, verse three Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Luke 13, verse 3, I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. This word is always, always, always a negative. And in its usage here, it is a negative with excludes all possibilities. It's not a maybe. It's not a probably. It's not something you can argue a different point of view. It's an absolute no There's no other way. No. If the corn of earth just lays on the ground, it's not going to work. If the corn of earth doesn't draw die, it's not going to work. If maybe it's a different corn than this one, no, no. Accept Christ die. It abides alone And so we see here that there was no other way. Christ had to die. In Luke 24, verses 46 and 47, and he said unto them, thus it is written, And thus it behooved, and I love that word, behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name among all nations. beginning at Jerusalem. We don't hear that word behoove very much. My grandmother used to use that word. It behooves you to do this. In other words, you better do it, buddy. There's no getting out of it. It behoved Christ to Suffer. That word behooved is also the word must. When Christ said I must be about my father's business, he used the same word there that's translated behooved here in Luke 24. The Son of Man must suffer these things. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. And so, folks, the first thing we would see under the heading of seeing Christ is going to change your life or going to cost your life, Christ had to die. It had to cost his life. And so it naturally follows that it's going to cost my life as well. You see, there was no other way For since by man, 1 Corinthians 15, for since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. It doesn't mention any other. It doesn't mention any man of earth. It doesn't mention any prophet that you may hear a charlatan on TV. It doesn't mention any other false God that you can find in mythology, in astrology, astronomy, whichever it is. You won't find another God that fits in here, folks. It is Christ and Christ alone. Isaiah 53, 10 and 11, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. It didn't please the Lord to bruise Muhammad. It didn't please the Lord to bruise any other. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. Christ shall see his seed. What are we talking about here in John 12? A seed. He shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. And folks, I don't have time to go off enough Rabbit trail, if you can call anything in scripture a rabbit trail, but this verse just arrested my heart about thirty-five years ago. Christ shall see of the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He's not wringing his hands, oh no, they aren't getting saved. No, he's satisfied. For he, by his knowledge, shall he justify everyone? No. He'll justify many. He'll justify many. For he shall bear the iniquities of everyone. No, he shall bear their iniquities. He shall bear the iniquities of the many He's satisfied. He has done that which he claimed he would do. And so we find that To see Christ is to associate with his death. It required the death of Christ for us to have life, and therefore the death of Christ is the source of life And that's the second subhone heading under it costing us our life. Does life come from death? Absolutely. It biologically happens all the time. In my office, I have a little bowl right now with canna seeds. that I collected last fall from my cannibus. I dug up the roots to plant again, but you can propagate more of the seeds, so I've got them in a dish on in my office and they're sitting in water and I looked in yesterday morning and some of the seeds are starting to crack open and there's little shoots coming out of them. What is that? That seed has died. It's cracked open But out of that seed is springing forth new life, when he shall give his soul a ransom. He came to die. And so the only way you ever find life is to find life in Jesus Christ. For neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven. Given among men, whereby ye must be born. Again, whereby ye must be Saved. And so the death of Christ was the only way. There was no other way to make it possible. Death in or death with Christ is required that I might. live. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. In fact, the believer doesn't really have a life. Think about it. The believer does not really have people talking here, young people, well this is what I want to do with my life. You're out of my life. You ever heard anybody say you're out of my life? I'm so glad that he or she is out of my life. I I you you're you You don't have a life You're dead. We are born dead in trespasses and sin And the life that I now live, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Believer, you don't have a life. Unbeliever, you still need to have life to begin with. You're dead. And trespasses and sin. My friend, if you were to have life, you will find life in death You will find life in the death of Christ, and you will find life in your own death to sin in Christ. You're bought with a price. Be not the servants of men. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own. I realize the early believers and the human-inspired, God-inspired authors of Scripture understood this fully. Romans 1. 1, Paul the servant of Jesus Christ. James 1-1. James the servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Peter 1-1. Simon Peter the servant of an apostle of Jesus Christ. Jude 1-1. Jude the servant of Jesus Christ. You find it over and over again. And every one of them is using that word dulas, which means a slave. It's a bond servant. They understood that they didn't really have a life while they were alive. But their life belonged to Christ. Folks, with these Greeks Came saying, sirs, we would see Jesus. It was going to cost their life to see Jesus. It was going to wrench them out of their culture. It was going to wrench them out of their families. It was going to wrench them out of their backgrounds, their ancestries. They were going to become new creatures. in Christ. And my folk friends, if you would come this morning and say, sirs, we would see Jesus, it's going to cost your life. But you'll notice I use two words there. It'll cost your life, but oh what glory, it'll change your life. New life in Christ, and life more abundant. If you look down to the end of our reading in verse 31. Christ declares, now is judgment of the world, now is the judgment of the world. Now shall the prince of the world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me, this he said, signifying what death he should die. Cursed Is everyone that hangeth on the tree? He bore the curse from me. And so, first of all, seeing Jesus Christ will cost your life. But secondly Seeing Jesus Christ will cost your love. Look with me at verse 25. He that loveth his life shall lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it into eternal life. Folks, if you see Christ, your emotions are going to get totally changed around. The things which once were the most important lose all importance at all. And the things which didn't seem to matter suddenly are the most important elements of your life. The most important elements of your heart. They are the things you seek after. You see, if you truly see Jesus, it will cost your love, it will change your love. Your love will be fully transformed if you see Christ. Notice he says there in verse 25. He that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life. Folks, this isn't a one-off statement. There are some some statements where just once in Scripture, and there are others that are again and again and again. You know, your mother probably said, How many times have I told you? Well, how many times have we been told this same thing? Matthew 10, 39. He that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. Matthew 16, 25, for whosoever shall save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. Mark 8. 35, for whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospels, the same, shall save it. Luke 9, 24, for whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. Luke 17, 33. For whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. You get the idea, this is kind of important. And it's not just simply a repetition of all the harmonical gospels repeating the same thing. No, it's in Luke, it's in Matthew 10 and in Matthew 16. And then it's in Mark, and then it's in Luke 9, and again in Luke 17. In other words, it just isn't that the disciples were there and heard Jesus say this once and all of them recorded it But rather, he obviously said it more than once, because it comes up in various discourses within the same book. Folks, try as you may to preserve your life, your lifestyle. what you want to be, who you identify as, whatever you want to put it. Try as you may. You're going to lose it. But folks, if you want to preserve it, lose it in Christ. Lose it in Christ. For there is the preservation of life Oh, this body's gonna rot. In fact, this body is falling apart as I speak. But I shall live forever. I'm not big on gospel songs, but you remember the quartet song from the 70s, I'll have a new body, praise the Lord, I'll have a new life. Well that's true. I'll have a new body I'll have a new life. In Revelation chapter 12, verses 10 and 11, the saints in glory are spoken of this way. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accuse them before our God day and night, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of his testimony And they loved not their lives unto death. You see the parallel to our passage? And there in Roman Revelation 12, 10, the accuser of the brethren is cast down. Look to John, our chapter, John 12, verse 31. Now is jud the judgment of the world, now is the prince of the world cast out. And if I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. This he said, signify what's death. Folks, it's all true. And it all fits together like a jigsaw puzzle. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on the things of the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. And so it changes our love. We're to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all our mind, and with all of our strength this is the first and great commandment folks if you've truly seen Christ you can testify that your love's been totally changed You're not going to love football more than the worship of the Lord. Amen. You're not going to love the praise of men more than being right with your Heavenly Father. You're not going to love the things of this world more than the service of God. You're not going to be concerned about treasures on earth because you're so concerned and in love with treasures in heaven. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind. If you have truly seen Christ, you will also love the people of God. We find in 1 John 4, if any man say I love God and hate his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? This commandment have we from him. that he who loveth God love his brother also. I think a lot of us in this gathering have sadly seen this verse put to contradiction by those who would claim to love God, and yet it's obvious. They have no love for their brethren. By this shall all men know the ear my disciples that ye have love one to another. But folks, if you truly love God, you will truly hate all that God hates. Folks, it'll change your love. It will cost you your love. It will cost you the things you used to love and give you a whole new set of things to love. in their place. If ye were of the world, the love would the world would love his own. If ye were of the world, John 15, 19 The world would love its own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world The love of the Father is not in him. And we could take the text and not do damage to it to say, if any man has not seen Christ, the love of the Father is not in. These scribes and Pharisees, they saw a physical man. They didn't see the Messiah. But oh folks, these Greeks who came to Philip said, Sir, we would see Jesus. Folks, if you see Jesus, it will change your life, and it will change your love. Greater love hath no man this that a man lay down his life for friends. If you see Jesus Christ, it will change your labor. It will cost your labor. Look at verse 26 and 27 of our text. Verse 26, if any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? For this hour, or for this cause, came I unto this hour. Remember what Christ said at twelve years old in the temple? What? I must be about my father's business. You see, Christ came to do a job. He came to give his life a ransom for many. And here he says, What can I say? Father, save me from this hour? Remember in the garden, not long, a few days later, he's going to say, if it be possible let this come pass, but It's not possible. There's no other way. How could I say, save me from this hour when I've been laboring these years as a corn thrown into the earth? For the very purpose of this hour. You see, Christ's coming was all about work. It was all about work. He did the work for my soul. But you know, I think most of us probably at some time or another have heard a story about someone who saved someone's life. And then the person whose life they had saved just felt absolutely obligated to serve that person. the rest of their life. And in fact, in some cultures that I understand it, but that is just standard. If if you save someone's life They owe you their life. Or if they save your life, you owe them your allegiance and your service. You're bound to them. You will do anything for them Jesus Christ gave his soul, life, a ransom for my soul. Do not I owe him my labor? Folks, if you truly see Jesus Christ, it will change everything you do. Every ounce of your energy will be pointed in another direction. The Apostle Paul, who used to be the Pharisee Saul, didn't his labor change? His labor had been to destroy the church. His labor had been to arrest Christians and deliver them to prison and even to death. At the stoning of Stephen, he was the man in charge. He was the CEO. He was the keeper of the coats But once he saw Christ, he calls himself, as we read earlier, the bondservant. the slave. If you truly see Christ, it will cost your labor. In fact, Paul would say in Romans 6 and verse 16 and following, know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are, whom ye obey. Whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered unto you. Being made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. And so it will change your labor. In Luke chapter 17 and verse 7 to 10, we find the account of a servant who has been working in the field. The servant is probably very tired. The servant probably is sweaty and in need of a bath. The servant probably is very hungry. He is at the end of his physical strength. But in Luke 17 and verse 7, But which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle will say unto him, By and by, when he is come out come from the field, go and sit down to meet. And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink. Does he thank that servant because he did the thing that was commanded him? I trow not So likewise ye, when ye have done all these things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. Folks, the service of Jesus Christ is hard. The service of Jesus Christ is sweaty. It is tiresome. You often get covered with the dirt of this world in the meantime, and the world loves to throw its dirt at you while you serve the Lord. But folks, when we've done everything, we haven't done anything. And we don't come to Christ expecting Him to, okay, you eat first. No. No. We come to Him and say, when we have done it all, we haven't done enough. When we've done it all, we've only done that which was our duty to do. But look back to the text. Look what it says there. If any man serve me, verse 26, if any man serve me, let him follow me And where I am, there shall my servant be. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And continuing the verse, if any man serve me, him will my Father honor. Folks, our labor for the Lord is not without reward, but our reward isn't here. It's there. And so, folks, if you truly see Jesus Christ as revealed in the Word, it will change your life, it will change your love, and it will change your labor. It's all about the glory of Christ, folks. Look back with me earlier in the chapter. In chapter 12 of John. In verse 12, we had the beginning of the triumphal entry. They come for the key feast. Verse 13, they took down the palm branches. Verse 14, they can't cry, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. Verse 14, Jesus rides on the coat of an ass. Verse 15, fear not, daughter of Zion, behold thy king cometh. Verse 16. These things understood not the disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that they had done these things Look down to verse 25, or 23. Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verse 28, Father, glorify thy name. Then there came a voice from heaven saying, I have glorified it and will glorify it again. Folks, it's all about the glory of Christ. It's not about me. It's not about your love, it's not about your life, and it's not about your labor, it's about Jesus Christ. And these Greeks who had not grown up with all the privileges of the people of God Who had been arrested by the truth of God and said, we've got to see him. It wasn't about them. And it wasn't about their love. And it wasn't about their life. And it wasn't about their labor. It was all about the glory of Christ. And folks, if we as Christians would change the way we think about ourselves and my life and what I love and what I want to do with my labor It would change the way our witness shines for Christ. It would allow our light to truly shine before all men, that they may glorify our Father, which is in heaven. Hebrews 9, or Hebrews 2, verses 9 and 10, and with this I'll close. But we see Jesus made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that he by gra the grace of God should taste of death for every man. For it became him For whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons into glory, to make their captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. It's all about Jesus Christ. Have you seen him? Who do you love? Have you seen him? What is your life? Have you seen him? Who are you working for? Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you this morning for thy work. Lord, bless your word and your truth. to the people of God for their edification and admonition. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Let's turn to our closing our closing hymn, number 344. My hope is in the Lord. Number three hundred and forty four in our blue song book. Number three forty-four. And there we sing all four stanzas. 344 My hope is in the Lord who gave himself for me and pay the price of all my sin and health. Glory for me becomes for me for this an overlasting life. Lighting really is the merit of my own his anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus Christ. For me, he died, he died for me. And now for me he says before the father's straw He shows his good hands and takes me. For me, for me he dies all night, for me, thy never lasting life. His grace has planted all to my butt to really And recognizes work of love and price for me, for me, he died for me. Come on, come in.