It appears to us in the book of Hebrews. We return now to that uh book. So I'm going to read from Hebrews chapter ten, and I'm going to read the first four verses. It's a good chunk that we can take at one setting. Hebrews 10 in the first four verses. Hear now the word of the Lord. The law, having a shadow of good things to come, And not the very image of the things can never with those sacrifices which they offer year by year, continually, make the comers thereunto perfect. For then would they not have ceased to be offered? Because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. Alright, question What is you you know what insurance is, correct? Everybody here knows what insurance is. I'm sure all of you have some type of insurance policy. I'm sure all of you over time have changed insurance policies. What is the difference between a bad insurance policy and a good one? I want to know your experiences in this Yeah, if uh if insurance uh you make insurance then when something happens they don't cover it. Uh the worst part. That's the bad one That's the bad one. You think you have insurance for something and it doesn't cover it. Yeah, you start to ask that question, don't you? Why am I paying for this? How come they don't cover it I need to change the shirt. You change, right? So how come they didn't cover it to begin with? Yeah, if if I have someone a better um Well you to find better you have to figure out what it is that was wrong with the old one and make sure the new company does something different. What are some what are some reasons? Give me your examples of that. That's a very good example Not an example, but exceptions and and conditions. They're placed only in charts. Okay, exceptions and conditions. Yeah, we will not you know it'll only cover this but not that. You know The tree has to fall to the left, if it falls to the right we're not going to cover it. We'll cover it if it's a a willow tree, but if it's an oak tree, we're not going to cover it Yeah. What are some I think the term the insurance company uses, at least in my policies, they talk about exclusions. Exclusions, right? What are some examples you've heard about in the news of insurance policies or maybe your own personal experiences where something didn't the policy just didn't work out My roof did not get paid for because the people who put it up uh did not take pictures at the right time Oh my goodness gracious. All right. The pictures were taken at the wrong time. That's right. So when the new roof went up, they must have taken a picture of the old roof before the new roof went up. That's right. That's a good word for it. Yeah, they look for excuses. Yeah as to uh and somebody used the term loopholes, yeah. Yeah. Have you heard of any cases in the news that have just broken your heart lately of uh where insurance doesn't uh cover Yeah, FEMA. FEMA, oh yeah, there's an interesting case. Yeah. The Federal Emergency Management Agency is supposed to be the US government's taxpayer funded version of insurance so that if a natural disaster hits you uh they will provide some coverage and support. Well why do they have to use that term natural disaster? Or maybe the term acts of God. Have you ever seen that in your insurance policy? Is that covered? Is an act of God covered? Yeah, so the uh prophets of Baal discovered that acts of God are not covered in their case. Uh when we also make money, guys They just want to make money. Well they have to offer something. They have to cover something, but they put they manage their risks, right? They they're not gonna cover everything. So what's some famous cases? So FEMA, you mentioned FEMA, let's keep running with that for just a moment. What is it about FEMA that didn't come to pass? North Carolina. Mm. What happened there, North Carolina? The hurricane and the flood. Yeah, they only offer seven hundred and fifty dollars. Well that's right, that's what she offered. Yeah, so in North Carolina we recently had Hurricane Helene come storming up, and North Carolina is hundreds of miles from the coast. Hundreds of miles. I'm sure nobody has water insurance. Okay. You call it called it water insurance. There's another type of term for that. Flood insurance. Yep. So if you purchase a house here, typically The insurer wants to know, do you live in a 100-year flood zone or a floodplain? You can look this up. I had to look it up when we purchased insurance from the house. Because once every hundred years, and that doesn't mean on the dot, it could be eighty-six years, seventy-five, twenty, or a hundred and ten But once on average every hundred years a massive catastrophic flood like that which hit North Carolina both in 2024 and in 1916 Where the same incident occurred. Hurricane steamed right up the inland and continued dropping rain. And that part of North Carolina sits on mountain which has a lot of granite rocks. The rocks are smooth And smooth enough to let all the rain come in and take all the mud and the dirt that's accumulated and wash it down the hill in a mudslide and well you get a mudslide coming in. There's nothing really stopping that. Sandbags aren't gonna cut it High ground isn't going to cut it unless well even high ground isn't going to cut it because if you're the top of the mountain, that just means you're the top of the mudslide and you're moving too So yeah. Yeah, flood insurance. How about basement flooding? Have you ever had an incident in your basement where something floods? Oh yeah, my incident. Yeah, you discover you have to learn to read the fine print Well covered if there's a sewage backup or all kinds of reasons why there's exceptions and exclusions to it. So we I think we all can relate to uh that. One last example Your dad always said, look at the very fine print. Yeah, dad said look at the fine print. In particular, read the exclusions. Read the exclusions first. Well, you might be wondering what in the world does weak insurance policy have to do with these first four verses? And I think we're gonna explore that and maybe you'll arrive at the same kind of conclusion idea. We're gonna look at this and Four chunks. We're going to look at the larger context because it opens with the phrase for the law. We're going to ask, what is that? And then we're going to look at dead animals. We're going to look at painful memories and we're going to look at a record that's expunged. The interesting thing about these four verses is that they are in what is known in scriptures as a chiasm. They're in a chiastic structure. um comes from a Greek word chi and basically is a triangle. If you think of a triangle in a literary fashion, you talk about A, then you talk about B, then you talk about C And then you do the reverse going back, then you talk about B, then you talk about A. It's kind of a literary way of putting the punchline to the middle section. They didn't use bowl, they didn't use underline like we have. They would use a chiastic structure. They would flank it with two points, but it's the thing in the middle that's important. And you can kind of see that here doctrinally. You see a lot in the Psalms. Um there are um uh the entire book of of uh Lamentations isn't a chiastic structure. You have 22 chapters, 22 chapters, 66 chapters 22 chapters, 22 chapters. Very poetic book in that structure. And so you might want to look for it as you do your Bible reading rather than just trying to read it like an English newspaper There actually is some structure and symmetry to it. And I want to point that out to you here. And I'm also today, because we've been talking of how Covenant, sacrifices. I mean I'm gonna try to use different terms today. So if you hear me use slightly different terms, it's not because I'm changing theology. I'm just trying to jolt you a little bit to get you out of common Bible language just to try to think about different terms and and to appreciate it maybe a little rounder, a little fuller way So let's look at this. I'm going to start really with the context, and then we're going to get to this chiastic structure. So it says in verse 1. The chapters divisions were not part of the original canon. These were added later just to make it easier for people to point to certain passages and sentences to know what they're talking about. It says, for the law Dot dot dot. The law. Any ideas what law that's referring to? Or what yeah, what law are we talking about The Ten Commandments, okay. That would certainly be a common use of that phrase, the law. Here it's it's it's a little broader than that. Some might even think it's kind of referring to the ceremonial law because it's talking about bulls and goats and so forth. But I think it's broader than that. I believe it's in referring to the entire mosaic document In the whole enchilada. Why would I say that? Well it says for the law, having a shadow. Having something means excuse me, it's in possession of. This is a component to it. Well, if it's a component of it, it's not the thing. If it said the law is a shadow of things to come, then That phrasing it that way would say, yeah, that's talking about the rituals, the ceremony. But it doesn't say is, it says having, possessing. It also uses an interesting phrase, with those sacrifices those sacrifices is that Greek word atos, which refers to itself. You could say with its sacrifices. Again This mosaic document contains some portions that are shadowy The entire mosaic document is not a shadow. We wouldn't say the Ten Commandments are figures. They're very real. Murder, theft, adultery, lying, cheating, those are very real things. They're not shadowy at all. Although there may uh there's certainly a case to be made for the fourth commandment and the Sabbath day. Um you know this idea um Is uh this distinction is used uh, for instance, in John 1. 17. The apostles use this kind of contrast. It says, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. That didn't mean that Moses didn't speak any truth. He's talking about two different covenants. One emphasized with grace as well as truth And the Mosaic Covenant with, of course, what the Apostolic era was very well familiar with, as well as the audience, the book of Hebrews. The Apostle Paul, Romans 8, for the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. The Apostle Paul often would call Moses uh divine ordinances, the law of sin and of death. It talked about sin and the penalty for it. And speaking of penalty, we now kind of transition to this chiastic structure. There's a context that's been laid for us. In chapters 7 and 8, we spent a lot of time talking about the priests. You remember that? I mean, it seemed like every study was talking about one particular figure named Melchizedek I mean Hebrews makes a big deal out of this one shadowy Old Testament character that appears to Abram in the book of Genesis. It makes a big deal about that, and rightfully so, we discover that He is laying forth a marvelous groundwork pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ and a totally different priesthood, a totally different order, an eternal one. That was seven and eight. It focused on that priesthood, and it focused on the fact that the priesthood The Levitical priesthood failed because even the Levites, the priests themselves, they died. They couldn't continue. They had to keep repeating and repeating and repeating. This whole topic still is on Moses Covenant because the 9th and 10th chapter are focusing on the rituals themselves. That's what we've now been covering. about these rituals. I'm just scanning and looking back at the ninth chapter, neither in verse 12, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood. Comparing and contrasting those. We've heard that a lot. So what's the chiastic structure here? Well, first of all is the dead animals. You see in chapter ten, verse one, it talks about can never with those sacrifices which they offered. And then verse four, look at verse four It's not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. Sacrifices over here, blood of bulls and goats. Kind of the least important thing we put on the flame. The next part is the is the painful memories. It says for Wood uh the last part of verse one They continually come. It doesn't make them perfect, for would they not then have ceased to be offered? Verse 3, there's a remembrance of sins every year. Why don't they stop? They're continually. Wouldn't they stop? It's talking about an ongoing activity. It keeps going, so why doesn't it cease? It's kind of this business of repetition. The part in the middle is Because if the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins. If it had worked, they would not have had a conscience of sins that would have been purged. That's the middle part that I'm asserting is in this structure. Let's talk about the dead animals I think my audience, both present and online, is mature enough at this point, at least in Christ, to understand The dead animals don't help you. I'm still amazed that to this day I read about some cult that appears it's usually some apartment in Gaithersburg, I don't get it. It's some cult that appears and they're as part of the cult they're just sacrificing chickens in the backyard. Did you see any of that in Jamaica? Yep, just down the road from Just down the road I mean literally just down the road from me. What is it about people who like to just think that a senseless killing of an animal I'm all for conservation and legal hunting and proper use of the animal. That's all good and fine. Otherwise we'd be overrun the deer. A raccoon in every tree. Mrs. Ross would like that. Go to her house. She's got a raccoon in every tree. And a squirrel in every corner of the house. But senseless killing of animals is is useless. It's a shadow. The Bible calls it a shadow. It's just a shadow. Let's talk about that word shadow for a moment. You know, a lot of things in life cast shadows. Trees, buildings, people. What can you learn from a shadow? Comfort. Yeah. You can be in the shadow of a tree and you can get a lot of comfort. You know, you can see that and say, okay, well there's there's relief from sun. But what can you learn from that? That's true. You can learn this is a place of refuge. What are some other things you can learn from a shadow? The tree is there. Above the sever. Yeah the yeah step one oh one if you see a shadow that probably means there's a tree there. The shadows just don't show up for no reason at all if you're you ever been walking along and see a A vulture shadow cross over you just on the ground below you, and then you st what do you know? Well, there must be something up there. What else can you learn from shadow? A shadow requires a source of light. Okay, that there is a source of light, huh? You can kind of tell the uh outer dimension of whatever is casting the shadow. You can tell the image and size of some sort If you look at something ahead of you and there's a small shadow you can see, okay, there's something small behind me. If there's a big shadow over you, uh oh, what's behind me, you know? From the from the outline that it gets, you can do some measurements. And uh it's interesting you mentioned that. I'll expand on that in a moment. We have somebody else. Basic shape. Basic shape? Yeah. It turns out that uh there is a whole science based on learning things from shadows. And it's called the science of photogrammetry because with an overhead aerial photograph, if you know what time the picture was taken and you know that buildings are made straight, you can look at the length of the shadow on the ground. Ideal angles about 10 o'clock in the morning. And you can measure the length of that shadow, and therefore you know the angle, because you know the time of day, and you know the position, the latitude where it's at. You now have an angle, you have a measurement. Go back to your old chief Sokotoa, sine, cosine, tangent. Sine is opposite over hypotenuse, and anyway. And you can calculate the height of the building. You can that's a science experiment that we have with our kids. Go measure the distance of the shadow of this tree. Go calculate the sun angle. How tall is the tree? You you can measure things. From a shadow, if you're lost in the woods, you can put a stick in the ground. And you can wait 15 minutes and now you have an east-west line. Now you know your orientation. Now you know east from west, so you don't keep wandering around a circle looking at that same rock. So there are some things you can learn from shadows. But they give you pretty basic information. There's a source of shade that's big, it's short, it's tall, it's Not much detail. You can't I suppose if you were really smart, like Anton, you could figure out what type of tree is casting the shadow Maybe you could see from the shape of the leaves. Hey, have you ever looked at the base of a tree during an eclipse? That's really fascinating. Uh that happened to me one time. I was in Virginia and a lot of my coworkers said, hey, you gonna go see the eclipse today? Sure. We walked out. They all got their fancy glasses. I was fascinated by looking at the ground. It was a partial eclipse. You just had a moon shape. But the leaves all cast a shadow on the ground that were moon-shaped. All the little shadows of the leaves in the ground was no longer the shadow in the shape of the leaves, but the shape of the eclipse. It was all moon shaped. So the next time you you see an eclipse, even if it's a partial one, particularly if it's a partial one uh you might want to check that out. It's it's fascinating. It makes you kind of think a little bit about physics and then forget about it and go back to work. So there are many things in Moses' divine document that are shadows. And the Apostle Paul lists all those for us. He gives us an inventory of all the things. in the Mosaic Covenant that were shadowy. I can't say all the things, but it's a pretty healthy list. It certainly gets you going. It's in the book of Colossians. It's in your handout. You can read it there, or you can uh uh mark it in your Bible. Colossians two sixteen and seventeen. We read this Colossians 2. 16. Let no man therefore judge you in, now follow the list here, meat, meat, that's food, or in drink. Or respect of a holy day. Or of the new moon. You remember the new moons are big deals. That's when the moon is obliterated. It's gone from the sky. Or of the Sabbath days, which are a shadow of things to come. But the body, but the substance, but the thing that matters, is of Christ. And you know, I'd just like to make a basic observation. You know, this one verse alone here, I believe, very summarily answers your Seventh-day Adventist friends who insist that You have to keep a Saturday as the Sabbath day, because that's what's commanded in the Ten Commandments Not only does all throughout the Old Testament God label the Sabbath day as a sign, if you look up the word Sabbath Combined with the word sign, do a Bible search for that, you'll find quite a few verses. If you just look for the word Sabbath, you'll find it a verse or two away. It's all over the place. God calls his Sabbath his signs. When God created the moon and the sun, even in the book of Genesis, he says, which are for signs and for seasons. And so these new moons that were declared In Moses' divine ordinances, as things to be observed, they were national shadows. It was there to teach you something, like Jeff pointed out, that there is a greater thing that is causing that, and there is a light source behind that greater thing. And your vision of what it really is is obscured But out of respect for the very thing that's casting the light, you even in Moses' day were to observe that. He said, all of those things are shadows to come. We're out of the shadows now, because now we know that the true light has come. That true light, of course, is Jesus Christ, his work, his sacrifice, his atonement, his commandments. Paul said, no, Saturday is not a shadow day. Look, they want to keep it, that's fine. He says you don't need to be judged by it If brethren are going to gather on a Wednesday and fellowship and pray, I'm there. You can't say, well, the Bible doesn't command that. Doesn't matter. You can do it on a Wednesday. Some man the steam every day alike. Others have a special day. Sunday ought to be a special day. Why? Because that's when the brethren are gathering for worship. There ought to be respect for that. What is the point, however, of our passage? The shadow of things to come, not the very image of those things. It's not possible that bulls and goats should take away sins. Basically, the penman is saying, call it what it is. If it's fleshly and carnal, it's not the real deal. It's just not the real deal. That's true for Buddhism. They also would use language to talk about salvation, this idea of reincarnation, that you'll come back and and uh depending on how you've done in this life, you'll come back as a as a better step. Maybe a tiger? I'm sure I keep coming back as an ant or the mule. But pagan animism, you saw the same ideas there. Roman Catholicism They love the shadows. The Eastern Orthodox Church. They can care less about truth. They want the shadows. They love the shadows. They love that figure. The shadow is simple, but it also doesn't work. It's like a weak insurance policy It just doesn't really cover. It does a little bit. $750. My house just got washed away. A check floats down. $750 And you owe taxes on it. It's weak. It's like a weak insurance policy. It really just doesn't cover You know, it gets you thinking about it. It makes you think, I need something better than this, and you want to go look for a better policy. And that's what the penment is concluding here. What you had in the Old Testament was a weak policy. It didn't cover everything. It wasn't enough. In fact, all it left you with, and some of you I could hear it in the angst in your voice, it left you with a painful memory. Not doing that again. I'm gonna get something better. That was the whole point. It left you with painful memories. Look at this. Verse 1 The last part. It says they offered year by year, continually. It never made the comers thereunto perfect. In those sacrifices, there's a remembrance again made of sins every year. Who wants to remember something again and again every year? This doesn't quite cut it. It's not quite doing the whole job. You know, the logic is really very straightforward. It says violators of any point of the law run afoul of the penalties. That's Bible 101. To avoid that, you have to satisfy the terms and conditions. To expunge one offense, apparently Mrs. Ross's roofing contractor didn't follow all the terms and conditions. Take picture of roof after install. Before and after make a difference, I guess. And then you get dirty, and then you wash, and you rinse, and you repeat, and it goes again and again And again, boy, that old covenant was a bloody thing. The amount of blood that was shed in that capital was just astounding. It was just an unbelievable amount. It was an endless cycle was endless. It continued all the way up until Jesus Christ hung on the cross. They said, well, it's a high day. We we got to take him off the cross because the we you you can't have anybody hanging on a tree during that day So they can go and kill the Passover lamb. It continued. You know, um The Westminster of Confession of Faith also points out something here which I want to commend here, and that is If we take a step back for a moment and consider the logic, how this point is arrived at. You didn't see any straightforward language in the Old Testament that said, you are going to continue to do these signs and all do these sacrifices in spite of the fact that they're useless. You didn't see that straightforward language. In fact, what you have here is a deduction. He points out Here's all these animal sacrifices. They kept coming. They kept coming year after year. And it didn't stop. It didn't make them perfect. We're going to explore perfect in a moment, and we've talked about that before. But that logic is a scriptural example of deduction. You can use deduction in the Bible. The book of Hebrews argues from silence. It says of the Lord Jesus Christ that he was a priest after the order of Melchizedek, which, and everybody knows, Levi came from Judah. You never heard of a priest coming from Melchizedek, which tribe it says it never spoke about. Unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my son. He makes an argument from silence. The Bible nowhere talks about this. Therefore, and deductions are made. These are useful deductions. That is a biblical approach. Now why am I making a big deal about that? Because there are denominations, there are churches that say, if it ain't in the Bible, I ain't believing it. And what they mean by that is if those express words are not fit and set down, if you don't expressly see That exact language in there, well, you can't hold me to it. Let me show you how the Westminster Divines captured this in their first chapter. That whole first chapter is worth reading when you get home. It's a spectacular one of the finest extractions of biblical teaching that I have ever come across and concerning the authority of scriptures. Listen to this language in the chapter 1, the sixth point. The whole counsel of God, dot dot dot, I'm skipping ahead, is either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture. There are things that are very plain. Gee, should I commit adultery and fornication? No, this is the will of God that you should abstain from these things. It plainly says that. I shouldn't have to guess, wonder about that. But there are some things from good and necessary consequence. Abstain from every form of from every appearance of evil Alright. Well one thing I know that Joe and I are very much on the same page with is we're not going to be in any counseling session with a distraught woman with ourselves in a room behind closed doors without our wife present. We had a vice president that held to that standard and he was excoriated for that. Right. Why? So for it's it Bad combination. You put f you put heat, fuel and oxygen together, and all it takes is a spark. And I'm not saying Joe and I are are are are on the verge of of problems. I'm just saying you don't want to have an appearance of evil. Young women, I don't think it's good for them to live alone. I really don't. I think it's put setting themselves up for A disaster. As soon as someone finds young looking uh fine looking young man discovers he's that she lives by herself, oh just want to pay a little visit We're just going to come sit around and play a little bingo. Right. I think it's a bad idea. Avoid every form and appearance of evil. There's a lot of wrong on that from multiple fronts What's my point? Is the sacrifices don't prevent you from future penalties. It's evident from what was seen. You can deduce that very clearly, that it kept coming and coming and coming In fact, the entire class of the elite servants called the priests, they never avoided the future penalty themselves either. They died. Didn't prevent death. Because to be made perfect means you have an endless life. And if you have an endless life, you have an eternal righteousness. There's a connection between the two If there's no reason to put you to death, that means there's you're eternally righteous. You're perfect. But as we would phrase it, those sacrifices never did. That's like living in a flood zone. Home insurance doesn't cover, it's very limited, too expensive to get. But to continue the insurance analogy, now imagine if you could get a free policy It's free. And it's not from the government. Better still. Free policy. It relocates you to a better house. in a higher, safer, drier location, not Arizona, not someplace in the desert, and it secures you from any future water damages. The policy just requires that you remain a customer the rest of your life. That'd be seriously worth looking at. That sounds like a much better deal, right? Because when you've experienced a bad insurance policy, again and again you go, I'm looking for something better Isn't there a better policy out there? Isn't there something that's got better, doesn't have as many terms, doesn't have a whole army of people looking for exclusions and how to kick people off, those horrible people, can you imagine? I'm teasing my brother over here. Um my whole point is that Moses' entire system was a weak insurance policy when he came right down to it. It really was. But it was a shadow and it taught you some things. You learn something about your house that you didn't know before when you've been through a weak policy. You learn something about basement flooding and you learn why They say we don't cover that because it's easy who maintains it? When's the last time you cleaned out your drain lines and so forth? I mean that's just something you don't pay attention to. And what was the goal It's right there in the middle of verse 2. The shadow, the shadow at best, couldn't do that. The worshipers once purged, if it had really worked, If this insurance policy really worked, here's what it would have covered. Because the worshipers, once purged, should have had no more conscience of sins. It's a purging of a conscience of sins to remove it. How do you Purging has something to do with a conscience, and I'm struck with that. How is the conscience set at ease? What does it take to set a guilty conscience at ease? Any ideas? Forgiveness and a freedom from guilt. Forgiveness and a freedom for guilt. Young man named Henry Mahan one time had just gotten his license. Got his driver's license again. Brand new to him. Automobile, he's driving it downtown, a blew-through. A stop sign. You just didn't see it. And he T-boned a car legally passing through the intersection And it totaled his car. It totaled both cars at best of mother. He teaboned. Hurt the other driver, it was was bad. He's young, 17, 18. I guess you can get a driver's license, 16 back then And so uh he gets the ticket, he's told to go to court, and he's just, can you imagine, seventeen years old, what kind of a knot that would leave in your stomach? Besides wrecking your car, you hurt somebody. You weren't paying attention. And and this person's hurting. You got a sinking knot in your stomach as you enter into the court system. screening and okay why are you here yep all right that's court number Ban see the judge judge big hammer and Henry said he went in there and And there's a whole room full of people. They're going up here one at a time, having their sentences pronounced. This wasn't a trial jury, this is a civil. And uh Pretty soon he said one by one's a true story. One by one. I'm embellishing a bit because I don't know if the judge's name is Big Hammer, because But you get the idea of the sinking knot in the stomach. And Henry Pastor Mahon records that one by one everybody left. And he's the only one in the room with the judge sitting there. The judge looks at him and says, Why are you here? Well, sirs. Driving a car and hit somebody else and told by the officer to come here. He turned to the bailiff and says, uh, what's your name, bailiff? Do you have his record here? Bailiff's flipping through some paperwork No, sir. I don't I don't have any record of that. He says he left that courtroom on Cloud9. He says he wasn't even sure his feet touched the ground No record. There was no record whatsoever of it. Now it still bothered him. But what does it take to set a conscience at ease? God knows how to set a conscience at ease. God knows how to do it In Hebrews 9. 14 it says, How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? It's a purging of the conscience. How does he do that? How does he wash the conscience? There was a blood washing in the Old Testament. It washed everything, priests, garments. Can you imagine? I'm not so sure I I I would not have made a good mother and I would not have been part of the Levitical family. Oh, we like it when you wash your clothes. That's good. What do you use? We use blood. Oh no. I'm not having that on me. No, no, no, no, no. Oh no, you had to have blood to purge, to wash, to cleanse, ritually cleanse that garment and that sacrifice, and the thumbs and the ears. All kinds of blood. And it was a cleansing thing. It doesn't make sense. Blood doesn't cleanse. I don't have a a water tap full of blood to cleanse anything. Oh, but there's a fountain filled with blood. That flowed from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Yes, that's what it's pointing to. A much greater thing, not something you could find in nature. You wouldn't find that in nature. You don't find that Listen to how God sets your conscience at ease. Psalm 103, verse 12. You know these verses. You might just consider listening carefully As far as the East is from the West, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. That's a mighty far distance. East to west. They don't meet. They're just, in fact, they even keep getting further apart, as far as I know. They're just perpetually gone. Isaiah 43, 25, I, even I, this is God speaking through the prophet, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions. For mine own sake. He says why he's doing it. He's not impressed with you. It's not because you did something. He says no for my own sake. And will not remember thy sins. Forgiveness is a promise of God to not remember your sins. God's making a promise. I won't remember them. God's omniscient, he knows everything, but he's promised, I'm not bringing this up again. I have blotted out as a thick cloud thy transgressions. And as a cloud, thy sins return unto me, for I have redeemed thee. We talked about walking along in the ground, all of a sudden Yeah, the cloud comes over, gives you some shade. God says, I've blotted out your transgressions. That searching, searing, penetrating light, which finds every nook and cranny, light that illuminates, it's like a thick cloud, blots it out. That word blot is interesting. That word blot is interesting. It means to to erase, to abolish. It means to destroy or to put out, to wipe away. I think I like the term wipe away. Some of you have whiteboards in your office, or maybe you have some in your home with a little calendar on it. It gets dirty and you pull out a special little cleaning rag and you give it a clean slate. That's what God does. He gives it a clean slate. It's better. It's got a protection on it, nothing more can come on it. Because you'll use that rag again. Christ's rag you use once and it's a done deal. It cannot He's saying again. He says he's able to present you blameless, spotless in his presence. Spotless. A spot is a little a little thing I gotta give another little story. I was young and single and I had uh just become saved. I decided I'm gonna quit living with pagans, I'm gonna live with some Christian roommates And uh about two or three years into it, I had a fair number of fellows that would come over once a week. We'd, you know, sit around, talk about scriptures, and eat and Have some dessert, whatever, just and one day I turned to one of my colleagues and we were talking something about here in Hebrews and uh Yeah, he said, uh hey uh Daniel, you see that uh those blinds of mine? I had these kind of blinds. I still haven't as they I love them, these these vertical slats that hang down And you pull them in front of your window and you turn them. Well they get dirty from time to time, especially in a single person's home. I said, Daniel, I'll give you a dollar for every one of those slats you can clean I said, but here's the catch. If I find a spot on any one of them, I'm not paying you a dollar for that one. And he says, really? I said, yeah, I'll give you the clean materials and give you that And so uh he said sure and boy he pulls that out and he starts squirting, he's cleaning it, and he's going and he's just going up and down on the and there's like 15, 20 of them. He's just going To town on these things. He says, there, look at that. It says, pay up. I said, okay. I said, but you and I have to agree that if there's a spot there, you don't get anything for that one. He said, that's right. Then I turned on the lights. I had to do it in the dark. He didn't realize that When you actually turn on the they land these torch lights, these 300 watt halogen lamps. Yeah, I go along, sure enough, up, do you agree that's a spot? Yeah, that's a spot. Go to the next slat, go up and down, up, eager at the spot, yeah, that's a spot. Mother, there was a spot on every single one of those slats I paid nothing and as far as I'm concerned I had them clean. But as far as the light was concerned, there were spots There's no light bright enough that it'll find a spot for you. Does that ease your conscience? Does that ease the conscience? I like this one in Micah 7. 19. He will turn again, he will have compassion on us, speaking of God He will subdue our iniquities. He continues to even work in our lives. And thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. The depths of the sea is an inapproachable place. Our pastor is a diver that would terrify me if I go more than ten feet below the surface of the water. That's just not my home. Some people want to go real deep. And they discover, yeah, there's vessels that really can't stand that kind of depths. There's parts of the ocean we've never really explored. It's so deep. It's extremely dark. It's a it might as well be gone. You drop something over a boat, you're not finding it again. Your wedding ring goes over the side of the boat. That captain ain't doing nothing to help you find it God says He's cast all of our depths the end of the sea. And my point is this: in this new covenant of grace and truth, we have a better hope It's just a better hope. It's a better policy, which does more than satisfy the demands of the law. It actually produces a 180-degree change in relationship between us and our God. And we are content to stay in that and not abandon it and not leave it. I'll close with this Jesus gave essentially this same teaching to a woman at a well in Samaria. He comes up there, he's thirsty, he has this discussion with her about drinking water and drawing from the well. And Jesus answers this woman as he talks to her about drawing deeply from the well. In verse thirteen, Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. You're going to go to your fridge today. We're going to eat luncheon later today. Why do you eat? To sustain life. Doesn't it get old Again. You'll thirst again. Do you see there's many things in life we repeat again Do you see why Solomon says vanity of vanities, all is vanity? Because you get up, you go to work, you make some money, you come home again. And you're going to clean that kitchen again, again. It never really finishes the job Jesus says, you drink this water and thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Can you imagine? Having a source That's within you, that provides, that source of eternal life. It cannot be taken away. Nothing can remove it. That's what Christ gives. That's a better policy. If we can go back to that blotting element, I really appreciate emphasize that. Man tries to blot things out. But man's blotting out is kind of like erasing something in pencil. You can always see the impression where it was. Only God can blot it out in a way that removes. Our blotting out is just painting over. God's blotting out is cleansing what's underneath. Complete removal. And that's what purges the conscience with guilt of sins. Brother Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer? They're having follow the thank you that uh uh He thanked you that you have sent thine only son into this world to save a people for himself. He washed their sins away. uh remove the guilt of that sin. Yea, even Father, he gave us the comfort that we can go and share that comfort with others, that precious name of Jesus Christ. We are, however, reminded that we are sinners because we do see our hands, we see uh uh the works of the flesh. But again, Father, we come to thee and we're comforted by thee even this morning in being reminded That thou art God and that thine Son is our Savior, Jesus Christ.