Looking at Second Samuel chapter nineteen, beginning at verse one. If you recall, David has received word that his son Absalom has died in the battle, a battle in which Absalom was trying to kill his father and overthrow his throne. And we pick up David having received that word. Chapter 19 and verse 1. And was told Joab Behold, the king weepeth and morteth for Absalom. And the victor that day was turned into mourning unto all the people. For the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son. And the people got them by the stealth that day, that is the his armies into the city, as people being ashamed, and steal away when they flee in battle. But the king covered his face, and the king cried a loud voice, Oh, my son Absalon O Absalon, my son, my son. And Joab came into the house to the king and said, Thou hast shamed at this day the faces of all thy servants Which this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons, and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines. In that thou lovest thine enemies and hatest thy friends? For thou hast declared this day that thou regardest neither princes nor servants, for this day I perceive that if Absalon had lived, then all we had died this day. than it had pleased thee well. Now therefore arise, go forth and speak comfortably unto thy servants that is on his thing his army or his soldiers. For I swear by the Lord, if thou do not go forth, there will not tarry one with thee this night. And that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now. And then the king arose and sat in the gate, and they told unto all the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sit in the gate. And all the people came before the king, for Israel had fled every man to his tent. And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies, and he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines. And now he has fled out of the hand out of the land for Absalom. But Absalon, who we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore, why speak ye not a word of Bringing the king back. That is back to Jerusalem. And King David sent to Zadok and Abiah the priests, saying, Speak unto the elders of Judah, saying, Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house? Seeing the speech of all Israel's come to the king, even to his house You're my brethren, you're my bones and my flesh, wherefore then are ye the last to bring back the king? And say to Amasa, Art thou not of thy bone and of my flesh God do to me, and more also if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the room of Joab. And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man. So that they sent this word on the king: Return, thou, and all thy servants. And so the king returned and came to Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgah and to go to meet the king, to conduct the king over Jordan, and as we know, back to Jerusalem. Title of the Message Today, Well Done, and it it seems as though David, there were some things he was left leaving undone. Although his armies had done very well in the conflict against Absalom. And so in verse one it was told Joab, the king is he's not at the gate, he's not welcoming the returning victorious army. The king is in his house, he's weeping. Verse 1, he's mourning. Verse 2, he's grieved. Verse 3, he's crying with a loud voice for Absalom. David's Loud weeping continued quite a while for by the time that Joab had left the battlefield and got all the men again and had arrived back at Mahanang had probably been several hours, and after several hours David is still uh weeping loudly and what would be called an inordinate amount of time had passed Not that we wouldn't still be sorrowing and grieved, but these are these outbursts from David are heard outside the house. And the army returned, and they could hear the weeping and the wailing and the outbursts from David His grief was so self-centered he was ignoring that his army had gotten the victory. Grief had paralyzed David. He couldn't come out of the house. He couldn't go to the gate and welcome his victorious army. His grief had left them so self centered that he thought of nobody but himself. So much like the disciples of Christ. But we find on the third day after Christ's crucifixion they were still in the upper room and they were still grieved and and finally when the word came of the empty tomb, it says that the that uh of the uh the disciples of Christ that they were they were mourning and they wept, Mark 16 and 10. That was a state in which they were found by Mary Magdalene. They were still mourning and weeping Wouldn't come out of the house. They were they were grieved and they were paralyzed by their grief as well. But even worse here we find with David his grief was contagious for in verses two and three it says The victory was turned into mourning unto all the people. They came back excited. They came back rejoicing. They'd won the battle. And they came back and they heard the king won't come out and greet them. He won't welcome them. He's in his house grieving. And it says that they begin to mourn too. And our grief can be contagious. Our grief can cause others to mourn even worse. And it says the people by stealth, they went in the city, they slipped in or snuck in. As if they were ashamed, as if they'd fled from a battle, rather than had won the battle. His gloominess, that is King David's gloominess and his grief, it had quenched his soldiers' spirit. In fact, it not only quenched their spirit, it drove them away, it says, by stealth into the city. His moodiness, gloominess, had drove him away. They were hiding themselves. Does your moodiness ever drive other people away Sometimes you say, I don't have any friends. I don't know why people hang around me. Maybe you're moody. Maybe you uh are a gloomy person, and people don't get uplifted by your presence. Here he was, driving them away, driving them by stealth in the city. They're all now in mourning. They're all off hiding in their homes. There's no victory party tonight. For they had a hand in the killing of his son Absalom. Oh, Absalom, my son, my son, verse 4. Absalom had been the center of David's universe. What's the center of your universe this morning, Pilgrim? Is there something that if you lost it, you would just lose it all? Some people lose it all, don't they? When they lose something. I remember attending a funeral one time of a woman that Rightfully grieved, she lost her young husband and she had a couple of children. But talk about inordinate grief And she tried to dive into the hole after the casket, and they were holding her back, and she's clawing at the dirt and wanting to be buried with her husband in ordinate grief. She had lost it all, she had no hope I remember standing there at that gravesite. Her pastor had promised her that he would resurrect her husband from the dead at the internment. And it didn't happen. And she lost it, lost it all So sometimes the thing that at the center of your universe is the wrong thing. And you'll lose it. You'll just totally lose it in an ordin inordinate, grieving fashion. David had spoiled this child, and now this child was spoiling David's life with his loss. We can spoil our children, and it will come back to haunt us. And it had with David. And so David laments, my army's returned home, but my son Absalom has not. I cannot say I shall go to him someday because I cannot go where Absalom has gone. Absalom was not saved. David had a whole army observing how he took the death of his son, how he took the death of a loved one. The eyes are upon us also, pilgrim. The more influence we have on people If you profess to be a Christian or you're a Sunday school teacher, a deacon or a pastor, the eyes are upon you. How do you take trials? How do you take tribulation? The world watches us to see how we speak At times like that. How we act? Are we wise? Do we govern our passions in the midst of a great loss? They are watching us. We say we sorrow as those who have no hope. And then when we lose something, we sorrow as though we have no hope The world watches us. We have to be aware of that. David was losing it. His army was watching him Some people when they go through trials and the world's watching them, they they see people irritated by some trial and they begin swearing and murmuring. and appearing agitated and full of anxiety. That is not the way David or we should respond in our trials And Joab saw what Dave was doing. He was ruining his testimony. He was quenching the spirit of his army. And so Joab says in verse 5 to the king, the servants this day, they've saved your life. They've not only saved your life, they saved the lives of your sons. And the sons of your daughters. And by the way, David had daughters. We don't hear much about them. He saved the life of your sons and your daughters and of your wives and of your concubines Where are your praises, David, for your men? Where are the rewards for those who were injured and for those who gave their life for your throne? What are you doing sitting here mourning? You ought to be out of the gate Passing out the laurels and the rewards and commending these men. The troops expect you to appreciate what they've gone through for you. They expect you to greet them with joy. It's been a victory. They expect you to be out there praising Jehovah's Name. Or as Christ would say, they expect you to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Matthew 25 and 21. And so Job is rebuking and exhorting him here. He says, You show no regard for their lives. And some of them paid with their lives. You show no regard for their lives. Who have shown great esteem for your life and the life of your children and your wives You quench their spirit. You've quenched their spirit with your mourning. And we can do the same sometimes, dear friend. Are you aware, Pilgrim, that Your reaction to a circumstance can quench the spirit of others who also fear the day that they might be going through your trial You you think about that. You lose a loved one, you get cancer, you get some bizarre disease, and everybody wants to see Christian handles that. Because everyone fears that maybe someday I'll be told by my doctor I've got the same problem. And if they watch us who they look up to, and we don't handle it very well. They'll dread and fear when it comes that news upon them that you have cancer. We quench the spirit of others if we cannot handle our own trials And David was quenching the spirit of these men here because he wasn't handling the trial of the loss of his son. And it Job continued in verse six it still hadn't roused David out of his Gloominess and he says in verse six, If Absalom had lived and all we had died, it had pleased thee well, being sarcastic. Is that what you wanted? Would you rather if the whole army was decimated that we all died as long as Absalom was still alive? Is that what you'd want? He says in verse seven, Rise up now and go and speak comfortably onto your servants. You get out there and act act the man, act the king, act like someone who can take a shot, act like someone who can lose a soul or a life in his family and you still love the Lord. You can still praise God For those who were here last week at Thanksgiving service, boy, you heard some testimonies, didn't you? People standing up with lost husbands and brothers. And they've been given horrible news of a disease they had, and they said they were still hanging on the Lord, and they knew the Lord was in charge. Wow. That's what we need to hear and see. And David, get up, get out there, and do the same. It's no small task for these people. You're telling an army that's victorious, they must conceal their joy Can you imagine if an announcement was made at Wrigley Field moments after the Cubs had won the World Championship after about what 90 years or 100 years? If announcement made, please restrain yourselves as you leave the field. No throwing of hats, no jumping in the air. Restrain your joy. Could they have done it? I don't think so. How do you expect an army who was outnumbered and outgunned and probably would have thought they're going to be outfought? They won the victory. And they're full of joy and they come back and they must have been singing songs and singing singing the songs and chanting and and they can hardly rate the wait to get to the gate and see the king standing there with his hands raised up and singing with him, maybe write a new psalm or something. They are so excited. He's not there. He's off weeping because they killed his son Who was trying to kill King David? Boy, how do you conceal your joy over a victory? We just had some elections just a week or two ago And did anybody say, what happened last night? Oh, you know, I don't know. People were pretty excited, weren't they? Wow, the armies came out and I tell you we took Pennsylvania. The Republicans haven't taken Pennsylvania since 1988 Excuse me, uh conceal your joy. You watch the news people on TV and boy you can tell Some who were joyous about the outcome and those who were not. And those who were not, they were somber. And those who were they could had a hard time concealing their joy over the election, didn't they? And David expects them to conceal their joy and they're they're off mourning and weeping in their houses because he is It's no small task to conceal our joy. We can't conceal our sorrow either. And so Job he speaks to David. He speaks to David very harshly. He's very abrasive to David. He addressed the problem, and that was correct of Job to do that. But he did not show the proper respect for the king of Israel the way he spoke to him. It could have been done differently. Could have been done in a gentler manner Do you speak respectfully to your employer who is above you? Do you speak respectfully to the elders? who are above you, Joab's stalk and respectfully to the king. Do you spec we speak respectfully to your headship, ladies, your spouse in front of the children? We're supposed to. Do you speak respectfully to the Lord of Lord and King of Kings when things are going wrong? Sometimes David didn't you go through the Psalms, oh Lord, where are you? Oh Lord, don't you hear me? Oh Lord, how long do I gotta wait? David says in the Psalms And then there's Job. The Lord give us and the Lord take it away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. There's a difference how we speak to the Lord when things are going wrong, isn't there? Sometimes we're angry at him. Sometimes we don't understand. Sometimes we think he doesn't care. David says that too. Do you not care? We need to speak respectfully to God, especially when things aren't going well. Job was abrasive. He did not speak well to King David, but what he said was true. It needed to be said. It's not the time for a pity party, David. You need to get out there, praise the troops with a hearty, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Give them a couple of hurrahs, mission accomplished Tell the moment you appreciate the loss of a brother, or the wounding of another, or the handicapping of another from an injury. Your job, King. Not our job is the children of the King. So follow after things that make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. Romans 14 out. We're to edify another. You're out there weeping and mourning. David, you're supposed to be out there rejoicing and edifying the troops, lifting them up 1 Corinthians 14, 12, seek that you may excel to the edifying of the church. David, these are God's people. Get out there and seek to edify them and lift them up. They've done a great thing for you, for your family, for Israel. For the body of Christ. Verse 8, the king arose. Joab got through to him. And he sat in the gate, and the people heard, it says, and they came before the king. What I do like about David, I've been hard on him, his joy I was for a few minutes here. Is that David was convinced that he was at fault? He was convinced he was at fault by an inferior. Substationed individuals, someone from a different class of people, Israel. He was a soldier of Joab, he was a captain of the host, but he was still far below the king. And yet He was convinced that he was at fault. He was convinced he was at fault by his inferior. In fact, he was convinced he was at fault by his inferior, who was abusive in the way he spoke to him. Sometimes we don't like the way people tell us that we need to change. We need to fix that. We need to stop that. We need to start doing this. And we don't like the way they talk to us and the way they tell us And besides, who are they to tell me it's my younger brother or my younger sister? Or it's some of us only been saved for a year or two. I've been saved for 30 years. How dare he try and straighten me out And he didn't even do it kindly. But David responded to the inferior abusive remarks Because they were true. You know what I've discovered over the years Anyone can profit from good advice, even if it comes from a a lowly Shepherd like Moses going to the Pharaoh. The Pharaoh could have profited, couldn't he? From this lowly shepherd named Moses I mean, can't we profit from good advice even if it comes from someone who is our inferior? Moses the shepherd? How about David? David learned to profit. He profited from what Job had to say, and we find elsewhere that David was even able to listen to a woman who was married to a man named Nabal, which means fool. How can I proper from some woman? I'm the king And here comes this woman, she's married to a fool. What does that say about her? She's married to a fool, and she's come to me, she's gonna straighten me out. But David listened, didn't he? He was gonna go down there and kill everyone in her household, and he did not. Sometimes good advice comes from a shepherd, a woman of a fool In fact, we find great advice given in Acts 4. 13. It came from, the Pharisees noticed this, the Sadducees, Gamelius, they noted this, that there was some good advice. It came from, they said, the unlearned and the ignorant. That had been with Jesus. Wow. If someone comes to you and you know they're saved, someone comes to you and they know they read their Bible, you know they pray, You know that their heart intent is right. They may be a little harsh with you. They may be your inferior, but they come to you with a Bible verse. They come to you and they talk to you. Can't you profit from good advice? Now at this time we learn that in verses nine through ten that the battle's over. David's out talking to his men. But the ones they fought, the ones who fled, the ten tribes of Israel And the tribe of Benjamin and Judah, you know, they're out, they're going. They fled down and out and they're heading back to Jerusalem and to their different tribal areas. But those people, those ten tribes Actually, all twelve of the tribes had had come together against King David, even Judah. They were at strife. It says the verses 9 through 10, the people were at strife throughout Israel, saying, Absalom, whom we anointed over, is dead. You know, like now what? Why don't we speak? Uh bring the words of the king that we'd like to have King David back I mean why are we doing that? Why are we sitting here saying, now what, now what? We've we still got a king. It's David and and we've we blew it. We've messed up and and We're sitting here saying, what do we do next? What do we do next? And everybody's arguing and the essentially that there there's strife among them. What do we do? Do we keep on going? Maybe we should flee up to uh up to Turkey somewhere or go to Syria or Lebanon. What are we going to do? And we find here that this strife among the people of Israel who had gone against King David, there's no end to the quarreling among themselves. Because this this verses nine and ten, if you go towards the end of the chapter, verses forty-two and forty-three, they're still fighting. I mean there's there's this strife on all of Israel. Boy quarreling among themselves I wonder if that ever happens in the church of God. People quarreling among themselves. Oh, I'm sorry, Philippians 4-2 Wow, they even got their names written down. Wouldn't you love to have your name recorded in Holy Scripture that you were one that was quarreling in the church with somebody else Houdious. And I like the way the doctor argues to pronounce the other woman's name, Sun Tachi. Don't you trust me? Sun Tachi. And beautius. Two women. It doesn't say they were women. Well, those are Greek feminine words, uteus. And Suntachi. They were two women and they were quarreling in the church. And sometimes there's no end of the quarreling that goes on among Israel here and among people in the church. It's amazing the church survives, really, when you look at it, that the Church of Christ, who is our king, it's amazing that it survives when you think of all the bickering and nitpicking and finger-pointing and foolish priorities that people have and hurt feelings and scandalous sin and Paul says plus the perils among false brethren and besides all those things The things that are without the church. Paul gives a long list of stuff that's going on in the church, and it is just amazing. It's the grace of God. Someone calls it the divine glue of God that holds the church of Christ together Or it have vanished long ago. Hmm. Uh pilgrim, have you ever contributed to the squabbling? among the people of Christ, not just in the church. I mean i I've been out there on the job and you know you run to somebody that that is a a hyper Calvinist or he's an Arminian. You know, I try to get along with both of them Do you have to be beating each other over the head in front of the Goyim, in front of the Gentiles who are watching these two Christians get together and they're arguing about baptism or they're arguing about eschatology? I like what Dan said on one day. Why do you argue about preacher, mid trip, post-trip? It's not like it's the end of the world or something. Oh, well, maybe eschatology is the end of the world. But still, is it worth arguing about? Do you contribute to the squabbling among the people of Christ? Or do you initiate it? We have it here in verses 9 and 10, the strife throughout all of Israel. And David quickly addresses the strife, especially among his own tribe, we find in verses 11 and 12. And David sent Zadek and Abathar, the priest. It's always good to find some good mediators, some people who are good with words, some people who who really have a heart for souls and people. Sometimes we're not the one to say it, but we know who is and we can send that person You know, and and the also the counselor is wisdom. If you think somebody's doing something wrong, you go to somebody else and say, Boy, I I just don't know if I got the right words. Do you have any verses I could I could use or or do you know them better than I do? Well, you know, we're having to sleep over this week with the kids. I might have an opportunity to do it. I said, okay, great, you do it then. And he sends these two priests, Zadek and Abierra to the priests, and says, Speak unto the elders of Judah The speech of all of Israel has come to the king. The king said, I'm hearing about the tribes out there, they're all talking about. Should we bring David back? Should we keep on fleeing? What should we do? If we bring David back, how do we approach him? How do we tell him we're sorry Will he accept our repentance? These are all the tribes that are doing this. It's all come back to David that the tribes, you know, Asher and Nathel and and uh uh Benjamin, all these tribes that he said, But I haven't heard from you, Judah. That's what he says here The speech of all the Israel is come to King. But ye are my brother and my bones and my flesh. Wherefore are ye the last to bring back the king? How come I haven't heard from Judah? I mean David was a king of the Jews before he was a king of Israel. He is a he is a Jew. He's from the tribe of Judah. All the tribes are saying we think we should like to have the king come back. We're really sorry. But I haven't heard from the tribe of Judah. What's going on here? He'd heard nothing from Judah. Of course, Judah was where all the leaders of the rebellion came from. Absalom was from Judah. That means his own son. He was from Judah. The Hithophel, the consulate, was from Judah. Amassa, the captain of the host of Absalom's armies, was from Judah? I mean You know, uh there there's this th there was th they were they were at the heart of the rebellion. Then they ought to have been the first ones. They're they're kin They're family, they're David's blood, of his bones, of his flesh, and how come I haven't heard from you? You were born of my bone, the flesh of my flesh, and you haven't asked for me to come back yet. What's going on here? So he sends the the priest to talk to them. It's uh kind of like you he when the Lord Jesus Christ healed the ten lepers And they go out and well he only hears back from one, doesn't he? It's just or when the Lord talks in Luke ten and thirteen, he says, Woe on you Crose and Boseh If these mighty works have been done in Tyrancide, they have repented already. What's with you, Corsaid? What's with you, Messiah? He said, What's with you, Judah? How come I haven't heard from you? And I'll bet you there's people sitting here this morning and you haven't heard from somebody in your family. Have you uh have your high expectations your family ever disappointed you I say high expectations because I think we have high I think our expectations are very high of other people. We need to lower our expectations. We won't be as disappointed as often And David had high expectations that of all the tribes, surely Judah would come back. They'd want me back. They'd be the first ones, and they're the last ones. You can't blame Judah. They perhaps thought a pardon was hopeless for them. They had instigated it, they'd initiated it. They were the center of the rebellion. All the hierarchy, Ahithophel and Absalom and Amazad, the general. I mean, they probably feared the return of King of Israel. If he comes back as king, we're toast. We're done. Put a fork in us, who knows what David will do. There are People that know what the King of Israel is capable of doing. They know of his power, they know of his authority, and how sad it is that there are people who know of the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ They know of the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet in Revelation they say, Mountains and rocks fall on us, hide us from him that sitteth on the throne They know Christ sits on the throne. He said, hide us from him that sits on the throne, from the wrath of the Lamb. They fear the wrath of God, the wrath of the Lamb. They know how can you know that he sits on the throne? How can you know the power and the wrath of God and you still won't repent? They've got the knowledge and they still don't want to move off a dead center. Do they not understand that Christ, the King of Kings, the King of Israel, is more forgiving than David, the King of Israel? And David is, as we observe here, is most forgiving. Of the people of Judah, verse 7. He says to Zadak and Abathar in verse 11 and 12, when you get there, say to Amasah, Amasah was the general that Absalom had brought in to fight his father. And Amasa, by the way, David was Uncle David to Amasa. They were kin, they were foes. He was his nephew. He says, say to Amasa, thou art bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, God do to me and more. If thou be not captain of my host before me continually in the room of Joab, he says, Tell Amasa I not only forgive him I not only pardon him, I want him to come back, talk to Judah, let them know that I'm a have a forgiving spirit. The king of Israel pardons the thing king of Israel is gracious, he is merciful, and not only Amish I want you, you were moments ago you were slinging arrows and firing and slinging rocks and stones and firing arrows at my position and at my men, and now I want you to be in charge of my army Wow, talk about forgiveness. Do you know that can that can really touch a heart and change a person I see the elected president doing some of that. He's calling in people that I'm not happy with. But you know something? And I don't know that I don't think he's a Christian, but there's a principle here. Maybe Romney's a guy for Secretary of State. He's opposed Trump. He's backstabbed and he's done what Amazon has done here. But in talking with him, if he's asked forgiveness, if he is Is moved by the pardon of the president as Amasa is moved by the pardon of King David. Maybe the Lord's in something like that. David replacing Joab. Whoa, that's not going to go over well. By the way, Joab is also his uncle. Joab is unc Uncle David to Joab, because Joab is also one of his nephews. So he's going to replace one Judy's uh nephew from Judah with another nephew from Judah, and David's going to replace Joab, who had murdered his son and had murdered Abner and he was a a horrible, horrible individual. And he's going to make Amasah uh Absalom's old general is going to make him his general, who had actually tried to kill David. Amasad tried to kill David, and now he's going to make him his general. Wow. Wow David parting and apporting him as captain of the host, it speaks volumes to everyone in Judah. Here's what it says If David can pardon Amasha and make him the captain of his host, surely he can forgive thee too. Who could not say, is there anything or anyone that has done anything to the King of Israel that the King of Israel won't pardon? And the answer obviously was if Amasah is going to be the new Captain of the host, there's nothing we've done that the King of Israel won't forgive us for. And there's nothing that we've done that the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, won't forgive us for. Word. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, 1 John 1, 7 through 9. And the chief of sinners, Paul, could attest to that in 1 Timothy 1. 15. Am I going to attest to that here? David's gracious words and promises were repairing the breach between him and his family. If there's a breach in your family, make some promises. Repair some breaches. Bend over backwards. When we bend over backwards in verses 14 and 15, we find that it bows the heart or bows the heart of all the men of Judah. Wow. And Judah came to the king, verse fifteen. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim, have your words ever drawn others to the King of Israel, to Christ the King. Have your words ever drawn others to Christ. If so, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we look to the day in the example of King David. May we take it upon ourselves, not the bad things he did, but the glorious things, the gracious things, the merciful things. That he did for those who had sinned against him, who'd come against him. Oh Lord, put it in our hearts. For we know that our Christ, our King of Kings, has has it in his heart to forgive us. And as we forgive those who trespass against us, so he forgives us. Oh Lord, give us gracious hearts that we too will hear in eternity. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done. Amen. I'm going to ask if uh Pastor Keith Coleman Uh if you you come up here and join us in the last song and close with prayer and ask the blessing on the meal also downstairs, all right.