Turn to Mark chapter five this morning. In a response to reading, we read this story in Luke 8 and 26, but it's recorded in Matthew and also in Mark chapter 5. So it will sound familiar to you from our responsive reading this morning as we again look at the verses in Mark. Mark five, verses one through ten. And if you remember last week Christ was crossing over the sea and they ran into a great storm. They all thought they were going to drown and they had to wake him up. And he cried out, Peace be still, and the storm subsided. And they continued, and they came in verse 1 of chapter 5, and they came over onto the other side of the sea, onto the country of the Gadarenes. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him, out of the tombs, a man with an unclean or an evil spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no, not with chains. Because that he had been often bound with feathers and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him. and the fetters broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains. And in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him And cried with a loud voice and said, What am I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country. Title of the Message this morning, What Have We to Do with Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we just see in these few short verses that from a wild storm at sea to the demonic In just a few verses, life with Christ is anything but boring. And I think most of us can attest to that if you're a Christian. There are assaults. There is ridicule. There are some times you're on the first layoff at a job or you get the rottenest jobs to do. Life is not boring as a Christian. People can say, I don't want to be a Christian, it'd be so boring. Most of us can attest to the fact that it's not boring. It may not always be a cheerful, wonderful opportunity as a Christian. There may be so many difficult times But life with Christ is not boring. These disciples have been through a storm and now they got the demonic charging down the hill on the tombs. They probably had heard about this character and how he was a vicious individual and could do great damage to them in a matter of seconds. The storm, some question, and we might ask it ourselves, was the storm sent of Satan? to keep Christ from arriving on the shores of the Gadarenes. Because as you read the story, the man gets saved. He gets cleansed of the demons. Did Satan perceive perhaps that that's why he was coming? And didn't want him to land on that shore and heal that demonic, toss out those demons, and so he sent the storm To make them turn back or to sink the ship? We don't know. One thing is obvious when Christ seeks souls He'll go on any journey it takes to get there and to do the job. We've noted through the earlier chapters of Mark that he Cleanses all kinds of diseases and sicknesses, and now he quenches the storms, and herein Satan's army for Christ will be spoiled As it says in Colossians 2. 15, that Christ can spoil the principalities and the powers, and he's about to do that here in these verses. For Christ storms. For the Lord's sicknesses, for the Lord, Satan's powers mean nothing to him. If you're sitting this morning and you've got one of these problems, you've got the going through the storms of life, we talked about that last week, or some sickness that you're going through or you're facing Or some satanic assault that seems to be falling upon your household or your life, the Lord can take care of these things. And thus He came here to take care of it in this man's life. He came onto the other side of the sea to the country of the Gadderenes. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him, out of the tombs. They say that there this area is still very visible. You you can go to the area of the Gatarines and you can come by boat and you land on the shore and you look up and it's a a pretty sheer uh side uh going up the mountain and it's filled with caverns and caves and and tombs. It's still there to this day. And this man came running out of the tombs and running down the hill, full force. Coming to Christ with an unclean or an evil spirit. In Luke 8 and 27, in our responsive reading, we read that this man had been in this condition a long time. It wasn't just the last couple weeks or months or a year. He'd been in this condition a long time. And that's where the people found that they would try to bind him with chains in his calmer moments. They would try to fetter him with with steel cuffs and brace brackets on his ankles and his wrists because he would attack people coming along that area. Matthew tells us about that if we were to read Matthew He's been like this a long time, Luke 8 and 27 says. And they also tell us his condition was that he didn't wear any clothes. Wow. Makes you wonder about some of these people in Hollywood. I tell you, I can't turn my computer on without seeing the latest story about the Kardashians and their latest state of undress. My goodness, I think my handkerchief covers more than this stuff. You wonder, is there some sort of demonic influence in Hollywood? I would say so. Absolutely. And when the signs are when people are not ashamed to be in old states of undress and Hollywood I Not to belabor the fact but if you go on uh there's always the red carpet show, I don't know what that's all about is or global something they give them and Emmys and stuff and they show how they come walking in there State of undress, my goodness. It's gotta be demonic. That they don't even feel uncomfortable in that state State. It's not a household party. They're on national television. And we find here that not only did he have no clothes, but in verse 5 he was cutting himself. I mean, this is this is a person that's got some real problems I mean you don't have to know that he broke his shackles, you don't have to know he broke the handcuffs and the brackets on his ankles. You don't have to know anything else, but you see a guy with no clothes cutting himself, the guy's got problems. And you better start thinking they're demonic This demon controlled this man. He controlled this man's thinking. He controlled this man's speaking. He controlled this man's behavior so that he had no clothes. He's cutting himself. He's screaming, he's crying, and he's defiling himself, by the way. There's a spiritual defilement going on here, because we find in Numbers nineteen and sixteen that touching a grave shall leave you unclean for seven days. He is living in the tombs. This man is on is unclean as any leper you want to meet. He's unclean, then he's running down, and if he touches Christ He would make Christ unclean unless Christ would heal him or touch the disciples. He's been touching bodies and bones and tombs. This man is unclean scripturally He's unclean for living in the tombs. He's cutting himself. He's not wearing any clothes. This is all signs of demonic possession. Does your thinking and your speaking and your behavior indicate that the Word of God directs your life? Or does your thinking and speaking and behavior indicate that you have nothing to do with Jesus? Have you met people like that? The way they talk, the way they act, the thoughts they share with you? Do you ever get the impression that something has nothing to do with Jesus Christ? Absolutely. This man had nothing, wanted nothing. He's possessed with the demon. He wants nothing to do with Jesus Christ. I wonder how much Hollywood has to do with Jesus Christ. We don't hear much, do we, from those characters. It says here in verses, dwelling among the tombs. Why? Surely the people don't want him in the city where the Gadderenes live. They don't want him living in their neighborhoods. Uh they did not care to have it anywhere nearby. So he's out there in the wilderness. But why in the tombs? I mean if you can't live on the street you live in, would you decide to move out and and move out in a cemetery somewhere I mean a lot of our our homeless people, what? They live on the streets. They live down in the subways of Washington, D. C. You'll see them sleeping on the sidewalk or sleeping in the subway somewhere Sometimes you'll you'll go to a hospital and you'll find them over in a corner hiding, sitting in a chair. I mean there's some there's some pretty decent places if you don't want to hang out around your people Why would you hang out in the cemetery? Why would you hang out in the tombs where it defiles you? Well, he's demon-possessed. Demons feel at home living among the dead. You see, the demons feel at home living among the dead because those many of those dead people in the cemeteries. Are the trophies of the demons. They've won that one. And they've won that one. And those three over there too. They can walk among the stones, the tombstones, and the And uh the raised uh they're like stone caskets mostly over Israel. Above the ground, above the ground tombs, something like our our mausoleums today and and these are their trophies. It's worth they want to be. Some people just love to have the trophies on their fireplace or around them, surrounding their house or their living room. They want to be around their trophies and show everybody the Academy Award they won and the and the Grammy they won. They love having they want to be around their trophies and the demons do too. And there's plenty of dead people in the cemeteries that are their trophies As a young Christian, people used to talk about, oh, when the rapture takes place and the dead in Christ is going to rise first, they're going to come out of the graves. And and I thought, whoa, what a wonderful. Can you imagine being at a cemetery when Christ returns and the graves are opened up and people are popping up on the ground everywhere? Well, they'll be popping up on the ground to meet Christ in the air. But you know something? I don't think we're going to see that many graves open in the cemeteries What, 5%, 10%? I don't know. But at least in the world I live in today, most people getting buried out there. They have nothing to do with Christ. Now there are some tombs out there if you ever go out in the cemetery and you visit and they've got Bible verses on the grave. You know uh asleep with Jesus or to be absent bodies present with the Lord. So you know if you're ever out in the cemetery and you're concerned the rapture is going to take place while you're there, don't be standing on that grave But for the most part, cemeteries are filled with the trophies of the demons. And so the demons feel at home living among their trophies of death. Demons feel at home living among their trophies of destruction Proverbs 836 says that there are those that hate me, and they that hate me love death. Why would anybody love death? Well Dr. Kavorkian loved death. Some of you heard about him. He had all these suicide kits. He tried to sell them and and uh get people to commit suicide and I guess that was supposed to help the social security not to go bankrupt and And all kinds of crazy things like that. I mean Dr. Gaborkin, he was called the Doctor of Death. He loved death. And he made his little suicide machines and he sold them. And when he was dying here a year or so ago He didn't use one. He wants you to use it. He wants you to buy it, but he he loves death. He loves watching other people die, but he didn't want to use it on himself. All they that hate me. All those who have nothing to do with the Lord Jesus Christ, they love death. Proverbs 8 and 36. You ever met people out there? They love the gloomy Goth Halloween atmosphere. Why? Because they love death They feel at home in that goth, gloomy, Halloween atmosphere They're fascinated with the Netherland. The Netherland is a term used in some poetry. It means the place of hell. It means the abyss. They're fascinated with there's a movie today. People who are fascinated with zombies and zombie movies which come out of Hollywood. Hollywood's fascinated with death. They love death And Proverbs 21, 16 says, of those people who love death, they're called the congregation of the dead. Wow. Those who love death, they congregate. They're called the Congregation of the Dead. They feel at home in the tombs. Where do you feel most at home, pilgrim? Is it when you're in church? Is it when you're with family festivities? Surely it's not during Halloween that you feel most comfortable, is it? And we read here that in verse 3, that no man could bind him, no not with change. Well they had tried. They put chains around him, and then they put bigger chains around him, and then he got great big chains around him, and they got these great steel bracelets around his wrists and around his ankles and so that he couldn't run fast, he couldn't go charging them, and and he would break the chains like Samson And then the cups were still on, and he could just crush and shatter the steel or iron cups around his wrists and his ankles. It says often the chains had been plucked asunder by him in verse 4, and the fetters broken in pieces. Neither could any man tame him. He was so fierce. That Matthew 8 and 28 says that no man might pass by this way. When he's up there in those tombs, And he sees the ship coming with the disciples in Christ in the ship, heading for the shore, he says, You've got to be kidding. Nobody comes to this shore They avoid this section of the shore of the sea. They nobody comes here unless they're being swept in by a storm. The storm is gone. They don't have to come this way. Why are they coming? in front of my tombs. Why are they coming to my show? I thought I've scared everybody away. Nobody dares come. Nobody dares land here anymore. Oh is this gonna be fun I have had this much pleasure since whenever the people in the town of the Gatarenes, they don't come out here and visit these tombs. They bury their people somewhere else. They don't come out and visit their dead loved ones anymore. They just don't. They stay away from here. Here's a ship landing with a dozen guys on it. Oh my and to a demon, a dozen guys? That means nothing. He can take them all on. You remember the story of the seven sons who are exorcists in the book of Acts 19? And they were casting out demons, supposedly, and they finally come across this one man who's possessed with demons? You remember that? That's seven of these guys. And they're of the royal family. They're of the priesthood. And they they think they can do this. And they run to someone who really has got demons And they say, Jesus, do we know the Apostle Paul? Do we know we don't know you? And the demons come on the guy, and I said that beat them up and bruised them and left them bleed, and they went running out without their clothes. Ah, here we have it again. No clothes. The demons would strip us of everything we got. Our personalities. They'd strip us of that. Our health? They do that And so this man he comes running down. And you know it says when you read it, he says that he came running down and he fell before Jesus and worshiped him. But when he's running down from the tombs, he's not thinking about, oh that's Jesus down there. I want to go down and worship. No, no, no, no. He sees a bunch of people coming off a boat and oh, this is gonna be fun Hey, running down the hill. He saw Jesus from afar off. It doesn't say he recognized and renewables him. He just saw Jesus' disciples from afar off. And he's running down the sill. He's charging up the ship. And as they step on the shore, the guy's immediately he's right there in her face. And he comes running up. He's about to tear these people apart like they did the seven sons In Acts 19, he's about to just tear them apart. Rip their clothes off and they'll be just like him. You know, the ungodly world wants you to be just like them. I don't have any clothes on. I don't want you to have any clothes on. And so he's running down. He's going to rip these guys to shred. And believe me, this guy's filled with not one demon, but legions, which can be twelve thousand demons. We don't know how many But his name is Legion, for we are many, and seven guys in Acts 19, the Legion of Demons against 12 disciples. He doesn't know their disciples. He doesn't know one in the crowd is Christ. As he gets down, he's about to just have a heyday with these guys. The demons recognize Jesus Christ, the Son of the Highest God, of the Most High God. And what does a demon do in the presence of Christ? Scripture says, every knee shall bow, and every tongue profession Matthew eight and twenty said that no man had ever passed by this way since that man occupied those tombs. And now that's demonic with all his power and power and strength beyond any natural man. He comes charging down and he's gonna take care of these people. And and They had to have known about it. Christ had to have known about it because in verse 5 it it tells us that he had been up there day and night. He never left the tombs. He lived in those tombs all the time. He was always in the mountains and in the tombs, and he was crying. It was known. If Christ didn't land on the shoulders, oh well we got ourselves in or didn't expect this. Even the disciples probably are beginning to wonder why are we heading for this shore? Isn't it the place where this guy that with all these demons is? Well why are we even heading this way And sure enough, here is he's coming charging down the hill. This doesn't seem like a good idea. It was known. This guy was known. It says he screamed and he cried night and day, and the screams echoed throughout the night And day along that shore. If you got anywhere near those tombs on that shore, you heard his screaming and his crying. Crying and his weeping. He was raving mad, and he was cutting himself That's what verse 5 says. Cutting himself. Before he came charging down the hill towards Christ. People do some bizarre things. You know, in the early 1900s in China, they would they would uh they would had foot binding You wrap your feet up real tight. They thought women's feet looked nicer if they were in smaller shoes and they'd wrapped their feet up so tight and they deformed their feet and as they got older they were they could hardly walk And the Christian missionaries came in there and started talking and said, This is not good for you, don't do this. It was the Christian missionaries that got them to stop the binding of their feet, the cruel things that we do to our bodies, bizarre things. Until 1988 in India. When your husband died in India, if you were of the upper caste, and your husband died, do you know what you were supposed to do, wives? You were supposed to go over and and kill yourself or throw yourself on the fires where your husband's body was burned. I can remember living and seeing that when when some leader of India would die, they'd be bringing his body out and they'd set fire to it. He'd be you know, you'd see his body, his face, everything just laying there, and they'd set fire to it, and the why would throw herself in the fire or she commits suicide and they'd throw her body in the fire and burn with her husband. The same thing in Egypt. When the Pharaoh died, his whole household was buried with him. Alive. They buried his house. Ladies took good care of their husbands back then, you know. Because when the Pharaoh dies, I go in the pyramid with them. Yikes. How much food is in the pyramid? How long will that last? In India, if your husband dies, take good care of your husband when he dies, you're expected to throw yourself in the fire with him. That that was stopped finally in 1988 And today we got people still cutting their bodies, we got body piercings and gender mutilations, stuff I don't even want to go into It makes the the the your body being burned in India on top of your husband's wife. It's called the sati. They called it the sati. That sounds pretty tame compared to what people are doing today You just wonder how much that's demonic. Throw yourself on a fire? Body piercings and cutting your flesh? These are the things that a demon-possessed man does. That's what the Baal priest in the days of Elijah, chapter uh 1 Kings 18 and 28. When they when they couldn't get the Elijah's out there and he says, Call down fire from heaven from your God, I'll call down fire from my God, and the Baal priest can't get the fire to come down. And Elijah, remember he soaks his wood with water and and everything else. And of course God sends fire on Elijah's pile of wood, but not on the Bale priest. The Bale priests are praying so hard and so fervent and so earnest and nothing's happened. They started cutting themselves with s with knives and bleeding as if the blood was gushing out. This is demonic, friend We don't think of demonic activity in America that much anymore. But think about people who cut themselves, burn themselves, pierce themselves. Paul says in Acts sixteen and twenty eight, do thyself no harm. I'm not talking about having pierced ears. I'm talking about people that actually cut themselves with blades and knives in this day and age and burn themselves and They do all kinds of things to show either how tough they are or just because they hate themselves so much. They hate the image of God so much. Do thyself no harm. Acts 16 and 28 This soul is tormented by the demons, he's not handling his trials in a very reasonable manner, is he? If you're cutting yourself with n with stones and you're wearing clothes on How do you handle your trials? How do you handle your trials? Do you sorrow as others that have no hope? 1 Thessalonians 4. 13. Or do you handle the trials everyone else has, and you may sorrow, but with some hope. Do you handle your trials better than the unsaved people? If you're not handling your trials any better than the godly, ungodly world, if you're not handling yourself and your trials any better than anyone else If you're not handling your trials the way a Christian is supposed to handle them, sorrow, yes, but not without hope. If you're not handling your trials very well, maybe it's because you have little to do with Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Well this man, he saw Jesus from afar off, and when she gets there, he realized he doesn't want nothing to do with Christ, nothing at all. These charging comes down that hill. He saw Jesus from afar up and he ran, charging as it were, and then suddenly he's on his knees. He's prostate, probably face in the dirt. This wasn't worship, a loving worship of Jesus. This wasn't a loving worship. It was bowing before him. Yes, it's written: every knee shall bow to me. Romans 14:11. Every knee, even a demon's knee, will bow before him. And he comes running down to to attack these men coming out of the boat, and he sees that Christ is among them. And he doesn't say, Well, I'll leave Christ alone, I'll just attack these guys. All he can do in the presence of Christ is drop down, prostrate before him. In the worship position, but not out of love, out of fear. This demon who couldn't be controlled with shackles and chains And betters. He couldn't be controlled. He couldn't be constrained. Until he met Christ. What a difference that made all of a sudden. He's constrained, he's controlled, he's on his knees, he's face down the dirt, he's begging, pleading What have I to do with this Jesus of the High God? Why do you come now? I know you're coming in the end times, but why are you here now? It says in verse 7, he cried with a loud voice, What am I to do with thee? Jesus, thou son of the most high God. Let's take that apart a little bit. What am I to do with thee, thou son of the most high God? He's a demon. He's a fallen angel. What is he to do with the Lord Jesus Christ? Christ who came to die for sins and shed his blood on the cross, what does this demon have to do with Christ? Nothing. Christ didn't come to save the demons. He didn't come to save the fallen angels. I know we talk about sometimes election, and we say, I don't like the idea of election because Christ came for some and not for others. That he came for some of his creatures and not for others. Well, dear friend, he didn't come for any of the sinful fallen angels. Not one. And that doesn't bother us. He didn't come to die for the animals and there are creatures too. And that doesn't bother us. But you tell him he didn't come to die for every human being that's alive. That bothers us. Jesus Christ can do with his own as he pleases. We read in the book to John, and these demons are as much a part of his creation as you and I are cats, our dogs. We're all just creatures. His creation. And the demons who sinned and fell from heaven and were cast out of heaven like lightning. And Christ, I saw them falling like lightning from heaven. They went out with Lucifer, Satan. He didn't shed his blood for any of them. So when the demon says, What have I to do with thee, though? Jesus, the Son of the Most High God, the first answer is nothing. Not a thing. In that respect, as a savior, you've got nothing to do with me. But on judgment day, Mr. Legion On judgment day, you'll have all that you can handle to deal with me. What have I to do with thee, thou Jesus? So, pilgrim, what have you to do with Jesus Christ, the Son of the Most High God? Not much? Nothing? A little bit. Think about that. What have you to do with Jesus Christ? If you say I don't want to have anything to do with Jesus Christ, whoa, there's the category you're in. That's the category of the demons. No hope. Got nothing to do with Jesus Christ. And we've met people with that attitude, haven't we? I don't want to hear this religious stuff. Don't go Bible thumping in front of me. They want nothing to do with Christ. Nothing. Nothing Apparently the demons have some sort of influence on them already. Not possession, but an influence. A believer. And if you're sitting here saying, I I think I'm a believer. I I believe that you know the Old and the New Testament destroys of Noah, and I believe the creation of Adam and Eve. And I believe that Jesus was born in the manger and he died on the cross and he died for the sins, you know. I believe all that. Okay But a believer, besides believing all that, because it says the demons believe all that, you know why the demons believe all that? Because they were there and they saw the crucifixion. They were there and they saw the resurrection. Of course they believe it. They just don't love that it happened. And although they've seen the crucifixion, they've seen the resurrection, they'll have nothing to do with him And people who are believers, they not only believe some of the same things that demons believe. They not only believe those things, but they love it. And they want to have much to do with Jesus. The Son of the Most High God. That's the difference. The demons have a great deal of information. They know this Bible better than me. And you and anybody you've ever met, they've lived it. They were there in the early part of Genesis They were there in the days of Elijah. They were there in the days of Joshua and Moses and Gideon and they know it better than you do. They've got a massive amount of information. They've got all tremendous amount of information. And here this this demon or demons is named Legion, they not only have all this information They have professed who Jesus Christ is. He's the Son of the Most High God. They've even got the doctrines that we love Head knowledge. They got it all up here, these demons But it doesn't affect their behavior. They still do what they want and do things contrary to the Word of God. They they know all this stuff, but it doesn't affect their and if you're if you say, I know all this stuff, I believe all this stuff, but if it doesn't affect your behavior, if you don't turn over uh if you don't turn away from your sin, if you don't change at all, you're just like the demon You know it. How did people say to me, oh, I have a Bible? I've read it before. I read the whole thing. I know it all. Okay. But Does it cause you to want to have much to do with Jesus Christ? And do you love what's in here? We're not when we talk about the Bible and we ask you a question and we share things, we're not playing some Jeopardy game on TV. But it is Jeopardy If we don't love what's in this book. In the Bible So the demon's got all this knowledge. He says, I adjure thee, my God, that thou torment me not. Surely the end times aren't here yet. Surely he haven't come to destroy me. We should know when the end times are. We know an awful lot. We may not know the day or the hour, but We we should get a pretty good feel for it. And it's not today, is it? I mean, it can't be today, really. I mean I adjure thee, by God, that thou torment me not Do you think the demon was saying, as he drops down on his knees and his face, he looks up and he says, You're you're uh Jesus, the Son of the High God. Don't torment me today. Or did he speak to Christ? Earnestly, thou art the Son of the Most High God. All things I adjure thee, don't torment me. Earnest prayer from a demon And he's not saved. Hey, your prayers, you can have all the knowledge and your prayers can be earnest, but if you really don't want to have much to do with Jesus. If you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ, your earnest prayers and all your head knowledge, it isn't worth a plugged nickel. This demon, he kind of fulfills James 4 and verse 3. He received not because he asked amiss. We have to ask it has to be the will of God. We have to have forsaken our sins and ask God to forgive us. I mean there's so much that lines up before we can ask God for it's got to be in his you know what's it say in Psalm 37 and 4? Delight thyself in the Lord and He shall give you. The desire of your earnest prayers and thoughts and needs. This demon, he's not delighting himself in the Lord. He wants nothing to do with him. And yet he expects him to answer his prayer You can have earnest prayers and all the head knowledge you want. But if it's not his will, that's not the way we're supposed to pray. Thy will be done. He doesn't want the Lord's will be done. He just wants them not to torment him. We pray because we want to glorify God. He doesn't want this per answer to glorify God. He wants nothing to do with it. Just don't torment me. This demon trembles and he's prostate and he's worshiping, worshiping in that he's in a worshipable position. Praying earnestly, but he's trembling before his judge because Christ is not his Savior. Christ didn't die for any of the fallen angels. He's praying before his judge, knowing that the day of his torment it is coming. There will be a day when he'd be cast into everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels, Matthew 25 and 41. He'll be cast in there with chains of darkness, 2 Peter 2, 4, chains of darkness that he won't feel to for. Oh, there are chains that can hold a demon. They're not forged by man, they're forged by the Messiah, by the Savior, by the judge of the heavens and the earth. And he can't break those. You note something else about this demon. He dreads the thought of going into the pit, of going into the abyss. He dreads the thought of of the torment that awaits him in the end. He dreads the thought of hell. He dreads hell more than most men. Because he knows beyond a shadow of a doubt that there it exists, and he knows beyond a shadow of a doubt that he's going to end up there. So he dreads hell more than most of us sitting here He knows it's real. He has had glimpses of it. And he knows he is destined there no matter. That's where he's going to end up. We need a healthier fear of hell. We don't need a healthier fear of hell than this demon to be saved. But when people get mad at you and say, go to hell, you have no idea what you're saying. You don't have a healthy view of what hell is and how long it is for. But the demon knew that the other thing is that the other one is a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of He knew what was awaiting him in eternity. Pilgrim, are you excited or disturbed about what awaits you? eternity. What's awaiting you in eternity? I'm excited about it. Some people say, I am too, but I don't want to jump on a bus and go there today. I would go there before this message was done, if God would take me. That's how excited I am about heaven. Mr. Braun could probably tell you the same thing. The older we get, the less attractive this place becomes. It really does. They dread hell. We ought to also. What we have to do with Jesus now determines our destiny in the hereafter. And these demons want nothing to do with Jesus now. How about you, friend? How about you, pilgrim? Do you want something to do with Jesus? The Son of God, the Christ, the Son of the Most High. Too many people ought to believe that Christianity in heaven are a miserable way to spend the rest of your life here on earth and then in heaven. I I I if I gotta be a Christian, it'd be so boring Storms, demonic possession, healings, disease, uh boring? Being a Christian's please, if that's what you think, being a Christian's boring is not boring Sometimes I wish it was a little more boring, but it's exciting and it's it's traumatic and it's tough sometimes, but it's not boring. Don't tell me it's boring. And then you say, I don't want to be a Christian because it makes life so boring. There's so many things I want to do out there. Yeah. I don't read anyone in this Bible. If I'm a Christian, I can't go sailing, ice skating, rowing, baseball games. I don't see any of you what do you mean there's something else you want to do? If you're a Christian, you can't do. Oh, thou shalt not lie. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord of God in vain. Oh, those things. They don't put it that way, but that's what they don't want to be a Christian because it'll be so boring. And they don't want to go to heaven because they'll try to I don't want to go to heaven. I want to go to hell where all my friends are. We can party down there I don't want to go to heaven to be so boring sitting around plucking on harps and singing praise to God. Boy, I wish I could play a harp. And I would love to sing praises to my Savior who when I get to heaven He's made sure my wife was there, family was there. and friends that I love, I don't think it'd be boring. And this life as a Christian isn't boring either. Four years in the Marine Corps, almost two in Vietnam. You want to talk about excitement? And I I leave the NAM, I leave the Marine Corps, and you think the rest of my life would be boring. And it pretty much was. I mean I I I'd volunteer for stupid dangerous stuff in Vietnam because I was bored. Because there's lots of time where you're just down doing nothing. And you get bored, and so you volunteer for something stupid, and then you almost get killed when you're over there. And I leave there and life was boring. Until I became a Christian. Wow! I started seeing things happening around me I never noticed before My eyes were open. I saw demonic influence and I saw the anti-godly people and I saw the anti-Christian, the anti-bible people. I never saw that before. Life became very, very different. They want to take Bible reading and prayer out of the school. Did that on my watch? Yes they did. You know, I mean I've seen things. Life's not boring. And oh heaven, heaven is surely not boring. If you're not a Christian this morning, I want you to know that our life as Christians, it's not miserable and it's not boring. In fact, the truth of the matter is if you're not a Christian, you are miserable. You say, I don't want to become a Christian because it'll be a miserable, boring life. No, no, no, no. You aren't saved. You are miserable because you want this And you want that, and you never get enough of this, and you never get enough of that. And you are miserable because you want more than the world is giving you so far. You're the ones that are miserable. Think about it. Do you really believe you're going to be happier in the hereafter? With the demons? Because if you want nothing to do with Christ, that's where your hereafter is. You will be with these the guy named Legion, these demons here. You really think if you don't want anything to do with Christ that you're going to be happier in the hereafter with the demons? Happier than you would be With Christ? I mean, think about that. Do you want to beat these characters here? That forces man to cut himself with rocks? And run around in cold tombs without any clothes on? He was miserable. He was crying. He was weeping. So Christ says in verse 8:9, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him what his name was. And he said, My name is Legion, for we are many. Demons can speak. Demons are real, they tremble, James 2 and 19. They cry, they're numerous, they're unanimous in their goals as the rulers of darkness, Ephesians 6: They are real, and you know they're united in their hatred of Christ. All of the Christians were more united in their love for other Christians, other denominations, and others. of Christ. They are also these demons they're destructive physically, emotionally, and spiritually. And these aren't the worst of the demons. We read in it in Revelation 9 and 14 that the worst of the demons are locked up and bound right now. These aren't the worst ones. And you want to spend the rest of your turn with these these demons and they're worse and worse ones than these? Power of Christ is more than any one demon In fact, when Christ confronts this man named Legion, he's not just saying come out to a demon. He's telling a legion, the legion of demons to come out. He is he is not commanding one demon. Commanding an entire colony of demons living inside the sky, an entire legion of these demons living inside an infestation of demons inside the sky, united to make war against Christ, against God, his glory, and his gospel, and Christ takes them all on. On that shore of the Gatarines. And next week you'll find out what happens to them. It ain't good. I know, ain't not a word. Why wouldn't we want to have a lot to do with Jesus, who is so powerful and so merciful to this lost soul? Why wouldn't we want to to have more to do with the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the High God. Why wouldn't we?