Turn with me in your Bibles to Matthew chapter one. The first chapter of the Gospel is recorded for us by Matthew. And I'm going to read verses 18 through 25 of this chapter. And I'm sure as I read, many of you could quote the words along with me without even looking at your scriptures, particularly if you grew up in Sunday school and were involved in Sunday school Christmas programs throughout your youth. These are very, very familiar words and yet very profound. Matthew chapter one, and I begin with the eighteenth verse. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privately. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin. Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken to the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife And he knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son, and they called his name Jesus. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now as we approach thy word, may thy spirit teach us great and glorious things out of thy law. Lord, may we be informed. May we be encouraged and may we be energized to proclaim the gospel of Christ. Lord, bless our time together in Jesus' name. Amen. I'll draw your attention by way of introduction to that nineteenth verse Where it says, then Joseph, her husband. In this time period an engagement was uh parallel to a marriage, though there had not been the consummation of that marriage, they had not yet come together, and yet Mary was considered as Joseph's wife because of the contract of marriage that has been established. And it says that Joseph was a just man. In other words, he was a man who thoroughly knew the Old Testament law, and he rigorously ordered his life by that law. And Joseph was not willing to make her a public example. In the book of Deuteronomy, we have the instructions for a man who marries a young girl, and the expression in the Old Testament is that he finds her not to be a maid. In other words, he marries her and finds her not to be a virgin. And also in the book of Deuteronomy, there's an instruction for a man who marries a wife and he finds some blemish in her. And because a blemish is found in the wife, because she is not a virgin, the man is given the right of divorcement. In other words, he could put her away. And so here we find Mary, who is indeed a virgin. She knows she is a virgin, and yet how is she to explain this pregnancy? An angel has appeared to her. She views the angel with great fear and astonishment. But Joseph naturally is not going to believe a word she says. As I think any, as I say, red-blooded man would say, no, something's up here. But Joseph is a just man. He is a man of compassion. And so rather than make her a public example, because remember, she could be stoned for adultery. Rather than make her a public example, he's minded to put her away privately. In other words, to break the engagement, to divorce from her, but not to make a big deal out of it. While he's thinking on these things, the angel appears to him And he responds to the angel with the same fear with which Mary did. But we find that he obeyed. He took unto him Mary his wife, but he knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son. He understood that this is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And it must be protected. He had a godly respect for truth and for the holiness of God. And so that is what is the background. Of our consideration this morning. If you look at the title in your boat, and I've said many times before, I'm not big on bullets and titles, but if we were to give the message a title, it would be What is Christmas? And to consider what Christmas is, we have to begin with considering what Christmas is not. And so I pray that this morning's message will be educational Encouraging and empowering. Because we as Christians understand what the world totally misses. What is Christmas not? The first thing we consider that Christmas is not, it is not Christ's Mass. It is not the Mass of Christ. In fact, Christmas has no relationship to the Catholic Mass. And Mass has nothing to do with the birth of Christ. The Christ Mass or Christmas The first mention of it we find anywhere is a reference to something that took place in 336, recorded for us in a text written in 540 Get my tongue untangled. A manuscript from 354, 354 A. D. makes reference to Christmas, Christ's Mass, in 336. Now the Romanists will try to tell you that Christmas goes all the way back to the first Christmas And that the apostles celebrated Christ's Mass. Didn't happen. It is historical fiction. Rather Christ Mass or Christmas came out of pagan festivals. Okay? December 25th was chosen as the date for Christmas because of the winter solstice The time when we have the longest night of the year and the shortest days of the year. The winter solstice was chosen. Now, that was a time of great festivity And great pagan worship of the clouds and of the stars and of the heavens. And so the Catholic Church said, well, there was a star, and it's a great time of celebration. December 25th was also chosen because it is nine months from the spring equinox. And so that is the date of the Annunciation. That is when it was announced to Mary that she was pregnant. And so you have there two Roman Catholic holidays which have no foundation in Scripture whatsoever. Christmas is not the Mass of Christ. It is not Christ's Mass. And we have a shepherd in our midst this morning. Sheep don't have babies in the middle of winter, and the shepherds would not be out in the fields in the middle of December. Rather, the time when the shepherds were abiding in the field was in the springtime. We're familiar with the accounts of the fold, and the sheep were brought into the foe at night where they were packed in very tightly together and they were protected from wolves, from lions, from bandits who would steal them. However, the sheep do not like the lamb in those confined situations. Rather, the sheep are much more comfortable to give birth to the lambs when they have a bit of space. And so in the springtime, April, May, the shepherds would take their sheep out into the fields under the heavens. And there the sheep would lamb. And so Christ was not born December 25th. Rather, he would have been born in the spring. Now again it's interesting that the date of uh December 25th was chosen by the Romanists because of the winter equinox. Remember what Christ said to the Pharisees in Matthew 16? I'll read it for you. Matthew 16, verses 1 through 3 And the Pharisees also with the Sadducees came tempting, desiring him that he would show them a sign from heaven. That's not a sign from the throne of God. It's a sign from the stars, a sign from the heavens. He answered and said unto them, When it is evening ye say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. Okay, here's your sign from the heavens And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and lowering. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, but ye cannot discern the signs of the time. And so Christ rebuked those who would try to use the astrological events as their evidence. Oh, but there was a star. It must be December 25th, because this is the time that we have the longest night of the year. This is what is typically referred to as syncretism or acculturation. Syncretism is the adapting of other cultures. Into your system of belief. Also, it's called acculturation, in other words, the adopting of other cultures. And the Roman Catholic Church is well known for this. And I'm actually going to read to you from the catholicculture. org dictionary. Okay? So this is from catholicculture. org, their dictionary. And you'll see the fallacy in it right away. The process or fact of accommodating religious beliefs and practices to the dominant culture of society. Okay, we're gonna this is acculturation. We're gonna adapt to the dominant culture of society. It may be either praiseworthy or blameworthy depending on whether a religion, notably Catholicism, is strengthened or weakened by the adaptation. It is strengthened when Catholic faith and morality become more effective in transforming the culture. It is weakened when Catholic principles are compromised to make them more acceptable to the people. Now that's exactly what happened with the winter solstice. It was adapted in. And in Latin America, this is rampant in Catholicism, where they will take the local culture and they will change their doctrine to fit the culture. That's how they explain their golden cathedrals to people who live in abject poverty. And so in other words, their faith can be adjusted to whatever's popular. That's why the Pope has recently said it's okay for to marry gays, etc. Okay? You see you see where it goes. And so the first thing I have to have as a see is that Christmas is not the Mass of Christ. The Catholic Mass does not save. You are not lost because you don't partake of the Mass. The Catholic Mass is not communion. Hm. When we celebrate the communion, that is a thing totally apart from the Catholic Mass. And if you want one very simple answer to a Catholic friend who thinks it's the same as communion, the Mass is bloodless They partake of the bread, but not the wine. Only the priest drinks the wine. Okay? But remember Christ's instruction to the disciples? Drink ye all of it. And so right away there's a contradiction there. And so the Catholic Mass makes Christ the victim. But further, and we'll get off of this soon, this is not a hobby horse. Christmas, Christ's Mass, is the origin of Mary worship. The worship of Mary, the veneration of Mary, did not exist before the Catholic Church came up with Christmas. But you see, when you begin to put over-emphasis on the incarnation of Christ Suddenly you have Mary who is a virgin, which means that her mother must have been a virgin too. Because if you're going to pray to Mary, Mary has to be sinless. And so you see how when you adapt your theology to the culture rather than your be your theology preaching to the culture. You run into problems. And so the first thing we see, and I'm I'm off of that now, is that Christmas is not the Mass of Christ. But then secondly, and my wife told me not to hit too hard on Christmas today, so I'll try not. But Secondly, Christmas is not a biblical holiday. It is not a biblical holiday. The birth of Christ is recorded in the Gospels, but it is not found in the epistles. We have the book of Acts, which is the history of the early church, never mentioned. We have John, who was inspired to pen the last book of the Bible. doesn't mention Christmas at all. You will not find the birth of Christ outside of the Gospels And there you find it in the very beginning of the Gospels. It is foundational to our faith. The emphasis of the gospel is not on the birth of Christ. It was necessary that he be born of a virgin to be the sacrifice, but the emphasis of the gospel is on the death of Christ. The emphasis of the gospel is that the Son of God came, he lived a sinless life, he died a perfect sacrifice, he rose from the dead, and he returned to heaven. That is the gospel. Christmas is not the gospel And so, this is not a biblical holiday. The emphasis of Scripture is not on the incarnation, but rather on the crucifixion. The Puritans totally rejected and condemned Christmas. In fact, um, in sixteen forty-four, the British Parliament under Oliver Cromwell outlawed Christmas. Yeah. And there were major riots in London between the Protestants who rejected Christmas and the Catholics who wanted to celebrate it Um the sixteen forty five Presbyterian Dic uh Presbyterian Directory for Worship states Festival days, vulgarly called holy days, having no warrant in the Word of God, are not to be continued. And it was referring to Christmas And uh in Massachusetts, Christmas was outlawed from 1659 to 1681. That was under Cotton Mather. And his father, Increase Mather, was very involved in it. that as well. It was totally rejected because it was a Catholic holiday. And so Christmas is not a is not the Catholic Mass. And it is not a biblical holiday. In other words, we do not find our foundation for celebrating Christmas in Scripture. We do find the birth of Christ, but we never have a command to celebrate his birthday. So that's what Christmas is not. Now let's consider what Christmas used to be. What Christmas once was, and this is dealing more with our own heritage here in the United States than worldwide. Christmas at one time was a time when the entire nation was engaged in worship. I remember as a child, there were nativity scenes all over the place, and particularly when you drive into Bel Air, in front of the courthouse, here is a depiction of the birth of Christ. It was naturally recognized that we celebrate the fact that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. It once was a time when the government even acknowledged the birth of Christ. This idea of separation of church and state did not really exist before the 60s when it started coming out as a excuse to remove prayer and Bible reading from the public school system The separation of church and state has nothing to do with keeping the church out of the state. It has everything about keeping the state out of the church. Our fout forefathers never intended for there to be a state religion as there was in England. Because even in England, if you were a nonconformist, you still had to pay taxes to the Anglican Church. And so our forefathers came here for freedom of religion. And they said, No, we're not going to have a state church. You can worship according to your conscience, and you don't have to pay taxes to a church you don't believe in. That's the origin of separation of church and state. Christmas carols used to be sung in town squares. There would be community carol singers, and they were singing about Jesus Christ. If you walk through stores, it wasn't Santa Claus is coming to town, it was a little town of Bethlehem. You heard in stores when I when I was a child, when many of us were young People who did not regularly go to church would come to church on Sundays. And I don't necessarily commend that. They ought to be there every Sunday, but there was an understanding in the society Of what Christmas was all about. Christmas was a time of great charity and giving, when people would open their hearts to others who were less fortunate and assist the poor. Christmas used to truly be a time of peace on earth. There was a time in World War II, in many wars, when the wars were actually paused. There was a Christmas truce And of course there's the account of soldiers of different nations and armies singing carols to one another from their foxholes. That's what Christmas used to be. Further, Christmas in its origin, and I'm not commending the Catholic Church here, but part of the reason the Catholic Church started celebrating Christ's Mass was because it gave an alternative for believers to the pagan holidays. Uh there was all kinds of pagan excess, and the church said, Well, let's give them something else to do. And again, that's not a commendation, but that's that's uh part of where it came from So that's what Christian use Christmas used to be. Certainly not that today. What is Christmas today? What Christmas is? Well today, Christmas is nothing but a time of commerce. You start seeing the Christmas quote unquote decorations going up in stores Months ago, long before Thanksgiving, you start seeing Christmas decorations, and let me tell you so folks, they're not Christmas decorations. The Christmas tree is a again a comes from a pagan origin. Garlands and wreaths are not Christmas decorations. If you truly want to have a t a Christmas decoration, then bring back the nativity. Right. Right? You see, Christmas decorations, if there are truly going to be Christmas decorations, is a star of Bethlehem. A Christmas decoration is a choir of angels singing Glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. But today Christmas is is uh nothing more than a time of commerce, a time for the uh stores to clear their books. And again today Christmas is returned to the pagan excess. That existed many years ago. As Christians were instructed in Romans, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and in drunkenness. How many people are killed on Christmas Eve because they're in a car accident out drunk somewhere? Uh I've fortunately never been to one, but you hear reports of the wild and l and evil Christmas parties that are so much a part of the office scene and the women try to find the most revealing dress they can possibly wear. It's all about evil. That is what Christmas is today. Christmas is nothing more than a return to the pagan festivals of days past. In Proverbs 23, verse 20, be not among wine bibbers, among riotous eaters of flesh. In other words, don't take part in it, don't be a part of that. Peter said in 1 Peter 2 verse 12, have your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak evil against you as evil speak against you as evildoers they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. And I'm very thankful that we've heard reports already this Christmas season uh of of some of our young men who have been able to use Christmas as a witness and a testimony. They've been able to tell co-workers the truth about Jesus Christ and point to the the truth of God. Some of you they need to remind family members of what Christmas is this year. Um I was blessed to grow up in a Christian family and now our family meets with with uh my wife's parents. And my father-in-law will not allow us to begin opening gifts or anything else until we've read the Christmas story together as a family. family and had prayer together. And that's a tr something that went on in my wife's home from the time she can remember It was always a time of family worship. And that brings us to the fourth thing I'd like us to consider this morning as Christians. And this is where we're going to spend a bit of time. As Christians, what should Christmas be? Mm-hmm. What should Christmas be? Folks, above all, for the child of God, this should be a time of worship. It should be a time of corporate worship together. It should be a time of family worship. It is a time for us to teach our children the truth. It is a time for us to join together as families in worshiping the great God of heaven. That is the story of the incarnation. Unto us a child is born. Well, lots of children are born. Unto us a son is given. We rejoice in a son, but this son that is given is the son of God. The government shall be upon his shoulders. This is not like an ordinary child. The government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Capital W Wonderful. That's not just saying, oh, he's a great guy. It's a title. His name should be called Wonderful. Capital C counselor. It doesn't mean he just gives counselor, it is his title. Counselor. The mighty God, the everlasting follow the Prince of Peace. Folks, if that doesn't turn your heart to worship, you need to check your heart. As we approach the end of this year, it is a time of great worship as we gather on a holiday that we cannot find in Scripture. And yet a time when our hearts should be turned to worship to the great God of heaven. Remember Mary's words in Luke 1. My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. Oh folks, at this time of the year, above all else, we should magnify the Lord and rejoice in God, our Savior. Doesn't matter what the office party wants to tell us. Doesn't matter what stupid movies they want you to watch on TV. It doesn't matter what song about a reindeer they want you to have on your heart. Folks, Christmas should turn the heart of the believer to true worship. And then again in Luke 1 and verse 41, it came to pass when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary that the babe left in her womb. Here's John the Baptist, yet unborn, and yet at the voice of the mother. He leaps in the womb. It's a time to teach our infant children to rejoice in God the Savior. It's a time from the earliest age to instruct them. Uh I I think you do, but I hope those of you that have young children, sing hymns to your children. Mm-hmm. Sing Christmas carols to them. There's there there's no better song to sing to a child as they're falling asleep at night Then glory to God in the highest, or oh come, O ye faithful, or or or whatever hymn you might want to sing. And suddenly There was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. Folks, it's all about worship. It's all about adoration. It's not about any of the nonsense the world wants to show us. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen a star in the east and are come to worship him. And so, first of all, Christmas for the believer should be a time of earnest and sincere worship. But folks, secondly, for the believer. Christmas should be a time of earnest and sincere repentance. It's a time for us to examine ourselves. We're told in Scripture multiple times: examine yourselves. To try our hearts. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God sent a baby to Bethlehem because he loved his elect, whether it be Jews or Gentiles, the world So much that he sent his son that whosoever believeth in him should have everlasting life, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. You see, the virgin birth points us to repentance. It points us to our need of a savior. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world through him might be saved. This is the condemnation. That light has come into the world. And men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil Folks, as we consider the birth of Christ, it should drive us to repentance. Because why was Christ born of a virgin? He was born a virgin because all men are born dead in trespasses and sins. It was essential. That he be born of a virgin to escape the curse of Adam. The very reason why we need repentance Is also the reason why Christ was born of a virgin because he had no sin. He had no need of repentance. And so the virgin birth of Christ, which we celebrate at this season of the year, should drive us to remember that we are born in trespasses and sins. And repentance is necessary to salvation. And though repentance is once for all regarding salvation, repentance is not once for all in regards to our daily living. Remember, Paul said, I die daily. This world clings to us. And we need constantly to be confessing our sins. For if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so the virgin birth of Christ reminds us of our sin and our need to continually go before God. Father, I have failed you. I have sinned against sin against heaven, and am no longer worthy to be called thy son. And yet, because you sent your son, I am a son that will never be cast out, just as the returning prodigal was not. Cast out. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. And so Christmas for the believer should be time of sincere worship. And Christmas for the believer should be a time of sincere repentance. But then finally, Christmas for the believer should be a time of earnest proclamation. Folks, your unsaved family are more receptive. to the preaching of Christ and him crucified at this season of the year than any other. If you exchange gifts with your family, it is a perfect time to tell your family about the gift of God. If you exchange gifts at the workplace, it's a perfect time to tell your co-workers about Jesus Christ. Turn with me to Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter two, and I'll start reading in verse fifteen. Luke 2 and verse 15, again verses I'm sure most of you have memorized, and it came to pass, as the angels were going away from them, that's a shepherd, into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, They made known abroad the saying that was told them concerning this child. Folks, if you're a believer There's a saying that's been made known unto you concerning this child. If you're a child of God, you have learned something about this child, Jesus, that the world knows nothing of. The shepherds made known abroad. And so, folks, this is a unique time as believers for us to make known abroad the saying that is told us by the Word of God about this child. About Jesus Christ. And verse 18, and all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them of the shepherd. Do you want to see your co-workers come to Christ? It begins with wondering at what they've been told. Let me hear more. Tell me about this. one. And so folks, this holiday Christmas is misnamed. It is not the Mass of Christ. It is not a holiday that we find in Scripture. You realize that the date of the crucifixion we can pinpoint because it was connection to the Passover. If Christ, if God had wanted us to know the date of the birth of Christ, it would have been connected to something in Scripture to tell us what it was, but it's not. And so it is not the Mass of Christ. It is not what it once was. It is a messed day. But for the Christian, it can be a great time of worship, of repentance, and proclamation. Stand with me as we conclude with prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for the great truth we find in the book of Hebrews that sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not. The Old Testament sacrifices were insufficient. Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared me. Father, we thank you that Jesus Christ did indeed come to seek and to save that which was lost We thank you, Lord, that he was born of a virgin, born without the sin of Adam, of which we are all guilty. Father, he was born a sinless birth, lived a sinless life, and died a perfect sacrifice. We thank you for that. Help us, Lord, in this season to truly worship you in spirit and in truth. Draw our hearts constantly to repentance. And Lord may we be faithful witnesses to the truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen