Turn in your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Ecclesiastes and chapter three. Ecclesiastes is one of those books that we don't often hear preached from I have only preached from this book a few times in the years that the Lord has allowed me to open his word. This passage we're going to read today is one of the most beautiful pieces of Hebrew poetry in all of Scripture. It's a beautiful passage. It has been read many times at funerals of unbelievers. I believe this passage was referred to at the uh funeral of uh John F. Kennedy, our our slain former president. This passage is for God's people. Amen. This passage is for our instruction in truth and in righteousness. And so read along silently with me as I read. The first fifteen verses of chapter three of the book of Ecclesiastes To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away A time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silence and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate. A time of war and a time of peace. What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has set the world in their heart so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. I know, but there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the gift of God. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it, for God doeth it that men should fear before him. That which hath been is now, and that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is past. Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now we plead for the enabling of thy spirit. Lord, that it would be indeed thy spirit which speaks truth to our hearts through the Word today. Father, I pray that you would bless the stumbling, bumbling lips of a man. That I might rightly divide thy word of truth this day. That thy word may go forth to the edification of Jesus Christ, or to the glorification of Jesus Christ. Christ, O Lord, and to the edification of thy people. Father, bless these truths to our heart we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The verse which I want to take as our text this morning is that fourteenth verse. I know That whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken away from it God doeth it that men should fear before him. But I would bring your attention by way of introduction to the first verse and the eleventh verse of this. chapter. In the first verse we read that to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. God has a purpose. And then the 11th verse, he hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has set the world in their heart. So that no man can find out the work of God that God maketh from the beginning to the end. And in between these two verses, declaring that God has a purpose for everything, and then declaring that God had put the world in man's heart so that man cannot understand the workings of God from the beginning to the end. We have this glorious list of all the things that man does or man is engaged about. Man is born and man dies. Man kills and man heals. Men cast away stones and gallows them together. Man gets and he loses. Man wins and he sows. Man loves and he hates. And not just half of them because they only read the first portion of every verse. Man is engaged in so many things. And all the good that Koaleth the preacher could find here was that a man do good and enjoy that which he does, because man is quickly passing away. But then Solomon beautifully sums it up for us in that fourteenth verse. I know that whatsoever God doeth, that is permanent. Whatsoever God doeth, that is forever. No man can add to it, no man can take away from it. And the summation is this that man should fear before the Lord. And further, before we get into the passage, I would like to direct your attention to one word in that 11th verse. For there he read, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. He also hath set the world in their heart And typically when we come across this word world in Scripture, we tend to think of the cosmos, that God has made the world. He has made the creation. But this word is not that word at all. In fact, it's only translated as world a few times in Scripture. This word that that is translated world In that verse is a word which indicates or designates time. The world Is portrayed in this verse through the method of time. Why? Because heaven and earth shall pass away. But my word should not pass away. This earth is in the process of decay. And so God has put within the heart of man the understanding: you're gonna die, folks. Because God is eternal, and we are dying Living is the process of dying. Yesterday the power went out in our house, just briefly. And this morning I'd reminded Penny that clock's not right. We didn't reset it. Why was that necessary? Because we live by time. We are bound by time. Probably every one of us here except maybe the small children has some kind of timepiece on our person at the moment, either a watch or a cell phone or some way of telling time. We are bound by time, and there's a time to be born, there's a time to die, there's a time to plant, and a time to reap, there's a time for war, there's a time for peace, there's The time to sell in is a time to tear But it's all related by time. And God has put within his heart the understanding that your time is short. Your time is limited. You're bound by this area of time. Just to give you a few examples of how that word world is translated elsewhere In Genesis 9, 16, and the bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look upon it, that I remember may remember the everlasting covenant. And that word everlasting is the same word world. And then again in Exodus 15, 18, the Lord shall reign forever and ever. And that translates ever and ever is the same word, translated world. And then in um Exodus 29, speaking of the priesthood, that says that Aaron and his pre and his son shall have a perpetual priesthood. You see, it's a matter of time, not a matter of the world. God hasn't put the creation in man's heart, but God has put in man's heart the understanding of time. There are things that are forever, and there are things that are quickly passing away. So Man is subject to time, but God is not. And you see, I cannot explain to you eternity because I've never experienced it. And when we say that God is eternal, that He always was and He always will be We have trouble comprehending that. Why? Because on May 11, 1963, my physical being came into existence. Spiritually, I was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. But I am a creature, I am a created being, therefore I cannot understand to the fullest a creature that or a being that is not created, that is not a creature, the eternal God. God always was. And so God has put within the heart of man that understanding that we are creatures. That we are created beings. And so, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. So this morning I want to talk about the things that God has done that shall be forever Forever. And folks, the first one I would point out to you is God's word is forever. God has spoken his word, and it shall be forever. Isaiah 40, verse 8, the grass withereth, a flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. And in our very text we find there in verse 2 a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which was planted. But what do we read about God's word there in Isaiah 40, verse 8? Well, the grass withereth. The grass is plucked up. But the word of God abideth forever. And in the New Testament, Peter, under divine inspiration, pointed back to the same passage. In 1 Peter 1, verses 24 and 25, Peter said, all flesh is as grass. It's dying. It's fading away. All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of the flower, sorry, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth away, and the glory thereof, glower thereof, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word by which we preach the gospel unto you. O Lord, thy word is forever settled in heaven. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Psalm twelve, the word of the Lord is as pure as silver, tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord Thou shalt preserve them from this time, from this generation forever. And again, Psalm 119, verse 140, the word of the Lord is very pure. God's word is eternal, and God's word is very pure. Again in Proverbs 30 verse 5, every word of God is pure. But look back to our text again in verse 14. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. No man can put to it, nor anything taken be taken away. Doesn't that sound like the Word of God? No man can put anything to it. Nor can any man take anything from it. God did it And it is forever. Men have tried to destroy the Word of God, lock, stock, and barrel, and they have failed. Men have tried to add to it and have received to themselves the curses of the book. But not only is God's word of such an eternal nature created, given by God, that no man can add to it, nor can any take away from it. But we find also that it is beautiful. And that's what we find in verse 11. He hath made all things beautiful in his time. Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the hearts. He has made it beautiful. Why did God give his word? And why did God make it of such a nature that man cannot add to it nor take away from it? That men may fear before him The second thing that God has created that shall be forever God has created his church, and his church shall be forever. In Matthew 16, verse 18, Upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. God has established his church. Satan, our adversary, and man have been trying ever since to stamp it out. But we all know what happens when you stamp on a fire. The sparks fly everywhere. And the fire continues. God has created his church and it will stand forever. The Ecclesia, the called out ones. those that are called out of this world. And the context of Matthew 16, when Christ said, Upon this rock I will build my church, the gates of hell shall not prevail against it was the question, whom say men that I am? And Peter declared, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. That is the rock upon which this church is built. Now, folks, when we talk about the church, we're talking about the assembly of God's people throughout all ages. Adam and Eve were its first members. And we find in the New Testament that Israel in the wilderness is referred to the church in the wilderness. in Acts 7 and verse 38. Mission Bible Church by itself is not what we're talking about here. Mission Bible Church is one speck in time. And the people of Mission Bible Church are part of the church we're talking about. But we have this misconception in our age that a church is a building with brick and mortar and stained glass and a steeple. No, that's a place where at times people that are part of the church meet And we have this idea that the church is some incorporated body that man has created. A corporation, you understand, is not made by God. A corporation is a creature of the state. the state creates corporations, whether it be a business or a quote unchurch that incorporates, etc. But the true church It's the believers in Jesus Christ from all ages, starting with Adam and Eve. And continuing to this very day, and those people, that body will exist forever. Because God has made it. Man cannot add to it Nor can man or Satan take away from it. The church is created of God that man might fear. And folks, again in verse eleven, he hath made all things beautiful in his time. And in Ephesians five we find that Christ is pure purifying to himself a glorious church, not having spot for rest. Those of you that are married can remember that day when you saw your bride in her beautiful gown coming to the wedding and rejoicing. Ah, the church is the beautiful bride of Jesus Christ. And that passage there in Ephesians 5 says he's purifying to himself a glorious church without spot. Sanctifying to himself, to quote it correctly, a glorious church without spot and wrinkle. And we as the church in this world today confess daily that we still have spots and wrinkles, God's still working upon us. But He is purifying, sanctifying to Himself His glorious bride, the church. that shall endure through all the time all time, and it is beautiful. And men better fear be not before him. Because the church will outlive the United States. The church will outlive the United Nations. The church will outlive all the inventions of man. Because God did it. And it is eternal. Number three. God has loved his own. And God's love will stand forever. In Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 3, the Lord appeared of old unto me, saying I have loved thee with an everlasting love. Therefore, with loving kindness have I drawn thee. And in Song of Solomon 6, verse 3, I and my beloved And my beloved is mine. And again in 7. 10, I am my beloved, and his desire is toward me. Jesus loves me. This I know. For the Bible tells me so Little ones to him belong. They are weak, but he is strong. Yes, Jesus loves me. Yes, Jesus loves me. Make no mistake. Yes, Jesus loves me And he will never cast me out of that love. But God commended his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. In this was manifested, 1 John 4, 9. In this was manifested the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him here in his love, not that we loved God. But that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Hereby received we the love of God, because He laid down His life for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And what is the context there of Romans Chapter 8, verse 35, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Well, the context beginning in verse 29 is for whom he did foreknow. He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Folks, Christ loved me from the foundation of the world. And I was chosen in that love before the foundation of the world. And nothing can separate me from. I cannot add to it. And hallelujah, take comfort, my friend. My sin. Cannot take from it. God has done it, and it is forever That I might fear before him. He's loved me, but never loved me. And coming back to our text, we've already seen that nothing can be added put to it or anything taken from it. But it is beautiful For we find in John 13, verse 1, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto his Father, Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them to the end. And what does Scripture tell us is the greatest love? Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. Ah In God's time, He has made the gruesomeness of the crucifixion to be beautiful He's despised and rejected a man, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. But he's the lily of the valley, the bright and morning star, fairest Lord Jesus. Oh, how I love him! Because he gave me his everlasting love And this world and Satan cannot separate me from the love of Christ. He did it. None can add to it, none can take away that I personally May fear before him. And so his word is eternal, and his church is eternal, and his love is eternal. But number four, God has ordained life. God has ordained life, and it shall be forever. We read there a time to be born and a time to die. The eighteenth of this month, Wednesday, a week from this Wednesday, will be my father's 100th birthday. Hard to believe. My father would have been one hundred. My dad's not dead, folks. He's alive. In fact, he is more alive than he was on september eighteenth, of nineteen twenty four. He's alive. Why is that? Because God has ordained life. And man can kill the body. And scripture tells us not here, not him that can kill the body. but rather fear him that can cast body and soul into hell. God has ordained life. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. God has ordained life. And the proof of this is found in Paul's preaching to the Gentiles in the book of Acts in chapter thirteen. For in Acts thirteen, forty-seven and forty-eight we find these words So uh for so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have sent thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for the salvation of the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord and as many as were ordained to eternal life. Believed. God has ordained eternal life to his elect. God has ordained eternal life to his own. How many martyrs had their heads chopped off, were crucified, were slain by the lions and the Colosseums. And yet not one of them died because God had ordained them to eternal life And we're not to fear those that kill the body but cannot harm the soul, but rather we're to fear him who can cast body and soul into hell fire. And what does our text say? God has done it. God has made it. Man can't add or take away from it. And God has done it. That man should fear before. For him. A time to be born and a time to die. But God's word says she must be born again. First Chronicles sixteen, verse thirty-four and thirty-five. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation. And gather us together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks unto thy holy name and glory in thy praise. Folks, what is more beautiful than God's elect people? Those that are ordained to life. This world is full of ugliness. This world is full of sin and hate But folks, don't isn't what we have beautiful? In this room present, we have people from all over the US and from all over the world. And as we observed many times before, if it were not for Christ, probably not a one of us would know another. But He has ordained us to life. And it's because of the life in Christ that we gather together to worship. Finally, brethren, God is preparing a place for us And it shall be forever. Let not your heart be troubled Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go to prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you into myself, that where I am, there ye may be also In Hebrews chapter 1, or chapter 11, we have what is referred to as the great hall of fame of faith. I don't know if that's a good way to put it, but we use man's terms. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. But in that passage we find down in verse 13, after it lists the fathers, it says, These all died in faith, not having received the promise. Promises. But having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims of the earth, that sound familiar, folks? Oh, we see them afar off. This world is not my home. I'm just passing through. We used to sing the old song. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they would have had, they might have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a better country that isn't heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Here, we have no certain or no abiding dwelling place. But folks, God has prepared a city, and it is eternal. And I began by saying that God is eternal, and we are not, and we are controlled by time. The sun rose this morning, and it will surely set this evening. Everything we do is bound by time. If you work a job, whether your salary or hourly, still it's a matter of time. Your time has been sold to an employer. If you are raising young children, you know an awful lot about time, because when they get off their schedule, everything is wrong in the house. You get a toddler who didn't get a snap and you've got worse than a tornado ripping through your house. We're creatures of time. But what do we learn of heaven? Well, Revelation 21, 23. And the city had no need of the sun. Neither of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God lightened it, and the lamb is the light thereof. And again in Revelation 22 verse 5, and there shall be no night there, and no need of candle, neither light of the sun. For the Lord giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. Folks, God's preparing a mansion for me in heaven But the mansion God preparing him for me in heaven doesn't have brick and a door and windows. Because I ain't going home there. I'm going home to be with him. Now, folks, my glorified mansion in heaven will be a glorified body. It will be a new dwelling place wherein dwelleth righteousness. Because today my body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, in spite of this being a sinful temple. But there I'll have a sinless temple. And folks, we will occupy ourselves around the throne of God. And where do you why do you need a house, folks? Because you have to go someplace to sleep. But there's no night there. There's no reason to sleep. You see, God is making for me an eternal place No man can take away from it, no man can add to it. He does it. But folks, he's doing it that man may fear before him. For there are two words in our text which I by deliberate design have not yet emphasized. Look again at that fourteenth verse. I know Folks, do you know that God's word is forever? Do you believe it? Yeah. Do you know it? Man can add to it. Man can't take from it. And he's given it to us that we might fare before him. Do you know that God's church is forever? And more specifically, do you know you're a part of it? I can't add you to it. Satan can't take you from it. But it is done that man might perish for him. Do you know that God's love is forever? Or more specifically, have you experienced, do you know the love of Christ? Man can add to it or take from it. And God has given it that man might bear before him. Do you know that God is ordained to life, folks? This is the most important question of life. This is the most important question that you will ever face in your life. Do you know that you are of the elect of God? Do you know that your sins have been forgiven in Jesus Christ? Do you know that He has called you out of darkness to light? Do you know that you're born again? For ye must be born again. Man cannot add, man cannot take away, and God has done it eternally that man should fear before him And finally, folks, I know. I know that I have a forever home. We have some real estate agents with us this morning. And we talk about people buying their forever home. Folks Jesus Christ bought my forever home. In Jamaica we they used to say of course my home is in heaven just waiting for me and when I get there how happy I'll be. My home is in heaven, no rent to pay. Jesus paid it. Paid it all for me Folks, God has created an eternal home. Man can't tear it down. I can't build it better better. But I know that he's done it, that I might fear before Folks, Mission Bible Church is a great blessing. But this little congregation is not even a jottertittle in the work of God. It is a spec in time. Folks, we don't have formal membership roles. We only have those that are members of the body of Christ. That's right. And that will be forever. That's right. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we know that what man does perishes very quickly, but what you do shall be forever. Lord, we thank you that we know these things. We thank you, Lord, that man can't mess with your work. Man can't add to it or take away. Oh Lord, teach us to fear before Thee. In Jesus' name. Amen.