This is the week of the year when people talk about love. And you see hearts and of course I don't think anybody actually gave anyone a picture of a heart. Because a heart is not shaped like the caricature that we frequently see. But this is when people talk about love. And yet I would submit to you that very few that talked about love this week know what love. Love is God is the source of love When God created all things, he created the emotions of man, and God created love. Sin has corrupted all things. And what man means when he talks about love is far different from God's definition. of love. We read in our text in verse 7: Beloved, let us love one another, for God is love. God is the source of love. God is the embodiment of love. God is love. And if you do not know God, you do not know love. The unbeliever cannot love. The text is very clear. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. If you don't know God, you don't know love. Now the world knows a lot about lust. The world can tell you all about lusts. And when the world talks about love, if you examine closely what they're talking about, there is lust involved. I love her because, oh, she's just so attractive. I love him because he gives me this and he gives me that. Why do we see such a high rate of divorce? Because marriages are not based on love. They're based on lust and in the final analysis. Oh I just love that car. They're just lusting To the attributes of the car. I love America. Well, I do. But why? Well, because it's my homeland, because it's my defense, etc. , etc. But to truly know what love is, you must know God. And if you do not know God, you cannot know love. And that's why young people, it's so critical. Not to become entangled with an unbeliever, because an unbeliever can never love you. Because an unbeliever has no frame of reference. You see, we learn love by experience. How does the child learn love? Well they experience love for the parent. How do we learn what love is because we experience The love of God. And so that is foundational to everything that we're going to study this morning in 1 John chapter 4. God is love. Apart from God, there is no love. There is only Satan's substitute for love, which is lust. And the first sin Began in lust. Eve saw that the tree was desirable to make one wise. And she lusted after She took it. And what is sin but a failure in love of God? You see, if we truly love someone, we will not do that which is offensive to them. We want to please them. If we truly love God, we will not live in sin because sin is a failure in love of God. And so, God is love, and he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. True love is found in Christ alone. And so as we talk about love, we're not talking about what the world was celebrating this week. But rather, we're considering what this love is that God's Word tells us about. And the first thing it would have us to see that God's love is eternal Oh, I just don't love him anymore. I don't love her anymore. Well then you never loved him or her in the first place. You see, true love is love that is inseparably linked to the love of God. And that is not a love that comes and goes. That is not a love that is here today and gone tomorrow. I think a lot of people love the local football team until they lost the big game. Oh how their their love declined. They just they spent every day thinking about the team, but now they've moved on. You see, that is not what love is That is the elements of this world. But in verse 9 of 1 John chapter 4, we read this In this was manifested the love of God toward us. In other words, here it is, folks. God showed us this is what love is. It was manifested, it was demonstrated, it was explained, it was expounded to us. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, and not toward us, keep that us in mind, because we're going to come back to that later. Because he sent his only begotten son in the world, that we might live through him. You see, God has shown us what true love is, it is sacrificial love, and that is love that is eternal. That is the love that is forever. Herein is love, verse 10, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for us. God's love is an eternal love. Because it's a love that's eternity past. You see, when we talk about God's love, it isn't that God suddenly loved me when I was born. God has loved me God has always loved me. God created me because he loved me God loved me from eternity past, and so Christ was slain from eternity past. We find that in Revelation chapter 13. Revelation 13, 8 is talking about the beast And the men and women whose names were not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, who worship the beast. But then it talks about Christ as well. who was slain not on the cross, yes, he was slain on the cross, but slain from the foundation of the world. As a lamb slain from the foundation of the world. So this love we're talking about is not something that God suddenly fell in love with me or I suddenly fell in love with him But rather, this love of God is a love that has existed from all eternity. It's always been. In the mind of God, in the heart of my Father, Christ was slain from the foundation of the world. For the redemption and forgiveness of my sins, for the salvation of my soul. It's a love that was eternal. And so it naturally follows that God through Jeremiah would say to the children of Israel, I've loved you with an everlasting love. That's not the world's love. That's a world. That's a love that is separate and different and apart. And we sing the hymn, Love with Everlasting Love, led by grace, that love to know. The world knows nothing of that. That's not silly little heart shapes with arrows going through them But rather, that is the Almighty God who holds the universe in the palm of his hand, who whose hand spans the heavens The infinite, all-wise, almighty God, and he loves me. And he has loved me from all eternity. And in eternity past, he ordained the death of his only begotten son for the redemption of my wicked rod. So do you know that love? You see, if you don't know that love, you don't know love at all. He that loveth knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, because God is love. And so, again with Jeremiah, God said, Before I formed thee the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nations. God knew him. God loved him. Sadly, more and more politicians today are coming out defending the murder of babies. the murder of the unborn. But in Psalm 139 we find that thou they see my substance As yet being unperfect. And in thy book were my members written. God knew my hands and feet. My members before I was formed in my mother's womb. We've all seen pictures of those hands and feet that have been ripped from the bodies in abortion. How hideous. How could anyone who knows the love of God commit such a horrible crime? Well, because he knows nothing of love. Because he knows nothing of God. And they would say it's no crime at all because we've made a law saying it's okay. And every man did that which was right. We find in Exodus 33 and verse 17 that God says to Moses, I know your name. I know thee by name. And in Isaiah 43, in verse 1, speaking of the Old Testament elect, I have called thee by name. Thou art mine. And in Isaiah 45 and verse 4, For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel my elect, I have even called thee by name. I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me. You see, this is a very special, eternal love. I called you by name. This is not a general thing. Oh, God loves everybody. But rather, we find that this eternal love of God from before the foundation of the world is a very targeted, very specific, and very personal love. God has loved me from all eternity. And we come to the New Testament. Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, the Lord knoweth. with them that are his. 2 Timothy 2, verse 19. John four John 10, verse 14 and verse 27, I am the good shepherd and I know my sheep and have known mine. My sheep hear my voice. And I know them. But not only is this love of God a love that is from all eternity past. But it's a love that is instated to God's people in eternity present. I'd like you to turn over to Psalm 103. And as we turn to Psalm 103, I realized that somehow we totally bypassed our responsive reading this morning. Because it was Psalm 103 and I don't know exactly how that happened, but that's fine, because I had intended the message to go back to Psalm 103. So just turn there with me. We didn't read it responsibly, but I want to point out through you here that this is a love song. Psalm 103 again and again shows the loving care of our Father. And it's very specific. Psalm 103 Give you a minute to turn there. Again, it's good to hear the page is turning. Bless the Lord, oh my soul, and all that is within me bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, all my soul. And forget not all of his benefits. Why did the sun come up this morning? Because God loves me. You see, if the sun didn't rise, we'd all freeze. Well the sun came up because God loves me. The sun came up to cause the plants to grow. The sun came up because God loves his people He holds all things in his care. He upholdeth the world with the word of his power. Verse 3, who forgiveth all thy iniquities and healeth all thy diseases, there's the love of God. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction Who crowns me with loving kindness and tender mercies? Every day God redeems my life from constru from destruction. Why do I not go out and murder somebody? Because God restrains me. Why am I alive today? Because God has kept my soul in life. Every day the loving care of God keeps me back from evil. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. I said continue. Care of God. He loves me in eternity present right now Verse 5, who satisfieth the mouth with good things? There's the love of God. Verse 6, the Lord executeth righteous judgment for all that are oppressed. Well, we look around and we say that's not fair. But God executes righteous judgment today and always for his people. Verse 8: the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plentious in mercy. Aren't you glad that God is slow to anger and plenteous and mercy? Because if he wasn't, every one of us would be in hell right now. That's what we deserve. But our loving love Heavenly Father is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenty of some mercy. Verse 9: He will not always chive, neither will he keep his anger forever. Doesn't mean that God's never angry with us. God is angry with sin. But the goodness of God leads us to repentance. Every day, the wrath of God is a protecting force for the child of God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so God is protecting his people. He has not dealt with us after our sins. Look down to verse thirteen. Like that the father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them the fear of the children. Here's the love of God. He deals with me as a loving father. A father disciplines the child. Why? Because he hates the child? No, because he loves the child. Because he wants the child to do well. He wants the child to do right. And sometimes the father will put or allow a child to go through a very difficult and painful thing. Painful time Why? For the good of the child. Why do you take a child to the dentist? A dentist drill is not pleasant. A dentist drill will hurt the child. A dentist drill will make the child cry. Why do you do such a terrible thing to a child? Well, because the child's gonna need his teeth. He's gonna need his cheek teeth. And so you take the child to the dentist Not because you want the dentist to hurt a child, but because you love the child and he needs his teeth. And so God sometimes takes his children through very painful and difficult times to Mold us to the image of Christ and to make us more like Him, and to give us the things that we need, like as a Father pitieth his children. For he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. Verse 17, the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him and his righteousness, the children's children, and so on. God loves me in eternity. Present. And it's because of that love that when Thomas doubted Christ, Christ didn't destroy Thomas on the spot. I said to Thomas, stretch forth your hand. Put the finger in the nails. Put your hand in my side. It's because of the eternal love presently that God has for his people That Peter didn't deny didn't die when he denied. Peter's life didn't end with his denial. God taught it. God directed it. When the disciples forsook Christ, did he stop loving them? No, not at all. love them to the end. But Christ's love is not only for eternity present or for eternity past and eternity present, it's for eternity future. What shall separate us from the love of Christ? Nothing. Nothing. And so The first thing we'd learn about this love of God is it is a love that is eternal. It is so unlike the love of the world which changes She's not pretty anymore. This has happened. You wouldn't believe what he said to me. I just don't love him anymore. No. God's love is totally different. God's love is eternal. But the second thing we would see is not only is God's love eternal, but God's love is an exemplary love. It is the example of love. It is the motto of love. It is the love that's exemplary. Look at it down to verse 11 of our text. 1 John chapter 4 and verse 11. Beloved If God so loved us, we ought to love one another. And look down to verse, continue to verse 12. No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. And his love is perfected in us. God's love is exemplary. It is the example of love. It is the type of love. It is the archetype of love. Christ set the example. In the Gospel of John, verse 13, and verses 34 and 35, Christ says, A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved one. You. There's the example. That you love one another. By this you all men know that you're my disciples if you love one another. How did God so send us love? Well God sent his only begotten Son. He demonstrated his love in his sacrifice of his son. Husbands, love your wives. How Well, even as Christ also hath loved the church. And so Paul said, Ye need not that I as such you both love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love the one another Thessalonians first Thessalonians four verse nine herein is love not that we loved God but that he loved us and sent his son to be the prophet The great example of love is the love that God has. Now, husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church It's a high bar, isn't it? It's a high standard that God sets for us. But it's the example of love. And that brings us to our third point. God's love is eternal. God's love is exemplary. But here's where we're going to spend the bulk of our time. God's love is exclusive. The love of God is an exclusive love. Husbands love your wives just like you love every other woman in the world. No, it's not at all what Scripture says. Husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the reprobates that are going to hell. No, husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. There's exclusiveness to this love of God. And look back again to our text in verse 7. 1 John 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another. For love, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. That's not everybody in the world. That's a select group. John has set the parameters of the true love and true new birth. He that loveth not knoweth not God. Verse 8. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. In this is manifested the love of God toward us. Because that Christ also is or because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that God that we loved God, but that he loved us. and send his son to be the propitiation for our sins. You see the personal pronouns there? You see, there's an exclusivity of those that are being spoken of here. Now For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have Everlasting life. What a glorious truth that is. God so loved the world. It's true. I believe it. I rejoice in it. That is the truth of God. You know what? I love my cat. It's not my cat, it's Penny's cat. But I love the cat. And my family are looking at me now and thinking either he's lying or this is the great revelation. I love my wife. I love my sons, I love my daughter. Do I love my cat? Totally different thing isn't it? I might say I love the cat. But that's completely different. God does love his creation. He declared when he made it, it's good. Not only that, it's very good. And so there is that sense in which God loves the world. He loves what he made. But when John says there in John 3:16, for God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We have to understand what John is saying. The Gospel of John was written primarily to the nation of Israel. To them, Gentiles were dogs. To them, the Gentiles were far, far from the kingdom of God and could not be part of the kingdom of God. And one of the criticisms of Christ was He sits down with sinners. He sits down and eats with sinners. He loves a Samaritan woman, and she is only half two, therefore she's polluted. But John, when he saw Christ, declared, Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. But if that's referring to every man, woman, and child that's ever been born, then every man, woman, and child must be in heaven. For every man, woman, and child sin is taken away. But we know that that is far from the case. And so when John says when we read in John three sixteen that God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him, we see right away that there is a narrowing down like a funnel. God so loved the Gentiles just as he loved the elect of Israel, that he sent his only begotten Son, that whosoever or that this small group within them believed that believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. This love is exclusive. This love is a love just as Christ loved the church and our husbands To love their wives in the same way. God doesn't love every man, woman, and child the way he loves me. God doesn't love every man, woman, and child in the way that He loves the elevator. This is an exclusive love that's been being spoken of. And so in John 17 and verse uh two, as many as um Let me start reading verse 1. John 17, verse 1. These words faith Jesus and lifted his eyes up in the heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. glorify thy son, that thy son may also glorify thee, as thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him Christ is praying to the Father, and he's saying, I have power over all flesh, over all men and women, of all peoples, tongues and races, to give life to as many as they You see the nearing. Here's the all, but to give light to those that are given to Christ the Father. And so in John six Christ said, All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. And that verse John 6. 37 is a verse that arrested my soul many years ago. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me I will no wise pass out. And so if a man does not come to Christ, it is impossible that he was given to Christ the Father. Therefore, he is not among that elect. There is the exclusiveness. in this love. John 6, let me read verse 36 through verse 37 through 41. All the folly giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. For I came not down from heaven to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. And this is the Father's will which has sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing But should raise it up at the last again at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. When he spade these words, the Jews murmured. They didn't like it. It wasn't what they wanted to hear And so we won't turn over to Romans chapter 9, but in Romans chapter 9, God says, Jacob have I loved, and Esau. Have I hated? Now does that mean that God just despised Esau and just couldn't tolerate the face of Esau? Well, no, Esau was Was a son of Abraham, and God says, I'll lay his heritage waste. But God loved Jacob. And God's love for Jacob was to Esau as hate. You know what? I love my cat. But I wouldn't I would not lay down my life for the cat. But I would lay down my life Life for my wife or for my children. Husbands, love your wives, even Even as Christ also loved the church. There's an exclusiveness, this love of God. And that's why he that loveth not knoweth not God. He's never known this love. He's never experienced this love. Because those that find the love of God to them, they will love him in return. We love Him why? Because he first loved us. And so the love of God is the eternal love. And it is a love that says exemplary love. And it is a love that's an exclusive love. It's a particular love. But the last thing we'd find Is that God's love is an experimental love. And I love that word experimental. It's misunderstood today because we think of an experiment as trying something out But the word experimental, if you look it up in Webster's or a dictionary, it is the word experience It is experience intel. Something that is experimented with is we experience and find out what happens. When we talk about the experimental love of God or experimental faith, what that old English word means is it's something we have experienced. It's not something we tested out to see if it'd work or not, but rather something we have found to be true. The love of God is experiencing It's experimental. Oh, to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge. Have you experienced the love of God? Does he love you? Do you love him? I'm not asking I'm not asking if you love the idea of God. I'm not asking if you love your religion. Our dear friends, who are bound in the deceitful lies of Satan in Catholicism, love their church. And they will give generously to their church. And they're gotta build a better basilica. And oh, it's so beautiful and Oh, it's so wonderful and I just feel so good when I go to the Mass and so I just love my church. But they know Nothing of the crucified one. The question is not, do you love church? The question is not, do you love religion? The question is do you love God? And you'll never know you never know the love of God. You never love God until you know the love of God. It's an experienced love. If you look again in our text in verse 7, beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not. No, with not God. Flip back just a page in your Bible to 1 John chapter 3 and verse 16. Probably just a page or across the page in your Bible there. 1 John chapter 3, verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God. Hereby we know it. Hereby we understand it. Hereby we perceive it. Hereby we perceive the love of God. Because he laid down his life for us. And we ought also to lay down our lives for the brethren. That word perceive there in 1 John 3 and verse 16 is a fascinating word. It's the same word that was used in Luke chapter 1 and verse 34. Let me read Luke 1, verse 34 to you. Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing, I know not a man? It's that same word per Mary said, how can I have a child? I've never known a man. I've never had a relationship with a man. I've never experienced that. Never perceived that. And again in Matthew 1, verse 25, speaking of Joseph, and he knew her not. It's that same word perceive. He had never experienced this. He knew her not until she brought forth her firstborn son. In Matthew 6, verse 3, but when thou doest an alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. Both of those negatives are let not Thy right hand know it, thy left hand doeth, thy right left hand know it, thy right hand do it, it's both the word perceive. Don't let one hand experience what the other was doing. Keep it separate. Don't let them know. And Christ will profess to those unbelievers, depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. I never knew you. It's the same word perceived. God did not know them, and they did not know God. Now certainly God knew all about them. God knew who they were. But he didn't know them. He didn't perceive them. There's an experiential love here. Hereby we perceive, we know, we have within us the love of God, because he laid down is life for us. And there's many more I can go through with that. The woman with the issue of blood, when she knew in her body that she was healed, it's that same word perceived. She knew it she Yeah She knew it. Do you know you're safe, my friend? Do you know that you're Not think, not hope. Do you know it Has there been a transforming change within you? You see, the love of God is an experimental love. It is a love that we experience, that we know it's true from all eternity past. Christ loved me and gave himself for me. He set for me the example of love And that love was different than his love for all creation. He specifically loved me, and he specifically died for my sins, that I might have everlasting life. I was plucked as a bran from the burning. I did not leap myself from the fires of hell, but he reached into those fires and pulled me out with his precious blood. And I have experienced this love for myself. I know it is true. That's a love that the world knows nothing about. Do you know the love of Christ? Have you experienced that love? Ah, this is the week of the year when everyone talks about love. And they know not What they speak of. But the true blood bought child of God knows what love is And we love him because he first Loved us. Oh how he has loved me. Oh how I Must love him. What a stamp of prayer