To 1 Corinthians and the 13th chapter. I mentioned last week that through the month of February we're going to be considering the matter of love. And last week we looked at that uh second commandment and first commandment Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as thyself. And those of you who follow me on Facebook know that I put a comment, I think, along about Tuesday, that the Introduction to the message was quickly becoming the message itself. I had intended to do an exposition this morning of verses four through eight of 1 Corinthians. But we're going to let that wait for a separate Sunday. And this morning, consider what is charity or what is love. And I don't want to take the common definition, oh, it's emotions and so on, which it is those things, but I want to look at several passages of Scripture. Which actually more than define what love is, it shows the practical application of love within the body of Christ. I'm going to begin by reading 1 Corinthians 13, and then we're going to actually go to Galatians 5. You'll notice on the back side of the Both an insert. I've given you the outline for today. And the reason I did that is because we're going to be looking at a lot of scriptures. So there you have the reference to every verse we're going to look at today. And I would encourage you, as you have time through the week, to open that back up and look up the verses and read them again and meditate on them. And trust in the Holy Spirit to open his word to our hearts. 1 Corinthians chapter 13, and I'll read the entire chapter. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as I am known? And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. Let us bow for prayer again, seeking the Lord's direction and guidance in his word. Father, we thank you that you've given to us your word We thank you, Lord, that your word is forever settled in heaven. We thank you that your word is yea and amen. We thank you, Lord, that it is infallible, that it is an errant. And yet, Father, we are men of flesh. We dwell under the infirmities of the flesh. We know that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, and yet we freely acknowledge that the hearing that is spoken of is not the hearing of the ears. but rather the hearing of the heart. For Lord, multitudes will hear your word read, and it means nothing to them. It has no bearing on their life, it brings no conviction. It is no different to them than any other reading. And yet for the child of God, as your word is read and applied to our hearts by the Holy Spirit, there is profit. To your elect, as your word is read and brought conviction is brought by the Holy Spirit, there is profit. And so, Father, if we gather here today and simply hear the words of man, we have heard nothing but a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. If we gather here today for a lecture from man, there is no benefit to our soul. But O God, we gather here today earnestly desiring that your Holy Spirit would actually be the preacher Lord, I am blessed with the glorious privilege of standing before these people and opening your holy word and attempting to expound your word, but Lord, there is no prophet there. Prophet comes as your Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and applies it deep to our souls. And so, Lord, we pray again as we prayed so many times before. May your Holy Spirit be the exegete. Today, may your Spirit guide us into all truth, and may your Spirit testify of Christ in the Word. Lord, then we will be improved in grace Then we will be made more like Christ. Then your people will truly be edified. Lord, we pray this today in Jesus' name. Amen. What is charity? Well, I'm sure this is familiar to most of us. It is the Greek word agape. It means love, affection, goodwill, benevolence. It means brotherly love. But rather than deal with the that definition of what is love that we're familiar with very well, I would like us to look at six specific passages in Scripture That more than just tell us what love is, they give us the actual application of love. And the first of these I would like to look at is in Galatians chapter 5. For there we find the very familiar texts, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. The first fruit of the Spirit that is listed in Scripture is love. Now What is a fruit of the Spirit? Well, that's a message in itself. Briefly stated, the fruit of the Spirit is that fruit which those that have not the Spirit of God cannot bring forth. The fruit of the Spirit is that benefit, that profit, that activity, that likeness of Christ that is brought about within the believer, and the first one mentioned is love. And so to begin our question, what is love? Love is the first fruit of the Spirit of God. If you had your place there In Galatians chapter 5. Let me begin reading there with the 13th verse. And let me flip over to it. I've got a marker in Galatians. I should have turned to it before I had you two. There it is. Galatians chapter five, and let me start reading with verse thirteen. For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty as an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in this one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh And these are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye be led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now the works of the law are manifest, which are these. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred Variance, emulation, strife, sedition, heresies, envyings, murders or murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of which I tell you before, as I have told you in times past in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God Now that's the introduction to the fruit of the Spirit. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. Now, what are we learning here? What is being taught us? Well, if we look at these verses in contrast to the 22nd verse, we can divide it this way. In verse 19, we find the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, lasciviousness, uncleanness. Those are all opposites of love, aren't they? Adultery is the opposite of love. Fornication is the opposite of love. Uncleanness, lasciviousness. And I believe in verse 19, we first of all find sins between a husband or wife, or sins against a husband, sins against a wife. Husbands are to love their wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. A husband who does not have the fruit of the Spirit Cannot fulfill that command. And so outside of Christian marriage, young person You are binding yourself to someone who cannot truly love you as God has told the husband to love. It's impossible. It cannot happen. Why Because the fruit of the Spirit, first of all, is love. Go out and find yourself a rock. And ask that rock to bring forth love. It can't. It's a rock Go find an unsaved man and ask him to love you as Christ loved the church. You know, say a duh moment. Well, there it is, folks. He has no capacity. She has no capacity to love you as Christ. Desires for you to be loved, why? Doesn't have the Spirit. And therefore cannot bring forth the fruit of the Spirit. And so the first Through the thing we see about this fruit of the Spirit is it is the fruit of love which comes from the Spirit of God And it's designed, first of all, for that love relationship between the husband and the wife. And why did God ordain the love relationship between the husband and the wife? Because Christ is seeking a bride. Because the marriage union between the husband and the wife is a glorious picture of Christ and the church. And so we find first of all that verse nineteen reflects for us that relationship. Hosea nineteen, verse twenty and twenty verses nineteen and twenty. And I will betrothe thee unto me. forever. Yea, I will betrothe thee unto me in righteousness and in judgment, and in loving kindness and in mercies, I will even betrothe thee unto me in faithfulness And thou shalt know the Lord. And Paul exhorting the Corinthian believers in 2 Corinthians 11 and verse 2 said, For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy. For I have espoused you unto one husband, that he may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ To be unfaithful to a husband or a wife is a demonstration of anything but love. To be spiritually unfaithful to Christ Is a demonstration of anything but love. Just as the marriage relationship is polluted and fractured by a mate that is unfaithful How is our spiritual walk with the Lord when we are spiritually unfaithful to Christ? Remember what Christ said about adultery? If you lust in your heart, you're guilty. But how we as the children of God fail in our betrothed relationship to the Son of God. By our mental adultery, by our lusting after the things of this world, by our hunger for trash, rather than feasting upon the riches of God. And then we come to the second, to the next verse, to verse twenty. And verse twenty in laying the groundwork for this fruit of the Spirit. Listing the evils, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulance, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies And you'll notice that the majority of those verses are descriptions in verse 20 are sins against God. Now, all sin is sin against God. But the sin of adultery and those sins we looked at in verse 19 have that social component, whereas these are sins against God. Variance, debate, strife, contention are against God. Emulation is zeal or envy for things that are opposed to God. And then we go to the second the third verse I keep saying the third verse, excuse me, verse twenty-one envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of which I tell you before as I have told you in times past And so you f in verse nineteen we have sins that are between husband and wife. In verse 20, we have sins that are sins against God. In verse 21, we have sins that are sins against my brother. Endings, murders, etc. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. And so the man or the woman in whom the Spirit of God dwells, The first evidence of that will be the first fruit of the Spirit, which is love. If you look at verse 24, it says, And ye that are Christ have crucified the flesh. In other words, the things in verse 19, they've been put to death in my heart and in my life. The things in verse 20, they've been put to death. The things in verse 21 have been put to death. And so what is love? First of all, love is the first fruit of the Spirit. But then moving further on, Charity or love is the mark of discipleship. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. That ye have love one to another. John thirteen, verse thirty-five. But we dare not leave out verse thirty-four. For the verse preceding that is a new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another By this shall all men know that you're my disciples. What is love? Love is the mark of discipleship Love is that indication that we are truly a disciple of Jesus Christ. And consider the background of this commandment, which is in verse 31: a new commandment give I unto you. What do we read in the Old Testament about God's law? Well, we find God's law written in the Old Testament on tables of stone. Where are those tables of stone today? Well, they're written on our heart. They're not written in stony tables, but rather God's law is written on our heart. What happens when God's law is truly written on someone's heart? It manifests itself in love of the brethren. It shows itself to be true. It shows itself to be genuine. Because that which is written on my heart is that which will come out. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. You see, if something is truly in your heart It comes out. Now, we have a world full of people, but boy, they've got a ball team in their heart, and it's all they can talk about. Or they've got a particular vehicle in their heart and it's all they can talk about. Or they've got this in their heart. Their heart is filled with things and you know, young people in love Boy, they just can't do anything with talking about him or talk about her. The mark of discipleship is love. If the love of Christ is truly in my heart, I will by my very nature, not my old nature, but my new I will by my very nature love the brethren. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. In Jeremiah 13, verse 31 But this shall be the covenants that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my law in their inward parts. And write it in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And so coming to the New Testament, the next verse you have there in your notes, 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse 9 But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God. To love one another. What is that? That is that commandment, that is that table of the law that is now written upon the heart of the believer. Show me a so-called believer that does not love the brethren. And I will show you a so-called believer. It is the mark of discipleship. By contrast, 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 and 8, we read these words, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not God, I'm sorry, he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. Do you ever find a hateful person just couldn't get along with anybody and always in contention, always in strife? A total lack of love? Are they showing that first fruit of the Spirit? Are they demonstrating the love of the brethren and their true discipleship to Jesus Christ? Not at all. Not at all. And then 1 John 4, verses 20 and 21. If a man say, I love God. And hateth his brother. He is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this is the commandment that we have from him: that he who loveth God love his brother also. If you don't love the brethren, you are not a disciple. God's law was not written in his heart. You do not love God and you do not know God And so, what is love? It is the fruit of the Spirit. What is love? It is the mark or the token of discipleship. And we could go on from there that it's also the evidence of salvation. 1 John 2, verse 10. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light. And there is none occasion of stumbling in him. First John 3, verse 10. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil, who doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. But then we find thirdly that charity, biblical love, is the bond of perfectness. We find this in Colossians 3 and verse 14. And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. What do we mean by the bond of perfectness? Well, go ahead and turn to Colossians chapter 2. And this same word bond is used in Colossians 2. Our text for this section is Colossians 3. 14. But we also find this word in chapter 2, and I think it's beneficial for us to look back to chapter 2 and verse 16 and following. Colossians chapter two, verse sixteen. I'll give you a moment to turn there. Colossians 2. 16. Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink or in respect of a holy day or of a new moon or of a Sabbath day. Which are the shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ. And so those things by which man would judge, they're a shadow, but the body is of Christ. Let no man beguile you, verse eighteen, of your reward in voluntary humility and worshiping of angels. inst uh intruding into those things which he hath not seen, vainly puffed up in his fleshly mind, and not holding the head from which all the body by joints and bands, having nourishment ministered and knit together, increaseth by the increase of God. Now, you say, Pastor Joe, where are you going here? Okay, look at verse 19. All the body and joints and bands Having nourishment. What is the body being spoken of there? It's the body of Christ. It is the body of Christ. It is the believers that are bound together. And that word bands there is the same word that we had in chapter 3 in verse 14 where it said bonds. And what is the way it's being used in chapter 2? Well, in chapter 2, it's talking about the bands that hold the body together. We don't call them bands, do we? We call them ligaments. The sinews that hold our body together are those bands I want to ask how many of you have pulled a hamstring, because most of us have or pulled a muscle. We strain one of those muscles that hold us together. Charity are the ligaments of perfectness. Our brotherly love is that which binds us together Which holds it all together. You see pictures of a skeleton, and it's all together. But without the muscles and ligaments, what is a skeleton? It's a pile of bones. It is not held together. The body of Christ is bound together by all the ligaments and all the sinews. And of course we have in other passages talking about the hand and the foot and the eye and the different members of the bodies. Charity is those ligaments Charity are all those bands that hold the body together and make us one body in Christ, that make us one church. But there's more than that. Because here we find that charity is the bands, or charity is the bond of perfectness. And of course we find in Scripture be also perfect as he is perfect. And a lot of people say, what do you mean be perfect? I can't be perfect. What that word perfect means literally means is complete. Or entire, having all of its parts being bound together. What is it that binds us together? Well, obviously it is Christ But how does Christ bind us together? Through the ligaments and sinews, all the little muscles of the the church binding us together in one body. And there is more here because if you look back to verse fourteen of chapter three, it says, above all, put on charity Not put on as in hypocrisy. Not put on as somebody will put on a costume and pretend to be something they are not. But rather be clothed in charity, charity like a robe, charity like a band, like a belt that holds it all together. But again, going back to chapter 3, where it talks about these bands and ligaments of charity, what is it talking about? The body of Christ. You see, to be clothed in the bands of protection, in the bonds of protection, in the ligaments of charity is to be clothed in Jesus Christ. It is to be like him. It is to be conformed to his image. In Psalm 133, a very short psalm, just three verses, we find those glorious verses, how good. And how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the precious ointment upon the head, even Aaron's head that flowed down to his beard. It is like the dew of Herman There is a glorious psalm which is an ode to unity. It is an ode to Christian brotherhood. It's a glorious thing. It's a beautiful thing What is the sad reality within the visible church today? What is the sad reality within most congregations? Do we really have that kind of unity, folks? Or uh yeah. She sits on that side. I sit on this side. I go out this door, she goes out that door, and we just keep our distance because we don't get along. Well, you know, about a dozen years ago, you wouldn't believe what they said May God give us the grace to be clothed, to put on charity. which is the sinews of the love that holds the Church of God together, which binds us together as one What is love? It is the first fruit of the Spirit. It is the mark of discipleship. And it is the bands that hold us together. But then further, what is charity? What is this love of which we speak? Charity is a covering for sin. And the verse for this that we have is 1 Peter 4, verse 8. And above all these things, have fervent charity. among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. And I deliberately in your notes put Charity is quote unquote a covering for sin because we must be very clear here. Um when I originally started putting this together, I put charity as the covering for sin. I thought, well that's almost a contradiction The blood of Jesus Christ is the covering for sin. And so what do we mean when we say that charity is a covering for sin? Does that mean if I love somebody, I can forgive their sins? No, that's not what it's saying at all. But rather, when this verse says that charity is a covering for sins, it is not speaking about my sin against God, though all sin is against God. But rather, charity is a covering for my sin against you and your sin against me. You see, if I truly love the brethren, when my brother does something that hurts me, charity will cover that. If my brother truly loves me and I do something grievously wrong against them, their love for me will cover that. And it doesn't just say that charity is a covering for sin. It puts an adjective in there, doesn't it? A multitude of sin. How often should I forgive my brother? Seven times? Lord, if I forgive them seven times, have I fulfilled the perfect law of liberty? If I forgive them seven times, Lord, is that enough? And Christ said, forgive them 70 times 7. And he didn't mean 449. He meant forgive. And forgive. And forgive. And forgive. I love my wife. And she loves me. And I would love it love to tell you that I've never done anything to hurt her. But I've never done anything that disappointed her or offended her. But that wouldn't be true. Because I mess up every week. But she loves me. And her love for me covers my transgressions. It covers my failings as a husband. And my love for her covers her failings as a wife. She doesn't have many. But you see what I'm saying, folks? If we truly have the love of the brother in us, it doesn't really matter what our brother does to us or how many times they do it. Love covers it. Love forgives it. Love moves past it. Love moves on. What is love? Oh, it is the covering for sins. And we go to the wisdom of Solomon in Proverbs 10, verse 12. Hatred stirreth up strife, but love covereth all sins. Proverbs 17, 9, he that covereth a transgression seeketh love, but he that repeateth the matter separateth. Very friends. Oh, think about that. He that hears that the wrong someone's done just says, okay, alright. Well they cover the transgression But the one that says, did you hear what they did? Did you hear what they did? Do you understand what a big sinner that one is? That but stirreth up strife And consider the Lord's Prayer. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And there Christ is speaking not just of the brethren, but all men, evil men that do things wrong to us, believers that do things wrong to us, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. But the passage doesn't end there, does it? The next verse in Matthew 6 and verse 14, for if ye forgive men their transgressions, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. And so sin or charity is a covering. For sin. Oh, if we within the body of Jesus Christ just loved each other more. How few problems we would have. How many churches would split if the people truly loved each other? How many young believers will be driven away from the church, would not be driven away from the church? If we truly just loved each other. If we truly showed that mark of discipleship, if that first fruit of the Spirit truly were evident in everything that we said, thought, and did. And then we find fifth that this charity is the fulfilling of the law. Now if you remember back to last week when we were talking about which is the greatest commandment And the second being like unto it, the first commandment being love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, strength, mind, and the second being love thy neighbor as thyself There, Christ summarized the whole law, the Ten Commandments, in two commandments. And we saw how the first table of the law deals with our relationship to God, the second table of the law with our relationship to fellow man. Charity. Christian love is the fulfilling of the law. Romans 13, verse 8. Owe no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. Charity, Christian love is the fulfilling of the commandment. The first table being love God The second table being love man. From our text last week, we read there in Mark twelve, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength, for this is the first commandment. And the second is like unto it, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And in Galatians chapter 5, verses 13 and 14, for brethren, ye have not been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but by love serve one another For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And in first Timothy one, verse five, Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and a good conscience and of faith on faith. And so we are not saved by keeping the law, but we keep the law of God when we love the brethren. Loving the brethren. Is the evidence that God's law is written in our hearts, and so love is the keeping of the law. But all of these things that we've been considering The first fruit of the Spirit. Well, where does the fruit come from? Well, it comes from Christ. The mark of discipleship. Who are we disciples to? Well, disciples of Christ. The bond of perfectness. What is that? It is our unity in Christ. The fulfilling of the law. Christ is the one who has fulfilled the law on our behalf. And so all these five things that we've considered so far from specific tests. Or text, they're all about Jesus Christ. Every one of them And I began by saying: if you do not know Jesus Christ, you cannot know true love. If you do not know Jesus Christ, you cannot know true love. The two are mutually exclusive. They don't join together. And so all of these things we've learned about love ultimately are the imitation of Jesus Christ. They are the likeness of Christ, which should be the characteristic of every believer. If you're not like Christ, you're not a Christian. By very definition. Because the term Christian means to be one of Christ. It is to be an imitator of the Messiah. It is to be like him. And so the sixth thing we find is that true Christian charity is the imitation of Jesus Christ. The popular saying, which I don't like because it gets abbreviated, is what would Jesus do? And I I I I don't like that because it gets broken down into the initials, and I do not believe we should ever use an initial that way for the name of Jesus Christ. But true Christian charity is the imitation of Christ. It is Christ's likeness upon me John 13, verse 34, a new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another, how? As I have loved you. And I've said before, how does a child learn to love? By the example of a loving parent. How do we learn to love? By the example of Jesus Christ. John 15, verse 12: this is my commandment that ye love one another. How? As I have loved you. You see, all these things that we're learning about this love between the children of God, it is all the reflection of Jesus Christ. It is all Christ in you, the hope of glory. It is all my heart, my mind, my soul, and my strength being controlled by Jesus Christ. And we saw two weeks ago that that's how we're to love God. Lord, make us more like thee. Conform us to your glorious image. May I be clothed in that completeness, that bond of perfectness, which is the likeness of Christ. May I have love for my brethren, which is the fruit of the Spirit within me. May I walk as a disciple of Jesus Christ, and in so doing, my love for the brethren will be evident. And thereby I'll fulfill the commandment of Christ. And conclusion, conclusion this morning. I'd like us to look at 2 Peter chapter 2. And let me go ahead and have you turn there. 2 Peter chapter 2. Second Peter chapter two, and I'd like to start there with verse nineteen. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience towards God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. In other words, it's thankworthy. It's worthy of a man if because of his conscience towards God he suffers wrongfully In other words, someone did something to me that they shouldn't have done, someone treated me in a way they should not have treated me, they spoke ill of me without warrant And yet I suffer it for conscience sake, conscience' sake, that is thankworthy. Verse twenty For what glory is it if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? In other words, what good is it if you were wrong and someone says you're wrong and you say, yeah, okay, and take it. Well that's no glory. You were wrong. It's a glory to be falsely accused and take that with patience But when you're guilty and you take it with patience, there's no real glory in that. But if when ye do well and suffer for it, Ye take it patient, yet take it patiently. This is acceptable to God. In other words, if I did the right thing, If I was in full conformity to the will of God, if I was walking in obedience, and I suffer for that wrongfully, that's acceptable to God. Verse 21. For even here unto were ye called, because Christ also has suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. What is this truth of charity, this application of charity? It is above all the likeness of Christ. You see, Christ suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should walk in his steps. What did he do to have his beard pluffed out? How did he deserve to be spat upon? Where did he earn a crown of thorns? Why was he crucified? For my sin, not for his own. And yet he reviled not, he answered not again, he turned the You see, Christ has given us an example of suffering wrongfully. Likeness of Christ. True Christian charity is for me to say, you know, my brother has hurt me to the quick. My brother has done great wrong against me. But I loved him in Christ. And love is the covering of sin. Love hides that ill that was done to me. Love is the mark of the discipleship. Love is the fruit of the Spirit because I want to wring their neck. But the love of Christ in me loves them. And the love of Christ within me, the Spirit of God within me, producing not the hate that my old man would produce, but rather the love which only the Spirit of God would produce. That spirit of God within me, producing the fruit of righteousness, producing the fruit of love, overcomes the sin of my brother. And I loved him Verse twenty-two, let's read verse twenty-one again. For even here unto were recalled because Christ also has suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps, who did no sin Neither was guile found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But commended himself himself to him that judgeth righteously. When Christ was reviled, he didn't come back with a whole mouthful of reviling When Christ was rebuked, he didn't come back with a bigger rebuke, but he suffered it for me. May I be made like you Christ. Let us stand for prayer. Our Father and our God, we thank you for the instruction of your word. We thank you, Lord, that the Word of God is sharp and quick. It's sharper than a two-edged sword. Or many times it it cuts into our hearts. Lord, you know my heart. When I'm offended, I don't want to take it. When someone does ill against me, I want to lash out. And Lord, I believe that is that is the nature of us all, for we still live in bodies of Christ, our flesh. But O Lord, may we be by thy grace. clothed in humility, clothed in the righteousness of Christ, clothed in that charity, clothed in that bond of perfectness. Lord, day by day, may you continue your work of conforming us to the image of Christ, of removing from your church all the spots and wrinkles of this world. Help us to love one another. Make us into the people that we ought to be. Lord, what a difference would be made in the world if the church was what the church should be. Lord, we pray for revival. But Lord, may that revival begin when your people truly love one another. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.