Samuel, chapter twenty nine, They don't see what I think we're going to do. 1 Samuel 29 is a short chapter, 11 verses, but I want to precede that by reading a couple of verses in chapter 28. Because chapter 28 starts out about this battle that David's going to, and then he had this large parenthetical phrase of what's going on with Saul and and the witch and so forth. So in chapter 28 we read, and it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare to fight with Israel. And Achis said unto David, Know thou assured that thou shalt go with me to battle, thou and thy men. And so here we find David is going to battle with him. And then there's this whole rest of this chapter that talks about what Saul is doing as they're preparing for battle. And then we uh arrive at chapter twenty-nine and we are back to this uh chapter twenty eight that first verse where Dave was preparing. Thank you We arrive at chapter twenty nine where we we get back to the battle itself. And verse 1 chapter 9. Now the Philistines gathered together all the armies of Athek, and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel, and the lords of the Philistines passed on by the hundreds and by the thousands. But Dave and his men passed on in their rearward with Akash. Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews hear? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days and these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day. And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him. They were very upset with Akish and upset with David. And the prince of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him. Then send him back to Ziklag. That's the place to appoint him. We don't want him in in combat with us. And let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle, that is David, he become our adversary to us, for wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his master meaning Saul. Should it not be with the heads of these men? He would in other words he's saying in the midst of this battle, David's in the rear word. He might decide to attack us from behind while Saul's attacking us from the front And he'll appease himself, he'll reconcile himself to Saul with our heads. So these princes of the Philistines are not happy with Akish, who is the king of the Philistines. And then they further go on and they say to Achis, the Philistine king, Is not this David of whom they sang one to another, and danced with saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David is ten thousands? Then Achis, having listened to their argument, he called David and he said in verse 6, Surely as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright, he hadn't been. And thy going out and thy coming with me in the host is good in my sight. David hid much from him. For I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day Nevertheless, the Lords favor thee not. He says, I don't have a majority here that wants you to go with us. Wherefore now return and go in peace, that thou displease not the Lord, the Lords of the Philistines. And David said unto Akish, But what have I done? And what hast thou found in thy servants so long as I have been with thee unto this day that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my Lord the King? And I would say right here, don't push it, David. You know. You really don't want to fight against Israel. You really don't want to fight against King Saul. He said you can't. Just let it go. But he's pushing. He's right. Now he's getting up. I want to go with you. Why would you want to stop me? He's really putting on uh quite a show here And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight. As an angel of God, notwithstanding, the prince of the Philistines has said, He shall not go up with us to battle. Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master servants, that is Saul's Saul's men, actually, that will come with thee, and as soon as ye be up early in the morning and have sight, depart. And so David must have kind of kicked the dirt and said, well, okay, that's what we'll do. But that's what he wanted to do. He did not want to fight uh against his own nation, Israel. So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, and to return to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel. So those first couple of verses in twenty-eight is where he became the guard of Akus, his personal guard, and then w we jump all the way ahead to the whole chapter of twenty-nine, and we find that the battle is finally going to take place. But there are some complaints. The Philistines gathered to fight Israel. Excuse my frog here. The Philistines gathered together to fight Israel. And Acre said unto David, Thou shalt go with me to battle. And therefore will I make thee keeper of my head. That was in verse 2 of 1 of uh chapter twenty eight. We didn't read that verse in verse two. Dave was actually gonna be his personal bodyguard of of King Akish in this battle. He was going to be the keeper of my head. And how could David say no? When we're back in chapter 28, those first two verses, when they're bringing this battle together, and Achus wants David to go with him, be his personal bodyguard. How could David say, I don't want to be a personal bodyguard, I don't want to go to battle against Israel? How could he do that? David had been living for over a year under the protection of the Philistines. They had protected him from the assaults of King Saul. And he had they'd asked nothing of him in all that time And he'd given David all his protection and all of his men protection and food and so forth. How could David say, no, I'm not going to go with you to battle against the Israelites, against Saul, against the management trying to kill me. How could David not say, okay, I'll be your personal bodyguard, I'll go with you. David found himself in a fix, didn't he? David had fled Saul to land the Philistines, and he'd been getting kind of cozy with them, and you know, he'd been compromising some of his ideas and And they've been tolerating some of the things of the Philistines. And so after a year there, he finds himself in a situation where now he's kind of one of them. And they expect him to be one of him. And they expect him to join with him in battle. And so the first thing I want you to note here is the longer our affiliations with the worldly, the deeper our affections for the world become. comes. I totally suspect by this time that David kind of liked King Akish and didn't mind being a bodyguard against him if the Amalekites attacked, or if the Jebusites attacked, or if the Canaanites attacked But to be a bodyguard of King Akash the Philistine when we're fighting the Israelites, I hadn't thought about that. And here he was in that kind of a situation. After a year with the Philistines, he finds himself and his men marching lockstep with the Philistines, heading for Jezreel to destroy King Saul. And the armies of Israel. That's what happens when we mess with the world. We have an excuse for doing it. I've got to flee from Saul. He's trying to kill me. I'm going to go down the land of the Philistines. I'll be safe down there. And you start rubbing elbows, you start lifting a toast to this and that, you start sharing meals, you start shopping in the same marketplaces. Uh you you just you get comfortable with the world or with the enemy, the enemies of God And David had, never intending that a year out, he would be marching against his own nation, Israel. Wow. How could Israel ever forgive David if in this particular battle had David gone this particular battle and they gone to Jezreel and David with them and they fought against Israel How could David or the people of Israel ever forgive David if King Saul got killed in that battle? Which he does, by the way King Saul's gonna die in this battle. And if David is with King Ahash, and if David is with the Philistines and they're attacking the Israelites, and King Saul dies in this battle, and he does, would Israel ever forgive David? Would Israel ever want David to be their king? The answer is an obvious no. But David doesn't know that Saul is going to die in this battle. David does not know that. But he doesn't want to fight against them because in fighting against Saul and the armies of Israel David has brought himself to position where he either has to tell King Akash, I'm a fake, I'm a phony, uh, I'm I'm I'm really not converted to you to the ideas of the Philistines, I'm still true-blooded Israelite and wish they would have killed him on the spot as a traitor. And so he says, here I am marching up there. I'm going against Israel. I'm going against Saul And what am I going to do? And oh, by the way, as I defend King Akash as his personal bodyguard, and some of the Israelites come flowing in on King Akash, I have to defend him if it even means killing Jonathan, my best friend. Because that's who David's marching against. David is not just marching against King Saul, who's been trying to kill him, and the armies of Israel who've been trying to kill him. He is now marching against Jonathan, his best friend. How did he get himself out of a fix like this? How can he remove himself from a situation in which his disobedience has created the situation? The prophet Gad had told David not to leave Judah, to stay in Judah no matter how serious the situation was, but he had disobeyed The prophet of Gad, who was the prophet of God, and he'd gone into the land of the Philistines, and now he's in a situation where he may be swinging a sword, swinging a stone, or fighting, throwing an arrow or a javelin that will pierce the heart of Jonathan his best friend. How do you abstract yourself from such a situation as this? The Apostle Paul, the Apostle of Christ, would write much later in the New Testament That when we get in situations where we don't know how to abstract ourselves from them, we are to appeal to our Savior, who 1 Corinthians 10. 13 will make a way of escape. From whatever our situation. And so David here has no way of knowing how to escape the situation. If he exposed himself as not a true Philistine anymore. They'll cut him down right there. They'll have to kill him because he knows the battle plans. If they just let him go and say, But go back to Israel, we're done with you. He carries the battle plans back. They'd have to kill him on the spot And yet if he doesn't tell them that his loyalty is towards Israel and Jonathan and um he's gonna have to march with them. And maybe In chapter twenty nine, God sends the princes of the Philistines And in the promise of God, and God controls the hearts of every man, you know, it says the heart of the kings in the Lord's hand, he turns it with us whoever he pleaseth. And obviously God has turned the heart of these princes of the Philistines because they come to King Akash and they said What do these Hebrews hear? They must have dressed differently, their uniforms, their language a little different, or their accents and so forth. And hey, what do these Hebrews do here? We're getting ready to march against Israel and you got a you got six hundred Hebrews Hebrews surrounding you? What what's with these Hebrews here? What do they hear And he said, well, this is David. David's been with him for a year. He's been a real stand-up sort of guy. And they they doubt the loyalty of David. God has put it in their hearts to doubt the loyalty of David, their former enemy. They cannot believe he's reconciled to the Philistines. And so they say, we don't want to hear it. What do with these Philistines? Well he came down here because Saul was attacking him and trying to kill him and and you know sometimes as followers of Christ we make excuses for our worldly activities and it just gets us into more troubles. More problems. And isn't it amazing? David's down in the land of the Philistines and his 600 men, and they've gotten comfortable. They got a pretty good life. No one's attacking them. When they want to they go out and they attack the Malachites here and the Malachites there and and uh they got a pretty good life. They're comfortable down there. It's been obviously it's been a good decision But the Philistine princes, they say, What doeth the Hebrews here? You know, sometimes the world has a better idea of where you should be and where you shouldn't be than Christians have. You know, sometimes the Christians say, Why are you drinking? Why are you smoking? Why are you run why you why are you cheating on your wife? Yeah, in other words, the world sometimes, you know, we talk about the Ten Commandments, believe me. The world looks at the same Ten Commandments and they check us out all the time and they say, What do you hear? Why are you here? What are you doing this for? They they spot us in places where we shouldn't be and tell us sometimes before our own heart instructs us properly. I know that sometimes we have reasons for doing things and we think they're good reasons, but we go someplace where we don't belong. There'll be a bachelor party, someone's getting married, so they all go down to the horseshoe uh casino in Baltimore, right? And and gamble have a good old time down there and they party And someone walks into that horseshoe casino, someone you work with or you know, is some unsafe person, they see you down or party with a bunch of guys and and maybe lifting a couple of drinks and and they say, What do is you here? Oh, we're here for a bachelor party. Yeah, okay, right. Or maybe you gather together and uh a bunch of guys together afterwards and and someone thinks it's a great idea to stop off at a restaurant, it's got some good food, and you all stop into Hooters, right? And somebody's in there and says, whoa, what are those Christian guys doing over here? Oh the hibja, best hamburgers in town. Yeah, right You know, the world knows when we're in places where we shouldn't be. And they address it to it. And it's very embarrassing when you had him put straight by the ungodly, isn't it? Isn't that embarrassing? And here are these princes of the Philistines that say, what do these Hebrews hear? Paul says in 2 Corinthians 6, 14 through 17, be not unequally yoked with unbelievers, what fellowship hath the righteous with the unreach. righteous. Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. What does David do with the Philistines? What do those Hebrews do with the Philistines? Even the Philistines know it's not right for them to be there. Come up among them, be separate. Now is total separation possible or biblical? Total separation isn't possible. We know that. We have to come in contact with relatives who are like Philistines. We have to come in contact with co-workers and And if we have a job somewhere, maybe we have to come in contact with customers out there. We come in contact with a lot of Philistines throughout our day and our life. You know, total uh separation is not possible We've got to function. In fact, the Bible tells us that we're to function as the salt of the earth, Matthew 5. 13. In other words, we're to be a preservative in this world. We're the salt of the earth. And the only way you can preserve this world is if, yes, we do come in contact once in a while with the Philistine. Get a chance to witness to them, hand attract to them Talk to them about the scriptures. That's not being unequally yoked that we have to work with some Philistines or that some of our relatives are Philistines. That's not being unequally yoked. And so we are, as we see here, not able to be totally separated from the Philistines or from the world But David didn't have to go down into the Philistines and set up camp in their city and live with them for years. That was totally different. David was David was not separated at all He had totally encompassed himself, surrounded himself, depended upon them for his food and his eat and his drink and his job and his protection. He was unequally yoked. And he wasn't being a light in the world as we read in Matthew 5 and 14. He was kind of hiding his light under a bushel, you know. He's he was he was letting the Philistines think that oh he's he doesn't miss worshiping, you know, at the tabernacle, and he doesn't miss the fellowship of Jonathan. And he he was just hiding his faith for that whole year, compromising, tolerating the Philistines. That is not separation as God would have us to be separated and David had re rebroken that standard. We find the same thing happens with Elijah in 1 Kings chapter 19 and 9. Ab and Jezebel, they want to kill Elijah, the prophet of God. And so Elijah, the prophet of God, he flees from them. He goes out in the wilderness and he goes inside some remote cave somewhere, and he's just hiding out, you know, shaking his boots, that they're going to kill him. And God comes in a soft, quiet voice, and he says to Elijah, 1 Kings 19 and verse 9. Inside the cave to Elijah. What doest thou here, Elijah? We see it again. Don't we? You don't belong in this cave. You've separated yourself s so much from the world that you're no good even to the Israelites. Elijah, you're in your how can you witness, how can you prophesy, how can you preach inside a cave to the people of Israel. You were too separated. That's what the old sh the old Catholic churches do. The monks would go off and they'd be in some sort of a uh Monastery, thank you. They'd be in a monastery and be all locked up and secluded and they weren't out among the people. They weren't out there preaching among the the church people and among They were just cloistered. And they were the the light was being hit under a bushel. And this is what Elijah was doing as well. And Christ taught That it was inappropriate. Christ taught that we are not to take our light and put it in a secret place under a bushel. Luke 11 and verse 33. So yes, we want to be not unequally yoked, but we don't want to be so separated from the world that we're no worldly good. And I hope you see the difference in that. As believers in the gospel of Jesus Christ, we find ourselves working with the Philistines of the world. We find ourselves shopping with them. We find ourselves gathering with relatives for you know birthday functions and anniversaries We find ourselves using public transportation and riding on the bus or the train or the plane, or other Philistines, so we're we can't be totally separated from them But on the Lord's day, on the Sabbath day, where was David? He wasn't worshiping. He was with the Philistines. He was unequally yoked. Because they protected him. Why not let God protect us? So we find that we oftentimes are with those who love this present world, as is recorded in 2 Timothy 4. 10. And we we that we can't avoid that. We can't avoid sometimes being with those who love this present world, with what we might term uncircumcised Philistines. We understand that. But during our free time, that's the big question Where do you go and spend your free time when you're not working? When you're not required to be at an anniversary or a birthday party or whatever. Where do you go in your free time? And who do you choose as your companions? That is the importance. Of biblical separation. Where do you go in your free time? If the world can point to you, if the world can point to you and they can say, What doest thou here? You got a problem. Or the world can point you and say, what do you do with those guys? Or those ladies? Oh, I can't believe it. Hang out with them. We got a problem, don't we? The world, the Philistines recognize when we're not biblically separated, when our separation, where there can be separation on our free time, we don't take it And we find that happening when we send our young people off to college. They tend to get caught up in relationships and groups and fraternities and sororities That they ought to stay away from. And we find out from our young people that they're out there at some bachelor party on the campus or pot party or frat party, and there's another Christian who will come along and say, What are you doing here? What do you do with this frat party? What do you do with this pot party? This this binge drinking party. What are you doing here? You don't belong here. You're a Christian. And probably before he's even admitted By a Christian, someone in the fat price says, Boy, I didn't expect to see you here. Wow, that's a real surprise you came up with this. What doest thou here When the world says that to us, we have a problem. Cleaving to the Lord Jesus Christ will take care of us. that problem. Cleaving to the Lord Jesus Christ, cleaving to his word, it quickly reveals to us when we aren't in a place that pleases Christ. If we read his word, if we pray, we talk to the Lord, and let the Lord talk to us through his word, we will quickly understand the places that we're not supposed to be in, and the people we're not supposed to be making our our companions as it were. We'll know pretty quickly what pleases Christ and what does not. And so I would say this morning. This is a short test. Can you ask God to bless your employment at the brewery? Hmm, that'd be kind of hard, wouldn't it? Can you ask God to bless your employment at the abortion clinic? Ooh, how can you do that? Can you ask God to bless your employment at the liquor store or the bar? Or how about this one? Can you ask God to bless your employment at the Planned Parenthood Boy. Too many children here I tell you what the latest film shows. The judge's order, by the way, all the films may be released. I can't even tell you what in the last couple of films. Those people need to be tried like the Nuremberg trials. Those people need they need to be they need to be executed for what they're doing at Planned Parenthood. Question, second question, not only your employment, but how about this? Do your buddies help or hinder your spiritual growth? I'm not saying that, well, he's a Christian. She's a Christian. That's great. But you know, sometimes a Christian can hinder your spiritual growth. Maybe they're a baby Christian. Maybe they're playing around a little too much in the world. You know, we ought we ought to look at our companions and see if they're going to hinder our spiritual growth Have you ever been there sometimes? I think we all have. Or someone tells a dirty joke. or uses some rather colorful language. Did you continue to stay there and listen and laugh? Sometimes the language is so bad it would make a sailor blush. And if I were there or some good Christian was there, they'd probably say to you, what are we doing? What doest thou here? Let's get out of here. Shouldn't you leave as soon as possible as soon as you can? I mean if you came with somebody else and you don't have a car, call a cab, Uber, or whatever they call them today. If you have to leave, you need to leave. What if the Lord Jesus Christ came back while you're at some frat party? Or you're you're at some pot party or at some uh binge drinking party or uh you know, w what would you do if you're someplace where even the Philistines know you shouldn't be there And you're listening to a joke that you shouldn't be listening to, and language you shouldn't even want to hear. And all of a sudden the Lord Jesus Christ comes back and he says, What doest thou hear? I mean can you really stay in those places? No we all say I think Christ is coming back any day, you know, the world's getting worse and worse. It just seems like a matter of I don't know how much longer the Lord can delay his return. Okay. And you want to be found someplace where the Lord would say, What do it So here. It's never a good sign when one who's confessed Christ as a Savior feels more at home with the goats than the sheep. That's not a good sign. That's just not a good sign. It's never a good sign when you feel more comfortable among the tares and the wheat or the goats and the sheep. And the truth is if Christ dwells in your heart, according to Ephesians three and seventeen, if Christ dwells in your heart, you have far more in common. Listen to this. If Christ really dwells in your heart, you have more in common with a strict sheep than an agreeable goat. And I know there's some sheep out there that are they can be pretty uh uh legalistic, they can be pretty strict, they can be pretty pretty rough and pretty pretty straight and narrow. I know that I think I'm one of them, you know. But but what I'm saying is that you're you if you really have Christ in your heart, you should feel more comfortable around a strict sheep than the most agreeable goats you ever met Back to these princes, the princes of the Philistines. The prince of the Philistines said, What do these Hebrews hear? Make this fellow return. Is not this David of whom they saying Saul slew his thousands and David his ten thousand? This is verses three and five. We're not going to get any further than that in this whole chapter, but But y they said there's a song about this. And even the Philistines knew the song. And they knew the words of the song. They're quoting the song. I wish I had time today just to go off on a rabbit trail and talk to you about good church music. But good church music, even the world recognizes and remembers the words to it Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. A mighty fortress is our God. How about the singing of the Psalms? I mean when you want to talk about good music. In fact, you know what? The truth is here, if we had no more time to spend on this, do you know what turns these Philistines against David says, he's not going with us? The words of the song Turned off the Philistines. The words of the song in reality saved David's life. And you think music doesn't matter in a church? I mean it's the words of the song that saved David. Oh, we find out it does a whole lot more than that before we're done here this morning. But that's how important, the words of a song. He says that is this not David of whom they sang. Saul slew a thousand and David is ten thousand. It's the song, the words of a song that are about to save David from the This dilemma, this predicament. They have suspiciously observed David and his men marching with Akash. And here he is, they're marching with Akash. Akash, by the way, is the king of Gath. And by the way, Gath is the home of Goliath. It just seems so outlandish that the killer of Goliath is now marching with the king of Gath where Goliath lived. And we're going to trust him? Have you not heard the song? Do you not know the words of the song? This song is instrumental in plucking David out of his dilemma, saving David's life, saving the life of his men, and getting David back on the straight narrow. I think church music is so important. It's important first of what the words are, and it's important that we can hear the words. Sometimes the words are okay, but the music's so loud you can't hear the words. The Hebrews have apparently compromised their beliefs that they would be marching with King Hakash. When we compromise our beliefs, such as, well, is creation all that important You know, I mean maybe it's evolution. When we compromise our beliefs, all right? Well, you know, it doesn't really matter who you married. I mean, as as long as As long as uh he is allowed to be the head chef and she's gonna be the dutiful wife, it doesn't matter if you marry a Philistine. Ask Samson about that, you know. He married a Philistine, didn't it matter Yeah, it mattered. Thousands died because of his marriage to her. Well sometimes in a situation where Cursing just seems like the right thing to do. I mean what else can you do? When something happens, you know, you smash your thumb with a hammer, or a car goes right through a red light and smash in the front of your car and a couple curse words come out. Well, I mean, it it's just a natural thing to do, isn't it? No, that's compromising with the world. If you want to recommend your Christianity to the world, you don't curse when you hit your thumb with a hammer. You don't curse the guy that just drove through a red light and smashed into a brand new car. If you want to recommend your your belief to society and to the world, you don't Compromised. And here we have David, he is compromised. We don't know what all, but we do find that he's not going to recommend his faith to these Philistines by marching with him and to the beat of their drummer. I mean he's just they're just marching lockstep with King Anchosh heading right up to Jezreel towards Saul. I mean how are you going to witness this? You gotta witness to the Philistine while you're marching towards Israelites, are you You can't compromise your faith and think that some manner or form that this is going to work out and that if you'll be able to reach the world for Jesus. It doesn't work that way. And yet there are lots of Christians out there hoping to win souls to Christ by portraying how close their lifestyle and the worldly lifestyle can be. You know we're not that far apart, really. I mean if you just stop and and if we can spend some time with you, uh we can dress like you, we can drink like you We can think a little bit like you, you know, maybe evolution, not creation. Uh some of those minor sins, yeah, we kind of think they're not all that bad either. And you know, uh so we can drink And oh once in a while it's okay to wink at somebody the girl it's not your wife or your fiance, you know, that's okay too. I mean, see we're just like you We we just try to see how close the world we can get, and then we want the world to see just how close we can bring them to our side as well. And we think by all these cute little compromises that we're gonna reach people with the gospel You're not. David didn't, you know what? He's there for a year and then four months. And we never read that David converted one Philistine. Not one. I uh never thought I'd quote Madeline Muriel Hare. How many of you know who Madeline Muriel Hare was? was. She was a most renowned atheist that ever lived. She is the one that got Bible reading and prayer removed from the schools, okay? And she was on the TV one time. I saw her debating Reverend Jerry Falwell. And I don't know how many remember Reverend Jerry Falwell Okay. And so they're in this heated discussion, and she gets mad and she takes the Lord's name in vain. And Reverend Jerry Ball says, whoa, whoa, whoa. He said, I just heard you mention my Savior. I didn't even think you believed he existed And she said, Oh, that's just a saying. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything. And then she paused and she said to Pastor Jerry Fowler, she says, you know something? I'm an atheist, and she said, and I don't believe a word of that Bible that you read. I don't believe a word of it. But I'll give you this, she said. Unlike most of the preachers I meet and talk with, you believe it all and you live it all. I'll give you that, she said. And that's the way we have to be. We have to read it all, believe it all, and live it all, or we won't make a dent in the life of those who are watching us. We cannot compromise. We cannot tolerate sin. You don't tolerate weeds in your garden. Why should we tolerate sin in our hearts and sin in society? So here was an atheist, a Philistine, who said, I'll give it to you. You read it, you believe it, and you live it. She said, I'll give you that. Most preachers don't, she said. In fact she said, that's what's turned me off to Christ. She was raised a Presbyterian, by the way And he said, that's what turned me off the religion. I saw all these preachers and all these pastors and uh I was and they were just they were phony. They didn't believe half the stuff they preached and read and and taught I'll give it to you, Reverend Falwell. You believe it and you live it. I'll give that much to you. Now, these Philistines They saw through David's get-along attitude. And they says here, they were wroth. That is, they were angry. And they said, Make this fellow return, he be our adversary. So first there's two things I want you to see here. First, we see that their anger saved David from committing himself to battle against Israel and killing his friend Jonathan. That's a big flesh. This is amazing. The words to that song are instrumental in David not being involved in the battle where King Saul dies and Jonathan dies, by the way. How would David have lived with himself? How often God is working for us when we think He's working against us. How often God is working for us when He turns the heart of another against us. Here God has turned the heart of these Philistines against David. Alright? And we find that too. We're out there in the world and we find people in the world and they don't like us and they say nasty things about us. Nasty things To us, they do nasty things to us. Oh God, why am I being persecuted like this? I can't take this. I can't take this anymore. People are just treating me so nasty. Why have you allowed these hearts to turn on me like this? Maybe it's somebody at work, it's somebody in the family, and you get really upset. But you know something? God is in control of the hearts that turn against us. And these hearts that turn against us, it is for our own good. The Philistines, these Philistine princes, not like King Akash the Philistine, but the Philistine princes They turned against David, and it was for his good. It got him out of his dilemma, it got him out of his fix. It got him sent home early. And so sometimes when God changes the hearts of somebody, and we can think of Jacob, oh Jacob, he marries this beautiful woman and And and the obvious that the father of Laban is so nasty and he and he keeps changing my wages. He just he does this, he does that, and he does this. I can't you can't take it anymore. But the fact that God turned Laban's heart against Jacob, Jacob finally left. Departed with his wife and all his sheep and his goats and had a better life uh back in the promised land. We find the same thing of Joseph. Joseph's brothers are so nasty to him, they're so mean to him, they drive him out, they throw him in a fits, they sell them to the Midianites. Oh God, why are you allowing this to happen? For your good, Joseph. I have turned the hearts of people against you for your good. I bet you I'm not gonna ask for raise the hands here, but I know many of you here. There was sometime a girl in high school or college you wanted to marry, and one day her heart turned or his heart turned to somebody else and you were brokenhearted. And you thought, why did God I I mean I loved her or he loved me and now all of a sudden he doesn't anymore. Why why why lord why? Well, from my own experience, 50 years later, that's why she's sitting right over in the fourth row. Oh Lord, I'm so glad you turned the hearts. A people against me that I wanted to be for me and with me. There is a reason. God is often working for us when He turns the heart of another against us. Can God who save David from Saul? Can God who save David from his own choice of companions, can God who save us also from ourselves and from our horrible decisions in life? Yes, he can. Have you made some horrible decisions in life? You think there's no turning back? There's no way you can get out of this fix? Well, you're probably right. There's no way you can get out of the fix, but God can get you out of the fix Now I said there's two things that happen here. Because of the words of the song, David does not have to charge up and and assault and maybe kill Saul himself personally or Jonathan. and destroy Israelites. That was the first good thing. He gets sent home. But here's the second good thing. And you'd have to go into chapter 30 to see it. But let me just read it to you. Therefore when Achis said, David returned, David returned the Ziklag. And the Amalekites had taken his wives captive. Chapter 30, verses 1 and 3. Whoa. Had David gone off the battle, and that battle could have lasted for a couple of days or a couple of weeks, by the time he'd gotten back, his wives and his children would have been slaughtered. uh abused, molested, we have no idea what would happen. But David leaves because these Philistines don't want him there because of the song that they've been singing And he leaves and he comes back to Ziglag to his wife and his children. The place is still on fire, it is still burning, and he shoots out after him. He goes after the Amalekites who have done this. And we'll find out next week. He rescues his wife and children. unharmed. All because God changed the hearts of the Philistines against David. All because perhaps of a song they'd heard. Wow. It contributes to the salvation of David's entire family. It contributes to the restoration of David's entire family as well. Pilgrim, do you think we too shall see someday that the animosity that we endure in this world is far better than the acceptance of this? world. There are so many out there they just want to be accepted by the world. And that's why they they say, well I'm gonna I'm gonna jettison the first five books of the Bible because they're so controversial. You know they they talk about you know uh uh creation. They talk about marriage between one man and one woman. They talk about disobeying your government like the midwives did if the government asked you to do things Contrary to the Bible. And those first five chapters or first five books of the Bible, they get you. So we'll just jettison those and we'll just preach Jesus Because they want to be accepted by the world. But we're going to find someday that the animosity we endured in this world, because we stood by everything we read, believed, and lived. It was far better than to be accepted by this world. Christ declared in John 13, 7, What I do thou knowest not now. But thou shalt know hereafter. I can't tell you that by going through this Bible, you'll find every answer for everything I believe every answer is in here. And I believe oftentimes when we live long enough we find these answers. But sometimes Christ said, like what I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter or in the hereafter, and we will praise him for it. That the world hated us. We'll praise him for it, that someone's attitude towards us changed. We'll praise him for it. And here's the final question. Final question for the day What doest thou here? I don't mean just in the sanctuary and just on the but what are you doing here with your life? What doest thou here, pilgrim? It's well worth contemplating. Before at the judgment, we hear Christ say, What didst thou there? Contemplate what we should be doing here and now. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. For the word of God. Oh Lord, you you paint a picture, it's not all bright colors, it's not all smiles and glory. And you you paint some of the great heroes of the faith, how they weren't perfect and how they fell and and how they made such a mess of their lives and how you brought them out of the mess. and restored them. And Lord, we know there's not a person here you can't restore. There's not a thing here you can't fix. There's not a situation here that you can't Make glorious. Not a thing that we will ever say in eternity that wasn't run right. We'll say to the glory of God, all things work for the good. We will be praising with those words through all eternity, though we may not see it today, what thou doest now. And it's in Christ's name, our God and Savior, we pray. Amen.