Turn with me to Second Peter this morning, please, and chapter three, the third chapter of Second Peter. My initial thought this morning had been to focus largely on verse 11, with the verses preceding verse 11 as introduction. And then consider the second portion of the chapter. And it became apparent quite quickly that to really expound the passage and get a good grasp on the glorious teaching that's found here. We needed to take at least two messages. So this morning we're going to consider the first eleven verses of the chapter. And then Lord willing, next week we will pick up with verse 11 again and continue through the balance of the passage. So by way of introduction this morning, I would like to read verses 1 through 11 of 2 Peter 3. This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandments of us, the apostles, of the Lord and Savior. Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were in the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished. But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word, are kept in store. reserved against f unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing: that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Let us bow briefly in prayer. Great God, our Heavenly Father, now as we approach the holy, inerrant, inspired, and preserved Word of God. May you teach us, may you direct us, may you edify us. Father, we come not desiring words after man's wisdom. But rather we come desiring that the Holy Spirit would teach us thy truth through thy word. Blessed to these ends we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peter begins this third chapter with what seems like it should be the introduction to the whole book. He begins by explaining why he's writing the letter. And it is fitting as we begin to consider to whom Peter addresses this letter. Anytime there is a letter addressed, the intended recipient of the letter is very important to understanding what the letter is saying. I think the best way to illustrate that is to remember from my childhood when I would be playing with my friends. I grew up in a neighborhood and there was about a dozen boys about the same age. And my mother would lean out the back door of the house and yell, Supper's ready. And I was the only one of those dozen boys that responded. They all heard my mother's voice. But they understood the call was not to them. And so when we understand to whom a book is written, we begin to understand what the message is. The message from my mother was: dinner's ready, Joey, you come and eat. It wasn't to the others. And so Peter says this second epistle, Beloved And so, right there in the beginning of the chapter, Peter is qualifying to whom he's speaking. This second epistle, beloved, I write unto you. Any right to stir up their pure minds. The unbeliever, the non-elect, does not have a pure mind. The natural man Receive it not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they're spiritually discerned. But we have what? The mind of Christ. And so Peter is writing to the beloved. He's writing to those who have pure minds. And if you look back a page or two to the first chapter of this book. Peter says in verse 1 or I'm sorry, go back to the first book of Peter, because he's talking about this second epistle he's writing. In the first book of Peter He begins in verse 1 that he's writing to the strangers scattered abroad, and in 1 Peter 1, verse 2, who were elected according to the foreknowledge of God. And so here in 2 Peter, Peter is re-emphasizing what he had said in the first book of Peter and making reference to this second book. And so we consider here that he's writing to believers. The message is not written to the unbeliever. But it's written to those who are within the visible church. Okay, now not everyone in the visible church we know is truly a believer There are many unbelievers, and we're going to see their scoffers even among them. What is the purpose of this message? What is it that Peter is wanting to impart to them. Well, he says that he wants to bring things to remembrance and stir up their pure minds. This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, both in which to stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. Isn't it good to remember things that have taken place before? Aren't familiar truths well implanted in our minds? That which becomes too familiar becomes casual. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hands on this, but how many of you have ever driven for ten, fifteen minutes down a road that you've driven down many times before, and suddenly realized you could not recall the cover color of one car going the other direction. You know that you stopped at the stop sign at Billy Bob's Road, but you have no memory of it whatsoever. And obviously there was nothing coming when you pulled out because you didn't get hit. There are times when the most familiar things need the most attention. And here Peter is saying, I want to stir up your dead mind your living minds, but your forgetful minds. I want to stir up your minds. Because your minds have been made pure by the Holy Spirit, but there's some things you need to remember. There's some things that need to be brought back to your consciousness. Familiar truth is valuable. And remember in the Old Testament, when the nation of Israel was told that they were to write the truths on the posts of their houses. They were to speak of them when they walked in the way, and when they laid down, when they rise up. Because the day would come when their sons would ask them, What do these things mean? What is this all about? Familiar truths are very important to the children of God. We come to the second verse, and it says, that ye may be mindful. There it is again. That ye may be mindful of the words which have been spoken, which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandments of us, the apostles of our Lord and Savior. We're to be mindful of words spoken by the prophets. And we'll find out in verse 5 that the problem was that there are those that are willfully ignorant of these things. Or to be mindful of the commandments of the prophets. I believe we could say here that we have a reference both to the Old Testament and the New. Right. Because we have the words of the prophets. We had that which was said before, and we had the commandments of the apostles of our Lord. Do you realize that within the Church of Jesus Christ, there are those who say that the Old Testament is irrelevant? That the Old Testament has no value for us today because that was for Israel, and we're the church of the New Testament. And then also within the visible church today, there are those that say, well, you know, what the apostles said, the epistles, those aren't really true. The only thing you have to follow is what Jesus said. And there are those that will say, well, if it's not in red, it's not really important. But we have the whole counsel of God And here, Peter's making it very clear, the Old Testament is relevant for the church today. And the commandments of the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, they are commandments. He doesn't say the words. He says the commandments of the apostles, all scripture, is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. And why is it That Peter needs to bring these things to our mind, to bring them to consciousness, knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers. Walking after their own lust. That word scoffers is an interesting word. It's only used twice in Scripture. The other time it's Jews, I'd have you turned to, turn over to the book of Jude. You're in 2 Peter, so you're only five to seven pages from Jude in your Bible. First and second Peter, first and second, third John, Jude, and Revelation. And I was joking with my wife, and I'll I'll ask her, I said, Should I even mention that? But I will. I would love to be an author. But I think if I wrote a book, it'd be kind of like Jude, one page. Jude is a one-chapter book, so we can say Jude chapter one, but we just really all we need is the verses But in Jude 17 and 18, Jude says, But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ How they told you that there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own ungodly lust. Does verse 8 sound familiar? Obviously it does because Jude is putting into practice exactly what Peter was saying. Peter was an apostle It was a command, and Jude is repeating what Peter said. But Jude uses the same word scoffers, but here it's translated mockers. And that tells us what these scoffers are. Do you really believe in a worldwide flood? It's a nice story. Yeah, um What happened was this. The children of Israel came to the Red Sea and the wind blew really hard and opened up the water and they walked through there, but there was no miracle. Yeah, uh the Elijah and and fire falling from heaven. There were some hot coals in there already, and he was praying and they ignited and There are those within the visible church who would deny all the miracles of Scripture. Even to the resurrection there, some would say, well, you know, he just was he was passed out and he lay in the cold tomb for three days and recovered and Nonsense. They're scoffers. They're mockers. They make of a mockery of truth. The preaching of the cross is in them that perish foolishness. And so Peter warned us that in the last days mockers would come. They walk after their own lust. Their own lust are that which they walk in. Again in Jude and chapter 1, or only one chapter, verse 4. For certain men are crept in unawares, who were of old ordained to this condemnation ungodly men, turning the grace of the Lord into lasciviousness. And verse 8, likewise these also filthy dreamers defiled in the flesh. Turn over with me to 2 Peter chapter 2. You're in chapter 3 of 2 Peter But chapter 2 and verse 1. And there Peter says, but there were false prophets also among the people. even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privileges damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and shall bring upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness they shall with fain words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now for a long time lingereth not, and their condemnation slumbereth not. And so we have this warning of scoffers, and we're going to spend the balance of our time considering what they scoff at. And I would point out to you from this text that the first thing That the scoffers make a scoff at is the word of God itself. Look what they say there in verse 4 of chapter 3 of 2 Peter. saying, where is the promise? Where is it? There is this promise. What happened to it? And it's uh look at this chapter. In verse 2 of 2 Peter 3, that you be mindful of the words which are spoken and the commandments. Verse 4, where is the promise? Verse 5, these are willingly ignorant that by the word of God Verse seven, by the same word are kept in store. Verse thirteen, according to the pro his promise, verse fifteen, according to the wisdom given unto him, uh hath he written unto you. Verse sixteen In all his epistles, as I count it, that's about eight times in the chapter there's references to the Word of God. But the scoffers scoff at God's Word. Why do they scoff at the Word of God? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. What is it that Satan makes his first attack upon? Half God said Satan mocked the word of God in the garden, as God said. And so where is the promise? Oh, these things that God said, nah, they're not happening. It's where's the promise of his coming? It's not going to come about. They scoff at the Word of God. Now, let me share with you the most prevalent scoffing of the Word of God in the church today. What? You still use the King James? Alright. We have something better than that now. They scoff at it. We oh who talks in these and thous? We you have to understand that thee and thou are singulars and plurals. And when the word of God refers to God in the singular, it is important. It's vital to our understanding of Scripture. The word of God in the King James is scoffed at. And it's interesting that in the previous chapter Peter says that these scoffers will make merchandise of you. To realize that the ESV, which is very popular today, was based on the RSV, which my father referred to as the revised standard perversion. Do you realize the ESV is owned by Crossway Books? Isn't that interesting? It's owned the copyright by a major printing concern. And they make money off every copy that's printed. And they sell them frequently. And if you want proof that Crossway is interested in profit above truth, Do you realize that there is now a Catholic ESV? There's a Roman Catholic version of the ESV that includes the Apocrypha and makes changes to the ESV to make the Catholics more comfortable reading it It's about profit. They make merchandise out of it. You realize that the NIV is owned by Zondervan. And that Zondervan Books makes a profit on every copy. Now, the King James Version is owned by the Crown of England. That's because it was originally sponsored by the King of England, but the Crown makes no profit on the King James Version. Okay, they make merchandise of it. They stop at it. We don't need that old language. We we have something better. And that doesn't even get into all the changes. So the first thing we find is they scoff at the word of God, but then we find in the context that these scoff at the work of God. Where's the promise? Where is the promise of his coming? He said he was going to do this. Where is that what he promised us? Why is it not come to pass? I I um Mentors say not work, they scoff at the promise of God. They scoff at that which God has promised to do. We'll get to the word work of God in a little bit. Where is the promise? And this doubt about the timing of the work of God is nothing new. We find it in the Old Testament. In the book of Ezekiel, Ezekiel 12 and verse 22, Son of Man, what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision faileth. You see, even back in the Old Testament, so well, you know, God hasn't done what he said he's going to do when I wanted him to do it. It's the wear of the promises. They doubt and scoff at the promise of God. And in the New Testament we find that again. We find the promise that Christ will come as a thief in the night. But then the work of God is scoffed at. Look at verses 5 and 6. 2 Peter 3. For this they are willingly ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old. And the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. I doubt the work of God. You you really believe that there was a flood? Did you really believe that that happened? Well, you know, what this is this is what it was, folks. There was a big rain. And that little region where Noah lived, there was a localized flood, just like we have floods occasionally. And the water got pretty deep, but that's that's you know that's all it was. It wasn't a universal flood No. That's not what the Bible says. They are willingly ignorant of the flood. They are willingly ignorant of the creation. By the word of God the heavens were of old. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. What's that mean? Do you ever hear the phrase even a blind man could see it? The heavens declare the glory of God. I know that God's work of creation is true. I know it by faith. I know it by the word. But I know I can see. The heavens declare the glory of God. When I was scuba diving years ago I used to love to find blennies. Because the little blenny, a lot of them are only about an inch or three quarter inch long. And he lives in his own little hole in the sand, and he has an area of about three square yards or three square meters. And he defends it. And he's a tiny little thing, but any other fish that comes in there, he'll come out after him, and he'll spend his entire life in that little area defending it from the time he hatches from an egg to the time he dies. There's no evolutionary reason for the Blenny. He serves no purpose in evolution. But a wise God, who's concerned with intricacies and details, created that tiny little blending. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. They're willingly ignorant of creation. They're willingly ignorant of the flood. In Genesis 6, verse 17, God says, Behold, I, even I, bring a flood of waters upon the earth. God didn't say I did it. He says I, even I, you better believe it, because he said it twice. He emphasized it. This is not some localized flood. This is not some little thing that's just kind of happened by by nature. No, the fountains of the deep were broken up. And God brought a flood of waters. I believe it because the scriptures present it as a little triteral truth. And we find in the New Testament Christ repeating it, as in the days of Noah, so shall the coming of the Son of Man be. And again, not just by that which we find the Word of God, but the geological record proclaims us true. But what do we read of it? Of this they are willingly ignorant. They're scoffers. They're mockers. The evidence is there, they will see it The evidence is there if they will believe it, but they are willingly ignorant of it. We find also that these scoffers are willingly ignorant or scoff at, make a mock at judgment. They make a mock at judgment. Look at verse 7. But the heaven and earth, which now are, by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment. and perdition of ungodly men. You see, if you accept that God destroyed the world with a flood, then you have to accept that God will destroy it again with fire. And you if you accept that God created man in his own image, then you must accept that you are responsible to God, that there will be judgment for your sin. You see, if you teach children in school that they came from apes, and you teach children in school that everything around us just happened by some accident, How can you be surprised when they have no value for life? You see, if I evolved from an ape, then why can I not go into my school with a gun and shoot my classmate? Because he just came from an ape But if you realize that God breathed into man and man became a living soul, then light suddenly has value. Then there is a reason why you treat your neighbor with respect. There's a reason why you don't rip babies out of the womb. There's a reason for these things. But when you take the Bible out of the school system, don't be surprised that a couple generations later you have school shootings. That's right. It is the logical. Predictable effect of telling kids that they came from apes rather than that they were created in the image of God Mm-hmm. But what happened? Well scoffers said we don't want the Bible in school. We can't pray in school. Separation of church and state was never to take the church out of the state, it was to keep the state out of the church. Made no law affecting the establishment of religion. The church doesn't have the state doesn't have its own religion, but religion has always been a part of the state. Of these things, they are willingly ignorant. You realize the word ignorant doesn't mean stupid. If you break the word ignorant down into its parts, it is ignore at. It's not that truth is not available, it is that truth is ignored. They're willingly ignorant of these things. They willfully turn their back against him. If all these things are true, then there must be a God. If all these things are true, then I must answer to God, and if all these things are true, I am responsible for my actions. We must all appear before the day of Christ. And so Peter says in verse 8, Beloved, don't you be ignorant. Don't you ignore the truth. Beloved, verse 8, be not ignorant of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord is a thousand years, and a thousand years is a day. Where's the sign of his coming? We haven't seen it yet. It must not be true because we don't see the fulfillment of the promise in our day. Our scoffing has overcome the truth. Never. Never. Never. Be not ignorant, beloved. Remember this is written to beloved. Be not ignorant, beloved, of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day. Peter's not speaking to scoffers He's not speaking in this verse to the willingly ignorant. He's speaking to those who know the truth. A thousand years Is as one day, and a day is a thousand years. What's that mean? Well, first of all, it reminds us that God is eternal. The first words of our Bible are in the beginning, God. Before anything else, God is. God always existed. He had no beginning. Explain eternity to me. I cannot, because I cannot understand eternity. I am bound by the rising of the sun and the moon. I live in a 24-hour, 365-day, every fourth year 365-day cycle. That alone is evidence of creation, of order. Not an explosion in a piano factory that comes out with a staling wave. It's a world of order. And I as a human being am bound by time. I was born in 1963. And one of these days This body will die. I will live forever with him. But all I know is days, weeks, months, years, hours, seconds But God is eternal. He never was born. He always was and he always will be. And so what are a thousand years with him? They're but a day. And what is a day? But it's a thousand years. And so on the one hand we could say He's only been gone two days. Why are you so impatient? A thousand years is a day. He said, Behold I come quickly. And it's only been two days, because God is not bound by our sense of time. He is eternal. But on the other hand, it's very significant that he doesn't say a day is as 10,000 years or a hundred thousand years. He says the day as a day is as a thousand years. And we know that that millennial concept, that thousand-day period, is very important in Scripture. He's returning. He's returning soon. But not on our calendar, not on our time schedule. A thousand days here is not saying count 1,000 days and that equals or 1,000 years and that equals a day But rather, it is an expression of a time. Where is the promise of his coming? Even so come, Lord Jesus. No man knoweth the day nor the hour. But don't mock it. Because just like the thief comes in the night when no one's expecting him, if the goodman of the house had known what hour the thief had come, he would not have suffered his house to be broken up But in such a time as you think not, the Son of Man cometh. And so, brethren, be not ignorant of these things. For in verse 9 we read that the Lord is not slack. concerning his promise. That word slack means late basically. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And this word is very important to consider in the context we established at the beginning. To whom is Peter speaking? He's speaking to the beloved. He's speaking to those who already have pure minds. This verse is not saying the Lord wants everybody to be saved. Because Scripture very clearly speaks of children of wrath, fitted, vessels of wrath, fitted for destruction. And Christ said to the Pharisees, ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a liar from the beginning. And God's word is very clear when Christ says, you do not believe because you're not my sheep. You cannot hear my voice because you're not my sheep. But here, as Peter addresses the beloved, as Peter addresses those who Are all of a pure mind. He says, the Lord is not so slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward To the beloved, to the elect according to foreknowledge, to the strangers scattered abroad. in chapter one. Remember what I said earlier when my mom leaned out the back door of the house and yelled, Supper's ready My friends didn't come running because they were not included in that. The supper my mom had prepared was for us. It was the family. And God is long suffering to the elect, to usward, not willing that any that are given to him of the Father should perish. And none that are given to him of the Father shall perish, but they shall all come to usward. And so what is being said in this first part of this chapter? They're scoffers. There are men in wolves and sheep's clothing. There are those, as we saw in chap in the first book of Peter, that are coming unawares of old. But we have to protect ourselves from the scoffers because it is within the visible church that other versions are coming in. It is within the mainline denominations that people are scoffing at the flood and scoffing at the resurrection and scoffing at the virgin birth It is even within the mainline denominations of Christianity that people were saying, well, you know, it doesn't matter what you believe, you can be this or you can be that as long as you're good. As long as you love your neighbor, you're okay. Where is the promise of his coming? Where is the promise of judgment? But the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any of us should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. in the which the heaven shall pass away with great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also And the works that are therein shall be burned up. What was the promise of God? He would not destroy the earth again with a flood But with fire. And so there's a judgment coming. And seeing that these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons should we be? Ought we to be in all holy conversation and godliness. Beware of scoffers Beware of mar of mockers. Stand for truth. Young people, if you are in a public educational institution, which I know some of our young people are. Your truth is going to be attacked. Creation will be attacked. The word of God will be attacked. Don't give in to the mockers. Young people with your friends, don't give in to the mockers. Child of God in your place of employment. Don't give in to the mockers. But rather, because these things will be dissolved, because this earth is headed for judgment. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. What manner of persons ought we to be? Next week, Lord willing, we're going to go in detail into the balance of this chapter, which shows us what we should do, how we should live in this present evil world. Let us stand for prayer.