Four years ago on Reformation Sunday, uh the Pope was in Philadelphia, you may recall. The man we read about this morning in the scriptures. And uh He was preaching in Philadelphia. I was preaching there too that day. Uh his congregation was a whole lot bigger than mine. My congregation was about this size, but My congregation, praise God, was of those who were the blood-bought redeemed of Christ. At that time, on that day, there was a man that the Pope had invited. to give the final address in this great conclave that they had gathered in Philadelphia And the Pope didn't invite another bishop or cardinal or someone like that. Who did he invite to give the keynote address in his great gathering in Philadelphia? Rick Warren. Rick Warren. And the Pope and the Cardinals and Bishops and Priests who were there all marched in in their regalia with their standards and all of this and came and sat in the front and on the platform and Rick Warren got up and welcomed them and said, Welcome, brothers in Christ. What heresy. What heresy. Well We need to remind ourselves what it means to be Protestant. What it means to be Protestant is to be a remnant. And actually, I'd like to take us this morning to a different scripture than the one that's listed in the bulletin. I'd like to take us to the first chapter of Acts this morning. Reading the first fourteen verses of that chapter Acts chapter 1, beginning at verse 1, this is the word of the Lord The former treatise have I made, and this is Luke, the writer, addressing Theophilus, the former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and the cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a Sabbath day's journey. And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode with both Peter and James and John and Andrew, Philip. And Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James. These all continued in one accord, with one accord, in prayer and supplication with the women, and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. Let's look to the Lord in prayer once again. Our Father, this morning we come before you For the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. We thank you, Father, that your word is quick, alive. And powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, that it is a discerner, a critic of the thoughts and intents of the heart Lord, all things are naked and open before you, as the writer goes on to tell us. This morning, Father, we are here, all of us. with different needs, with different issues of heart and mind Different spiritual needs and desires and conflicts And Father, we thank you that your Spirit works through your word to meet each one. And we pray, Father, today, that even as we speak of things pertaining to Reformation and to a remnant, that there would be words fitly spoken for the need of each heart here. We thank you that your spirit is able to do that because you have promised that your word will not return to you void, but will accomplish the purpose for which you have sent. We look now to you trusting in that promise. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well here we are this morning in the monsoon. And over a hundred thousand people have gathered for services at the three largest quote-unquote evangelical churches in America this morning. One of them's in Southern California, Saddleback, Rick Warren. Another one is in Houston, Joel Osteen. Another one is in Chicago, Willow Creek. And additionally, over 250 million people around the world will watch those services on television. But what are those people going to hear this morning? Well, if you watch any of those services on television, you find that these people don't hear instruction from the Word of God, even though at the beginning of a Joel Osteen service he'll have everybody raise their Bibles and repeat a mantra, this is my Bible, etc. That's the last time they ever have anything to do with the Bible that day. They hear a pep talk. They hear human philosophy that is often contrary to the plain teachings of the Word. Scripture is rarely mentioned, much less quoted. The name of Jesus is rarely mentioned. The gospel is not preached. A uh uh a television interviewer asked Joel Osteen why he hardly ever mentions the Bible in his sermons. This man was not a saved man, this interviewer. This was on 60 Minutes, if I recall He asked Joel Osteen, why is it that you hardly ever mention the Bible in your sermons? Why do you hardly ever mention Jesus Christ? And Joel Osteen's answer was, well, I don't believe that it's my calling to explain the Bible to people. My calling, he said, is to be a life coach. My calling is to help you, according to the title of my latest book at that time, to be a better you. He was there to promote his book. He made it clear that he doesn't believe that Jesus Christ is the only way to eternal life. And he said that he doesn't even think it's his place to judge whether atheists will go to heaven or not. Evangelical? Lost. Lost. Damned. And leading hundreds of thousands of people to hell These things are more and more typical, though, of the nominally evangelical church in our day. The gospel isn't necessarily the only gospel. Christ isn't necessarily the only way And doctrinal preaching is considered to be a demotivator. We can't do that. That drives people away. A lot of what the Bible has to say offends people, so we won't preach that. Well, tell them things that will build up their self-esteem. Well, the truth is these kinds of things may draw a crowd, but they don't lead people to a saving knowledge of Christ. And we can safely say, on the authority of the Word of God, that most of the people who attend the three largest evangelical churches in this world And who attend thousands of churches that are falling all over themselves to imitate those big three. People who come to those churches may leave the service feeling better about themselves. But they leave the service just as eternally lost as when they came in the door. But God's word tells us that this is not the way in which Christ builds his true church. Right. In fact, we find that God is not at all interested in numbers in the way that man in his flesh is interested in numbers. In fact, the pages of the Word of God tell us just the opposite. We find that God deals in remnants. Throughout the pages of Scripture, we find that God deals so very often in the small things. The passage that we read from Acts this morning talks about a remnant. And actually, this isn't the original New Testament remnant. The original remnant was twelve. Twelve apostles who spent three years with the Lord Jesus during his earthly ministry. But by this time, a very short time after Jesus had ascended to heaven, the remnant has become ten times that number, 120 people. gathered in an upper room in Jerusalem. And we need also to remind ourselves that along the way, between the twelve and hundred and twenty We read in John chapter 6 that there were many who followed Jesus. There were many Who John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, calls disciples, seekers. But when Jesus said hard words, They went away and followed him no more. And Jesus said to the twelve, Will you also go away? Well he knew the answer, but Peter said it. To whom shall we go? Amen. You have the words of life. Well, we have the twelve visibly becoming a larger number and then becoming much smaller again. We have 120 here. in the upper room. And that's growth. We have greater growth soon after that. 3,000 and then 5,000 and then more in Jerusalem. God does want to grow his church, and we should not make a fetish of smallness ever. But let's put these numbers, the 120, the 3,000, the 5,000, let's put them in their proper perspective. This was at Pentecost Hundreds of thousands of people, according to archaeologists and according to historians, Christian historians such as Alfred Eddersheim, who's very worth reading, the converted Jew who has a great deal to say about the Bible lands in the time of Christ. Hetterzheim and others tell us that thousands, hundreds of thousands, perhaps a million or more, had come to Jerusalem for Pentecost. And many of those people had witnessed the trial and the crucifixion of Jesus Christ firsthand because Passover preceded Pentecost. But only 120 are in the upper room. Only 120 true believers were obeying Christ's final instructions and waiting for the coming of the Holy Spirit. And even when 3,000 are added to the church on the day of Pentecost. It's still a small remnant, a small fraction of 1%, compared to the vast number of religiously observant Jews who had been there for the feast. It's interesting and instructive for us to notice who was there in the upper room as part of the remnant. Verse 13 of Acts chapter 1. The remaining eleven of the twelve original apostles are there. They're mentioned by name. Judas, of course, is not there. He was numbered with the twelve But he showed himself to be a betrayer. Verse 14: the women were there. And no doubt these were the women that Luke often speaks of in his gospel account. It's a phrase that he uses often in that book, the women. And he named some of them. Who were some of them? There was Mary Magdalene, out of whom the Lord had cast seven demons. There were other women who had followed Jesus from Galilee, who had ministered to him along the way, and these same women the gospels tell us were looking on from a distance as Jesus suffered and died on the cross. And they also came and sat opposite the tomb and observed where Jesus had been buried and early on the first day of the week some of these same women come and they're the first ones to discover the empty tomb And to learn from the angel that Christ has risen from the dead. And throughout his ministry, even in the providential acts of his death, burial, and resurrection, Jesus Had given a special and in those days unaccustomed attention to women. And throughout his ministry, he dealt with women in a way with a kindness and a respect and a sympathy that was simply not the way of either Jewish or Gentile men, by and large, in that time The Lord made it clear that although there is to be male authority in the church, women are not spiritual second-class citizens. Amen. So it's not insignificant that these women were part of the 120 in the upper room. And Luke names one particular woman. Mary, the mother of Jesus. She was part of this remnant. But she doesn't occupy some elevated status here. She's here along with the other women as part of a small faithful group In fact, this is the last we read of her by name in the Bible. But I would submit to you that this is not the last we hear of Mary in Scripture. We come to Acts chapter 2, verses 1 through 5. All of those gathered in the upper room are filled with the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. Mary was one of those. And this dear faithful lady who had been the mother of our Lord and Savior, who had endured seeing him suffer and die, was filled with the Holy Spirit She, along with the others, spoke supernaturally in other languages of the wonderful works of God on the day of Pentecost. I think that's what the text is telling us. And no doubt she was among those who were in the temple daily after that, as we're told, praising God and proclaiming Christ. A glorious and fitting end to the biblical account of Mary, the mother of Jesus, far better than the fictitious accounts of Roman Catholicism. But notice what the remnant was doing in the upper room. They were doing what Jesus had told them to do, which is certainly counterintuitive in terms of the thinking of church growth movements. Stay in Jerusalem and wait and pray until the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you receive power from Him to do the work that I've called you to do. Don't try to to do it without power. A praying, supplicating remnant. A remnant that waits upon the Lord for his resources. Is a remnant that receives power from God. And dear friends, we are a remnant today. Where are most people this morning? Well, because of the heavy rain, you probably didn't see them mowing their lawns or out on the golf course, but they would have been, if they could have been. A lot of them are going out shopping. Some might even, because they're fanatics about it, they might be going to a football game. We'll sit in a stadium with 70,000 other wet people. Or perhaps even worse, they're in church. And it's sad to say in our time I'm not just talking about mainline denominational churches. I'm not just talking about the Roman Catholic church. It's sad to say that in our time there are a lot of churches that have the words Baptist Church or Presbyterian Church or Bible Church. In their names, but they're not preaching the gospel. They don't hold to the inerrancy of Scripture. And man and his philosophies are in control in those churches. And the Word of God and the Spirit of God under the headship of Christ are not. in control. Well dear friends, on Reformation Sunday, we need to remind ourselves what it means to be a Protestant. It means to be a minority within a minority A small minority of our population is in church this morning, but most of that minority consists of people who are in a church service where they're being led astray from the truth. They're actually being inoculated against the truth. And in order to really understand our position today in the 21st century, I think we really need to run the clock back 500 years and think about how it was before the Reformation. How was it before Luther and Calvin and the others? Well there are three things that characterized that pre-Reformation position. First of all, the pre-Reformation environment was built on biblical illiteracy Biblical illiteracy. Before the Protestant Reformation, the Bible was untranslated except into the Latin of the Church. The Bible was literally chained to the pulpit. People couldn't read the actual Word of God in their own language. What do we have today in comparison with that? We have a parallel. The modern movements among evangelicals today are also built on biblical illiteracy. And it happens in two ways, I would submit to you. The first is through the deception of the Bible paraphrase The modern church makeover movements encourage biblical illiteracy by using and promoting so-called Bible versions that are not faithful translations of the Word of God at all, but they're man-centered paraphrases. The one that's become the most popular in our time is called the Message. The Bible in contemporary language is the subtitle, and tens of millions of copies of the message have been sold But it's actually not a Bible at all. It's a paraphrase written by one man, and the author of that Bible paraphrase was Eugene Peterson, a man who for thirty years was a pastor in the Liberal Presbyterian Church in Bel Air, Maryland, up the road. Peterson didn't believe the gospel. He didn't preach the gospel. He didn't believe in the virgin birth. He didn't believe in the deity of Christ. But he produced something that has sold tens of millions of copies that says Bible on the cover. But it's not the authentic Bible inside. And the second way that these makeover movements encourage biblical illiteracy is through their attitude towards Scripture. And Peterson reflected that. He said this. He was interviewed and he said Christians should be studying the Bible less, not more. You just need enough to pay attention to God. Well Scratch my head. How do you pay attention to God unless you pay attention to His Word? Well, the modern evangelical makeover movements say that you pay attention to God by going to a church service that's not a works worship service. Or a service where there's expository preaching, it's a staged entertainment event. It's a happening. And that brings us to a second way in which the church is returning to the pre-Reformation position. The pre-Reformation position emphasized going to church as an experience. experience. In the 15th century you didn't hear the word of God preached, you didn't really worship God, but you had an experience. You saw the pomp and the ceremony and the robes and the ornate altars and statues and the incense and the procession. And it was impressive. Well, today the church is going back to the pre-Reformation position of emphasizing the church as an experience. Today going to many evangelical churches means going to a carefully prepared show. And the emphasis is on performed music, often in the style of American Idol or MTV. rather than reverent congregational singing. The emphasis is on the stage setting, the lights, the sound system, the special effects. At the office, we get a magazine that comes out twice a month, I think, called Church Production. Church Production. And it's a magazine to tell churches how to do this. And every year there's a convention, actually it's a trade show, where thousands of evangelical pastors now go to spend a week finding out how they can turn their church services into a multimedia entertainment production. I went to one of those conventions a few years ago in Atlanta as an observer, and I was amazed. First of all, I thought it was going to be a younger crowd than it was. You had a lot of middle-aged pastors. You even had aged pastors on walkers going around in this thing. And there were not only all these sessions and workshops about how to do it, and every morning a devotional worship service with a rock band. But there was also uh some of you who are in business, you've probably been to trade shows, where they have a big exhibit hall where all the different manufacturers and vendors have booths where they show off their wear. Well that's what they had here. Church production, who's in the exhibit hall? Sony, Panasonic, all the rest of the religious The I I thought that the one thing that was really absolutely indicative of the whole thing, and this was the thing that people went after the most Fog machines. You can get a fog machine for your platform. Well, I think the fog machines were a metaphor for the whole thing. They were in a fog of unbelief. The twenty-first century church experience is different from the fifteenth century experience, but the emphasis once again is on experience, not on the preached word of God That's the second way the church is returning to the pre-Reformation position. Biblical literacy, church is an experience. And thirdly, The pre-Reformation position was pluralistic. Yes, there was one church, the Catholic Church, by and large, with few and precious exceptions. But Rome was then and is now the great chameleon. Over the centuries, even today, Rome is quite willing to adjust its message and its methods to bring pagan practices into the church in order to get people under the authority of the Catholic Church, just one example today. Roman Catholic churches in Indonesia and in Muslim parts of Africa and elsewhere use the name Allah in the Mass. instead of God or Jesus Christ. And they're doing it quite comfortably, and the goal is to gain numbers, whatever it takes. Whatever it takes. Does that sound familiar? Whatever it takes. That seems to be the motto of the church growth movements today Today the evangelical church is moving back in this in into this pre-Reformation position of inclusivism, bringing in all kinds of worldly practices just to get people to come And the evangelical church today is pluralistic about its beliefs. According to several reliable surveys in recent years, the most recent of which just came out last month Somewhere between two-thirds and three-quarters of self-described evangelicals in America today do not believe that Jesus Christ is the only way to eternal life. Do not believe that he's the only way. And there was a recent survey by LifeWay, which is the research arm of the Southern Baptist Convention. And it was a survey not merely of Southern Baptists but of evangelicals at large And they found, much even to their own surprise, I think, that two-thirds of evangelical pastors in America believe that the Pope of Rome is a genuine pastor. Christian and their brother in Christ. That's where we are today. It's in the pulpits. The evangelical church has largely forgotten what it means to be Protestant, and it seems that much of the evangelical church has simply forgotten what it means to be saved. We and others around the world this Lord's Day who gather to worship God in spirit and in truth And to be faithful to his word. We are a small remnant in this world this morning. But what does the Lord Jesus Christ say to us? Luke 12, 32. Fear not, little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And as we consider this remnant in Acts chapter 1, I'd like to briefly call our attention to three things about them. and about their situation. And the first is this, that sometimes those who were numbered among the remnant by our own estimation in the end prove to be unbelievers. There are different kinds of people, like the parable of the soils in Matthew 13. Some identify visibly with God's remnants. for a period of time, but then they fall away. Some receive the word with joy, but they only endure for a while. They fall away when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word. And with others it's the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches that choke the word. And with others, it's other things. But I think that many people in the churches that preach a prosperity gospel. Today are like that. The cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word. Others are real betrayers of God like Judas. And how did Paul warn the Ephesian elders at Acts chapter 20 when he was leaving them? He said, The time will come when savage wolves will come in among you, even from your own Visible number. Speaking perverse things, drawing people away from the truth. Second Corinthians 11, Paul warned that the church would see false apostles, deceitful workers, who adopt the outward appearance of being apostles of Christ, but inwardly their ministers And the Apostle John in his second epistle warned against Antichrists, who for a time were among the brethren, but he says these went out from us in order that they might be made manifest. That they in fact were not of us. The dividing line that inevitably differentiates these people from true believers is the Word of God and the testimony. And in the end, if they're not his, they will outright deny Christ. They will insist that it has to be Christ plus something else. else. Or God's word plus something else. They will not abide in the truth. We must abide in it The second thing I want to remind us of is that it's God who adds people to the remnant. And it's never too late for God to add someone to the remnant. And who he adds to the remnant might surprise us. We see that in the upper room. In this account, we find that Jesus' brothers are here among the hundred and twenty. Jesus brothers who didn't believe on him by while he was alive, Jesus brothers who were offended by him and by his message. Jesus brothers who were convinced that he was a madman. But now they're here in the remnant. They're here. And of these brothers, one of them, James, would become the leader of the church at Jerusalem and the convener of the council at Jerusalem which dealt with the first seeds of legalism and false gospels. in the church. And another brother of Jesus, Jude, would write that short, powerful epistle that comes right before Revelation. And in the first verse of that epistle, he refers to himself simply as Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James. He didn't insist on any special status because Jesus' mother and his mother were the same person. We never know who the Lord's going to place within the remnant or how he might use such a person. God may also surprise us with who he adds to the remnant in another way. He may surprise us by adding someone who we thought was already a Christian. Martin Lloyd Jones, who many of you are familiar with, I'm sure I consider him to probably have been the greatest preacher of the 20th century. When he went to pastor his first church in Wales in 1927, he began to preach the gospel as it as it had not been preached there in a long time. One of the first people who was saved was the man who for years had been head of the church board. After about ten months under Martin Lloyd Jones preaching, he realized that he wasn't saved. He came to Christ. Another surprising convert during the early days of Martin Lloyd Jones' ministry was his own wife. They were newlyweds when he went to that church. They began ministry at that church right after their honeymoon. And she had only heard Martin Lloyd-Jones preach for the first time a few months before this. And on that occasion he preached on the account of Zacchaeus in Luke chapter 19. And the main point of his message was that all men in all circumstances are equally in need of salvation. from sin. There is no difference. And she later said, when she recounted this in a book that she wrote, she said, I resented being told that I was in the same category with someone who was not religious at all. And so she went through a state of unrest that lasted quite some time. And she later wrote this. In the book that she wrote, she said, I was for two years under Martin's ministry before I really understood what the gospel was I used to listen to him on Sunday morning and I used to feel, well, if this is Christianity, I really don't know anything about it. And on Sunday night I used to pray that somebody would be converted. I thought you had to be a drunkard or a prostitute to be converted. I remember How I used to rejoice to see drunkards become Christians and envy them with all my heart, because here they were, full of joy and free, and here I was, in such a different condition. And during this time she felt a growing conviction of sin, and she came to a point where she wondered if her sin could be greater than the merits of the blood of Christ. But her husband counseled her patiently, and at last she came to understand the gospel. She came to understand That Christ's atonement, as she put it, was well able to clear my sins away. And so the pastor's own life was added to God's remnant. In that particular case. God deals in remnants. And he does great things for remnants. In the book of Judges, we read, of course, that God paired Gideon's army down from 32,000 to 300 before he used them to defeat the Midianites. Gideon? You've got too many men. I'm gonna whittle you down to just a few so that when you win the victory you'll know that you didn't do it. You didn't do it by your own power, but you will know that I was the one who gave these people into your hands. We read in 1 Samuel chapter 14 about Jonathan, the son of Saul and his armor-bearer. And Jonathan said to his armor bearer, come on, let's just you and us, you and me, the two of us, let's go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised Philistines. It may be that the Lord will work for us. Because nothing restrains God from saving by many or by few. God gave them a great victory that day. And of course we read in Romans 11 the Apostle Paul speaks of the prophet Elijah. He says, do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah, how he pled leads with God against Israel and says, Lord, they've killed your prophets, they've torn down your altars. I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what saith the answer of God unto him, I have reserved to myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal Even so then, Paul says, at this time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. And in our time, faithful men and women who have left churches that are no longer standing for the truth they meet And I've gotten to meet with them on many occasions, and I consider it a great privilege. Times intense. In school buildings, in firehouses, storefronts, private homes. Because folks understand that it's not numbers that are of primary importance, but the truth as it is found only in Christ and in his word. Exactly. Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. But the remnant needs to be a faithful remnant. The remnant needs to be doing what the upper room remnant was doing. We read that they were continuing with one accord in prayer and supplication, seeking the face of God. And I think that at our very best we can say to our shame that God's remnant does far too little of that today. I must plead to God. Guilty. Praying is the preparation for doing. But so often, far too often, we want to be busy doing things without adequate preparation in prayer It's also clear from the verses and chapters that follow this passage in Acts that these folks, the remnant, were in the Word of God. God. Jesus had opened the understanding of the apostles before he left them so that they could understand the scriptures. And it's evident that even during those intervening days. Between the ascension and Pentecost, that they were growing in their understanding of the Word. And so it must be for God's remnant today as well The Bible must be the sole authority and the infallible critic of God's remnant in every area of life and ministry. That is what it means to be A Protestant also. Nothing else but the word. Dear friends, I am thankful for the work that the Lord I'm thankful that the Word of God is being faithfully preached. I'm thankful that Christ's gospel is being proclaimed and that There is a heart for the lost. And that worship is centered on Jesus Christ and not on man. And my wife, who couldn't be here today because she's about 48 hours behind me in fighting a 48-hour bug. Uh we're praying for you regularly together, she and I. And I know and I trust that each of you will be praying and seeking to do your part by the power of the Holy Spirit. to bring others into the remnant, recognizing that it's God who does it. And even now God is at work. He's using the lowly things, the insignificant things as we read Read in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, the weak things. He's using even the likes of you and me, weak as we are, to confess the mighty, the proud, the strong, and the prominent in human terms. Dear friends, we have God's word. We have the indwelling Holy Spirit. We are the temples of the living God in this world. May we never let go of God's word. May we never be ashamed May we never stop preaching it. May we never stop living it, believing it. May we never forget what it means to be a Protestant. Let's look to the Lord in prayer.