If you have your place now in Romans 13, we're going to read verses 11 through 14 and then turn over to Ephesians chapter 5 as well. Romans 13 and verse 11. And knowing that the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. And let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness Not in strife and envy. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to fulfill it in the lust thereof. And then turn over with me to Ephesians chapter 5. And here I'm going to read verses 13 through 16 of Ephesians 5. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Give thee light See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Let us bow for prayer as we begin to look at God's Word this morning. Heavenly Father, we thank you again that this book before us is not a book of man's wisdom. It is not a collection of the intelligence of humankind. But this book, rather, is the very inspired Word of God. It's given by inspiration. It is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for instruction, for correction and righteousness. And so, Father, bless it to our hearts this morning. Father, we confess before you that we human beings, living in these bodies of flesh and dwelling in this world of sin, are heart of heart. And Lord, it is so easy for us to hear the word of God and take no heed to it. But Lord, may we not be forgetful hearers, but may we rather look into the perfect law of liberty. And Father, this morning, may we indeed not have our ears tickled, but may we have our souls stirred. May we not deal with your word simply on the upper emotional level But Father, may you implant your word deeply within our hearts. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Whenever we approach a New Year, we talk about New Year's resolutions and uh just having come through Thanksgiving quickly followed by Christmas and most of us still having Pans and pots and Tupperware filled with Christmas cookies that need to be gotten rid of. We make resolutions about our weight. We make resolutions about our exercise. We make resolutions about our habits We make resolutions about the things that we're going to accomplish in this new year. And so when we come to the end of one year and we approach another year, we think a lot about time. And if you remember back two weeks ago when we considered the fullness of time when God sent forth his son, and we observed that God is not controlled by time. That God is not regulated by the sun and the moon as we are. But we are creatures of time. And it is good for us to pause and consider what time it is. And I think we do that on a common level constantly throughout the day. We live by clocks and we look at the clock, but what time is it for us spiritually? What time is it for the people of God? And we find here in Ephesians that we're to be redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. Now, ladies, you know what it means to redeem a coupon. You go to the store and you take the coupon with you and Uh Penny and I pulled into a store this week and they had a big sign, triple coupons. I remember when double coupons was the big thing. Triple coupons. Well you you cash it in And you better do it this week because it expires on Friday. So we we redeem that coupon. We grab it while it is available. Now, the children of God are to be redeeming the time. We are to be lights in a dark world. The gospel of Jesus Christ is to shine From us and through us. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither the men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but they put it on a candlestick and they give it light to all that are in the room. We're to be redeeming the time Because we live in an evil time. The days are evil. And so going back to what is actually our text this morning, there in Romans chapter We find there in the eleventh verse of Romans chapter thirteen Knowing uh that and that knowing the time, it is now time to awake out of sleep. What time is it? It's time for God's people to wake up. It's time for us to wake up. It is so easy to sleep away the years that God has given us on this earth to serve Him. It is so easy to be so busy about the things of this world and yet to be sound asleep and snoring spiritually. And to do nothing for the master. Knowing the time Then it is high time. And that term high time, you know what it means? It means right now. It means now. The time has come. We don't use that term high time much in our modern English, but 100 years ago it was used constantly. And you know why it was used constantly 100 years ago? Because they read their Bible Because they were familiar with the phraseology of Scripture. It's high time to awake out of sleep. The days are evil. If you look at verse 14, it says there back in the passage in Ephesians, sorry, Ephesians 5 and verse 14. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth. Rise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. What is our time ordered by? Well sunlight. Sorted by sunlight. My alarm clock didn't go off this morning. I don't know for whatever reason my clock didn't go off. I always get up early Sunday morning and spend time in prayer and go over my notes and try to organize my thoughts and make that final preparation. My alarm clock didn't go off this morning. I woke up when the light came in the window. We're ruled by light. What is it that Paul says here in Ephesians? Awake from your sleep. And Christ shall give you light. But you notice there in verse fourteen of Ephesians five, it says, Wherefore he saith. Now when we find a phrase like wherefore he saith, it Sends us back to Scripture. This has been said before, and yet we don't find a direct quotation of what Paul is saying here in Ephesians 5 anywhere in Scripture. But we do know where it comes from Paul is referring back to Isaiah chapter 60, verses 1 through 3. Let me read them to you. Arise and shine, for the light has come, the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people, but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee, and the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness This reference to light in scripture that Paul is using when he says, Arise from your sleep And Christ shall give you light. It is the light of the gospel. It is the light of the glory of Jesus Christ. It is that message which the shepherds proclaimed to the angels proclaimed to the shepherds. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. And the Savior is Christ the Lord. It's time for us to wake up. Now consider the state of men that are asleep. Men that are sleeping are first of all inactive. Oh, we may toss and turn. But we're not doing a thing that's productive. We may ticket the sheets and readjust the pillows, but we're inactive. We are not productive when we are asleep. The disciples slept when they should have been watching. You see, Christ knew that Judas was on his way. Christ knew that Judas had already gotten a band of soldiers for the high priest. And Christ is in the garden in great agony, crying out to his father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And his disciples were asleep. What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Christ is heading for the cross. The betrayer is on the way. And the ones that were closest to the Messiah were asleep. Now, we are governed by time. The disciples did not know what was coming, but Christ said, watch and pray lest ye enter into temptation. But how often we as Christians, we as believers, we as the Church of Jesus Christ, when we should be awake and busy because we're to be redeeming the time, we're to be buying back the time. Yet we're asleep, we're inactive. But also, when men sleep, they are insensible. They are unaware of their surroundings. One time in Jamaica, a thief came and stole bicycles and gas cans and shovels and all kinds of things off the porch of our house. And we were asleep. My German shepherds weren't asleep. They were ignorant. But we were asleep. We were insensible. We didn't know about it until I was I was actually in town and I get a call from Penny that we've been robbed overnight. You see, when men are asleep, they're insensible. Samson's hair was cut. While he slept. But we as the people of God are going through this world asleep. And men are lost and dying to hell. Dying and going to hell. We are to be lights in the world. We are to be the testimony of Jesus Christ. We are to point men to the Savior. And yet, how often we are asleep. Spiritual sloth results in laziness and devotion. Spiritual sloth results in dullness of conscience to sin. Spiritual sloth results in yielding to temptation. Spiritual sloth results in drifting from sound doctrine It's high time to awake from sleep, for our salvation is nearer than when we believed. And that's what we find there in verse 11. Look at the last part of verse 11 of Romans 13 and into verse 12. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us cast off the works of darkness. The night is far spent, and our salvation is nearer than when we believed. Now, what is what does Paul mean by that? That our salvation is nearer than when we believed. Well Our salvation, the first instance, is justification. When we are saved, we are justified. We are made right before God. And those of you who who uh work in any form of accounting, you know what it is to justify. You justify the the accounts. You bring them into right accounting. Those of you who work in any kind of construction, you know what it is to justify. You bring all the components of whatever it is you're building into proper alignment They line up. You don't want a wall that goes like this. It must be straight and true. Our salvation in the first instance is justification. That is the work of God when we are saved. We are made in right fellowship. We are just before God. Our salvation day by day is the work of sanctification. Each day I should be more like Christ and less like the old man. I started to say less like the devil, and really that's that's a good way to put it. Every day, that work of sanctification within me should be continually. And that's what Paul said: O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? And the things that I would, I don't do, and the things that I would not, those I do. But day by day, I should be growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ Day by day, my words, my thoughts should be more conformed to his and less of the world. The children in Jamaica used to sing a little chorus, the things I used to do, don't do them anymore There's been a great change since I've been born again. And so we are fully justified by God. We are daily sanctified by God, but the days coming won't be glorified. Justification, sanctification, and glorification. When shall I awake in his likeness? Brethren, the finishing of that work, the glorification, is nearer than when we believed. And Christ's coming is nearer than it was yesterday. Behold, I come quickly. Jesus Christ may come today. Will you be asleep? Jesus Christ may come today. Will you be busy about the master's business? Behold, I come quickly. But further we find that we're to be awake because we are not of the darkness. We've been delivered from darkness. Turn over with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. I'll give you a moment to turn there. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We as the children of God are children of light. We're not of the darkness of this world. 1 Thessalonians 5, and I'll start in verse 4. First Thessalonians chapter five verse four But ye brethren are not in darkness that the day should overtake you as a thief. In other words, you're not sleeping, you're not in darkness. Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as do others. But let us walk and be sober, sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night. And they that are drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath. But obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. It's time for God's people to wake up because we are not of this night, but we are of the day. So it's time to wake up. But then also I would have as a sea from this passage in Roman, it's time to get dressed. Look at the passage again with me. Look at verse 12 and 13. Romans 13, verse 12. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. And let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chamberings and wantonness, not in strife and envy. I'm not going to ask if anyone here slept in the clothes you're wearing. But I venture to say that we all got up and took off the nightclothes and got dressed to come to church. As God's children, it's time for us to get dressed. But before we can get dressed, we have to take off the night shirt. We have to get rid of the clothes. And look what he says there. Let us cast off the works of darkness. Ah, you see, Christ has awoken his people from the death of sin to life in him, and yet a lot of believers are still wearing the clothes of darkness. They're still wearing the clothes of the night. We're not of the night, we saw in 1 Thessalonians. So why do we wear the night's clothing? Let us cast off the works of darkness. And Paul gets more specific here. He says, not in rioting and drunkenness. That is not in the the public lewdness of our world, not in all the excess of this world, not in its iniquities and open sin and be Sin becoming more and more open day by day. Those things are not the testimony of light. Those things are not the entertainment of the believer. But it's cast off the works of darkness. They're not of us. We're not of the night, we're of the day. Why are we still carrying the world's baggage? Let us cast off the works of darkness. Paul said, or Peter said in 1 Peter 1, and I'll just read this to you: 1 Peter 1, verse 13 through 16. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy And so, if we as the children of God are going to go on to the steps of being clothed in the armor of light and being clothed in Christ Himself, first of all, we've got to cast off the nightclothes. We've got to cast off the works of darkness. He says, not in chamberings and wantonness. Chamberings, a chamber, a secret place where we hide our favorite sin. Our sins that we would blush in great shame if anyone in the church knew about them, but oh, how we hold on to them in ourselves. Not in chamberings, in wantonness. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall have mercy, abstain from fleshly lust. Which war against her soul. Not in strife and envy. This is social sins. This is the bickering and fighting that so often takes over, even within the body of Christ. Let each esteem others better than themselves. Let us love one another fervently with all charity. Let us have patience with one another. Not always looking for me, me, me, but rather looking for others. May we as the children of God dwell in unity Paul said in Ephesians 4, verse 31, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. If we're to ever be clothed in the garments of the day, we have to cast off the garments of the night. And strife and envy are among those. But then we are to put on, we are to get dressed to put on the armor of the day. And look again with me at verse 12. Where Paul says, the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. This armor of light has reference back to the Roman soldiers. And most of us have seen illustrations of the soldiers of the Roman I'll get my tug straightened here in a moment. Most of us have seen illustrations of the armor that their Roman soldiers wore And there was a shining shield that they would carry. And there was also a breastplate that was almost chromed. It was polished. And the Roman army, when they were attacking, always liked to attack into the sun. And the reason was their armor was like mirrors. And w we've all sometimes been driving down the road and someone's headlight from behind us catches our side view mirror and it woo hits you in the eye. It says bright. That's what Paul is referring to, be clothed in armor of light. When the Roman army would come forward, this light was shining from them, it was intimidating. Well, brethren, we're not to have an intimidating light, we're to have a healing light. We are to reflect the glory of God to the darkness of the world. We're not of the night, we're of the day. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. And you know what? When you look into a bright light, you can't see who's behind the light, can you The light obscures its source. And that is what we are as children of God. We're children of light. Men don't see us. But they see the source of our light. They are to see Christ in us. And you see, when we as the children of God are awake spiritually and have cast off the works of darkness, Then the light of the gospel can shine from us. Then we can be clothed in the armor of light. Then we we can truly bear the fruit of the Spirits, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, tenderness, meekness, against such there is no law. Once we've cast off the clothes of the night and been clothed in the armor of Christ, the light of Christ. But brethren, it goes even further than that. For look with me closely at verse 14. And this is, this is, we can't miss this, folks. And put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it thereof. Now Typically, when we talk about putting something on, our modern use of that term is a sarcastic use or a hypocritical use. Oh, he puts on airs. Yeah, he acts like he's something he's not. Or you're putting me on, you're you're teasing me. And it's unfortunate that the English term has gotten twisted around away from that which Paul was saying here and our translators were put here were saying here. We are to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, we're to be made in his image. We are to be as he was On earth. We are to be as him. In Isaiah chapter 61, verse 10, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. That is the putting on of Christ. He has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with jewels And we read in Galatians 3, verse 27: For as many of us of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. And in Ephesians 4, verse 24, and put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. You see, there is to be a new appearance of the believer. It is to be the image of Christ. Oh, that I may be made in his likeness. Let me read read to you a little bit. I don't often read, but I want to get this right. This is largely from Adam Clark, from one of the commentators that I am very blessed by. To be clothed with the person with a person is a Greek phrase, signifying to assume the interest of another To enter into his views, to imitate him, to be holy on his side, to be filled with his principles, to imitate his example, to copy his spirit, to become like him. The mode of speech itself is taken from the custom of stage players that assume the name and garments of the person whose character they are to act. And endeavor as closely as possible to imitate him in their spirit, words, and actions. You think about an actor who you can't distinguish the actor from the one he's imitating. Well, that's to be clothed with Christ, to imitate him in our lives, to have his spirit so filling our spirit that we are no longer ourselves. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Thus, to put on the Lord Jesus means to take him as a pattern and guide, to imitate his example. The Lord Jesus was was unlike what uh had been specified in the previous verses. He was temperate Chaste, pure, peaceable, and meek, and to put him on was to imitate him in these precepts And then there's a Hebrew aspect as well. The ancient Hebrew writers used to talk about putting on the Shekinah. To put on the glory of the Lord, that divine majesty. And it signified the soul being clothed with immortality. Man was created in the image of God. Man was made naked in the garden. Think about that. Man was created in the image and the likeness of God. But in the garden, man was made naked. Adam and Eve knew that they were naked. Why did they not know that their bodies were unclothed before sin? Because they were clothed in the likeness of God. They were created in his image. But sin took away from man the image of God. It took away that likeness. But Christ clothes his people in the robes of righteousness. He covers our nakedness. He restores in man the image of God And so it is time for God's people to wake up. It is time for God's people to get dressed, to live in the image of Christ. To truly have our lives conformed in every area and every precept unto Him. But then also we find in this passage. It's time for God's people to get busy. We don't wake up to do nothing. We wake up because there's a day ahead of us. Look at verses 13 and 14 of Romans 13. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envy. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. Does that sound passive? No, those are active verses. Those are active words. Let us walk honestly as in the day. Let us walk according to the character that we've received from Christ. Let us walk as he walked. Ye are the salt of the earth, but a salt has lost its savour, wherewith shall be salted. It is then so good for nothing but to be cast out to be trodden under the foot of man. We've lost our saltiness. It's time for God's people to get busy. But then he says there the last phrase of verse 14. And make no provision for the flesh to fulfill it in the lust thereof. Don't make provision for the flesh. Don't give the filthy garments a place to come back. There was a man that my father knew many years ago. He was the town drunk. And he got saved and he was never drunk again. He lived in godliness and righteousness, a tremendous testimony in the early days of the church. My father pastored, but he told my dad, he said, You know, I cannot go within a hundred feet of a saloon. He said, I can s I can smell it. He said, if I get anywhere where that faint smell of the alcohol comes, I cannot resist that temptation. And so I have to stay that far away. He was fulfilling this verse. He was not making provision for the flesh. Ah, brethren, we know ourselves better than we would like anyone else to know us We know our temptations. We know our weaknesses. Let's get busy living in righteousness. It's time for God's people to get busy. And then not give Satan any room. That verse, neither give place to the devil. That word place literally means a beachhead. It means a tiny little spot of land, a toehold on Normandy, from which you can conquer the whole continent. It's time for God's people to get up, to get dressed, and to get busy about the Father's business. Let us stand for prayer and then we're going to go into our communion service. Our gracious, kind, and loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the instruction that we find therein. Father, implant your word deeply within our hearts, we pray. And Lord, we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, maybe