First book of Samuel, as we continue our pilgrimage through that book, chapter by chapter and verse by verse. 1 Samuel chapter 13. It begins here that Samuel had reigned one year, and when he had reigned two years over Israel, so you just get an idea, a little bit of time has taken place. uh since the last chapter. Beginning verse one, Samuel reigned one year, and when he had reigned two years over Israel, Saul, that is King Saul, chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with King Saul in Mi'mash. And in Mount Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan, Jonathan is his oldest son, in Gibeah of Benjamin. And the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent So he kept a standing army of three thousand. And Jonathan verse three smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Giba. And the Philistines heard of it, and Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. And we know that the Philistines did had really pretty much overrun Israel. They had garrisons in a lot of the little cities throughout the land. And here we find Jonathan smoke one of them. And all Israel heard say that Saul has smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also had an abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal. And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen And people as the sand, which is on the seashore in multitude. And they came up and pitched in Miqmash eastward from Beth Haven. And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, in a predicament, so to speak, for the people were distressed, then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits So the Israelites were quite afraid of these Philistines. And some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him, trembling. And he tarried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. And if we go back to chapter ten, we we find that Saul was always to go down to Gilgal and wait seven days for Samuel to come and give him advice According to the set time that Samuel had appointed, but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him, as they began to scatter and leave Saul. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me, and a peace offering, and he offered the burnt offering. And it came to pass that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came. And Saul went out to meet him that he might salute him, or greet him, or bless him. And Samuel said in verse 11, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw the people were scattered from me, and if thou cameest not within the days appointed, and if the Philistines gathered themselves in Micmash Therefore said I the fills and to come down now upon me to guild them have not made supplication on the Lord. I forced myself therefore and I offered a burnt offering And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly. Thou hast not kept the commandment of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee. For now would the Lord have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever. But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee And of course we know that the man that after God's own heart will be David, and we'll be introduced to him in just a couple of chapters. Saul had spoke to s been spoken to by Samuel that he had not kept God's commandment, that he had sinned. And so I've I've titled a message this morning because when you first look at it With all the reasons and excuses for what King Saul has done, it it seems like a minor sin. In fact, the title of the message, What's a Little Sin? Scholar had reigned two years, we first read, and Jonathan, his oldest son, we read he's the oldest son from 1 Samuel 14 and verse 49. Jonathan, his oldest son, smote the garrison of the Philistines And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with the Israelites. Jonathan, desiring to eradicate the pagan oppressive influence of the Philistines, made his move. His Christlike action stirred up a hornet's nest. As some of you might recall, when you start witnessing to a family member or something, it can stir up a hornetness. And so we go to verses six and seven. And the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, they were in a bind, they were between a rock and a hard place, for they didn't have as large an army available at such a quick notice And the people, it says, for the people were distressed in verses six and seven. And they hid themselves in caves, and they hid themselves in high places, and some went over the Jordan River into the land of Gad. They fled the whole area This was all he was in Gilgal, an area of Benjamin, and all the people following him, and he had some following him, not a lot, but they were following him. Trembling. So I hope you can see the picture. Saul looks out. Everyone's running and hiding and scattering and fleeing. And those he's got with him are a bunch of cowards, but they don't leave him. They're trembling. These isolates had believed that replacing the prophet Samuel with a king would make them free from all these terrifying situations as the likes of the Philistines. They just thought we don't need a prophet, we don't need a man of God, we don't need Samuel. If we can have a king like other nations We won't have these problems anymore with the Philistines. And so they had themselves a king, and yet they find here that the Israelites were now distressed, verse 6, discouraged, disheartened, and deserting their new king But for the few who trembling, verse 7 followed Saul. God was teaching his people, and I hope we are learning the same lesson today But God was teaching his people as we read in Psalm one hundred and forty six, verses three through five, put not your trust in princes. Or rulers in whom there is no help. Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help Have you noticed in times past when America has a a conservative leader, what appears to be a uh a real uh staunch uh constitutionalist or whatever, a strong military backing him And the economy tends to be very good that we we tend to forget the need of God, we tend to forget the need of Christ as our Savior, we tend to neglect prayer, we tend to neglect reading the scriptures, we tend to neglect fellowship and going to church. Have you noticed how that works? That's what they were doing here. They had a leader. They had a prince. They had a man who was ruling that they had so much confidence in. And the economy was good and things were going well, and they had a strong, yet a strong military. They were just scattered at this point. A country is always better off with men leading them like Samuel. A country is always better off with a man like Samuel who loves God than a bunch of great generals. If you have a choice to have a lot of great generals and a great military or having a man of God like Samuel, you want the man of God and not the great generals You want men of prayer, not great politicians. You want men who put great stock in the scriptures and not those who put their faith in the stock brokers. And so here was Saul, beside himself, perplexed in a predicament, people fleeing, hiding. Those with him trembling, little encouragement. He heads down to Gilgal where Samuel had told him in 1 Samuel chapter 10 that when you have need of me, go to Gilgal, send word I will come within seven days. And so he tarries for seven days according to the set time of first Samuel ten verses seven and eight that Samuel had appointed for him. But Samuel came not. And the people were scattered from Saul. They began leaving him. Maybe on the fourth or fifth day, some left. By the sixth day, more left. By the seventh day, everyone seemed to be leaving Saul. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me in verse 9, and he offered a burnt offering The seventh day was winding down, and as we read here, the Philistines were just a few miles away in Mi'mash. They were gathering, they were coming closer, and the closer they got, the more Saul's army that was fleeing, the people were fleeing or hiding And the day, the seventh day was winding down, and Saul was running out of time, and he was running out of patience. And so he takes action beyond the powers delegated to him. When a ruler of a nation takes upon himself the powers not delegated to him as the commander of that nation, it's going to get him in trouble. He was not allowed to offer a sacrifice. It was totally contrary to Scripture. That was a power delegated to the Levite priest Paul Saul was a Benjamite. He was not a Levite, he was not a priest. But here he is. He's the ruler of the nation and he decides that if he can't get it done in one way, he'll get it done another. And so he takes upon himself powers not delegated to him. He does things contrary to the words of the judges of the land. Samuel was that judge who had told him to wait seven days. And he didn't wait seven days. The seventh day wasn't over yet. The seventh day was winding down, but it wasn't over with yet. And so he's not doing what the judge said. He's not doing what the law of God says He's taken upon himself powers and positions that he has no authority. Sounds a little familiar, doesn't it? He was acting contrary to the word of God, contrary to Saul. He concluded it was the seventh day was almost over. And he needed the sacrifice of burnt offering, and even though priests only priests could do that, it's recorded in Leviticus 2 and verse 2. And Saul knew that, he knew that law, that only priests could offer a sacrifice. He knew that, the burnt offering. And he's not the only ruler, the only king we find in Israel who will do something like this. We go back, or rather we go forward just a a few kings and we run to a king named Uzziah. He was a he was a man of God, he was a good king, he was a great king, but he became so popular. King Uzziah was as as popular as President Obama was eight years ago. He was so popular and he was so prosperous and he was so powerful that he became filled with pride And King Isaiah one day decided that he could take upon himself other responsibilities, not delegate him as a king, and he walks into the temple of God with a censor burner. He's going to burn incense at the altar And the priest comes in and says, you are stepping outside of your re realm of powers. You're not delegated. You're not authorized to do this And Uzziah says step aside. And uh about eighty more priests gathered around him and said, You can't do this. You have no right to do this. But he went in the temple to burn the incense upon the altar, and the priests withstood him. We read here in 1 2 Chronicles 26. 16 through 21. And King Uzziah was wroth with the priest. How dare you tell me what I cannot do in God's house? And leprosy rose up on his forehead Unto the day of his death. Saul, as King Uzziah would do later on, was meddling in sacred affairs Saul was meddling in sacred affairs and theological matters of the church, and he was meddling in such a way contrary to Scripture and contrary to the laws of God. We find some of that going on today when we we hear of bureaucrats and and uh politicians telling us that we we can't pray everywhere. We've been told that for several decades now you can't pray in the public schools. We're told you can't pray if you're in uniform We're told unless you're a chaplain, and the chaplain's told he can't pray in the name of Jesus Christ. And so we find that we can't pray everywhere, we can't pray always, and we're told our children they can give book reports They can give book reports in school. I remember when I was in school you could you give give a book report on a topic of cancer and catch her in the rye and and Fanny uh I think it was Fanny Hill. Pornographic books, okay. But you couldn't bring in and give a report on the book of Samuel or the Book of Matthew or the Book of Mark. You could give a you could give a book report on Karl Marx, but not a book report on Matthew. You could give a book report on Lenin, but you couldn't give a book report on the book of Luke. And that's the way it was when I was in school and then high school. No Bible's allowed And so he was meddling in sacred affairs like our politicians do today, in theological matters of the church, contrary to the scriptures, contrary to the laws. He was acting like a despot. And that's what happens when you have a ruler who begins to meddle into the sacred affairs of the church. Perhaps all envisioned. Being the savior of his people. And I think he did. He was a king. He wanted to go out there in the battle and save his people from the Philistines. He saw himself as being a savior of the people. I hope you can catch this. He wanted to savior the people without A proper sacrifice. He'd give him a sacrifice, but it wouldn't be biblical. It wouldn't be appropriate. It wouldn't be proper. He was willing to Think he could be the savior of his people without a proper sacrifice. And there are so many people today, maybe you know them. Do you do you know people who think salvation can be had by their own sacrifices Rather than the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross? They think they can be saved by their own sacrifices? That's not a proper sacrifice for salvation. The things we do in life we sacrifice, maybe we tithe, maybe we we give ourselves uh Paul says you may give your body to be burned, but if you have not love for Christ, have not love for God, it it's the s tinkling cymbals and uh clanking brass, I mean it's nothing. We cannot sacrifice enough to save ourselves. Every sacrifice. Paul says it is only reasonable service if you give her body to be burned. We owe him everything. And an improper sacrifice will not save us. But I think that Saul here had an idea that he could save his people with a sacrifice that was inappropriate. The sacrifice, anything less than the sacrifice of Christ will not save us. Now note in verses 10 and 11, as soon as he made an end of the offering. Now remember it's the seventh day. It's the seventh day and more and more people leaving, they're leaving faster and and I see that down there maybe in the valley about two miles away in Mi'kmash, you can see the the Philistines gathering, the bigger and bigger crowd. He said, It's like the sands of the shore. I can't I can't even number 'em. They're getting larger, my crowd's getting smaller. And it's the seventh day of the eighth hour, the tenth hour, the twelfth hour. I can't wait any longer. Obviously, Samuel's not coming, and he does the sacrifice. And verses 10 and 11, as soon as he made an end of the offering Samuel came and said, What hast thou done Your mother ever say that to you? What hast thou done? Wait till your father hears about this. What hast thou done, Saul? Because of this in verse 13, thy kingdom shall not continue. Thy kingdom shall not continue. Saul's impatience here proved he was unfit to rule. May I say that again? His impatience proved he was unfit to rule. When you have politicians and rulers and they're and they have no patience to wait on their Congress or their Senate or their legislature or the Supreme Court, they're going to just do it with a with a pin and a phone. My patience has run out with him. That's what we hear our presence say. When you have someone who has no patience, they're unfit to rule. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim, do you lack patience? Do you like patience with others? Let me give you some ideas. You you want to know where the the least amount of patience it's It's in the young people. Now, young people don't be insulted by that because we were all young ones too. And the older we get, the more patience we ought to have. But if you want to see if there's any patience in young people, visit the school, high school parking lot. And the tires of the car are just squealing out the parking lot. They gotta get out of it. They're in a hurry. And you look around the parking lot and you see black treadmarks all over the parking lot. They lack patience How delighted we are if we give our daughter uh permission to go out with some young fella and she gets in the car and he seems like a nice young fella and and then as they leave they squeal away out the front yard. Oh my goodness You're afraid you're going to get your daughter killed. You're in a restaurant and you've ordered your meal. And everybody's comes but yours. Well maybe yours requires more preparation or something. And and I've seen people when they're waiting for the meal I say and as soon as the meal comes, you know what I've seen them do? I waited long enough and they slam down their napkin and they get and they walk out of the restaurant And the food's there. Looks delicious, looks w good. They don't like waiting that long. No patience. Why do you think you're called a waitress? And you have no patience to wait for the waitress. And sometimes they'll tell you, look, what you've ordered requires a little more preparation, so that's not going to be out the rest of the meals. But some people haven't they have no patience Do you think that when you visit a home, everybody seems wonderful and and uh they seem so warm and cozy and what a wonderful household this must be? Now I don't do this, so if you think that I've done this in your house, I didn't. I only thought of this this morning. But ask to use their bathroom And look at the few scuff marks on the door of the bathroom. And you know that there's some kids in that house that aren't patient, because the sisters in there, or the two sisters, or the seven kids, and you look at the number of scuff marks on the door and you'll find out this is a house for some people without patience. You're driving around and you see people zigzagging through the traffic, you know, they're not even singling as they change lanes. They almost cut you off, they almost hit the guy in front of them, you almost hit them from behind. And if you can follow them further, oh I know we all go through a yellow light, or sometimes it's a row light, but you'll see people they hit every yellow light without hesitation. They they gotta get there I saw that on a flower truck one time. It says, if you drive like hell, you will probably get there Patience in drivers, road rage, right? Patience. Where's the patience? You see it also in the post office lines, the grocery store lines, the bank lines, people getting irritated. I don't know how many of us have ever gotten into five or six Goshia lines, and so you walk up and down, you jump in the shortest line. And that's the lady that She's gonna pay by cash and she's in her little purse trying to find that other penny or nickel or whatever. I've given the penny of the quarter. I I don't care Patience. Do you have patience with others? King Saul did not have patience. We are to be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Patience. If Saul had just held out for one more hour, he wouldn't have sacrificed an inappropriate, illegal, ungodly, against the Word of God commandments. One more hour and he wouldn't have lost his kingdom. For the lack of patience, he lost his kingdom. Samuel said, What hast thou done? Obviously Samuel knew God had revealed it to him. He could smell the burning of the burnt offering. There were no priests there to do it. Before you take action, friends, you take counsel of other Christians Do you pray? Do you meditate upon the scriptures to guide you? If we judge ourselves, we should not be judged, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11, 31. Saul's reply shows that he hadn't prayed about it, he hadn't meditated about it, he hadn't taken counsel. He hadn't done any of this. And so in verse 11 and 12, we get a real deeper insight into this man without patience. You know, he's a Saul says, what have you done? What have you done? What have you done? And Saul responds back. Oh, I've sinned. I'm so sorry, oh Samuel. Please. That's not what he says. Look what he says. Because the people were scattering from me. Excuse number one. And thou cameest not with the days appointed Accusing Samuel of coming not in a timely fashion. Oh, that'd put the prophet in a good mood, won't it? You know. He's throwing it back on. It's your fault, Samuel. You didn't come in time. And the people were leaving me. Isn't that what the world says about the Lord Jesus Christ? Where is the promise of his coming? That's what the scholars say. Where is the promise of his coming? When our prayers are not answered, you say, What kind of a god is that? He didn't answer my prayers. Why don't you wait another hour? They pray the Lord Jesus Christ and And he says, If you ask not, you have not. If you ask in my name you shall have it. They ask in their name, and then they set the old watch up. Well, that should have that in about an hour, I guess We can't put God on a timetable. He'll answer our prayers. And more often than not It'll be a yes, or it if it's a no, it's in our best interest. The Lord Jesus Christ has better knowledge of what we really need. when we need it than we do. But here he is making excuses for what he's done. The people were scattered. Thou came late. You know, he didn't come in a timely fashion. And the Philistines, they gathered together. The crowd was getting bigger and bigger. The army was growing more and more, and they were getting closer and closer. And then finally he says his fourth excuse, I I force myself. Look at verse 12, I force myself Against my conscience, really. I knew it was wrong, and therefore offered the burnt offering. He said he knows what he's done wrong. I forced myself, therefore, and offered a burnt offering You make excuses for your sins. A repentant heart does not make excuses for sin, let alone that they pile on four excuses. As here, he piles on four excuses for usurping the sacred work of the priest. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination on the Lord. Proverbs 15, 8, and if that's not enough for you It's repeated again in Proverbs 21:7. The sacrifice of a wicked or a wicked heart is an abomination of the Lord. Saul had a wicked heart. He was going against the commandments of God, and he knew he was And that's why he says in here, I forced myself and offered a burnt arter. He knew it was wrong, and he did it anyway. You ever been there? You knew something was wrong, but you're going to do it anyway? You hope you don't get caught? Or you hope you got enough excuses and reasons why that people say, well, yeah, I guess in that circumstance I might have done that too Only Saul had been patient until the last hour. Or maybe that was the excuse. I was patient. I mean If the sun's going down in another two hours or in another hour, how much more patient do you want me to be? There was only an hour left. I didn't expect you to come in the last hour. And if you came in the last hour, the armies are gathering. It might be too late anyway. And so it ought to count for something that I had patience for six days and twenty-three hours. To obey is better than sacrifice, 1 Samuel. 1522. Now how does a king with a man who's after God's heart, how does a king who's after the Lord's heart respond to sin? David was caught in a horrendous sin. You remember that committing adultery in Bathsheba, having her husband Uriah killed on the forefront of battle, put him in a place where he would surely die. And then he lies about it and tries to get him drunk before he sends out into battle to die and and all this aggravation that goes on and all the sin of David and Nathan comes and confronts him, remember and he says There was a man who had many sheep, and another man had one sheep, and the man who had many sheep went and stole the other man's only sheep. And David said, That's a horrendous thing. A man like that ought to pay dearly. And Nathan says, Thou art the man And how did David react Did David say, oh, but Nathan, I was good for so long. I mean I never committed adultery until I was in my fifties. Oh, I was so good. I didn't murder anybody until I was in my fifties. Oh I was so good. I didn't lie about anybody till I was in my fifties I didn't kill, I didn't steal another man's sheep until I was in my fifties. I mean I really went a long time without doing any of this, like Saul. I held out to the last hour. I was patient until then No. David doesn't say I held out to the end or that I was patient till I was in my late 50s. David said, 2 Samuel 12 and 13. I've sinned. I've sinned. He doesn't make four excuses. He doesn't make three, two, or even one excuse. He says, I have sinned And in Psalm 51, he talks about it. He says, Cleanse me, wash me, have mercy on me, purge me of my sin. But Saul was full of excuses. Which one are you? The person's full of excuses when you said? Are you the one that says, Purge me, Lord, cleanse me, make me white as snow. Cover me in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. May his cross, his crucifi May I count for something. May I not just trample it under my feet and think it's nothing. As long as I work hard and do good and God weighs out my good and my bad deeds in life, as long as I have more good deeds than bad deeds I've never met anybody have more good deeds than bad deeds because God counts our thoughts. God counts our glances. God counts what we listen to, what we watch I mean, we don't have more good deeds than bad deeds, but even if we did, it's not enough. Only one bad deed, only one little sin is enough to destroy your soul. One unrepentant sin And I know we can't remember. That's not fair. One sin said. If I ask God to forgive me this, forgive me this, forgive me that, and I forget to ask him to forgive your one sin? Why, dear friend, you have that many sins that you can't remember all your sins, and so you might forget one and go to hell? Hey That's why we say, Oh Lord, and for those sins I cannot remember. Oh Lord, for those sins I have not yet committed. Oh Lord, for those sins that I've I didn't even realize were sins. You ask God to forgive you of all your sins, even the ones you can't remember. Even the little ones that you think are little. But Saul was full of excuses and Samuel said to Saul, thou hast done foolishly, verses 13 and 14, thou hast not kept the commandment of the Lord. Now thy kingdom shall not continue. Does that appear harsh? Under the circumstances? I mean it was true. The Philistines were gathering I mean they had quite an army, it did not look good. It was true it's into the late in the seventh day and he hasn't come yet. I mean all this was true And the people were scattering and hiding. It was all true. I mean, doesn't it seem kind of harsh when you look at the circumstances? Isn't God rather severe here? That he that he broke this this Leviticus 2 and verse 2 that only a priest should offer a sacrifice, that seems kind of like a small matter when you consider the circumstances. It was not a small matter or God had not mentioned in the Scripture 53 times that a priest only shall offer the sacrifice. He didn't break one scripture verse. He broke 53 scripture verses. With one action. It was not a small matter. If it was a small matter, God had not mentioned it 53 times. Leviticus 2-2 is just one of the first places. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. Psalm 145 and verse 17. Why is that Christ hangs on the cross and he only saves the one thief and not the other? If he has the power to save anyone and the Lord Jesus Christ does, why'd he just save one and not the other? When he went to the pool of Bethesda and all his people were laying there waiting for the angel to come into the water and stir the water. Whoever got in the water first was healed. Christ comes among all these people, paralyzed people, blind people, deaf people. Trimpled people, limbs missing. And Christ comes in, you read that all over again at Vesia. He comes in there and he only heals one and walks away from the rest of the miserable lot. Is God harsh? Is God unfair? Is God not righteous that the Lord Jesus Christ wouldn't heal everyone at the pool of Bethesda? The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his words. works. You don't know the all of it, of what is in a man's mind and what he deserves that he hasn't had the chance to perform or accomplish, but if he had, he might live and look just like another Adolph Hill. You don't know. You don't know when a man dies early who's a wicked man what wickedness he might have accomplished. You I remember some years ago when that the double highway in uh San Francisco collapsed and killed all those people. Do you know there were some unsolved crimes out there that never got solved and they didn't continue? You have to wonder, did the person that was committing some of those horrible crimes out there get squashed during the earthquake? The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. It isn't sin that ruins you, friend. It isn't sin that ruins you. It's sin that we don't repent of that destroys the soul We can repent of any sin, regardless of how many times we commit it, regardless of who we we feel we personally sinned against. The ultimate is that we sin against God And it isn't the sin that destroys us. It's a failure to own up to it. It's a failure to own it as sin. It's a failure to repent of it. What's a little sin? Excuse them, what's a little sin? There is no little sin because there is no little God. Do you understand the majesty of God? Do you understand the enormity, the immensity of God? There is no little God. And when you sin against His word, His commandments, there is no little sin because there is no little God to sin against And if there was a little sin, why would God send his son Jesus Christ to shed his blood in a horrendous way in crucifixion? And humiliation. If there's little sin, they could have certainly been dealt with some other way instead of just sending your only begotten son and having him beaten and whipped and scourged and smacked and slapped and hit and punched. And hair plucked from his face and his chin and crucified, and all his clothes stripped off his body and hung on a cross, and people come by and mock him for hours. Surely for a little sin? No. There are no little sins. The blood of Christ was shed because any sin is a major assault upon the thrice holy God. Any sin is a major sin because it's committed against a holy heavenly God And so forth. Therefore, it requires a precious ointment to remove the sinister stain of sin. It just can't be removed that easily, folks. It can't be removed by ten good works after one bad sin. It it is such a stain that requires an ointment so precious it was only in one it was only one one one container. The design was in, and it was in the body of Christ. It was his blood. Once it's shed, there's nothing left. To cleanse us of our sins, we have to call on God to forgive us our sins and to wash our sins and our body and our souls in the blood of Christ in a spiritual manner. There is no little sin. It might be like a little sin when they they ate of the fruit of the tree in the Garden of Eden. That appears like a little sin until we see the eternal consequences And the havoc that it has reaped over thousands of years, then we realize that it wasn't such a little sin. Or if we look at Aaron's two sons, they were priests, they had the right to go in the temple, they had the right to offer up fire on the altar. But it says that that in uh Leviticus ten and two, that Aaron's two sons went in, they offered up strange fire before the Lord. They were supposed to bring in fire, but they weren't to bring in strange fire. They brought in strange fire Who wouldn't that? What's the difference? It wasn't what God had asked them to do. And he destroyed them instantly. Ananias and Sapphira fell down dead for what? For lying to the Holy Spirit in the early church. Acts 5, verses 1 through 10. It seems like such a little thing does because we are so near-sided that everything looks pretty small, but if you step way back And you look at it a year or ten years or a thousand years down the road, you realize that the things that follow after it, that the examples that we set before our children, and our children do the same things, and their children's children, we find out that our little sin It grew and it got bigger and expanded. There are no little sins. What's a little sin? It's like a little leprosy. Does anybody want a little leprosy? What's a little sin? It's like a little bloodcot floating around through your body right now. Does anybody want that? And then it lodges Where it lodges in your heart or your head. What's a little sin? It's like a little leprosy, it's like a little blood clot. It's like a little fall you might take, but it can be devastating, a little fall. I can't believe it. He just fell off his chair, hit his head, and he was dead. I can't believe it. He was walking up the steps and he fell on the steps. The steps are only three foot high. I can't believe it. It was just a little fall. A little fall. A little leprosy. A little boycott. A little spin. It is devastating unless the great physician is called upon. And the blood of Christ is applied faithfully. May we all understand that our sins need the blood of Christ to come Cleanse us and make us white as wool and white as snow. May we understand today that there are no little sins. Let's pray. Father, we look to you today. And as we look in your word, we discover from day to day and hour to hour that there are things that perhaps we had not been doing alright. There are things we've been doing that are uh in embarrassing to admit as Christians that we thought it was okay. There were things we thought were little sins, and now we realize how big they really are, how devastating they are, how crucial it is for us to repent. Oh Lord, today we ask That you put in the hearts of everyone here to praise God for sending the ointment, for sending the antidote for our sins, the blood of Christ, shed on the cross. To cleanse us from the major, major sins we commit, and every one of them is a major sin. May we understand that. Repent of all of them. Give us a heart to repent, Lord. Give us a heart to see the truth and the necessity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Ask if Matt, if you close on the prayer today, please.