To get to this particular verse in Hebrews because it is some of the most troubling verses that you'll ever hear or read in scriptures, and it has indeed plagued a number of saints, plagued them so much that they don't even bother thinking about it. So let's read the passage so that you'll appreciate what I'm talking about, and then we will go to our discussion question We are at Hebrews 10. 26. Hebrews 10. 26. We've just finished the whole earlier section talking about the supremacy of Christ, who he is, he's better than angels. He's that high priest from the order of Melchizedek, and so on. Just the greatness of it. And then we get to Hebrews 10, 26 through 29. Where we read this, and it's in your bulletin handout. Hebrews 10, 26. For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth. There remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment, and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot? The Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of Grace. What a what a sharp section of scripture. The Bible does have sharp warnings in it. Trigger alert. The Bible has sharp warnings. But our question. So uh my dear mentor of years ago, Brother Bernie, used to tell me there's a million ways to blow a deal. He was in marketing, he was uh executive at AMC Motor Corporation, he's the one that came up with the word Jeep So if you see a Jeep on the road, that's Brother Bernie's handiwork still out there. There's a million ways to blow the deal. So what is the most ridiculous? the most insane move that you have seen done by somebody in a business, maybe a business you were in, maybe a business you observed from afar off, or a political situation, only to further their loss They're not in a good position. They do something even even more stupid and it drives them even further backwards. Mom, do you have something? What did he do that's even more insane that drove him further backwards I will not let my son I will not um No, I will not pardon my son. And then he goes and pardons it, right? Drives him even further into a a hole deeper than to to secure his legacy of less than glorious position. Anybody else have seen something insane done in business or backwards that that you just wonder what were they thinking? How about the governor of alas of uh California All right, Governor of California, what did he do? Well first he said we've got enough money because I've taken everything for DEI and all that and then now he's saying, so what Trump's fault? Yeah, and so uh just before the California wildfires broke out, the governor of uh uh California decided to do two wonderful things. He forced the insurance companies to forward rate their uh policies not based on forecasted risk but historical risk, well, if you believe in climate change, and they claim to do that Then things are going to get hotter and drier, which drives up the risk of wildfires. So he changes the policy that drives a lot of insurance companies out of business. And then to add insult to injury, he cuts the firefighter's budget by $100 million. What could go what could possibly go wrong, Joey? What could possibly go wrong? Yeah. Any other situations you've seen where somebody's done something insane to only further their loss Watergate. Ah, all right. Yeah. What was it describe what you're thinking there? Nixon really had no need to get involved in Watergate whatsoever. He was going to win reelection. He was a very popular president of his paranoia got the best and then went to the Watergate scandal which ultimately ended his presidency. Yeah, very good. Very good student of history. I r distinctly remember Watergate and watching the uh president resign on television on black and white T V. I remember seeing the Yeah. Their history is replete with people who have done really ridiculous things and you just scratch your head and say, Now what were they thinking? I can think of some churches who have done some things that you scratch your head and say Now what were they thinking? Let's see, families were coming in, money was increasing. Uh anyway, yeah, so you you gotta wonder sometimes Well you know after after Nixon announced that he was resigning, he was walking out of the way out of the Oval Office and he bumped into Ford. And did he That's pretty funny. Alright, well the uh title for today is What is Willful Sin? Because if you look at this passage, I think those are the two words that are the stick in the eye. Those are the ones that have a craw in our throat And so as we consider it, let's just kind of parse this out, because taking this at face value, we are liable to an awful punishment for any willful sin. That's what it says. Yet the sad fact is a great many sins are willful. I'm not talking about sins of ignorance. I'm just talking about, you know, let's face it, we just sometimes just go off and do what we want to do because we want to do it Before we consider this phrase willful sin, I'm going to kind of approach this maybe a little bit backwards. I'm going to back into it some. So let's look at the punishment of verse twenty-seven. What liability are we discussing here? What is this liability that we've got for this thing called willful sin? Well Uh look at all the language in 27. First thing it says it is certain. So there isn't a chance that it can be avoided. There's no plea bargain. You can't pay it off and you can't get somebody else to pardon it. It's certain. It's fearful. That's the Greek word phobos. We get our word phobia from that. Some people have phobias. Anybody in here have phobias of certain things? Or people who have fear of flying? Phobias? I don't like to be high You don't like to be high, right? Heights. Heights? Yeah. Yeah. There was a time when I could swing from trees like a monkey, but all of a sudden someday, somewhere along the line, I stepped up against the the fifth or sixth floor window of a building and said, I don't like this. He all of a sudden kind of That's the word phobia. Is in that which you most greatly fear shall come upon you Certain and fearful. Your worst fear is coming at you. Some people don't like spiders. They're going to wake up in a room full of spiders. It's expected. That's what that phrase looking for means. It's expected All the scriptures will testify and prophesy of this fulfillment. You can guarantee and expect that this thing will happen. This will come upon you. It is judgment. It's not before men, but it's before Almighty God Himself. The exalted Lord Jesus sitting omnipotent on his throne with five wounds to show. It's a judgment. It's fiery. That word fiery is not used lightly. You know, I think the harshest language for the description of the torment of hell comes from Revelation. It says, where the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night. Uh it's it's uh it's a horrible thing. It's indignant. That's not a common word we use, indignant. You can break it apart in and dignity dignitary. There's no dignity in it whatsoever. It's the opposite of of dignity. It's tremendous shame. It's the same word, interestingly enough, translated zealous. Jesus will be very zealous to do this. Such will be so thoroughly exposed as to have all dignity and self-worth removed. They're totally open and naked for all to see, for all to mock, for all to scorn, and that without relief That is that sense of indignant. It is a gross public shaming. And verse 29, just skipping down a bit, says, it's a sorer punishment than what Moses could issue. Who could at the worst issue a death penalty? What's worse than a death penalty? Well, turns out in Mark chapter 9 Mark 9, 43 and 44, Jesus talks about a punishment that's worse than the death penalty. He says, if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It's better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched. Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. It repeats that phrase. Jesus, the fire is not quenched. There's no stopping of the fire. Your blood will not exterminate the fire. There's not enough water to exterminate the fire Some fires burn so hot that it takes a ridiculous amount of water to put them out. And I put as an example electric vehicles that run on lithium-ion batteries. Not all, but those that are on lithium-ion batteries Because once they get burning, the fire department complains they need 50 to 60,000 gallons of water to put out an EV fire. They basically have to submerge the car in water, and even then when they take it out, it may still reignite It's a fire that cannot be quenched, the scripture speaks about. There's a textual issue here in Mark 9 as well. Do you know that modern translations will say, that the subsequent two verses of Mark 9, 45, 6, 7, and 8, because Jesus repeats that phrase again and again and again, they say, well that's just haplography. They have a term for it. That's just unnecessary repeating. No, God repeats himself often. The introduction of the book of Amos says, for three transgressions of Moabs and for four, I will do such and such. He repeats that phrase several times That's how God speaks. You better believe it's in there. Jesus is foot-stopping this point. Their worm dieth not. The fire is not quenched. And so what's the point? Whatever this sword of punishment is, I think you and I would agree that this is simply called hell. This is eternal damnation. That's what this is. Which is what puts us on our heels as we come up to this verse Because whatever willful sinning is, it seems like a mighty low bar for a trip to hell, doesn't it? I mean it seems really easy to trigger I mean, isn't Jesus' blood shed for for poor and needy sinners? And you think about it more, isn't there a sanctification process that somewhat presumes that there is a battle against ongoing sin, some of which would be presumptive? That remains unconquered in our lives? Isn't that part of our ongoing sanctification? You know, look at the text again, because evidently it's a conditional willful sin It's conditional. It's one that has two counts to it. We have received the knowledge of the truth. After we have received knowledge of the truth I would submit that everything that's been presented in Hebrews up to this point is putting forth the knowledge of the truth that's in view here. It's received, that's that same word, these are two key words. Same word in John 1. 12, as many as received him. Lambano If you go to a grocery store and you you pick out a gift that you want to give somebody on the shelf, that's not receiving, that's taking. If you're sitting in the chair at home and somebody comes back from the grocery store and hands you that gift, that's receiving it. You've now taken this thing in, received it. Knowledge. Receive the knowledge of the truth. Now that word is a thorough knowledge. It's an understanding that is held with clarity. An understanding that is held with clarity. You know this thing clearly And that is an important distinction here. For instance, it's in Colossians 1 9, the apostle says, For this cause we also, since the day we've heard it Do not cease to pray for you and to desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of His will. Again, this is a desire. He He wants believers to be filled with the knowledge of His will. Well, that implies that there's A lot of insight being given. Some expansion upon just what you received initially. Some of you have taught piano. There's the basic striking of the keys, how you hold your fingers, where the Middle C is, and so forth, and then you grow and you expand on that knowledge, and it becomes more clear over time. 1 Timothy 2. 4 speaks of the Lord Jesus Who will have all men to be saved, not all men without exception, but all men without distinction, all sorts of men, all men to be saved, and come to the knowledge of the truth. Again, there's that phrase, knowledge of the truth. There's knowledge involved. So this appears to refer to clear knowledge of Jesus as the Messiah and the Savior. Okay? If there's willful sinning after you've received knowledge, clear insight, yep, this is the Jesus, this is the Messiah, this is the Christ. He is the Savior. Look at what he's done. You you have a clear understanding of that. And And that seems to be the condition, that if you have that, and there's willful sin, then you've got this trip to hell. But to what extent is that knowledge? Are we talking saving knowledge? Is it possible that somebody could lose their salvation based on willful sin? Is that what's going on here? Certainly the apostle desires us to be filled with knowledge, to come to the knowledge of the truth, if they get that clarity. Is that what it's talking about? Is it saving knowledge or is it holding an assortment of facts? Holding an assortment of facts that are difficult to refute Um, you know, Peter went in, he stooped down, he saw the grave clothes folded, and he saw that there was an open open tomb and the the stone is rolled back and the women have some crazy report of seeing angels. He just has an assortment of facts. He hadn't assimilated it all just yet. Now again I'm taking a little step back here and then we'll look again at the text because I'm really trying to deal with this phrase that's a stick in the craw Willful sin. It just seems like a real low bar, and we can't deny what the penalty is. The penalty is high, the trigger is low. It's like one of Gabriel's traps in the woods, right? It's a trap And as soon as you nibble on a little bit of it, this powerful spring comes down, and you're not getting out of it. Not in one of his traps, at least. This is written to the Hebrews, and so repetition is used a lot Now, I want you to consider the comparisons that are given to this phrase willful sinning. Okay? Let's look at the comparisons that are used, because the Hebrews appreciate repetition. It is used frequently. Psalm 103 has a lot of repetition. Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth forth his handiwork. Day into day other speech, night and night showeth knowledge. It just goes on. It has a lot of repetition. uh all throughout that that section. Look at verse twenty-seven again. It says that it's going to devour the adversaries. It will devour the adversaries. Notice that word adversary. It is a willful sin That makes you an adversary. Don't miss that point. It's a willful sin that puts you in a position where you're now labeled as an adversary Okay? For instance in Luke 9. 50, Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not. He that's not against us is for us. You see, in the in the Bible, there really kind of isn't a neutral position. People can't be neutral about Jesus. Well I'm agnostic. I just don't know. That means you're an adversary of God. He doesn't buy that position. God doesn't believe in atheists. There's somebody who knows Jesus, loves him, believes him, is for him, or others. And those others are simply counted as adversaries. They are against the work of God. Indifference, folks, is a form of hatred. You know that? To be indifferent to it is a form of hatred. If you if your dear wife prepares a lovely meal And uh she's invited guests to come, family members to come, maybe some friends. And they arrived and they're They're pulling into the driveway in their cars, and most are getting out, and some are just sitting in their car. They're not on the phone conversation. They're just kind of sitting there. They would just rather be there. They're just indifferent to the meal. You would be offended by that. Why are you just sitting there? Why don't you come inside at least? Nah, I'm good here. You would begin to wonder what's what you you drove all the way here from You know, we really it's one of those moments where you scratch your head and you go, Well well what are they Did they not like me? Did I say something wrong? You would begin to think that they don't like you. And indeed, when the King of Kings calls and sets forth his meal and he says, Come to the feast, all things are prepared, he expects a response. And a timely one at that. None of this, I've got five oxen, I married a wife, oh I've got a a piece of land, I gotta go plow. Really? No, I don't think so. Second thing to consider. So there's a willful sinning that makes you an adversary. And in verse 28, it says, He that despised Moses' law. Well it turns out that these people are despisers. They're despisers. They're setting themselves up by this act as being an adversary, but they're also setting themselves up as being a despiser. They despise the law. And it turns out we actually have some examples of such individuals. This is the most helpful word. For instance, in Mark 7:9, the Lord Jesus said unto the Pharisees, Full well Reject ye the commandment of God that you may keep your own tradition. He says, look, you're rejecting the commandment of God. You're despising it, because that word reject is the same word despise. They're giving him a heisman. They're pushing the hand out. They're saying, go away. You reject it, he says. And Luke 7. 30. The Pharisees and lawyers rejected, same word despised, rejected The counsel of God against themselves, not being baptized, of him, him being John the Baptist. They didn't go to John the Baptist baptism, and so they're rejecting God's forerunner. They're rejecting his anointed prophet who was the Elijah to come as prophesied at the end of Malachi. Now we don't have anything to do with that. Well they're rejecting God's counsel. He's a revealed messenger. He was born miraculously of a Priest, old priest, and his old wife, Zachariah and Elizabeth, miraculous birth, no one could deny it. And they're rejecting this prophet. The men, the the common people counted as a prophet, and indeed they they rightfully did And furthermore, verse 29 identifies three specific conditions that are produced by willful sinning. Look at the three conditions that it produces. It says, they trample the Son of God underfoot. Wow, that's rough language, trampling the Son of God underfoot. You know When you think about trampling underfoot, you really think, you really get the impression this is somebody who thinks Jesus is nothing better than a doormat. He's just something to wipe the dirt off your shoes. That's all he's good for. This is somebody who thinks the Son of God isn't even worth collecting and putting into a garbage bag. Just Just chuck it on the ground. It's just worthless. Just throw it on the ground. They trample underfoot the Son of God. They think it's nothing. Now to us that sounds pretty harsh, but that's the effect Of this willful sin that puts you as an adversary, where you reject the revealed knowledge of Christ. Furthermore, it says they count the sanctifying blood of the covenant an unholy thing. This is to consider Jehovah's new covenant, sealed with the blood of Christ, no less, to be filthy garbage. It might as well have been swine's blood that was shed. To them, Jesus' blood was no different than sacrificing an unclean animal under Moses. It's worthless. It avails nothing. It's pointless. I don't see any merit or benefit or value to it whatsoever. That is a result of whatever this thing is That's called willful sin. You see that? It's all in the same category. It's all lumped together. And as an example to new believers, this is called exegesis. This is called pulling out of the text This is looking at the context, the local context, and the larger context. How does God speak elsewhere in the Bible? And this is how you can troubleshoot those problematic passages in Scripture just by looking up and down, reading up and down a bit. You know, here's a pro tip. Some people are afraid to evangelize because they think, well, I don't have all the answers. What if they ask me a question that I can't answer? Well, that doesn't keep mothers from being mothers. Kids ask them questions all the time that they necessarily can't answer. What do you do? Well, you can start off by saying, well, uh, where do you read that in the Bible? Whatever they're positing to you, whatever question they have, well, d do you know about anything in the Bible that says that? Well, if they have no answer, uh then you could say, well, you know, maybe Give me some time and we'll if you'd like come over. We'll have a cup of coffee or whatever. We'll sit down and we'll search the scriptures and figure this thing out if you're interested. If you're just chucking rocks, have a nice day. I'm not here to be a target for rocks Or if they're a Mormon, Jehovah's Witness, and they have a verse, you can say, oh, well, do you have a Bible? And if they do, show me that verse. Back up a little bit and read forward a little bit further past it. I have found that nine times out of ten, the very context of that passage will refute their silly idea because they do What I'm sad to say many Christians do with this verse, which is they just gravitate on one little phrase. Willful sin. Or Uh there's a great one that I've seen people use, the baptism for the dead in 1 Corinthians 15. Oh yeah, we have to baptize the dead. And they get excited about that phrase, which in the context The dead refers to Jesus Christ. It's not referring to your dead uncle. In that context of 1 Corinthians 15, if you place it together. My point is context will rescue you more often than not. But if they don't want to discuss the Bible, they're throwing rocks move along. So, what's my observation? You know There are some people here that appear to be under the sanctifying blood of the covenant. They have an interest in the covenant. They they have a place in it. The covenant has had some impact to them. They have a role in it. Doesn't mean every individual who's saved is uh it doesn't mean everyone who's in the covenant is in fact saved. Because it does speak about in 1 Corinthians 7 14 that the unbelieving spouse should remain married to the believing husband or wife, else were your children unclean, now were they Holy. Well, holy can only be had in context of a covenant. They are covenantally, they are positionally associated with that covenant And it says that there are some people who have an interest in it. This is not really people referring to people who have heard internally the gospel. Exhibit A is the Apostle Paul. Listen to his language, right? This is the Saul of Tarsus, man who is mighty among the Pharisees, likely had a seat at the Sanhedrin. And was one who was the Hebrew of Hebrews. He was zealous for the traditions of his fathers, for the traditions of his fathers. And he says in 1 Timothy 1. 13, who before was a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious. But I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. He was related to that covenant But what he did was ignorantly, he did not have he had not received that saving knowledge of the truth. He had heard some things, so the Apostle Paul had not committed this willful sin that's being spoken of here. Alright, that's interesting. That's an interesting contrast we find. Third point from verse 29. We looked at trampling the Son of God underfoot. That's horrible. We look at counting the sanctifying blood of the covenant an unholy thing. That's horrible. It's almost blasphemous to speak of it that way. And the third thing is that it insults the spirit of grace. Insults it. How many of you have been insulted? Just flat out insulted? Yeah? I remember one I'll I'll share. My my poor dear mother is uh a young girl uh on a uh farm uh in uh South Texas. Uh and when she moved and and they spoke freely, were able to speak Spanish there, no problem. She moved uh into Dallas at a school system and uh she she didn't she was struggling to understand English. And she didn't quite have that just yet. She's very young. She's trying to pick these things up. And the teachers say, well, why teach them English anyway? These Mexicans are just going to go off and have kids and, you know, amount to nothing. What an insult I think I'm getting that basically correct. What an insult. Some of us have been deeply insulted. Frankly, I can't think of an illustration As to how somebody is able to insult the gracious Holy Spirit that dwells in an individual. I don't know how, if you've got God the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, how you can insult him. I just know that that happens Frankly, I don't think it is possible. If you've got God the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, I don't think you can do that. I think they can do it if they don't have God dwelling in them. Because if you insult Jesus, you've insulted God the Father, you've insulted God the Holy Spirit. And if he's demonstrating that grace And so what of this word sinning willfully? Now that we've looked at all of this the corollaries, the trampling underfoot the Son of God, becoming an adversary, despising it, you're a despiser, counting it an unholy thing, insulting it. I find it interesting that if you dig a little bit closely into this word sin willfully, that combination of those two words together I have heard this illustration given over the years as to as to a definition of sin, and I actually only heard half the definition. You know, isn't it amazing? Here's a minister of I don't know how many years. I've never actually carefully looked up that word sin. I think I have before, but I missed this part. Sin is to miss the mark, and I've heard that illustration, it's like there's a bow and arrow target, right, instead of concentric circles. And you don't hit the bullseye, you're just off a little bit No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Miss the mark so as to not get the prize. There's a little subtle difference there. To miss the mark so as not to get the prize. And then you couple it with that word willful. That willful has the sense of intentionality. You intentionally want to miss the prize. It's intentional. So this led me to our discussion earlier What things have you seen people do intentionally that actually wrecked it even further? And those are interesting illustrations. Here's what I came up with. Imagine a football game. Now I know some of you don't like football and don't care for it, and I certainly don't have the patience to watch a football game because it's a lot of back and forth. Oh, a bunch of guys run, collapsed, and they fell down. Oh well, that was rough, and here come all the statistics. Who cares? Show me something exciting that's boring. But imagine the football game that goes all the way to the end, the score is tied, there's seconds left on the clock. And the punting team comes on, they're going to try to get a field goal. They're going to try to kick the ball between the uprights. Generally, that's an easy score. Generally, that's an assured thing. Imagine for a moment. The snap occurs, the punter gets the ball, but instead of kicking the ball through the field goal he's supposed to, he turns around. And he kicks it into the opposing field goal and gives the other team the winning point. That's willful sinning. That's somebody who says, yep, I know that I can make a difference here. I know that this is the thing that's going to succeed, and I'm just out to screw. You would call him a traitor This is somebody who intentionally, intentionally misses the prize. It's right there. And they say, I don't have anything to do with it. So it appears willful sin, folks, is nothing less than a rejection of Jesus. It is unbelief That is, I think, the willful sin that's in view here. Rejecting Jesus rejects God's message concerning his son, and this is called, your last will in the blank, total apostasy. This is an apostate. That's what the description is right here. An apostate. They forsake our assembly. We saw that back earlier in verse 25, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves. They forsake the assembly. And they depart from the faith. Listen to this language. I think this is what is in view here as the Lord Jesus and the apostles taught about this. It's in Luke 10. 16, Jesus said, He that heareth you, heareth me. Yes, the minister, if he's preaching faithfully, is to you the voice of Jesus. Don't look at me as an example of it. I'm just a hose. But the message coming out you can't reject. He that despiseth you despiseth me, and he that despises me despises him that sent me. You can't treat other believers like trash. That doesn't work. You can't do that. You're running afoul. You're running mighty close to this violation of Hebrews 10. Notice, you hear or you despise. There's no middle ground. Don't you see that all throughout scriptures? Turn not to the right hand nor to the left. You don't have a threefold Examples that you have righteousness and unrighteousness, good, evil. It's always presented that way. John 12, 48, Jesus said, He that rejecteth me and receives not my words. Notice that word reject, same word despise. Hath one that judgeth him, the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day These are people who hear the message of Christ. They hear enough about the gospel to know that he's the Savior. You have to trust in him. He had a sacrificial atonement. He died on a cross to save sinners. Are you a sinner? Yeah, that's an interesting. I hear what Jesus has done, but now I don't have any use for that. They hear it. They're like Felix, you almost persuade me to be a Christian. Almost. You reject it And then you have in 1 Timothy 5. 12, the apostle speaks about these who are apostates. He says they have damnation because they've cast off their first faith. They've cast it off, they've rejected it. Maybe, maybe, just maybe, this is what Jesus meant in the parable of the sower in Matthew 13. Have you ever thought about that? Maybe this is a deeper explanation of that parable, that very first parable. He says in 5 and 6, above the seed from the sower, some fell on stony places where they had not much earth. So they received the word of God. It's a stony place, stony heart, not a heart of flesh, stony heart. Here's the word. Okay, you got a good combo here. Seemingly. And forthwith they sprung up. Hooray, there's fruit. Look at that. He's an early convert. He comes up quick. Because he had no depth of earth. You know, rocks get warmer quicker. The very first place on my lawn where the grass gets the greenest is right around the hardscape. Where the black stones are that line my patio. Why? Because they absorb the heat. It comes up quicker. And when the sun was up, they were scorched. Because they had no root, they withered away. I think that's the apostasy that occurred. They received the word of God. They actually sprung up. There was a spark, there was a measure of life. There appeared to be a good start. There appeared to be Zeal. There appeared to be interest. You know, when we think about Peter versus Judas, they were both there at the Last Supper. Jesus says, this night one of you will betray me. Peter said he'd never do it. Christ spoke directly in him and says, before the cock crows thrice, you'll deny me twice. And yet Christ really wasn't ultimately talking about Peter in terms of betrayal. He was talking about Judas. Did Peter commit a willful sin? Well, not according to Hebrews 10, 28, and 29. Yes, he'd received knowledge of the truth. Yes, he knew, but he went out and wept bitterly. He was grieved. He was cut to the quick. But of Judas, he didn't return to the Savior. He went back to the Pharisees, who took the money and threw it back and said, You see to it. In other words, you deal with your sins It's a big difference. And I think that's an excellent example to comfort us. Even through the betrayal of Judas, we see a comfort. No, we're not like Judas, who gave up all hope and went out and hung himself. He didn't believe Christ was that Savior. He never really was saved. 1 Chronicles 28, 9 is my parting verse. Got him a little out of order here. David speaking to his son Solomon says this very wisely. And thou, Solomon, my son. 1 Chronicles 28, 9. Thou, Solomon, my son, know thou the God of thy father. He's in the covenant. He has a covenantal relationship Serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. A willing mind. For the Lord searcheth all hearts and understandeth all the imagination of the thoughts. If thou seek him He will be found of thee. But if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. You see, we must cling to Christ. Rejecting it is a very poor and very bad option. We can't lose faith completely. Are there eclipses of faith? Yes. Are there seasons when believers just have had such an overwhelming amount of bad news and misery and disaster heaped upon them that they find it struggle, a real struggle to believe. And do they have those moments and crises and and does great discouragement and disappointment come in? Yes. Psalm 37 is replete with such descriptions. Psalm 73 is all about the psalmist who is in great depths of despair. Much of the psalms are about Either David crying out to the Lord for relief or in precatory prayers against his enemies. That's not willful sin. That's living the life of a Christian that's struggling, that's being deepened in faith. And so I would like to close with just a little bit of commentary from others on this passage to show you that this is not just some pluth unique insight, as I've taken it a little differently. Two of my favorites are Matthew Henry and Dr. John Gill, and I've quoted them on a number of occasions, and I'll just read these sentences to you briefly. They're very eloquent and they're very helpful. Matthew Henry writes this, a few sentences bear with me here He writes, From the description given of the sin of apostasy, it is sinning willfully after we receive the knowledge of the truth, sinning willfully against that truth. Of which we have had convincing evidence. This text has been the occasion of great distress to some very gracious souls They have been ready to conclude that every willful sin after conviction and against knowledge is the unpardonable sin. But this has been their infirmity and error. I like the way he puts that. It's their infirmity and error The sin here mentioned is a total and final apostasy when men with a full and fixed will and resolution Excellent way to put it. Despise and reject Christ, the only Savior. Despise and resist the Spirit, the only sanctifier. Despise and renounce the gospel, the only way of salvation. Great alliteration. I wish I'd come up with that. The words of eternal life. And after all this they have known, owned, and professed the Christian religion, they continue to do so obstinately and maliciously. This is the great transgression. You know, I would point out that in the history of those who are chucking the biggest rocks at Christianity are those who grew up in Christian homes. I think of Charles Darwin. His grandfather was a Baptist minister, and he despised and rejected the faith and went off, and he just didn't like the doctrine of hell, and he went off in a totally different direction. Totally different direction. John Gill says this, if we sin willfully, which is not to be understood of a single act of sin, but rather of a course of sinning. nor of sins of infirmity through temptation, or even of grosser acts of sins, but of voluntary ones, and not all voluntary ones, or in which the will is engaged in concern But of such which are done on set purpose, they've set their mind to this, resolutely, obstinately not of immoral practices, but of corrupt principles. That's a very good distinction. And acting according to them. It intends a total apostasy from the truth against light and evidence and joined with Obstinacy. Another parable the Lord Jesus gave came to mind is the man who had a demon And the demon decided to depart from the man for a season, left of his own volition, the demon's, not the man's. And when he returned, he found it empty, swept, and garnished In other words, the man cleaned up his act a little bit. It was swept. Wasn't mopped. You ladies know that sweeping doesn't really clean the floor. Mopping does. There was no water applied, just a little bit of sweeping. In fact, it might have stirred up a bunch of dust in the house Swept and garnished, we hung a few pictures up, hung little signs of religion, hung a few little religious symbols up there, and he brought in with him seven more devils, and the latter end of that man was worse than the beginning. That's the total apostate That's a total apostate. Well, I hope that's helpful to you in clarifying what I believe is going on here in Hebrews 10 and 26 and following. And Tom, could you close us in prayer, please?