Turn in your Bibles with you, please, to the book of 1 Corinthians and chapter eleven. If you observe the message title in our bulletin today, it is simply what is the Lord's Supper? And we're going to consider three questions, that being the middle one. The first The question will be, when was the Lord's Supper instituted? Secondly, what is the Lord's Supper? And then finally, why do we still observe it? A very simple outline, and I trust this morning to Very simply and plainly lay out what is the Lord's Supper? What are we about? What is this we are doing? If you have your place now in the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 11, I will begin our scripture reading with verse number 23. And read through the end of the chapter. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, starting with verse number 23. Here the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, declares, For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause, many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged But when we are judged, we are chastened to the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another. And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that he come not together unto condemnation. And the rest I will set in order when I come. Let us bow for prayer this morning. Gracious Father, now instruct us and teach us in thy word. Father, I thank you. For the marvelous privilege that I have to stand week after week and endeavor to exhort this congregation. And Father, I pray that that which this congregation receives may never be words after man's wisdom. Lord, it is our constant prayer, fearfully, O God, that this body of believers This people that you've gathered together, whether they be here with us in Maryland or scattered across the country and even across the world. May this congregation always be taught by thy Holy Spirit through the Word of God and not by man. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. When was this ceremony, this celebration, this Lord's table, when was it instituted? Well, in the passage we just read, Paul tells that this he received the Lord in the night that he was betrayed. There in verse 23. We find in the book of Matthew, chapter 26, one of the accounts of the Lord's table, in verses 17 and 18, that Christ told the disciples, the Passover has come. Go into the city and there prepare. In fact, I'll read the verses for you. Matthew 26, verse 17 and 18. Now, the first day of the feast of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And so, as we begin to consider when this Lord's table was instituted, It was at the time of the Passover. In other words, it was in the natural course of the religious activity of the people of Israel. And so to understand the Lord's table, we have to first understand the foundation that's below it, and that is the Passover. Now I'm not going to have you turn to Exodus 12, which is the institution of the Passover, but I'm going to read through a series of verses, but only pulling out the key phrases. So I'm going to kind of touch the top of the waves. So just listen along as I give a truncated version of Exodus twelve Every man a lamb according to his house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. Your lamb shall be without blemish, and ye shall take the blood and strike it. onto the two side posts of the door, on the upper post of the house, wherein ye eat it. And ye shall let nothing of it remain until morning. It is the Lord's Passover For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the gods of Egypt will I execute judgment, I am the Lord And the blood shall be for you a token upon the houses where you are. And when I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not come upon you to destroy you when I smite. the land of Egypt. Okay, that's a very quick run through, pulling out about a third of that chapter. The children of Israel were in bondage. They were in bondage in Egypt. Which Egypt in scripture is always a picture of the world and the world system. They were in bondage under Pharaoh. Pharaoh is a representation of Satan himself. God declared, I am bringing judgment on this world and on Satan, on Egypt and on Pharaoh. I am going to pass through the land, and I am going to slay the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beast. But God told the children of Israel, every house is to take a lamb. The lamb had to be a lamb of the first year, and it had to be spotless and perfect. The lamb was to be slain in each house. There was to be nothing left over. This is not a sacrifice that has waste. That's very significant to our theology. There's to be nothing that's left over. Not a drop of the blood is to be wasted Any flesh that remains till morning is to be burned with fire. It will not see corruption. It will not rot. It will not go to waste. They were instructed to take the blood of that lamb and to put it on the two side posts of the door and on the top. And many people have pointed out that you have the form of a cross of a crucifixion even depicted in the blood. And Christ said, When I pass through the land, when I see the blood I will pass over you. That old hymn was one of my father's favorites. I can still, in my mind and in my heart, hear my dad's voice singing, When I see the blood, I will pass. I will pass over you. And so it was called the Lord's Passover. And the children of Israel were instructed that they were to keep this Passover throughout their generations. And that brings us back to the New Testament. Because the time of the Passover was to come. The time of the Passover had arrived, and Jesus tells his disciples, Go into the city, and there you'll find a man, and say to that man, My the Master says that he and his disciples will keep the Passover in your house. They will enter into that house. Now, why is that significant? Well, what did the blood of that lamb that was slain all the way back there in Egypt do. What merit was there in that blood? There was none. It was simply symbolic. God Jehovah said, When I see it I will pass over. The redemption was not in that blood. Rather, the redemption was in the mercy of God that saw the blood of an earthly lamb applied, and he passed over. And so now Christ is the Lamb of God. Christ is the only sinless Lamb. He is the perfect Lamb. Now, at the time of the Passover. He is going to celebrate this memorial with his disciples. And so, first of all, when we consider the time of the Passover, we observe that it was in the typical religious celebration of the day, but it was that which the faithful did. The faithful Israelite would not miss Passover. He would travel long distance. He would would give of himself, of his body, in sickness, of his finances for a lamb, for travel. This was the Lord's command. He would keep it. And so, first of all, it was in the normal practice of that which the faithful did. But secondly, we find that this Passover came at a time of great change. It was a time, it was done in normalcy, but it was done at a time of great change. And consider the first Passover. For 400 years, the children of Israel have been in Egypt. Well, they've heard about the land of Canaan. They've heard about where their father has come from, but they've never seen it. All they know is bondage. Great-great-great-great-grandfather Joseph was the second ruler of the land. Great-great-great-great-great-grandfather Jacob was honored by Pharaoh. But all they know is bondage and oppression. You see, the adult men among them are only alive because they were hidden by mothers, just as Moses was hidden by his mothers. Mother. When we read of the men of war that are accounted that came out of Egypt, you have to understand they were far more women than men. Mm-hmm. Because the young boys have been slain at birth. And the young women, young girls have been allowed to live. And so when you read that six hundred thousand number in scripture, you have to understand that that's the men But there's far more women than there are men. This is a big group, and all they've known is bondage And yet there's a change coming. God has sent Moses to deliver them God has sent Moses to judge Egypt, to judge Pharaoh, and to lead his people. A big change is coming. Folks, a big change is coming for these disciples. Because this Passover is finished. The Passover followed the law. And the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. This first Passover that's now been celebrated all the way from Egypt, approximately 1500 years, give or take a few. From the first Passover to Christ's meeting with his disciples in the upper room about 1,500 years. It's coming to an end. Oh, some Jews still celebrate Passover, but this was the last one. There was a great change coming. You see, that lamb in slavery in Egypt had no merit in its blood. But another lamb is to be slain, Jesus Christ Himself, and all the merit is found in his blood The Old Testament Passover was a sign, it was a type, it is a picture. We'll say a little bit more about that when we consider what is this the Lord's Supper. But consider this Adam and Eve sinned. What happened? A lamb was slain, its blood was shed, and the clothing was made to cover their sins. Cain and Abel had a fight over an offering. Abel brought a lamb. Cain brought the fruit of his ground. Abel was accepted. Cain was rejected. And that's why Cain killed Abel. You see, the first slang of a lamb was a picture looking forward to Christ. The sacrifice that Abel brought was a picture looking forward to Christ. Noah, what happens when he comes out of the ark? He's been delivered from the flood. The judgment has come on the world. He has been delivered. He offers a sacrifice and looks forward to Christ. Abraham is told to take his son Isaac up to the top of the mountain and sacrifice his son. What's that a picture of? It's a picture of the sacrifice. God spared Isaac. And Abraham and Isaac both come down to the mountain. And then we have the Passover. You see, all these signs, types, pictures were all funneling down to one Passover. And the night he was betrayed, the time of the crucifixion. A time of great change. We talked about the biblical dating this morning in Sunday school, and that's a lesson. If you didn't if you haven't listened to it already, go back and listen to it this afternoon. But in the first two verses of Exodus 12, the children of Israel were instructed that that month of the Passover was to be in the first of months It should be the beginning of months, Exodus 12. 2. This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. You see, a great change happened at the first Passover, and a massive change happened at the second. So it's a time of great change. The law is fulfilled. As often as you drink this cup and eat this bread bread, you do show the Lord's death till he come. It was a time of great crisis. We read there in verse 23. For I've received the Lord, this is in 1 Corinthians 11, for I've received the Lord, that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. Folks, you understand That we have volumes and volumes of history. I love history. I was in a bookstore yesterday and I went straight to the history section. That's where I always always go. I ignore the Bible, the theology section of any secular bookstore. Don't Don't bother. Don't don't bother. It's a waste of time. I go straight to the history section. The rise and fall of the third right, about that big. I've read it every page. You know, folks, this is the most important night of history. This night is more important than the day of creation. This night is more important than the day of incarnation than the birth of Christ. This night that we celebrate today is the central point of all history. No, it is. It's a time of crisis. It's a time of great change. It's a time of great wonder. We just celebrated July 4th, a very momentous day in history. But folks, what we celebrate here today is more important than celebrating our independence. It's a time of crisis. So it was the night for the beginning of the Passion. What is the Lord's Supper? What is this that we are celebrating today? Well, first of all, it is a picture. It is a type. It is a symbol. In some ways, we could say that the Lord's Supper is a parable For Christ often would take something that was visible, something that people were familiar with and could see, and then he would show them a greater meaning. You realize that for 15 years, 1,500 years, the children of Israel had celebrated the Passover, but never fully understood it. They were looking for a messiah, but not a crucified Messiah. They were looking for a ruler, but they were looking for an earthly ruler. They were looking for a deliverance, but they had no concept of how that deliverance was coming. They were looking back, looking back, looking back. But folks, even though this is a remembrance, we're going to talk about that word remembrance in a little bit, even though this is a remembrance, we're looking forward. You do show the Lord's death till he comes. And so we're not looking back, we're looking forward. And so uh we've seen how uh the the Old Testament pi pictures I listed for you about five of them a few moments ago. All looked forward to this night. The Lord's Supper is an emblem. It's a picture. An emblem and a picture. This is not Noah's Ark behind me This is a picture of Noah's Ark. I have a picture of my father that's very dear to me, but it's not my father. It's just a picture. And so, to try to say that this is the actual blood of Christ, and the actual body of Christ, is to say this is the actual Ark of Noah. It doesn't make any sense. It's not not true. And so it's a type, it's a picture, it's a symbol. It is a memorial. And Christ said, do this in remembrance of me. And I just mentioned my father. I remember my father very fondly. But this is not a memorial, oh we're so sorry. This is not Memorial Day. This is not the tomb of the unknown soldier. When Christ says, do this in remembrance of me, it is not a remembrance that, oh, he died. But rather, it is think about me. Remember me, keep me ever in your mind. He's not dead, he's alive. And so I think sometimes we think about the Lord's Supper, we think, oh, we remember his death. No, we remember him now. It is not a morning. But rather a reminder to ourselves, Christ has died for my sins. Christ paid the price that I could never pay. Because he was the spotless lab. Just like that blood 1,500 years earlier could not save because it was only a picture, but now the reality is coming to the forefront. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. And so it's a type, it's a symbol, it's a picture, it's a memorial. Thirdly, it's a celebration. It's a celebration. Consider the wording. Look at verse 24, 1124. And when he had given thanks, Verse 27, and he took the cup and gave thanks. I'm sorry, that's um Matthew 26, 27. I gave thanks. Matthew 26, 30. And when they had sung a hymn, the disciples aren't mourning here. This is not a time of grief. It's a time of celebration. What other religion Celebrates the death of its patriarch. Think about that. The Muslims they don't celebrate the death of Muhammad That's not that's not a great time to them. The the uh Rastafarians in Jamaica, they celebrate the coronation of of of Rastafari, of of High Selassie, but they don't celebrate his death. You understand that Christianity is the only religion that has a celebration of a death. Why? Because this was the most important part of history, folks. Because it all happens right here. Without the shedding of blood. There is no remission. Folks, it's a celebration Do you think that the children of Israel marching out of Egypt didn't celebrate? Do you think they didn't come out with rejoicing? You know the old um saying from Martin Luther King, free at last, free at last, thank God Almighty, I'm free at last. It's a celebration. We're set free, folks. And it comes from here. We've been set free. It's a celebration of our deliverance from Satan and from sin. Fourth, the Lord's Supper is a time of teaching. It's a time of teaching Considering again there in Exodus twelve, verse twenty-six and twenty-seven, it shall come to pass when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by this service? That you shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians and delivered our houses And the people bowed their head and worshipped. It's a time of teaching. We usually have our young children in our services with us uh week after week. We don't today because the new brother has been born into the family. Hallelujah. But this is a time of teaching. It's a time for the young in age, for the young in the faith, and for all of us. To learn of God, to be taught, to be instructed. But also, the Lord's Supper is a time of identification It's a time of it. Remember what happened that night? The twelve disciples all took the Lord's supper, but then what did one do? Well, he went out to betray Christ. We consider the children of Israel passing through the wilderness. And I don't have the verse. I thought I had the verse here in my notes. I don't have the verse. But we we find in the book of um uh 1 Corinthians 10, actually it's a let's just let's turn to it. It's a few pages away. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And uh I don't have it in my notes, so I'll have to find the verse myself. Um yeah, verse 4 of 1 Corinthians 10. Let me read let me read the first four verses of 1 Corinthians 10. This should be just a page from where you were there Moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the clouds and all passed through the sea. And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And did all eat the same spiritual meat And all did drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Okay, why is this important? In the context of Paul's teaching, he's just talked about the children of Israel passing through the cloud and the sea. He mentions eating, and he mentions drinking. They ate of that spiritual meat. They ate the manna in the wilderness, which was a picture of Christ. They drank of that spiritual rock, and that rock was Christ. And they all passed through the cloud and the sea and were baptized to Moses. In other words, they were identified with Moses. They were sealed in unto him. Interesting enough, that word baptizo gets a lot of strange interpretations. The children of Israel were baptized on dry land. Just keep that in mind. I won't get into that this morning. But it was dry ground. They were not underwater. They were in the presence of the water. But the idea is this, Paul has been building this argument, and he's reminded them of the Red Sea He mentions the eating and the drinking and the identification with Moses, with the children of Israel. Moses became their leader from then on. Remember, they had chided against Moses, and they would chide more later on But from that moment on, they were following Moses, and Moses was leading them to the promised land. Folks, from this moment on. From the first Lord's Supper, we follow Christ. We eat and we drink, and He is leading us to the promised land. So I kind of got off track there, but you see how how Paul is building this argument, and chapter 11 doesn't stand alone, but rather is butter said. buttressed by what was in chapter 10. And so the Lord's Supper is a time of identification. That is why it is only for the believer. It is only for those who identify themselves as Christians. who identify themselves with Christ. And that brings us to our next point. The Lord's Supper is a time of warning. It is a warning. And we I read through the end of the chapter, but let's go back and highlight it again. In verse 33, verse 26 of 1 Corinthians 11. Chapter 11, verse 26, For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Okay, it's talking about his death. Wherefore, verse 27: Whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord. It's a warning. Those who would eat it unworthily, what's that mean to eat it unworthily? Well, not to be a believer. To view it simply as, oh, this is a ceremony. Um that is the problem with the Catholic Mass. Come one, come all. And of course the Mass is the Mass and the Lord's Supper are two different things. But the the mass masquerades as the Lord's supper. But come one, come all. Oh, just just you know make some motions with your hand and put some water on your forehead and you're good. No. This is a warning that those that do not know without a doubt that they have true and living faith Those that know they're living in sin are not to partake of this. It is for the believer. And so verse 28, but let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning, not understanding, not perceiving the body of Christ. And so, whenever we, even in our small congregation, when we take the Lord's table, there are some that take it and some that do not, some that refrain. And that's good. I would not suggest to anyone that you take the Lord's table if you're uncertain. And no one will think ill of you or less of you in any way if you Do not. And Paul continues in verse thirty, uh for this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves We would not be judged. In other words, that's the discerning. No, I'm not taking the Lord's table. I judge myself. I'm not sure. There is doubt in my heart. And so I will not partake until the Lord removes all doubt. And so the Lord's Supper is a warning. But then finally, it's an anticipation. It's a remembrance. I remember my father, but I look with great anticipation of seeing him again someday. It's an anticipation Till he come. He to show the Lord's death till he come. It's a forward looking In Matthew 26, 29, but I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of this vine, and the day I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And Revelation 19, verse 9, and he said unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These things are the true sayings of God. It's an anticipation. We remember his sacrifice for us, but we look with longing for the day when we will eat this supper again, new with him, in our father, his father's kingdom.