Well, we have been taking what may seem to be an awfully long time going through what might be considered a very basic fundamental teaching, and that is, where do I go when I die? As a Christian, we certainly know that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. We've looked at those passages where the Apostle Paul says, I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. And we know these things. Last week we looked at places where we do not go when we die, such as purgatory. And we looked at why that's false. There's two others that I've got in this pile of places where some people think we go that happen to be false. And one is annihilation, and the other one is something called second probation. And so we're going to look at those two tonight. I've saved the toughest for the last. Because I wanted to anchor you in the first part so that you'd think, yeah, this is kind of easy, I get it, this isn't hard, because as I've learned over the years, every heretic has his verse. And there are some passages in the Bible that people could isolate and look at and say, see? Right there. Yep, that's what it's teaching. uh surround themselves on that. So I'm going to go over that with you tonight and we're going to deal with a couple of difficult passages in First Peter and I spent the bulk of My time today in well not the bulk of it, but a good chunk of time in Bible study, focusing on some passages in First Peter And as well as looking at the ideas that some hold out to support annihilation. So let's look at the first one, annihilation. What do we mean when we say annihilation? Well, it's a word that we would use uh in the military. You know, you go and you want to annihilate the enemy. You know, you want to absolutely obliterate them, just make them go away, just poof, uh scorched earth policy where there's nothing left but you know smoking embers. That's the concept of annihilation. But when they talk about annihilation of the body What they're talking about is when you die and judgment day comes, that poof, you're roast to a crisp, and that's it. It's just one very painful sore end, but nothing further than that You're just obliterated. It's an atheistic doctrine. It's wishful thinking, and the idea is that there's no conscious existence after you die. And of course that removes the rub of an eternal penalty for sin. It gets rid of, quite conveniently, any kind of suffering in the hands of an angry God whom they don't like anyway. So it's very convenient for them. Okay, if he's there, poof, I'm gone. I see him once, uh, be done with him, I'm tired of hearing about this God. Anyway, the atheists will base their idea on the comparison of the brain with the liver And you go, huh? As you know, the atheists are not going to let a quote divine foot in the door. What they say is that the liver produces bile And so the brain also produces your consciousness, that thing that they would claim we call the soul. And so they would argue when the brain stops, so does your soul. It just kind of stops producing. There's nothing there Now what they've done is they've confused the worker, which is the soul, your spirit, with the machine, which happens to be your brain through which the soul operates. That's the idea. And let's see why it's a it's difficulty. There are those who are religious who believe that it's a sound teaching and they appeal to Malachi. Turn to the book of Malachi. If you have trouble finding it, you can go to the book of Matthew, like I'm doing, and you back up one or two pages to hit the book of Malachi. Would Jehovah's Witnesses be included in the ones that ascribed to this. I think you're correct, but but Is it the small Malachi? Yes, this might be a passage that they would turn to, among others. Yeah, thank you for mentioning that, Dan. I think the Jehovah's Witnesses do hold to the doctrine of annihilation. Malachi chapter 4. 1 is one passage that they might appeal to where it says this, For behold the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble. And the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, and it shall leave them neither root nor branch. That's right, neither root nor branch. And a root is something that goes in the ground and a branch is something up here. And if you've ever seen stubble, that's the stuff left over in the field after the hay is harvested. And it's not of much consequence. You can kick it and it kind of disintegrates. And so they would say, see, God's comparing people to stubble And boy, when you put a match to stubble, it doesn't take long. Puff, it's gone. So this is a passage they would appeal to. Then they would also go to 2 Peter 2 in verse 12. This is another passage they might turn to to try to shore up this false idea. 2 Peter 2 is what I call God's glossary of false prophets. If you want to find all the terms that God uses to describe false prophets. Between that chapter and the book of Jude, which is only one chapter, you've got a complete comprehensive list of all of a great many terms that God uses for a false prophet. Here in verse 12 he says this, but these as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not, and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. So see, they would say, they perish in their own corruption. And if their corruption is not solid or sound, then it would just crumble and fall apart, and that would be it. It would be over. It would be done So they've kind of strained at that a little bit to try to teach this idea. Well, the problem is that this is false for a number of reasons, but I'll turn it to you. to see if you've got some ideas on why this would be false and what passages you might go to to uh reprove it. Um, the Lazarus and rich man. Uh the rich man who went to hell and he was uh perishing in torment there. It didn't seem like he had a end waiting for him, but rather he was desiring to warn. That's correct. Yeah, there was that passage where in uh Luke sixteen you have the uh parable or the uh account. I think it's actually an account, some look at it as a parable, I could see it either way, but it tends to be more of an account uh that you have this rich man who lifts up his eyes in hell and he's in torments. And furthermore, there's a directive that is noted to him that, or I should say a policy statement that says there's a great gulf fixed between us. You can't pass to us, we can't pass to you. It's a good good commentary, and we'll see that's an important passage for our next uh false idea as well. It's also false because that, let me bring a few other points forward. The idea is also false because scriptures teach that sinners continue to exist. One of the fundamental things that I think people struggle with is the concept of divine retribution and eternal damnation. It's just hard for people to get their head around. And the reason it's hard for them to get their head around it is because they do not realize, nor do they appreciate, the fact that they are made in the image of God. Man is made in the image of God, and there's several ways in which he is made in man's image. You are going to last forever. This time period that we have right here and now where we're facing the departure of the soul from the body which the world refers to as death, and likewise the Bible, is not the be-all, end-all-do-all. We're made in God's image, we're immortal creatures. We continue on. That's part of what it means to be an image-bearer Beasts don't do this. Kangaroos you're not going to find in heaven. They're not made in his image. They are from the earth, but that's it. They take their life from the dirt, and that's it. God breathed into man's nostrils the breath of life, and he's a living soul. And so because man has twisted, perverted, distorted this image of God, which we bear so horribly, Because that individual is going to live forever, and because he has so horribly distorted that worthy name by which he was made, Therefore, it's only fitting that he should be put into a place of eternal punishment, because there's no other holding tank that he could be found in. So this is the idea. Matthew 25, 46 is a classic passage I like to go to. And let me tell you why that's a great one to refute this idea. Those who teach that there is simply annihilation, that the wicked poof vanish and they're gone, if they're they're Christians, meaning they at least claim the name of Christ, they also tend to believe in an eternal heaven. They don't tend to believe that when you die you, you know, chew up that little piece of gum, that, you know, little chiclet, and a after the. 0002 ounces of sugar is gone, then you know the gum is useless They don't have a brief moment of joy and then they stop ceasing. No, they believe in eternal life. They believe in everlasting joy in heaven. They believe that. But hell, no, that's Well, look at Matthew 25, 46. The Lord Jesus here says, These shall go away into everlasting punishment, and the righteous into life eternal. That word everlasting is the same Greek word as the word eternal. So if you believe in eternal life And you want to find your reason for believing that from the Bible, the very same passage says that there are those who are going to go away into something called everlasting punishment. It's the same thing. It's the flip side of the s of of a uh of or I should say the different a different coin handed to you. It's not the same coin, it's a different thing But it's the same word, everlasting punishment, life everlasting. So that's a pretty tough verse to get around, and there's no reason to try to dodge it. It simply says what it says. Romans chapter 9 is another place, and I like Romans 9 for more than one reason. It's kind of the Apostle Paul's hand grenade for a lot of false ideas Romans 9 22 says this. It says, What if God willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering, the vessels of wrath fitted? to destruction. This is an intense passage, and I want to focus your attention on that word fitted. We would certainly agree, and the Holocaust has certainly proved, that when you heat up the human body to a certain temperature, you're nothing but a pile of ashes And our God is listed in the Bible as everlasting burnings. He's described as one whose brightness is brighter than the sun. He's one that was so bright that when Daniel's three friends were in the fiery furnace The king pointed and said, Look, there's a fourth one in there. He's likened to the Son of Man. He was a bright figure that stood out Even brighter than that furnace that was heated up seven times than it was to be heated. When Jesus returns, it says there's no sun. How then can man who is just flesh and bones, survive. In the presence of a holy God who is full of wrath and anger, how can his wrath be poured out and it not be annihilation? Clearly they would be vaporized in an instant. Well, Romans 9 tells us what God intends to do. It says that right now he is enduring some vessels of wrath with much long-suffering. He told Abraham that the time of the Amorites is not yet fulfilled, for their iniquity hasn't yet been brought up to the measure He said to the Pharisees in Matthew twenty-three, fourteen, Go ye then, fill up the measure of your fathers, meaning, go ahead, let the sin meter keep ticking. You know, you get in the cab, nobody gets in the cab today, it's Uber, but Uh when in the olden days when they had little things on the dashboard that clicked away as you drove down the road, the meter ticked along. So it is in heaven. God is allowing the sinner to continue to do what he does, and he's just simply allowing the sin debt to accumulate. He's simply not restraining him. That is a fearful thing for God to simply pass you by and allow you to run headlong into your sin. It's a gracious and merciful thing of the Lord to stop the madness, to interrupt, to shout, repent in your ears, so that it disrupts your life and you have to change and do something different. Because if he doesn't, this is what happens in Romans 9. 22. God, who's willing to show his wrath, and he's going to make his power known. He is going to take a vessel of wrath and he's going to fit them to destruction. That word fitted is the same word rendered mending, as in mending the nets in Matthew 4. 21. When Jesus came and found these disciples, they were there mending their nets. Now what do you do when you're mending a net? You know what a net is. It's like this little cross grid and it's intended to catch fish. If you got a big hole in it, it's pretty useless. So you have to repair it. It's a lot of detailed work and you're doing it so that it can hold. That it can hold the weight of the fish. Of course, one time Jesus told them to put their net over to the side, and it brought in so many fish, they were shocked that the net didn't break. God is able to mend that human being, to repair it, to fit it, so that it is able to withstand everlasting destruction. Exhibit A. Moses at the what? Burning bush. He turned aside to see this great sign. Lo, a bush is burning, but it's not what? Consumed. So here this bush can't be in a f in a happy state. It's already a desert. Now it's got flames surrounding it. Any water that might possibly water it is not coming. And yet that bush is burning and burning and bush isn't consumed. I think that's an example of the God of everlasting burnings with whom we will all dwell. You're either wood, hang stubble, meaning you'll be consumed, you'll be uh uh enduring this grievous wrath and feeling it, or your gold, silver, precious stones. You know, diamonds come about when they're under high pressure. That's where their beauty comes from. You can't melt a diamond. You can smelt gold, but it doesn't vaporize and disappear. Same thing with silver. And so what a wonderful picture it is that we have to be made. and conform to his image. We have to be made into pure gold, and indeed he will do that. We will be refined. But for the wicked There's no difference. They'll dwell with God too. And yet in wrath, how do we know that? Revelation 14 is my next go-to passage to teach that. Revelation 14. And if you've been to oh a Bible study here more than ten times, you may hear this at least once every five to eight times. It says, The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone. in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. That God they want to get away from, that Lamb they're tired of hearing about. That Jesus they mocked and scoffed, whose tracks speaking of him they threw away, whose Christians perhaps they persecuted, yea, perhaps slay slain with the sword. Lo and behold, the one with whom they have to do is in fact the Lamb of God. Jesus isn't sitting there going, oh, I'm so sorry, I wish they had come, oh rats. No, he's the one meting out the punishment. So that's a very different idea than this business of annihilation. Revelation 14, 10. Can you go ahead, brother, and read the next verse? Thank you. Yes, I did have the next verse there, and I forgot to read that part. And as if though that wasn't good enough, and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night. Notice the no rest Hebrews talks about the believers enter into his rest. For them they have no rest. It's a miserable thing when you can't sleep. It's a pretty miserable thing when you're working hard and the boss comes, he says, Oh, you're so tired, boy would nap would really feel good right now. I'm sorry we can't do that. It's a proposal, so whatever, we gotta go work on this And you're just tired and you just slug your way through and you just try to do some more coffee, whatever, and it's just you're just tired. And your body's just screaming, I need sleep, I need sleep, I need sleep. Can you imagine an eternal existence where there is no rest, there's no vacation, there's no party, there's no partying with your friends? That's a nonsensical wishful thinking. It is a blind conjecture at best. Revelation 20, verse 10 says the same thing. It speaks of the beast and the false prophet. They're cast in the lake of fire and brimstone, and they're tormented day and night forever and ever. So from Matthew, from Romans, from Revelation, from three different New Testament writers, all under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, it's very clear that there isn't annihilation. There's another point as well. This idea is false because Scriptures also teaches degrees of punishment Scripture also teaches degrees of punishment. And the passage for that is the book of Luke. Luke chapter 12 and verse 47. Now I don't quite know how this works out. But I just simply have to let God speak, as my dear brother Mark would say, and just let him speak and tell me what he knows about the kingdom and wishes to convey to me There it speaks about a servant, a servant in the house of God. It says in verse 47, and that servant which knew his Lord's will and prepared not himself. Neither did according to his will. And the his will is referring to God Almighty, not the servant's will, not the self-will, he had plenty of that, shall be beaten with many stripes. But, verse 48, he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given of him shall be much required. And to whom men have committed much of him, they will ask the more. You know, there is a worldly principle to this that works as well. I quoted this verse to my supervisors, part of it, the latter part, of whom much is given, much is required. When uh they've offered me on several times they'd like to promote me. They want to promote me to a higher position with a little more pay. And I'd say, no, thank you. To whom much is given, much is required. You're gonna ask more work of me. I'm doing plenty of work right now. I really am not looking for more work, and I have plenty of money right now, I'm fine, so thank you And they find it weird. I've had bosses and senior bosses go to my boss saying, hey, you know you ought to promote this guy. No, he doesn't want to be promoted He really doesn't want to be promoted. Why? Because I have enough responsibility, thank you. I know what you're gonna ask. You're gonna have me travel, do a lot of business travel. You expect me to lay down my life on the altar of service for the company. I'm not interested in that. I have plenty of money right now, thank you. I'm fine. I don't need more. So it's I I appreciate the gesture. Just keep me employed and keep me around and telecommunic agreement and everything's fine. I'm fine. Well, here there's a gospel truth that's behind this. Young children, I speak to you. You know much. You're learning much from your mother and father in the gospel. You're learning a lot of things about the Word of God. Right, Samuel Mommy and daddy are teaching you a lot of things about God's Word, the Bible. And we're supposed to learn about it, not so that we can just make our head get fatter. and fatter and fatter and fatter and fatter. No, your head doesn't get that. It's not to just fill us with a bunch of interesting knowledge. It's so that we would know how to do the will of God. And that's very important. That's very important. Okay. Um now we move on to the next topic, unless somebody has a comment or a question or another MRS or Thoughts on this? Yes, Chris? I was thinking um he also says that there's gonna be weeping and gnashing of teeth. If you just kind of poop, I don't think you got time to weep or gnash your teeth Excellent point. Yep, in Mark 9, in fact, he says that three times. You know, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Yes. Weeping, wailing, gnashing of teeth, that's correct. That is absolutely a good cross-reference. Thank you. So they I always have They've been prepped, right, for most of this. And uh you can without a doubt uh their their Bible will have either uh footnote Or just flat out change the verse or your right because it doesn't fit their theology. Um But the revelation twenty ten, where the devil gets tormented forever, um the response is, well see that's the devil because they believe the devil's tormented forever. He's tormented forever, not people Right. But if you go to Matthew twenty five it talks about uh him separating the sheep and the goats. And it says uh Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me ye cursed into everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. So it just helps to show that the wicked go to the place Where the devil goes. And his angels go and they hang on the word destruction, which is a lot of in the New Testament. So you're saying ever here it's a Kesh's verse, their verses are the destruction verses they say that means destroyed, that means annihilated. So Yep. Y you have to really marshal all the evidence together and harmonize it to keep the Bible in sync and that's the safe way of doing it. Second probation. What is the second probation? This is the last bad idea out there. It's a scholarly idea. Some scholars have come up with this. I would call it creative wishful thinking. But the idea is that, in fact, I think the Mormons might uh hold on to this as well, it holds that those who die in their sins excuse me, will have another opportunity after death to accept Christ. They say no man will perish without having been offered a favorable opportunity to know and accept Jesus. Now of course we don't accept Christ, he has to accept us. But this is their idea. Strangely enough, Origen, uh uh one of the early church fathers had this notion, according to John Gill. He had a commentary and he noted this Now the idea is based on isolating a couple of verses out of context. So let's turn to 1 Peter 3. And admittedly, these are difficult passages, and it took me probably a couple of weeks of looking at it before it clicked, and I went, oh, I get it. 1 Peter chapter 3. And in verse 19. I'm just going to narrowly isolate on the on the two passages that they go to. 1 Peter 3. 19, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Oh wow, look at that. Preaching to spirits in prison. That's interesting. It doesn't say people, it says spirits. Oh well, that's interesting. And then you got first Peter four six, just uh one page over or one column over, for or because for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead. That they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. Oh, that's very interesting. This is a rather tricky, tricky little passage here. So let me see if we can uh unpack this Let me read actually something that John Gill wrote, which I think he kind of hits the nail on the head, and then I'll try to unpack it as well in chapter 4, verse 6. He says, thus the plain and easy sense of the words is That Christ, by his Spirit, by which he was quickened, went in the ministry of Noah, the preacher of righteousness. And preached both by words and deeds, by the personal ministry of Noah, by the building of the ark, to that generation who was then in being. And being disobedient and continuing so, a flood was brought upon them which destroyed them all, and whose spirits were then in prison of hell, meaning when the Apostle Peter wrote the epistle. So that Christ neither went into this prison nor preached in it, nor to spirits that were there when he preached, but to persons alive in the days of Noah and being disobedient when they died. And there they were when the apostle wrote. So that's the sense of it. Let's see if we can get that from this. Notice it's a continuing statement here. It's a phrase. And it's not even a complete sentence, verse 19, is it's just a phrase. So we find out the sentence begins in verse 18, for Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, which sometime now that word sometime is an old English word. It means which in time past Uh it's everywhere, there's other places that's rendered in time past, so it's completely legitimate to see it that way, which in time past were disobedient When once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water So from the entire context, you find this. Number one, he's talking about some distant ancient period of time. Number two, there's only eight people that are saved out of this entire episode. That's that's the sum total you got saved. That's it, right? A uh number three, uh It also says by also verse 19, he went and preached past tense. It does not say, and he is preaching into the spirits. It's a past tense. single event thing. Okay? So it's not an ongoing activity. And number four, it's completely reasonable to see That he's talking about the spirits that are in prison now. They are now in a in a prison. They are now in the depths of hell Let's keep going because he uses this same figure when he speaks again in chapter 4 and verse 6. He kind of repeats himself twice, and he's making a point. Let's begin in verse 4. It says, wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick, meaning the living, and the dead. So here it's speaking about these, that we're not to live like Gentiles. that and by he and he tells us what he means by Gentiles. Verse three, walking in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, abominable idolatries. And he says of these unbelieving pagans that when you, Christian, live a different life, they think it rather strange. What? Chris didn't get totally tanked up this weekend, falling down drunk What? You didn't live a loose lifestyle? What? You weren't proud of your shameful behavior? Why, that's what we all do. We all go party it up on the weekend and have a grand time. That's what the world thinks. This is their mindset, whether it's drunken on wine or on a massive shopping spree or a um You name it, they're interested in anything but the the God of the Bible. Revelings, banquetings, parties. Oh boy, they can't wait to have the next party He says they think it's strange that you don't run with them to that same excess of riot. Reminds us of the prodigal son who wasted his substance on riotous living. And they speak evil of you. Verse 5, who shall give account to him that's ready to judge the quick and the dead. Quick there is living and the dead. Now we would take that to mean God is going to judge the physically living people, and when he returns, those who are dead, he's going to raise up from the dead. So I don't see any reason to make that a spiritual context here. He's going to judge the living and the dead. When he returns, this is what's going to happen. How is he going to judge them? He's going to judge them according to the gospel. Verse 6, for this cause was the gospel preached to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God and the Spirit. Fundamentally, this verse is saying this, it doesn't matter what time period you lived in, God's basis of judgment is the gospel. Ah! But some may object, Peter is anticipating. What about those who lived before the gospel in its fullness came to us so that we were aware of it? Because some would say, well, the gospel began in the New Testament. Ah, he says, not so. The gospel was in fact preached. It was preached to them that are, as it were, now dead To them that are dead, they're dead now. But it was preached to them when they were alive, not in a state of deadness. But they heard it. He's going to judge the living and the dead, and the dead are those who are dead right now They're going to be judged by what? By the gospel. When did they hear it? When they were alive. They heard it back in Noah's day. Because it says in um 2 Peter 2, where it says verse 5, that God spared not the old world, but save Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. Noah was a preacher of righteousness. So these people had no excuse. Well if Noah was preaching in their day, and in fact we find out in the book of Hebrews that the gospel has been preached All throughout the Old Testament. It says plainly in Galatians three, seeing that God would justify the heathen by faith, the scriptures preach the gospel to Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So God's pretty plain that there's no excuse. Men have no excuse. That's what he's getting at. So the the trick is that the word dead means the same back in 1 Peter 4. It means the same in verse 5 and in verse 6. We don't have to spiritualize it. It means it's a physically dead person. But the meaning of the gospel to which men will be held accountable was preached in the Old and the New Testament. And we know that because it's preached to folks who now are physically dead. Notice he doesn't say That the gospel is being preached to physically dead people. It says was past tense, meaning they had heard it back in their day. It's being preached now to living people. So that's the sense of what's going on. He's preventing an objection to those who say Christ and the gospel is a recent event and so cannot be the sole basis upon which to judge the whole world. So that's what's going on in this passage. It's awkward language. The Greek, of course, is a little more precise and clear, but we're not Greek speakers, and so the way it's rendered kind of comes through a little differently to us. I don't think it would be wrong to put an italicized word now back in 1 Peter 3. 19, the spirits now in prison. The idea is that they're They're they're in prison right now. You know what's very interesting. I went looking at that word prison. Revelation 18, 2. Ah, yes, this is a dynamite one. This is the cry against Babylon. He cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen. It has become the habitation of devils and the hold or the prison of every foul spirit and a cage or, same word, prison of every unclean and hateful bird. This is a declaration against Babylon. Babylon has not yet fallen. It's going to happen shortly. But it says this place, Babylon, is effectively a prison. It's a prison. So you can look at it as, alright, well, if you think they're still alive but they're in prison If you're going to look at that spiritually, they're in bondage to their sins. When you and I share the Word of God with somebody who's in bondage to their sins, you're speaking to a soul in prison, right? They're under the devil's grip. They're like Babylon. If you don't see it in a spiritual fashion, it's talking about those who were physically dead, but they had the Word of God preached, but now they're currently in hell. Either way, it doesn't mean that there's a holding tank. You just don't find that. I hope I haven't lost you on that because it's hard to follow language. So let's look at some other ways to help refute this idea. And it's the one that Anton mentioned earlier. The idea is false because Scripture shows unbelievers in a fixed, unalterable state in hell upon death. The idea is false because it shows unbelievers in a fixed, unalterable state after death. There's no holding tank Luke 16, 26. Anton mentioned it earlier. Beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that they which pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from fence. Well, let's figure out how that relates to this teaching. Assume for the moment that there is some kind of a holding tank. And assume for the moment uh the Spirit of Jesus somehow is down in this holding tank preaching the gospel to people to give them one last shot. Maybe they just left the air conditioner off and it's on the fringes of hell and it's just getting really hot and miserable and they really just don't like it and they really want out and it's a really bad deal and they're realizing yes this is not good Well, according to this, it says you're in a state that's fixed. You can't pass from here. This is your permanent state. There's no second chance. And doesn't that ring consistent with other teachings you find in the scriptures? Hebrews says, now is the day of salvation. Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the day of wilderness. Don't wait for a seventh day of rest, don't wait for a Sabbath day. Now is the day of salvation. We come now, Psalm 95. Now Harden not your hearts as in the day of prodigation. There's this urgency, there's this sense of urgency all throughout the scriptures. It's now, not later. So that would not make any sense if there were a holding tank. Go to the book of Jude. If you're still in Peter, you've got a few pages to flip and you'll be over at Jude just before the book of Revelation. The one and only chapter in the seventh verse. This is quite an excellent proof text against this false notion of this second probation, this holding tank. It says, Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over the fornication and going after strange flesh? are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. So here, if you ever had a prime bunch of people, That were candidates for a second chance, Sodom and Gomorrah would be it. Now you'd say, Vince, why would you say that? It says here, they're set out as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Well look at Matthew 11, 23. Look at Matthew chapter 11 and verse 23. The Lord Jesus has been doing many miracles in a region. I believe it's Tyran Sidon. Oh, it's Capernaum. Uh he says to Capernaum in Matthew 11, 23, and thou Capernaum which art exalted unto heaven shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which have been done in thee had been done in Sodom, It would have remained until this day. Wow. Jesus Himself says, I in fact did not send a miracle-producing prophet to Sodom and Gomorrah because if I'd done so, they would have repented. If I'd done so, there still would have been a Sodom and Gomorrah to this day. Whoa! Whoa! I thought God loves everybody and has a wonderful plan for their life. Well, he has a plan for Sodom and Gomorrah, and it wasn't that. It wasn't that they would be rejoicing in God their Savior. It was that they would be, what does Jude say? They are set forth as an example. suffering the vengeance of what? Eternal fire. Not temporary. Again that word eternal, same word back in Matthew 25. So here's a group of people that Jesus himself said they are prime candidates for repentance if the word comes to them. But in fact, not happening. Why? Because there's no holding tank, because there is no second chance. That's a pretty powerful connection, if you ask me. Pretty hard to get around. Pretty hard to get around. We also have some more points, and then I'll close out here It says this idea is false because Scripture teaches the judgment of unbelievers depends on what they have done in the flesh. There's a subtle pretext behind this that says you go to hell only because you've rejected Jesus. That God has paid for every sin except for the sin of unbelief. And if you uh i uh except for the sin of rejecting Jesus, and if you reject him, that's the basis of going to hell. So we've got to give them one more chance to see if they'll accept Christ, because if they'll accept him, then they will go to hell. Well, close. Yes, we're judged by the gospel, and the gospel tells us to believe in Christ. It also tells us to repent. The gospel is repent and believe. Those are two sides of the same coin. Jesus says in Matthew 7, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? Can thy name cast out devils? In thy name done many wonderful works that I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. He says, Depart from me ye that work iniquity. He doesn't say, Depart from me ye that never believed in my name. He doesn't say, Depart from me, ye that never accepted me. Depart from me, ye that never walked an aisle and said Jesus. No, he says, you that work iniquity, it's your deeds that send you to hell. Matthew 25 was the was uh the passage we looked at uh just briefly in verse 41. He shall say to them on the left hand, these are the goats, depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Dan mentioned that earlier. For I was in hunger, you gave me no meat. I was thirsty, you gave me no drink. I was a stranger, you took me not in, naked and you clothed me not, sick and in prison and you visited me not. Then they shall also answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungered or thirsty, stranger, naked, sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? In other words, they're arguing that they have done these things. When did we see this and not do these things to you? Because we have. We've been doing it. They've got prison ministries. We're doing a lot. They're missing the boat. They're not dealing with the spiritual water and the spiritual bread of life. Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as you did it not, unto one of the least of these, you did it not to me Feeding the sheep is what's important in Jesus' book. When he restored Peter, three times he said, feed my sheep, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. That was the directive God's messengers, God's servants are to be sheep feeders. Now, it turns out that sheep tend to need a little help to get fed. They need a little bit of shepherding. They need a little bit of corralling. They don't need organizing. They don't need to be put to work. They don't need to be fleeced for yet more tithes and offerings. Let's pass the plate another 15 times, see if we'll get a few more dollars out. They need to be fed. Right? That's what they need to be. They need to be fed. Our last passage is 2 Thessalonians 1. 8. The apostle speaks to this church at Thessalonica. And what's interesting about this is that every single chapter has something to do with Jesus' return. Whether it's in 1 Thessalonians or 2nd, every single one of them, he exhorts and encourages these Thessalonicans with Jesus' imminent return. Here he gives a lot of description. And he says, beginning in verse six, I'm going to get to verse eight. I'm going to get yeah, eight, nine. He says, seeing it's a righteous thing with God to repay or recompense tribulation to them that trouble you, and to you who are troubled, rest With us. That's a great phrase. Rest with a group of people called us. Who are the us? Wherever they are, they're really good. I like these people because I want to be with them. Sound like people that believe in Jesus Christ and have been believing in Christ for a long time. I'm in 2 Thessalonians 1 beginning in verse 7 now. I started in verse 6. 2 Thessalonians 1, continuing in 7. To you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Number one, they don't know him, and number two, they don't obey him What do they not obey the gospel? What do they judge by the gospel? You see the connection? There's a consistency here. Verse 9, who shall be punished with Everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Notice that word destruction there. God puts a little adjective in front of destruction. Yes, it's destruction, all right Sometimes God underplays it. He just, yes, there will be destruction. Other times he makes it very plain, everlasting destruction From the presence of the Lord. Wow, that's the face of the Lord. Oh my. So this is another passage that absolutely sinks the idea of the second probation. There is no second chance. You know, although this language is difficult, let me speak to these young people here because you patiently heard some of this, and and maybe you're a little older and you're working your way through it and saying, I'm I'm befuddled. This is difficult language in 1 Peter I can't follow along. I'm not quite sure I could refute this. I would venture that you may have a hard time proving it to somebody else unless you have my set of notes happy to share with you. But you can remember this. This much you can remember The plain things are the main things. Don't try to get some teaching out of some obscure passage and draw that out into some big concocted thing. when there are much plainer passages of Scripture that directly address the question. You may not know what this obscure thing is, but it's not going to overthrow the very plain things that are out there. The context of 1 Peter, it's not clear that it's really speaking about an underworld It could be, but as we've seen, it's highly unlikely that it is because of the rest of Scriptures that refute the idea. If you isolate on that passage, and every heretic has his verse, and you'll hear me say that and get used to saying it because it's true, and they isolate on it. The best way you can rescue yourself is this, to say, well let's back up a little bit and let's go on a little further. Pick up something called context. It's a wonderful thing. The local context. Read the whole sentence. Don't give me a phrase. Let's read the whole sentence. Let's read the whole sense of it. And oh, by the way, does God have anything else to say about this? Someplace else in the Bible. That's called a larger context. You can throw all the evidence together and don't feel like you've got to win right away. You don't got to win. You don't got to believe it right away. That's the mark main thing. So the plain things are the main things. So that ought to help