Turn with me this morning to 1 Samuel in chapter five. We're looking at all twelve verses this morning. If you recall in the last weeks The Israelites had taken the Ark of the Covenant into battle with them. They thought that that would uh certainly give them victory. They were routed Uh 30,000 of the Israeli soldiers died. They fled the battlefield, leaving the Ark of the Covenant to be captured by the Philistines. And we pick up here in chapter 5 or verse 1. And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer unto Ashdod. When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. And when they have Ashdod arose early on the morrow, or the morning, behold, Dagon was falling upon his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord. And they took Dagon and they set him in his place again. And when they rose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face again to the ground. before the ark of the Lord. And the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands, were cut off or broken off and lay upon the threshold. Only the stump of Dagon was left to him Therefore, neither the priests of Dagon nor any come into Dagon's house to tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day. I guess they were afraid if they walked in there, Dagon might fall over again and fall on top of them. So they would avoid the threshold area. But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with emrods or tumors, bloody tumors, actually, and even Ashdod in the coast thereof And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us, for his hand is sore or heavy upon us, and upon Dagon our God And they sent therefore, and they they gathered all the lords or all the kings of the Philistines onto them, and they said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about on a gath. It's another city. And they carried the ark of God of Israel about thither. And it was so that after they had carried it about, the hand of the Lord was against the city with a very great destruction, and he smote the men of the city. both small and great, and they that had emirates or tumors in their secret parts, that is internally, where you couldn't even see them. And therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of God of Israel to us. To slay us and our people. And so they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines. They said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel. Let it go again to its own place. Slay us not And our people, for there there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there. And the men that died not were smitten with emrods and the cry of the city Went up to heaven. Says here the Philistines took the ark of God onto Ashdod. It been to Ashdod. It's a seaport uh in Israel. So if you ever go over to Israel on a med cruise They often dock right there in Ashdod, and that's how you enter into Israel. But here the Philistines took the ark of God onto Ashdod into the house of Dagon The name of Dagon is not just found in our Bibles, but through many clay uh tablets they have found that uh the God of Dagon was was worshipped in that area not only by the Philistines but by the Assyrians and the Babylonians and so forth. So we we have have archaeological confirmation that this this god that was worshipped by the name of Dagon really existed, really was worshipped And uh and so we we find here that he was he was the main god of the Philistines. There were other gods, but he was their primary God And they b and what from what we believe and have gathered from writings and from uh some of the carvings, uh Dagon was uh the upper half of him looked like a man And if you'll see some of these Assyrian sketches with a beard and so forth, the upper part was like a man and the bottom part was like a fish. So he's like a mermaid, only a mer mad, I man, I guess you'd call him It looked like a mermaid. They they actually believe that the god of Dagon had had had come up out of the sea and onto land, kind of evolving from a fish to a man. And so you've got this this evolution taking place. And and they this was a god. They they worshiped him as a god because he was the I guess the evolutionary link. You can imagine today if the evolutionist found a half monkey, half man, or half bird, half dinosaur, how they would just worship it. They've got the missing link. It'd be like it'd be like them finding the the you know a a a god to them it would be. And and so here he was. Uh he was half fish and half man and they worshiped him. Now generally what happened with the Philistines when they went into battle with other countries, the other countries often brought their gods into battle with them. They they take Dagon into battle with them and And the other countries that they bring their God into battle with them and may the best God win. That's kind of how it worked. And often when the Philistines won, they would take the gods that they had captured and they bring him back into Ashdod and they put him in the temple of Ashdod and they they place the the the the god that they had captured at the feet of Dagon And they were saying, There you are, the God of whatever country they they defeated in battle, now you will be an obedience, so you will worship our God, day god. Must have been a l a large a large uh stone statue of some sort And uh because it would fall over, it wasn't just carved into a uh painting or something, it was an actual three-dimensional large statue. And they lay these other gods down before it in the temple of Dagon And uh that that was what they were going to do here with the Ark of the Covenant as well. They were showing that Dagon was superior to the Ark of the Covenant. But if you remember last week, uh not only did the Philistines believed it, but the Israelites believed it also that that God actually abode above, hovering over between the cherub and God hovered like the Chekina glory over the Ark of the Covenant. You captured the Ark of the Covenant, or if you brought the Ark of the Covenant into battle, God was with you. God was there. And the Philistines also saw the Ark of the Covenant as as they had captured the God of Israel. That's what they really felt. We've captured their God. They really felt that way. And many of the Israelites felt the same as we saw last week. They said, the God of Israel, the glory of Israel has departed. The glory of God has departed us. And now the Philistines have him. And that was some of the superstition of both parties. So Dagon has now the Ark the Covenant placed before, and they've captured the Ark. It's placed before Dagon. It's going to be a great victory celebration the next morning You may you may um have have thought about Dagon, uh, where have we ever seen this name before, or have we ever seen this name before in the scriptures? And you have This was not the first time that the Philistines had defeated Israel in battle and had brought something into the temple of Dagon to say, hey, look what we've captured, look what we got. And if you go back to the book of Judges in chapter 16, when they had captured Samson. And had plucked out his eyes, or actually burned out his eyes from the socket. In Judges 16, 23 through 30, there came a day when they neglected to realize that Samson's hair had grown back But they went down the prison, they brought Samson, and they brought him into the temple of the house of Dagon, and said, to mock him and to make sport of him And remember how Samson there between the two columns he prayed that God would would uh requite him or for the eyes that he had lost and that he might die with the Philistines And he's in the house of Dagon, and he pushes the the pillars aside and it collapses, and there's thousands and thousands of the Philistines die, more than ever died in the days when Samson was fighting him out on the battlefield And uh so there he lay in the rumble the rubble. And now we're here here we are twenty years later and obviously someone has decided to rebuild the temple of Dagon. It's been rebuilt Since the days when Samson destroyed it and killed thousands of Philistines, and they haven't learned their lesson yet. You know, they brought Samson in as a spoil of war, and their temple was destroyed And now they're going to bring in the Ark of the Covenant into the Temple of Dagon again, and they're about to learn their lesson for the second and third time. Samson had silenced them on the day that he walked into the temple, and the Ark of God is going to do much the same here. The ungodly are no different today. They love to mock As they did in Samson, they love to export with Christians, and uh they just love to persecute the followers of God, the followers of Christ. Nothing has really changed today. And so, pilgrims, I just ask you, are you ready for the persecution? Are you ready for the mocking? Are you ready for the sport that they're going to make of you? Are you ready for the cost? Christ says in Luke twenty-one and twelve that for his name's sake it is going to cost us someday. Are you ready for that? Are you ready for that? Because the ungodly are always very excited about making sport of us. And so here they're about to do the same thing. And it says in verse 3, early on the morning, they can hardly wait. The priest of Dagon They're there first, they're excited about the celebration that's going to take place, they're going to invite all the Philistines in. And so early on the morning they arrive at the house of Dagon, and behold, Dagon is falling upon his face To the earth. That's gonna be very discouraging to find their God with his face in the dirt. You know, that's where he was. The face of Dagon was buried in the dust and the dirt. and the threshold of the temple. And uh he was he was in the dirt and it and when you looked at it and you stood back and wondered, how can he fall over? It's a very stable you know, idols it it's never fallen over before. And it just it just it just puzzled me. It fallen over. And as they looked at they realized that not only had it fallen over, it didn't fall over backwards, it didn't fall over to the right, it didn't fall over to the right. It fell over right towards the Ark of the Covenant. And it looked like, it couldn't even be missed by the Philistines, it looked like that Dagon was bowing before the God of Israel. And they just couldn't have that. So, you know, before anybody arrived, they they run back up there and and I don't know how many men it must have taken to put them back up in place, and so nobody was gonna know or be the wiser, all right? Uh Dagan had Dagon hadn't bowed to the ark of the covenant. Our God Dagon never bowed to any God. We bring gods in here all the time that we capture and they play obedient obedience to him. And so here they've got Dagon who had never bowed to any captured God before And they had to be thinking and scratch their head that is the God of Israel superior to our Dagon? They didn't want to think about that. They didn't want anybody else to think about that And uh they just were not about to repent and change their attitude here. Clearly, the God of Israel was more powerful than Dagon, and they should have immediately repented They should have repented, for they they knew, and we saw a couple of weeks ago back in 1 Samuel chapter 4 and verse 8 that it said that they they talked about how the God of Israel had smote the Egyptians with plagues I mean these people were not ignorant of the power of the God of Israel. They they knew that and they and they knew what Samson had done in their temple, and now they've got their idol bowing down. They knew it and this was an opportunity for them to repent. They knew what this God had done. First Samuel 4, he'd smoke these ships with plagues. And Exodus 7 and 9, we read about the boils and the blood and the blanes and the, I mean, it's just, you know, they knew this, but they didn't repent. Not only did not repent, but they set Dagon back up in his place again, and they concealed the truth. Mustn't have anybody know that Dagon is bowing to the God of Israel. Mustn't have anybody know that Dagon has fallen over. Mustn't have anybody know. Must conceal it. Doesn't that sound like the Pharisees and the high priests and the chief priests in Israel? When the tomb on Sunday morning was empty and the angels had been there and and the guards came running into Jerusalem and they told these Pharisees, they said, You're not gonna believe what happened this morning I mean that the earthquake, the earthquake, that was nothing. We're at the tomb and and these angels come by and they roll back the stone and they tell us that he is risen, you know, just as he said. I mean he he And the Pharisees they go through and the hypes and the chief priests, look, here's some money. You guys just go out and you just go out and tell the people the disciples came a night and they stole the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well they wouldn't call him the Lord Jesus Christ, but That's who I called him. He stole them by the Lord Jesus Christ, and that's what happened to the body, and that's why the tomb is empty. And so here we got priests concealing the truth. in the days of the resurrection of Christ. It's the same spirit, just to conceal the truth from the people. They didn't want to know that Christ was risen in Matthew 28 and 13. He was just stolen while you slept. What guard once admit he was sleeping on duty? So I'd ask you this morning, have you ever concealed the truth from others because you just didn't like the truth? I think there are Christians that do that. You're you're witnessing to somebody, you're sharing something to somebody about the gospel, and you don't tell them about Eternal fire. Like Jude chapter 1 and verse 7. Oh, I'm going to leave that alone. I'm going to conceal that. That's going to turn them off. They won't want to come to our church if we tell them we talk about hellfire and brimstone. I'm going to conceal that. I'm not going to share with them that narrow is away and few there beat us find it. Matthew 7. 14, you know it would make it look like you know that the there's only one religion. I mean I mean once they get in the Bible maybe I hope we'll come to that conclusion. But well we're not gonna let 'em see that right away. We we can seal the truth sometimes, right? We don't talk about predestination. Certainly in Matthew 11 and verse 5, you know, we're also telling God loves the sinner, he just hates the sin. I don't find it anywhere in Scripture, but do we share that with people? But that's not that's not a Bible verse. Did you know that's not a Bible verse? God hates the sin, but he loves the sin. That's not a Bible verse. In fact, I could go through several, but do we ever conceal that truth in people? Psalm 115, the Lord, the wicked, his soul hateth. Or Jacob ever loved it. Esau have he hated. I mean, there's things that some Christians conceal When you suppress the truth as the Pharisees did in the days of Christ and his resurrection and the empty tomb, when you conceal the truth as the Philistines did here, when you conceal the truth or suppress the truth, it's foolish. It's futile and it's often fatal. We're dealing with souls who may that the last time or the or the next time you speak to someone and you you're thinking about not going into things like hellfire and brimstone and hell and eternal fire. and the worm or the the w the dieth not and the wailing and mash next time you think about this they may not be around this time next week Mrs. Spencer, she was saved. Judy Spencer was a saved lady. But the doctor told her, he said, I've done all the tests. There's nothing wrong with you. And she said, but I don't feel right. No, no, no enzymes in your blood, you're not having a heart attack, your blood pressure. There's nothing wrong with you. And I believe that he really thought there was nothing wrong with her. Or if he thought there was something wrong with her, what a sad thing. If he was concealing the truth. Because he steps outside to answer a phone call, and before the curtain is through flapping Her head turned to the side and and she started gurgling in her chest and Pastor Spencer ran out and grabbed the doctor and they came back in and she was gone. I mean it was like three seconds. Now I don't think the doctor can seal the truth of them. They just didn't know. They couldn't see an aorta aneurysm? I think what's it called? Aorta ana aneurysm. Yeah, you've got seconds. I mean you can have you on the table with the finest surgeons in the world and say in three seconds or five seconds the the orange is going to burst Do what you can. They can't do anything. There's nothing you can do. But we're speaking to people about their souls. We're speaking about people of the eternity. And we're thinking about conceding the truth for them because it might rub them a little wrong or it might upset them. We don't know how much time we got left when we talked to somebody. It may be the last time you'll ever hear a gospel. And if and if you feel in England that they were like, no, what happens if people don't accept Christ? Tell them about hell. Don't say, oh, I won't go there right now. Let me see what else. Try to change the subject. Don't do that. When we suppress the truth, it's such a foolish thing to do, it's futile. And it's often fatal. And as the following verses here confirm in verse 4, they set the Dagon back up. They're going to conceal the truth so nobody will know. And so on the next morning, they must have rearranged, must have maybe they had to close the curtains, keep everybody out the day, and they had to change the celebration another day. I don't know. But on the next morning, they arrived there again and Dagon was fallen again And this time the head of Dagon and both the hands were cut off and now and the head's gone and all you've got left now is is the the the maybe part of the chest and the fish tail in the laying there on the ground. It's uh kind of an interesting note of history that oftentimes when they had a victory in battle and they would capture the king. or the commanding officer of the other branch, they would do two things. They'd cut off his hands to show that he now has no power left. And then they cut off his head to show that his wisdom has died with him. We'll not have to worry about this army anymore. We'll not have to worry about this man formulating another another group to come after us and attack us. We'd cut off his hands, and then they would take the body, you know, and they would uh they would hang it up somewhere and let everybody see that they were powerless. Leader, no there they had no headship, they had no leader, they had no power, the hands were gone, the head of their army was gone. And so it it it speaks more it speaks volume to them when they come in and day gone's not just laying down But his hands are gone, he's powerless as a god, his head is gone, he has no wisdom, he he he's just now he's a useless god to them. And that that did not You know, slip by them. They understood when they saw this what had happened that Dega neither had wisdom anymore or strength anymore. He he can't even keep himself in an upright position He can't even help himself. How is Dedon going to help us when he can't help himself? It reminds me of when I was in Thailand and they got all these Buddhist statues. And you can buy the Buddha statues over there. And they'll sell them to you in a shop and a lot of it was a bunch of ministers one time, they're all buying a Buddhist statue. They want to bring it back and show everybody how they worship this piece of stone I mean how foolish these people are. And you get to the airport and customs stops and said you can't take that out of our country. Oh I paid for it, it's mine. I and they sold it to the shop. I'm sorry, but uh that is one of our gods I mean they believe this. You cannot take our God out of country. We'll lose the blessing. We'll lose the you can't have that. And they take the Buddha statues away from you. Because they still, in this modern 21st century, they still believe that that is really their God, although the shop had, you know, forty or fifty of them, and there's twenty shops with four, and there's these old Buddhist statues everywhere, but they're but they're all a God They got lots of gods, they're all these old Buddhist gods, and they take them back. There's probably a deal set up between the you know the shop and the customs. You know, we return to you, then you sell them, then we return to you, then you sell them. You know, who knows how that works out. But but they they really believe that these are their gods. That their their God is in that stone and here's Dagon. He's fallen over the second time. His face is in the dirt again, his his head's broken off, his arms are broken off, and they haven't missed the they understand this That their God is now powerless. In fact, the Buddhist gods, I remember the Emerald God over in Thailand. You wonder how powerless he is They they seasonally change his clothes. They come in and very ceremonially they take his jacket off and they put a spring jacket on. In the wintertime, they put a warmer jacket on. He can't even dress himself, but they worship him. The Buddha God. And so here they realize too that their God, who they want to celebrate, and how they capture the Ark of the Covenant a second time on a second day in a row. My the triumphing, the wicked, it is sure. The triumph of the wicked is short. It's but for a moment, Job 20 and verse 5 tells us the triumph of the wicked. I mean sometimes you look around and we feel like the wicked they're in charge of running everything in the world, and this has been going on for decades or for a century in the in the eyes of God, a century, ps, you know, a thousand years, what it's like a day to God, it's nothing. It's but for a moment the triumph of the wicked. And so here we have it. In the face of such an event, they had trusted in Dagon. They had trusted in Dagon, and now he's lost his hands, he's lost his head. I mean, they this is what they trusted in. I don't know if people still do people still have rabbit foot on keychains? They still do that? When I was a kid, you know, you go into a gas station and you get this thing to hang on your mirror to make the mirror smell nice, you know, got rid of the dice and the raccoon tail After younger people you don't even know what I'm talking about. But but but but they get a but they'd always sell a rabbit's foot. You could you hook it onto your car keys at a rabbit's foot And man, that was a lucky rabbit. I never met an unlucky rabbit's foot. I mean they'd sell these rabbits, but they were, you know, there was a lucky rabbit's foot. How many here ever saw the rabbit foot. Okay, so tell me what I'm talking about. Raccoon tails, huh? Dice? I got a few more. Okay, good. Okay, so here we got we got the rubber the lucky rabbit's foot. And it and I had one, I love and it never dawned on me that if that rabbit foot is lucky I there was a rabbit that had four of these and and it didn't prove to be so lucky for him. I mean, do you ever think about this stuff? We also had a lucky horseshoe over at the barn in Marion Lib. Remember the barn? That horseshoe, we'd had these big wooden doors and we'd slam them shut and we'd roll them back out and slam them shut And about once yeah the horseshoes fall off and bonk somebody in the head. You know, that was really a lucky horseshoe. And so we had the lucky horseshoe in the barn. And the liv knows what happened there. The tornado came in and it The tornado, the wind of God, the tornado came in, ignored the lucky horseshoe, and wiped the barn off the map Here we've got the worshippers of Dagon, their rabbit foot, their horseshoe, broken. And it's happened twice. It's happened two days in a row. These are two events, you know, like the testimony of two. It's a clear testimony. It should not be ignored that their God is bowing down before the Ark of the Covenant. Basically bowing down before the God of Israel. That's the way they saw it. You know, we have two clear testimonies today as well. They had two clear testimonies, day guns down two days in a row. We've got the old and the new testament. Clear testimonies, two of them. Prophecies fulfilled in the Old and the New Testament that point to the one true and only God, the Lord Jesus Christ. And people all over the world are ignoring two very clear testimonies. That the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Oh, there's knees that don't want to, but every knee should bow and every tongue should confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. Well, these Philistines are not about to admit that the Ark of the Covenant, the God of Israel, is the Lord. They don't care what the testimony is. They therefore decide that the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them. They believed It says the hand of the Lord, verses 5 and 6, it's heavy upon us. And and in fact David said it was heavy upon their god Dagon. And he said it smote them of Ashnod and destroyed them. And all along the coast people were being destroyed by these these these uh these bloody tumors and they were dying and and if not dying wishing they were dead. And so I want you to see here that the consequences of these deceptive disciples of Dagon Everybody's got to say it together real fast, right? The deceptive disciples of Dagon, okay? There was consequences too when we deceive people. There was consequences here. It says the hand over is heavy upon them of Ashdod and it destroyed them and the coast thereof. In other words, they were people down the coast of Ashdod. They hadn't been to the temple. They didn't know about the Ark of Coven, even being captured. They didn't know about Dagon falling down. Most didn't know that. I mean, they were kept in ignorance. But it didn't matter. The consequences of these deceptive disciples of Dagon was that it infected even the people in the surrounding areas that were ignorant of what was going on. There were those along the coastline that the consequences were that they were they were being inflicted by the plague and the pain and the perdition that would last for all eternity. even though they weren't directly responsible or directly involved. And and we as as as as believers and as Christians and even if you're not, we have to understand pilgrims were living a if you're living a life of deception You've got to consider the unintended consequences. Well, I can do what I want. You know, that's that's what the women says my body, I can do my body what I want. You know, I don't really have a problem with that, but leave the body alone that's growing inside your tomb, your womb, rather. You know. You want to do what your body you want? Fine. But that body inside your womb, that's not your body But people say, I can do what I want, and I'll suffer the consequences. You know what? We all suffer the consequences when we allow sin to take place in our communities. Jacob deceived his father. Well Jacob's like, you know, I'll deceive my father, but you know I'll suffer. You know he suffered for that? Genesis 27-22? He never saw his mother again. When he fled, when he deceived his father and said, I am Esau, and he puts on the hairy garments on his arms, his father said, The voice is that of Jacob, but the arms are that of Esau And Jacob says, That's right. I'm Esau. And the deception, he never he had to flee, he thought Esau would kill him, he had to flee, and was gone for a long I think it was two decades. When he returned, he never saw his mother again. I think if he'd known what the consequence of lying to his father was, he wouldn't have done that. There are consequences for the things that we do, unintended consequences. The same thing with Joseph's brothers. They lied. They came back to his father. We're not saying Joseph is dead, but we found this this coat of many colors You know, I'm not saying it's Joseph's coat. Oh come on, how many coats were like this one? And they had blood, they'd poured blood all over it, and they just thought the father would be upset and Joseph is dead and And he would get over it. But he never got over it. He said my gray head will go down to the grave mourning Joseph. He never got over it. The whole family was miserable about it. And the whole f The whole household changed, the whole complexion of the household changed. And they never realized that in deceiving the consequences of Joseph's brother deceiving the father, it brought immense pain for years and guilt they couldn't get rid of. And how about Achan? They take out Jericho, and they're told when they go into Jericho that any gold that's found in Jericho, it goes to the treasure of the Lord. And Achan's in there and he sees all the gold and they're all collected gold for the treasure of the Lord and he says, Oh, they'll never miss a couple pieces of this. Takes it and he buries them in this tent. What are the consequences of that? You read the story. Joshua's they've taken out Jericho, and Joshua's onward and upward to head for the next city, they've said, boy, we we did so good at Joshua, we'll just take about 30,000 guys, we'll go to take out this little city, they've had The little city of A comes out and kicks their tail, and thirty-six men die. And Joshua says, Why, Lord, why? We took Jericho. We didn't lose anybody. We lose thirty-six men over Ai, a little city. What is wrong? And God says to Joshua, There is sin in the camp. And the consequences of the sin are you've just lost the battle and thirty six men have died. Do you think Achan when he stole the gold and stuck it in his pocket and went and buried in his tent, he ever, ever expected that the consequences of what he was doing would be found out and that the consequence of what he's doing would take away what he did. Okay, thirty-six men died. No, no. Probably thirty-six families lost their father or lost their brother. And those are real families, those are real people. And Achan, he didn't see the consequences of we we need to consider the consequences of birth. sin. We need to consider the consequences of deceiving people about the things of God. We need to share with them the truth. What scripture says it may be hard for some people to listen to the fact that God says there's only one way, I and the way, the truth, and life. No one comes on the Father but by me. And when people say, What are you trying to tell me that if I don't come through Jesus, I'm going to go to hell, I'm never going to go to heaven. I like what John MacArthur put it on a talk show. He said, that's right. If you don't come through Jesus, you will go to hell for all eternity. So you're telling me the Jew is going to go to hell? And then John MacArthur said, I'm telling you that anyone who says they're a Baptist or a Methodist or a Jew or a Lutheran or a Presbyterian Catholic who doesn't believe that Christ is the only way is going to hell. That does include the Jews. But that includes anybody that denies us. We have to we can't be deceptive about these things. Eternity A soul's eternal resting place depends on us not being deceptive about what the scripture says. So we find here that they had been deceptive and it was costly to them. And now there have these these bloody tumors are infecting the people, and the people are all dying. And eventually the Philistine leadership concludes that they've had enough of this God of Israel. You know, there's people like that out there there. They they've had enough of this this God of the Holy Scriptures, right? They've had enough of him. And the Philistines said we had enough of him. And they said, the Ark of God. Now what they're saying by the Ark of God, they mean the God of Israel. Because they believe the God lives in that ark and that that they've actually captured the God but they say now they say there in verse 7 the ark of God shall not abide with us Almost sounds like the attitude today of the leaders of our country, President. His hand is thorough upon us and upon Dagon our God. You know, you can be quite religious. They were religious. They weren't Christian. They weren't worshippers of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But they were religious. And you can be quite religious, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth, Paul writes in 2 Timothy 3. 7. Well, you can be like these Philistines. You can be ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth. And these Philistines, they were religious. And they concluded some things. First, they concluded that there were many gods And they didn't want the God of Israel anymore. They want nothing to do with him. They conclude there are many gods, but here's one God we want. This isn't amazing, superstitious people and ungodly people, they think the Buddha's okay and Confucian is okay and the Hindu gods are okay and You know, and the Mormonism okay and the Joe Rudders are okay. It's just amazing. All the different gods are different. They're okay. But not these born-again, bloodwashed, Bible-believing, holy scripture, fundamentalist something, right? We're the only ones they don't like. They were willing to put up with everything else but us. And that's where these Philistines were. They were very religious. But there were many, many gods. They concluded well they're wrong. There weren't many gods. But that was the first conclusion they had. The second conclusion they had is that they were going to exclude they were going to exclude out of all the gods, they're going to exclude only one. You know they got other gods they captured, they were in the Temple of Dagon But there's one that's got to leave the temple of Dagon. We're going to get rid of this one God. There's only there's many gods, wrong. We're only going to exclude one. The God of Holy Scriptures. Wrong again, right? So wrong twice here. They don't want the real living and true God that could exclude him from their society Boy, once again that does sound familiar. The ark of God shall not abide in the house of Dagon. That's what they said. The house of God. The God of Israel will not abide in the Schoolhouse. The God of Israel would not abide in the White House. The God of Israel would not abide in the house of worship called the National Cathedral in Washington, D. C. I mean, they're just excluding the God of Israel today as well And that's the only one they're excluding. They have yoga dances and they've got all kinds of stuff going down at the National Cathedral. You can have yoga and Buddhism. It's all welcome. But the day that John MacArthur, R. C. Sproul, or one of them is allowed to preach and speak there, don't hold your breath, friend. They were tired of this God. They were kind of like the the Gatarenes, remember, uh, when Christ comes across the boat in the ocean and Or in the sea, and here's a man possessed of the demons, and you know, what is your name? He's our name is Legion, and Christ is going to toss the demons out, and the demons say, Oh, don't toss us out, put us out while we go to the herd of swine You ever wonder what the Jews were doing raising 2,000 pigs? So the Lord says, sure, you go to the swine, the swine run down, they drown the sea. And these Jews are really upset that the the the profit they've lost in the death of all these pigs they were raising. They shouldn't have been raising the pigs in the first place, but instead of that they come back complaining that they see the demonic man is healed and they come back complaining and they say to Christ, we read in Mark 5 and 17, depart out of our coast What did the Philistines say of the God of Israel? And it's not just in Ashtab, it's up and down the coast. They say, Depart out of our coast. We'll not have this God to abide with us. Christ, get out of our coast. We'll not have you to abide with us The unbelievers, if they don't really change the language that much, the argument, the debate, the sticking points are all about the same. They will not have the God of Israel in their society, abiding with them. And so they said in verses 8 and 9, what shall we do with the Ark of God? Isn't that sad? Now remember the Ark of God contained the writings of Moses, had the Ten Commandments in there. What would we Do you ever wonder why they weren't struck dead when they touched the ark of God and put it in the temple? Most of the commoners believe they weren't struck dead. Pharisee or a chief priest or or you know they had the the the Ark of the Cut a little bit smaller than this communion table here, had rings on it. You slide these poles to the rings and you lift them up, you wouldn't touch the ark I mean if you touch the ark as as the one king of Israel did, he was struck dead. But why could you think the Philistines put rods to the they were very very meticulous about not touching the ark? Probably not. Why did why weren't they struck dead? Because in their ignorance they did not know it was inappropriate to touch the ark. In fact, we don't even read that they I'd have said, Wow, I wonder what's in that. I don't lifted the lid and looked, right? It doesn't appear they did. If they lifted the lid, they might have tasted some of the manna. They might have read the Ten Commandments and got saved. It doesn't appear they even looked in the ark. It's it's it's like some people, you know, you you you give them a Bible and you tell 'em. Do you know what's in this? Manna from heaven. Do you know what's in this? The Ten Commandments. You know what's in this? The writings of the prophet of Moses. You know what's in this? And they go, wow, I'll take one of those And they never open it and look in it. We don't read the Philistines ever looked inside of it. They had the ark They didn't have it that long. Maybe they didn't have time to really explore where the hinges were or how to open it up. They just want to get rid of it. They conclude they've had enough of the God of Israel, and they're going to get rid of them. The ark shall not abide with us And so they said, What should we do with the Ark of God? I hope there's nobody here this morning saying, What should I do with the Word of God? Read it. Meditate upon it, sing it, memorize it What should we do with the ark of God? Let the ark be carried about on the gas. I know we'll get rid of it. We'll set it to gas. I mean Gath, you know what Gath was noted for? Gath was noted for the giants. The giants, I mean surely if anyone can handle the God of Israel, we'll send it to Gath where the giants live And we see that in scripture that these were the they were known for their gigantic inhabitants. In fact, in 1 Samuel 17, 4, it says that David fought Goliath. of Gath. And then 2 Samuel talks about other giants that he dispatched who were from Gath. This is where the where the giants lived. We can't handle this God of Israel Nashville, but we'll send it to Gath where the giants are. Maybe they'll have a you know a better uh ability to handle what's going on here. And it says the hand of the Lord was against the city of Gath with a very great destruction, verses eight and nine. And he smote, interestingly here it says he smote both great and small. God smote their giants too. He smote both great and small. Do you think God's only after? It says you're great and small. Do you think God is only after the big sinners. And so you feel like you're safe? You know? Oh, I'm not a big sinner. I haven't robbed a bank. I haven't killed anybody. I haven't committed adultery. You know, I'm he's only after the big sinners. It says he smote here, both great and small. There's none that hardened himself against God that has prospered. Job 9 and 4. Do not be convinced that because you think you are a little sinner without any big sins or without a large pile of sins. That if you're going to get by and God's going to weigh things out at the end of your life and say, well, you weren't all that bad. You weren't a big sinner. So I'm going to let you slide if you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're not leaning on his blood, shed for your sins, you can be a little sinner, and he will smite you with the great sinners. You'll and do you you know if you think you're a fairly good person, you're not that bad a person, you haven't done a lot of great horrible sins, maybe you covet some things like Tim was talking about this morning. You know, but you haven't done any real major sin. Do you really want to spend eternity in hell with a bunch of great, large sinners? I don't. That in itself ought to make you think, even if I'm a little sinner, I don't want to go to hell Because God's going to smite both great and small. Not yet convinced these the Philistines still don't repent. Now the giants and Gather being struck dead as well. And so they send the ark to Exodus. And the Acronites in verses 10-11 they cry out, send away the ark. They're a quick study. They found out what happened in Ashdod, they had we're not going to spend a whole lot of time here. Send the ark away There's a deadly destruction throughout our city now too. Get it out of here. The cry of the city went up as verse twelve to heaven. And it said and they mean a real cry. This was w what the uh uh Hebrew scholars and others in the commentaries write about they believe that this this this these bloody tumors these people had it was painful it was a painful disease it wasn't just a bloody disease or or an odd a horrible looking disease, but it was a painful disease and it caused them to cry. Full grown of doubts. Can you imagine Goliath or Giush walking around crying about the disease? It was painful. And they're crying out to heaven. But but But well my they're they're they're not crying out the Dagon. Wow. They're not crying out the Dagon. They're crying out the heaven. They're not crying out to the mermaid like God who came up out of the sea. They're crying out to heaven. They're crying out to God, the Israel's God, who ascendeth in the heavens. And you have to ask yourself, are these Philistines Finally through with Dagon? Are these Philistines are they are they getting saved? What's going on here? We all know people that cry out when they're hurting. It's not a genuine conversion, but when things are tough, they turn to God. Maybe they come to church. Are these Philistines finally threw it day gone for good and they're going to turn to the God of Israel? No. Keep reading, friend. It's only a few chapters on. When they're back fighting Israel again, and they capture King Saul. 1 Chronicles 10 10, it's also in Samuel, they capture King Saul. And you know what they do with King Saul? They cut off his head and they fastened his head. Do you know where they put his head? They put his body in the outside walls, but his head they put in the temple of Dagon. That's what 1 Chronicles 10 10 tells us. They haven't changed their minds. They fastened King Saul's head in the temple of Dagon. They only approach heaven. They only cry out to heaven because they're hurting. They only cry out to heaven because they're frustrated. They only cry out to heaven because they're bes Hide themselves they're not crying out to heaven because they are saved or want to be saved or be They're not repenting. And so I'd ask this morning, pilgrims, what brings you to your knees for the most part? Only when you have problems? Only when you have pain, only when you're frustrated. Then they give you a far better reason to approach the throne of God. A far better reason To approach the the Lord Jesus Christ. Approach him the best reason to praise him. And because he really is dear to you. That's the reason. That's the time to approach God when you have no problems. Oh, come with the problems too, but approach him more frequently just to praise him. Because he's precious to you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the history factual history of an ungodly nation that did not learn ever. Israel was back and forth and got it together sometimes, but the Philistines never did. And they're gone today Lord, we just thank you, Father, that there are some here today that have learned the lesson the Philistines never learned. That the God of Israel, the God of the Ark of the Covenant, is a precious God, the only God whose ear and heart are open to those who repent. Father, give us a heart of repentance today. May we know that the ear and the door to heaven is open to us if we'll repent and come through your Son, Jesus Christ. And may it happen today to any heart that has never happened to before. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Ask if uh our Deacon Larry Lather if you close the prayer today, please.