What is the true church? That's fundamentally my question. What is the true church? What are the attributes of the true church? Does anybody know what an attribute is? That's a three-cylinder word that must mean something to somebody. What is an attribute? Well, an attribute is a character quality of something It is a you look at it and you can detect and you can examine it based on its attributes. There's some that are invisible and there are some that are visible, and so we're going to cover both of those tonight. You know, the church ultimately is the company of God's elect who are called by the Spirit of God. I think that's a good way of describing a church. It's the company of God's elect that are called, called by the Spirit of God Ecclesia, the word for church, means called out. We've been called out of darkness, called out from ourselves, called out from whatever we were in before into the worship and the fellowship of his people Turn to John 10. 16. This is our first passage that we're going to look at for the first attribute. And there's three attributes I want to cover that are invisible. You can't really see it, but it's there And the first attribute is that the people of God are in fact united. They are united. Unity is something that Doesn't seem to be prevalent in a lot of congregations. Even within denominations or across denominational boundaries, there doesn't seem to be much unity. But in God's church, there's tremendous unity There is a perfect union, in fact. John 10, 16, the Lord Jesus says this. He says, And other sheep I have which are not of this fold. Them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. Those who attempt at times to try to draw a dividing line and maintain that there is a dividing line between the Old Testament people of God, known as Israel, and the New Testament Church Perhaps haven't considered this verse fully. Jesus says he's got other sheep he's going to bring into his fold. He had to come to Jerusalem first Salvation came to the Jews first. Jesus himself was a Jew. And so he called his own. And he came to his own. But as you know, his own received him not. And as he developed his ministry further, it became evident that he came to save a people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. Other sheep he has, which are not of the Jewish fold They're going to be brought together and they are what? There's going to be one flock and one shepherd. So they are united in that sense. Jesus talks about in his high priestly prayer, he says, I don't pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. He's praying for a larger group of people, not only for these, but also for a great multitude. Those are the ones that he calls his church. They're united. Turn to Ephesians 4 and verse 4, 5, and 6. We see this unity here in this passage pretty clearly, I think. It says, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. Notice, one body. Jesus doesn't have fifty-eight different bodies. He has one body. that elect church of God is one group of people. And it's wonderful because as you encounter other saints in different locations and places, it's always nice to discover another believer. There's an immediate I'm not talking about somebody who claims to be a Christian is going to a church. I'm talking about another believer. There's an immediate connection of the souls. So the first attribute is that they're united. The second is that they're holy. They're a holy people. 1 Peter 2 and verse 9 describes it this way. 1 Peter 2. 9 says, but you are, or ye are, a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. and holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Notice that phrase you're a holy nation Because they're united, they are like a nation. And he is that king. He refers to us as a flock, and we're his sheep, and he is that shepherd. He is that king over that nation in 1 Peter 2. 9. And there is, in fact, one holy nation. In the Old Testament, God spoke to the people in Exodus 19, 6. He said, And ye shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the child children of Israel. So the Old Testament Jews had a statement from God that they would be a holy nation, and likewise The New Testament uh church, the body of believers that we see prominently in the church, is also called that same holy nation. They're united, they're holy, and the third point is The Church of God is universal throughout all time. Now there's a very good English word for that. Does anybody know the English word that means universal throughout all time? Anybody know what that word is? Yes. Yeah, Catholic. Catholic means universal throughout all time. And you might say, well, why don't we just call it the universal church? Well, that would mean it's all of the people that are on the planet right now. But God's not limiting his body to the people that happen to live in the year 2017, which is when this message is being spoken. He's had a people for himself throughout all time, going all the way back to the earliest days of creation. And so to encompass the entire planet throughout all time, that's the word Catholic. Unfortunately, there's a particular denomination, an apostate one, that comes by that name, and they go by the Roman Catholic Church. God says in Psalm two eight, he says, Ask of me and I will give you the nations for your inheritance and the ends of the earth for your possession. I'm unfortunately my notes are in the New King James Version, so pardon me if I'm Skipping versions or translations here for it. But indeed the Lord spoke to the Lord Jesus Christ and says, Ask of me, and I'll give thee the nations. I'll give them to you. And so, indeed, God would give to Jesus Christ a people that we see that are described in Revelation 7. You've heard me quote this a lot. He says, I beheld and lo a great multitude which no man could number of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues stood before the throne and before the Lamb. Isn't that wonderful that God Almighty, in fact, calls the people to Himself and He's undoing the curse at Babel? What a design God has for the human race. There's such variability. I was considering my cat of late. And there's an amazing degree of variability among cats. Even the length of their hair, the thickness of it, whether they have an undercoat. Uh their different abilities and skills, sizes. There's quite a lot of variety, but that cat compares nothing to a human being. I look at my family, my children, they look normal to me. I look at some other uh children in a different family and they look different to me. And you look at other nations and you look at their children. They look very different. Because there's different features that are more prominent than others. Some may have larger heads or smaller heads or ear shape may be different. It's amazing the great variability God has put into the human race. And on that great day, in brand new bodies with, I think, the same kind of great diversity. There's going to be a tremendous throng of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. And you know what? They're all going to love the same thing you love. They're all going to be excited about the same things you're excited about. There is that great diversity and yet there is that great unity in the part that counts, and that is they all love and know Jesus Christ. So these are the invisible attributes of the true church. They're united. They're a united body. It's one body. They're holy. They're a holy nation. And it's from a people throughout all time. Now Just based on that, what would you say to somebody who says, oh well, come to my church because it's the only true church that's out there What concerns might you have if somebody were to say something like that? They make it sound like that that's the uh new place. They make it sound like that's the only place. You know, when God talks about he's going to have a great multitude which no man can number stand before him. To me, that implies he is saving people today. If there's still a sun that rises and a moon that comes up at night, as long as seed time and harvest are still around. As long as there's still time on this planet, God's still saving people, and I believe he's still saving people across the globe. And so he's still bringing his sheep into that fold. We can't limit it to say salvation is only occurring in this city. God uh is, if anything, showing that he's no longer limiting himself to one nation, the Jews. In fact, he's going global He's expanding his scope and his reach. Now I'm going to enter into the next section of the study, and that is, well, Brother Vince, uh But you just just said a little earlier that there's not many faithful churches out there, and so I'm confused. Uh among all of them, how am I to locate one? What am I supposed to do? What are the criteria? Have you ever tried to put together a criteria, a list of criteria that you're going to evaluate and make it biblical as to what you would do before going into a church? It's not easy. Others have thought about this and they referred to them as the visible marks of the true church. The visible marks of the true church. We've talked about the invisible attributes. I can't look at a person um who's coming out of a building across the street that has a cross on it, and say, Oh, that person's holy. Uh he's united to the body. I can't just look at him and tell. What is it I'm supposed to assess? What are the metrics? What are the criteria? So the visible church, the thing that I can see with my eyes. Is something that is relating to the community of those who profess the true faith together with their family The community of those who profess the true faith together with their family, with their children. This would be the visible church as they gather together. There's something that we can see. What does that community look like? And excuse me, what does that mark? And in short, it really boils down to one thing. Is that community? Is that group of people? Is that ecclesia, that called out group, are they operating according to the pure word of God? Pure and simple. Are they doing it God's way? That's all we really you can boil it down to that one thing. There's many that will stand up and raise their hand and say, we do everything but uh according to the Bible. The Bible is our creed. We have no creed but the Bible. And we can get into that study a little later to show why that has some shortcomings as well Although I understand what they're trying to get at. Unfortunately, too many have claimed that and you have to go with them for a while before you find out all the heretical ideas they have and how they twist the scriptures Go to Ephesians 2, 19 to 22. Ephesians 2. 19. It's going to talk about this household of God. And how it's built, and how it's established. It's an instructive verse that helps us to start to identify what are these indicators, what are these marks that we're going to look at Ephesians two nineteen says, Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. We're not outside of the Jewish covenants now. We've been brought into that story. We've been brought into that picture. We've been brought into that line of promises. We're not strangers from it. We're brought into it Verse 20, and we're built, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. The prophets predated the apostles. God was faithful to give his message to a rebellious generation. And when Christ came, there was a prophet, John the Baptist. Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. And the Messiah appoints twelve apostles. They are foundational gifts to the church. Their teachings, their message, their ministry is now captured right here. We have it. And we're built on that foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together grows unto a holy temple in the Lord. So it's a house. So what are the marks of this household, this household of God that is founded on these apostles, founded on the prophets? I think there's four things. Some have broken this one mark that they're operating according to the pure word of God. That really is it in a nutshell. If you can't find a practice that is according to thus saith the Lord, there's something wrong. But what are the core critical practices? Uh maybe we disagree a little bit on whether or not we should the women should have a doily on their head or not, uh a literal physical head covering Maybe we disagree on certain aspects of end-time teaching. That's a favorite one to pick on to say, yeah, we can have a measure of disagreement on that because it's hard. Prophecy is just hard. Well, Some had broken it into four passages, excuse me, four concepts that are captured in one verse in Acts chapter 2. Let's look at Acts chapter 2, and I think you'll see why we go to this passage. The visible mark of the true church is they operate according to the pure word of God. Now let's break that down into four things. And we see this. When Peter preached a sermon, and there were 3,000 people added to the church. So we know that this is a Holy Ghost-inspired group of people. What did they do? What did these people look like? And it says in verse 42, they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. And fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. Those are four things that the early church did that indicated Something you could look at, something you could observe, and you could see these four things tied together. The first one is this. They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine They were concerned about doctrine. They were concerned about true teaching. They were concerned about true preaching. They wanted to continue in the doctrine The Apostle Paul, writing to Timothy, said, Steady to show thyself approved, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. He told Titus to speak the things which become sound doctrine. There was an emphasis of the Apostle Paul to two of his proteges who would eventually become bishops or pastors or elders, whatever you wish to call them in their early church that they were to focus on doctrine. Look at John 8. 47. We're going to move away from our Acts springboard and start to unpack this a bit, and I'll reference it again as we get to the other three points. But the first is true preaching. True preaching is important. Anybody, before we look at John 8. 47, does anybody have any ideas why true preaching might be important? What if the guy just gives a good message? Isn't that good enough? It just sounds good Isn't true preaching important? And if it is, why? Somebody tell me why true preaching is important. There's a way that seems right in the man that over his death. Wow, that's a good there. That's a good one. There's a Way that seems right unto a man, but the end thereof is the way of death. Alright, so you may hear something, it sounds good, and other people may say, boy, this really sounds good, but it could be a way of destruction He could be deceiving you into thinking, well, you're saved at first by faith. It's an imputed faith, but later, you know, as you persevere, it's your works, you're going to have to finish off that justification business. That's something that John Piper believes, that there's a progression. And he's very popular in even among reform camps. But the guy's a flaming heretic because he does not have the pure doctrine of the justification of faith. And that's huge That's huge. What are some other reasons that true preaching is important? Well, yeah, that's a big one. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Now some might argue, well, I just need to set a parrot up in the window and have him parrot out the Word of God. I don't need to teach teach doctrine. Well look at John 8. 47 because Jesus talks to this. Look at John 8. 47. He says this. He that is of God heareth God's words. And he's speaking to these Jews, ye therefore hear them not, because you're not of God. You know, Jesus said in too many places, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. One of the reasons you want to be faithful to the Word of God, one of the reasons you want to be declaring, thus saith the Lord, that's in harmony with the Scriptures is because that's how the sheep are fed. That's how the sheep are attracted. That's how the sheep are nourished. That's how you begin to see unity. That's where true unity is. They're united around the doctrine of Jesus' words and his teachings. You know, that's not a very popular thing, because Jesus says some hard things. And being doctrinally correct, I've heard too many ministers say Uh well, you know, doctrine divides. Love unites. Well, uh Jesus wants doctrine to divide. We don't want to be uniting with the the sheep, with the alligators and the wolves and the bears and the lions. No, we don't want that kind of unity because guess who loses? The sheep are going to lose every time. They may lose their building, they may lose a lot of finances, they may lose their life. It's very serious to not have uh true preaching. It makes an impact on the people of God. Look at Acts chapter 17 and verse 11, how important true preaching was Acts 1711 Paul and Silas came by night unto a place known as Berea And we know their reputation. It says in verse 11, these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all Readiness of mind. These people weren't dozing off. They received it with readiness of mind. They were latched onto it. They were as attentive to it as a Washington Redskins football fan is to the kickoff season for the Redskins And I'm just using it as an illustration, not because I care to watch these things, but you've seen these fanatics. They go down the road and they've got their little flags hanging out the car They've got the gear. They've got the the the coffee cup and all that stuff at work. They talk about it. That's the thing they want to talk about. And they're fanatics about that. These people received the word with readiness of mind. They were ready to hear it. They were interested in it. And In addition to hearing it, they searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so. Now the apostle is preaching what we would maybe term New Testament teaching, New Testament doctrine, New Testament ideas. And what are they searching? What book are they searching to to determine if the New Testament is in fact correct? The Scriptures, the Old Testament. They're actually searching the Old Testament. The New Testament is not against the Old Don't just hand somebody a Gideon's New Testament Bible. Give them a whole Bible when it starts to make reference to Abraham or Sodom and Gomorrah or the flood. How are they going to go back and look at these things? When it says, as saith the prophets, or as saith Isaiah, how is he going to go back and look at that? He needs a whole book. And so they were searching the scriptures. They were scripture-searching people The Apostle Paul said in Galatians 1, he makes it point blank how important doctrinal preaching and teaching is. In Galatians chapter 1 and verse 8 He says, but though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you, than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. It's the word anathema. As I said before, so say I now again if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that you have received, Let him be accursed. Obviously, this is quite serious for the apostle. To invest additional space on his vellum with a little bit of ink. in a precious thing uh that writing material was back in that day to write something twice. He says, again, I want you to get this. I'm not kidding you. I'm serious about this. If he preaches something else You don't coddle the man. You certainly quit giving your money to him. You don't support him. You don't speak nice things about this guy. Let him be accursed. Count this individual as somebody that is accursed of God. He's to be rejected So doctrinal teaching and preaching, I think, is absolutely important to a church. And over 2,000 years, the devil has made a great havoc of the church And he has ripped away at the church at all kinds of doctrinal points. And it's caused the Church of God to sharpen her spiritual pencil and go back and look in the scriptures and with eyeglasses and magnifying glasses and a lot of midnight oil searching the scriptures to see whether some of these new things are in fact biblically true or not. And we've benefited from that. Well, I'm able to talk to you about the doctrines of grace because there was a uh a group of people many hundreds of years ago who fought off a heresy that was wrong that said man really isn't dead in sins and trespasses. He still has a spark of life in him. that Christ came to make people savable. He didn't come to save them. That they can fall away from salvation. They can in fact lose it. That the work of Christ can somehow be made null and void in their life. And that was condemned rightly so as a heresy, and so they've gone through the time to document why that's wrong, and they use the scriptures to prove these things. Or so true preaching is one of the first visible marks of the church. Second, fellowship. First point, true preaching. Second one, fellowship. And oh, by the way, I have to add something. Fellowship also has to include the faithful exercise of discipline, what would be known as church discipline. The Lord Jesus says, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if ye have love one to another. That was John thirteen, thirty-five. How can somebody do this if we're just fellowshipping on the internet? Now I'm not talking about using modern means to connect with people a long ways away whom you know, with whom you have some affection and connection to. Uh spent time with them. You know who they are. Uh you know, I'm not saying we can't pick up the phone and talk to a loved one or use other technical means to share some spend some time with them. I'm talking about Attending a church service to a church, you've never physically walked into that building. You've just never stepped in there before. And you've never seen the individual. And you channel surf, just channel surfing around How is it that we can have love one to another if that is what you claim is your church? You're just hunkered down in your little hole. Now I understand in this day and age that there are some people that that may be the best they can find I understand that. But their desire, their interest really is to get there, and I want to be with that fellowship. I would ask them to consider, you might want to think about moving there If there really isn't anything there, you might want to get out of your local Sodom and go find uh Mount Zion where the people of God are in fact gathered at. Maybe you want to uh change course in life People move for a stupider reason than that. People will move. People will even change cities because they get a different job. Is that nuts? They'll even change cities because they get a different job. Now you're probably looking at me like, well that's the that's the main reason anybody changes Well it ought not to be. The main reason you ought to pick up your stuff and go someplace else is because the gospel's over here. The the word of God is being taught here. There's a real group of people that are fellowshipping here. In this place. I want to be here. Forget the job. What's important is my soul. Is that really a criteria? For many, it's not. You know, the Lord Jesus uh talked about fellowship, the fellowship of the saints. It's a wonderful thing. And first John talks about this a lot. And um uh uh just let's just take a scan through 1 John for the moment. I have a lot of passages that are actually talking about discipline, but I I don't want to short circuit um the uh aspect of the fellowship of the saints. It it he says here that uh in verse six, if we say then that we have fellowship with him And walk in darkness we lie and do not the truth. There's an implication that there's fellowship. There's fellowship with him, there's fellowship with others. I know where I want to go. I want to go to the book of Philippians. Philippians talks about fellowship in three places. Thank you, Lord. You help me remember where fellowship is. Philippians 1 5, he says, your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Thank you, fellowship in the gospel. Chapter 2, verse 1 If there's any consolation in Christ, any comfort of love, any fellowship of the Spirit, they have fellowship in God the Holy Spirit. And in chapter 3 and verse 10, they fellowship in his sufferings. says that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. That's the thing that believers like is fellowship. I know that when I was a single person in Southern California, I'm near uh great stretches of beaches that the world all over comes to visit. In the uh late fall time a lot of people from Europe will come and That's their vacation time, and they'll go visit the beaches of San Diego. They'll come and want to go see SeaWorld and the zoo and all that. It's a it's a great destination and hot spot for vacationers Uh that wasn't really where I wanted to have my vacation. My vacation was to be with the fellowship of of the saints. I couldn't wait till certain Bible conferences would come up because I know there'd be good preaching and a lot of people who appreciated good preaching. There'd be people I I knew were were sons and daughters of God. That's where I wanted to be at. And it's true with every one of God's blood-bought sons and daughters. They're interested in fellowship. They want to be around other Christians. My daughters, when they went to Bible B, were surrounded by people who were just enamored with the Word of God and just love to memorize it spontaneous prayer would just break out in different places and uh as they would speak and commune with each other, they couldn't but help speak the things they'd both seen and heard that had been flowing through their minds. It's it's a great thing and it's a wonderful deuce. Fellowship is very, very important to the people of God. Yet sadly, as we know from the parables of the Lord Jesus, that the devil is going to be coming in the midst of our good fellowship and trying to spoil a good thing. They're gonna the devil and his angels are gonna do everything they can to spoil that fellowship, and there are in fact tares in the midst. And so a faithful shepherd, a pastor, has to exercise discipline. He has to go through the steps to make a discernment. Because it's hard. It's hard. Tears look like wheat, they just do. It's very hard to tell a sheep in sheep's clothing from a wolf in sheep's clothing because they both have sheep's clothing on. And we have a limit of understanding. Only God can see the heart. We can't. And so on the one hand, the pastor has to try to figure out, am I dealing with a uh an errant sheep because sheep are prone to wander, prone to stray, or am I dealing with a heretic that's just not as polished in his game and is here to to spoil the flock. And so there's a process that God has. And it's in Matthew 18. Matthew 18 is God's process that he gives to his shepherds and his people. It involves the shepherds, it involves the people of God. And it talks about trespasses because that's the first place that a conflict will arise. There will be some kind of a conflict, some kind of a trespass. If you've spent any time in church and among a group of people, sooner or later you'll come into a situation where there's going to be some elbows rubbing or poking, some sparks may fly, somebody will not like the way something was done It just won't be long because the devil is going to keep at it. He's going to keep counting. Jesus said, Behold, I send you forth a sheep in the midst of Wolves. So we ought not be surprised when we find a lot of contention and debate and other sorts of things at times, not always, at times, in the Church of God, because that's the devil doing his work. And so here's the approach. It says in Matthew 18, 15. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, then in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. You're trying to not get eyewitnesses of the event, but you're trying to get some people who will hear this matter out with you to see how the response comes back. If he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. But if ye neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Verily I say unto you, whatsoever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. This is known as the judicial keys, so to speak, of the church. The church has the right to try its own, to from within the midst evaluate a serious situation And it is painful. It's hard. Church discipline is difficult. And unfortunately, we get to some points in time where you get to what the Apostle Paul discovers in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. It's hard. It's hard to do church discipline. Nobody likes it. It's time consuming. It seems to be very counterproductive. But it's no different than if you get a scar on your or a tear on your body, a cut in your leg, you have to stop what you're doing, you have to just kind of reverse course and go backwards and Take care of that that wound so we can get better and move on. But we can't go any further until we deal with that. In 1 Corinthians 5, verse 5, the uh beginning in verse 4, the Apostle Paul wrote to the church He says, In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, to deliver such a one unto Satan, for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. He was dealing with a situation where there was shame occurring in the church, that they had become content. with a man who was living in an adulterous and it w such an adulterous kind of relationship that even the Gentiles didn't have such a thing. That's pretty bad that even the world doesn't have that kind of uh immorality. And he says, I'm telling you right now what you need to do with this individual. You need to quit coddling him. You need to quit patting him on the head and praying and dancing around the issue. No dancing around the issue. He says, I'm I'm telling you right now what you need to do eject that this is not to be tolerated. He would say that, I'm quite sure, not ignorant of what the Lord Jesus had said, because It says in verse 1, it's reported commonly that there is fornication among you. In other words, these things have already been brought to the attention of the of the saints, people have already gone to them, no change has occurred. The church knows about it. It's now become a common thing and we just all kind of oh I guess we're just supposed to look the other way He says, wrong. You need to do exactly the third step that the Lord Jesus says. You have to excommunicate this individual. You kick him out. Delivering him into Satan means he's no longer in the company of the s in the fellowship of the saints You're delivering them to the company and the fellowship of the devil and the world. You're not in our midst. And that can be hard, and people don't like that when you do that. Oh, but he's such a nice brother. If he's unrepentant in this area, he's not a nice brother. Oh, but he's such a wealthy benefactor of our congregation. He's not helping the body of Christ if he's bringing this kind of shame on the Lord. Our Lord doesn't need your money. Thank you. God's not broke. The last I checked. He said, if I was hungry, I wouldn't tell you. He says, I own the cattle of a thousand hills. It's a light thing for God to fund his work. You know, there's the strongest language in the book of 2 Thessalonians that the apostle reserves for how we handle those who, upon confrontation, particularly with doctrinal errors, how they're to be handled. Yes, we have fellowship. We love fellowship. That's what we desire. But it's fellowship with integrity, folks. This is my main point. It's not a superficial integrity. It's not that we just happen to show up in the same building and arrange ourselves in some seats and chairs and get comfy. And 30 seconds after the message is over, we Bolt for the cars and we don't even talk to anybody because we're not interested in it, because we have nothing of interest or common things to share. That is not a church of God. They love to fellowship. They love to hear true preaching. And so to maintain that environment, to keep that integrity intact, to keep that warmth of relationship there, because it's a knitting of souls, it's knitting souls of a kindred spirit. To keep that, he says in 2 Thessalonians 3. 6, now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Notice that phrase, in the name of Jesus Christ. He is hammering this point on because Christ's name is at stake, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tru the tradition which he received of us. I had one man try to tell me that tradition was the Westminster Confession of Faith. I said, I beg your pardon. It is not the Westminster Confession of Faith. As useful of a document as that might be This is the tradition we have received of the people of God. It's that right there. It's this book. That's the tradition You cannot find something else. Don't even try. And he says you withdraw. This is from a brother walking disorderly. He says, we don't want you to do this. Verse 11. We hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies. They're just busybodies in other people's matters. They don't have a job. Their job, it seems, is to be busy in other people's matters. Well, that doesn't seem to be as severe as a man living in some kind of commonly reported adulterous relationship This is just somebody who's a busybody in other men's lives. He says, that's disorderly. You withdraw from such a one because that is not to be had among the people of God. It's a big no-no He says it also in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse 14. If any man obey not our word by this epistle. Note that man and have no company with him that he may be ashamed. Wow. He says if he's not obeying, you know obedience is an important thing. And when we go errant or wayward, what's expected? Repentance. That's how you get back to the way of obedience. If Christ lays out a path, we vary from it. We have to confess. Repent. We've got to get back into that path. There's no, I don't know how you obey if you're errant and you don't repent. That just doesn't make sense. It clearly means you're heading a wrong direction and you've got to get back onto a right path. It says in 15, yet count him not as an enemy, admonish him as a brother. There's a confrontation that occurs. Hey brother, you know, I'm concerned about this career choice you're making. I'm concerned about you wanting to relocate to another city where There doesn't appear to be a faithful church view there. I had an elder, I remember one of the first things I discovered at a PCA church I'd attended, very early in the faith, a man who was an elder, I thought he was a pretty good elder. I mean, from my young, you know, uh new newbie Christian eyes. That'll seem pretty good. Oh, I got this great job opportunity. Some place, okay, well, is there a church out there? Uh I I don't know. But really, you know, he just he just elected to just up and go off and do that. Where the people of God worship at is a primary concern. It's a big concern. I understand job situations change and sometimes we're d vectored off to do a lot of business travel and we we can't get in, or if you're an over-the-road truck driver, and that's what you do. It's very hard. I I I I'm not making this a Hard and fast, absolute rule. But the heartfelt desire of the people of God as they want to be where there is fellowship. Alright, so I've covered those first two points The mark of a true church. I'm looking, maybe I'm in a new town. I'm trying to find out what is a good church to go to. Number one, true preaching. True doctrinal preaching. You got their doctrine right. Number two, fellowship. There's obviously fellowship there. Do the people hang around afterwards and talk to each other? Are they bolting for the door? I make that a point, folks, not because uh it's something I like, but I think it's a healthy mark. of a congregation that wants to sit and talk with each other. And they're not talking about wind. They're actually talking about substantive things. They want to talk about prayer reports and pray I've been praying for you about this. How's it going? Well that's a good sign. That means these two people are praying for each other. That means A, they know the issue and B they're praying about it. How is your so-and-so doing? Good and praying for their salvation, you know, so for some relative. That's good stuff. Third thing. The right administration of the sacraments. Now let me clarify that. This is the third visible thing. True preaching, fellowship, the right administration of the sacraments. Now Some have kicked at that word sacraments because that's a word the Roman Catholic Church will use. It simply means it's a sacred ordinance. It's a holy ordinance. That's all that means. Don't pack more into that than needs to be there. It is not a saving thing. It doesn't save anybody. The two sacraments, the two uh signs that the Lord gave the church is baptism and the Lord's Supper. It's interesting In the Old Testament you had some signs as well, and both of them were bloody. One of them was circumcision, and the other one was the offerings of the beasts. They were the Passover in particular. They were both bloody. Isn't it interesting in the New Testament? There's no bloodshed. Hmm. Why are you supposing that is? Because somebody came and shed his blood once for all. No more need to shed blood. Don't need to point to it again. No more blood needs to be shed. It's a wonderful thing. Instead, we partake of Baptism and when somebody comes into faith in Jesus Christ, they want to be baptized. They want to represent that they their their bodies are washed with pure waters, with pure water, their conscience is clean. They want to They want to testify to the world that they're a purified, clean person, that they've been washed of their sins. That's a marvelous testimony that they want to give. And then we've got the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is a picture the Lord gave when he said that you Take this bread, you break it, this is my body broken for you, take, eat of it, and drink of the cup of the fruit of the vine, which I take to be wine. They didn't have grape juice in those days that uh that fruit of the vine represents his blood and his blood was shed for us. We drink it in r in remembrance of him. It's it's a sealing of a covenant And it says, as long as you do these things, you do proclaim, literally preach, uh, the um, you do show forth, you do preach uh the Lord's coming. Let's look at some passages. Acts chapter 19. Why this is important. Acts chapter 19. It's an interesting passage. You might not have seen this one before And begins in the first verse of Acts 19. It came to pass that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul having passed through the upper coasts, came to Ephesus. And finding certain disciples, he said unto them, Have you received the Holy Ghost since you believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard as whether there be any Holy Ghost. And he said unto them, Unto then what were you baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism. Then said Paul, John barely baptized with the baptism of repentance Saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Well what's interesting about this passage what is interesting about this passage is that here Apollos and Paul come into this group of believers, and they had been baptized by John the Baptist. And he says, well, gee, that's interesting, but no, uh, you need to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. You're to be baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Your baptism was incorrect. You had a different baptism. It was a biblical one, it's one that John the Baptist gave, no less, and so he found it important. It's interesting because this harkens back to an account in the Old Testament when Moses is coming out He's coming out of Egypt and he has finally been informed by the Lord that he is to rescue God's people from there. And he's on his way back in to bring them out into the to start to talk to Pharaoh. He's going to start to engage Pharaoh before any of the signs have occurred. And lo and behold, an angel of the Lord met him on the way back to Egypt, sword, ready to kill him, and Zipporah his wife. took her oldest son and circumcised him and cast it at the ground, saying, You're a bloody husband unto me. In other words, that angel was going to kill Moses Because here's the deliverer of the covenant people of God, and he had not fulfilled the terms of the covenant with his own son. His own son was unbaptized, I mean excuse me, uncircumcised. There's a connection between baptism and circumcision. And so he was uh found himself to be under the wrath of God for this thing. And so we also find here in this account that uh they had not been properly baptized, and so there was something that had to be corrected. I only point that out, not because I'm trying to give the Anabaptists any any uh uh credence uh to to to some of their views, but I am pointing out that God does take baptism seriously. He does take participation in the Lord's Supper seriously. In 1 Corinthians 11, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, we see that how serious the Lord takes This ordinance he ordained in the night in which he was betrayed. He says in 1 Corinthians 11, 28, it says, Let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. What the apostle is pointing up here, he's setting straight a problem that had existed in that Corinthian church. In fact, we read about it in verse 21, it says, for in eating Every one taketh before the other his own supper. One is hungry and another is drunken. What? Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise you the church of God and shame them that have not? They were participating in the Lord's Supper in a very unworthy fashion. They were doing it in a very rebellious way, you could say. It was wholly inappropriate. And so now he goes through and he's starting to set out some Some guidelines, a uh a criteria that says, listen, before you partake of the Lord's Supper, you need to be examining yourself. whether you're to partaking of this worthily. And I take worthily to mean in two ways. Number one, are you saved? Are you a worthy son or daughter of Jesus Christ And number two, are you any in any kind of open rebellion right now? Are you doing something radically wrong? Is your heart right before God or not? You need to examine yourself. And so that's the exhortation. It doesn't say a committee needs to examine you. It doesn't say that a special board does, although in some cases that that might be helpful to show the individual. But in general, I believe it's talking about an individual examining himself. Now, let me ask this question, just to see if we're getting this point, about the right administration of these things Uh okay, Vince, I hear you about this baptism thing. I hear you about the Lord's Supper. You know, what's it matter? So what? So what if we're doing that wrong? What's the big deal about that? Any ideas? How would you answer that? The question is what's the big deal with these things? Yeah, what if we're doing it wrong? Who cares? Why is it a big deal? So not that they were doing it. That's not your question. Nope. Somebody's doing it, but they decide to um They they're they're as they're ascribing they're they're doing baptism differently. I'm not going to say certain key phrases here because it'll be painfully obvious. I want you to think through it. Why is it that performing baptism in an incorrect way or handling the Lord's Supper in an incorrect way is wrong. Give me an example of an incorrect way No no, okay. Are all baptisms correct? Angela has a point. She whispered because of what it represents. Okay. So it's important because of what it represents. What if somebody said, when you're baptized, son, now that you're wet, you're saved? This water saves you. Okay. So then we would say there's something wrong with that kind of baptism. Immersion could be spent. Yeah, the mode is not terribly important. Yeah, but uh uh the meaning behind it is uh Right. Right. What they're they're saying in this in this in this act of baptism you're now becoming saved. That would be a big problem. What if somebody says, well, you're not scripturally baptized unless it's specifically done by this particular mode? They're insistent on a particular mode. I don't think the scriptures are overwhelmingly clear on the mode because I think there's actually diverse baptisms as Hebrews talks about. I think there's diverse modes. To insist on immersion only, I think would be a great error. Think about the gospel going into all the world. You know, there's not a local river near you any just every place There are some parts of the world where it's frozen ground six or seven months out of the year. What are these people supposed to do? To insist on a particular mode, I just don't think is right. I think that is the visionary. Let's talk about the Lord's Supper. Are there ways of people treating the Lord's Supper incorrectly? Oh, okay, there's a big there's a big yes over here. What are some ways of doing the Lord's Supper incorrectly? Okay. um not waiting for one another 'cause he says that in verse thirty three, When you come you're supposed to carry one for another. You weren't carrying them so they were first on the table and they were over indulging, eating too much and they were overindulging in the wine. Yep, absolutely those things are wrong. They were overindulging, they were not waiting or tearing for one another. There were clearly some wrong ideas that were going on there half of way of force reparation believe that uh line actually becomes the body. Yep, and other ways that people partake of it incorrectly as they believe the the actual bread and the actual cup of wine physically transubstantiate, become the body and the physical blood, the physical body, physical blood of Jesus Christ. And all you have to do is see it As long as you see the elements, that's good enough. No, not so. That's an incorrect way. All right. The last one I want to get to, and I've I've really cut myself short on time here So the four marks of a of a of a visible church, and the first is true preaching, second, right administration of sacraments, no, second was fellowship, third, right administration of sacraments, fourth part is prayer. The prayer of God's people. That is a a big thing. And the thing I discovered going over this study one more time is how God uses uh the prayer in the church in a plural fashion. It's not you praying, it's we It's not just prayer, it's corporate prayer. We're all praying about the same thing. And I maybe I've missed the boat on this over the years, but this is a really good point. Look at Mark 11, 24 And notice the plural words. I've underlined them in my notes if you'd like to get a copy of them, but I'll emphasize the word when we read it. Mark 11, 24. Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them. Ye shall have them. Now that word ye is a beautiful word. In the Texas edition it translates as y'all. It's a plural you. It means you collectively, that when you collectively desire something, oh, so there's a collective desire for something When ye pray collectively, we read about the Puritans when they came to this country and the pilgrims in their early days of hardship, that they would get together and what was on their heart, they collectively shared with each other and they collectively prayed about it. It was a common desire, and God, on many occasions, was very pleased to bless those collective corporate prayers It's amazing how God is pleased to hear the united prayer of his people. In John 15, I'll just read this. It says, If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you. Again, it's a collective thing. Isn't this nice? That's one of these areas where we can show unity of fellowship. We know each other well enough to be able to share our concerns and our desires of the Lord with each other so that collectively we can pray for that matter. We can touch and agree. on this subject, on this request, and then it's a shared prayer, and God hears that. I'm not saying he doesn't hear an individual. But there seems to be an emphasis in the scriptures about a collection of prayers. It's not a private, just a are there any unspoken requests? I don't like those things. I really don't like unspoken requests There is to be a sharing of information of the saints. In confidence, I understand in some places it may be some difficult and hard things. I get that. But There has to be a brother or sister in the Lord you can trust that you can share this with. He says we're two or three gra gather uh agree on these things, right? Let's at least share it with the couple Look at Acts 114. This is one of the passages that's just before our keystone passage of Acts 2, which talks about the The Church of God uh continuing in the apostles' doctrine, fellowship, breaking of bread, and prayers. Actually the very first thing they were in accord with is in Acts 114. These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. They knew nothing better to do than to get together and just pray. Uh that's good. You know, uh Brother Mark in San Diego has encouraged me on more than one occasion. You know, you ought to get these saints at your gathering together and pray about some things. And maybe that's not a bad suggestion. Acts chapter 12 and verse 5 says this I'm amazed at how many times it speaks in the plural. Here Peter's been cast into prison. They're very concerned about this, brother. It says, Peter therefore was kept in prison. The prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. It was the whole church. It was a corporate prayer event coming together. Ephesians 6. 18, praying always with all prayer and supplication of the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance. and supplication for all saints. Again, there's a united cry that goes up. And that's what you see in Revelation. The prayers of the saints ascending like incense. What was the reference to a go? We had looked at Acts 12. 5, and then I just read Ephesians 6. 18, and I'm now turning to my last reference. 1 John 5. 14. And then we'll close out there. 1 John 5. 14 it says, and this is the confidence that we have in him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. Notice, we that if we ask anything. I I I've always read that meaning if I ask anything. That's how it comes through my head. But I think there's a reason why God says we. He intends us to share our burdens with each other, confess your faults to one another, and pray for one another, right? There's a there's this transparency and this openness, but that implies that there's enough integrity of relationship that you feel comfortable to be able to do that. Because if there's no integrity of relationship, how can you feel comfortable enough to share this? It may be used against you It may be used to exploit you, to blackmail you, to embarrass you. There has to be an integrity of fellowship. And you also have to want to know that they're going to do it. That they're actually going to pray for you, that they have your interest at heart. Look at this language in verse fourteen. If we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. Us. And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. I don't think that's coincidental that that is put in the plural. Um I take myself to task for uh not valuing corporate prayer enough. I think that is an important function uh of the people of God and it is a mark of a true church. Well, I leave you with those. There's other things that I'd like to talk about, but I'd be overrunning, I think, on the time that I'd like to keep this to. So we'll uh Yeah I know we're not going anywhere. We'll we'll uh we'll continue to speak about it some more in a bit