Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the book of Hebrews. I have Said many times, halfway in jest, uh, and yet more truth to it than jest, that sometime when I am called upon to preach, I would like to get up and read the book of Hebrews and sit down and not make a comment. Because the book of Hebrews is the most glorious exposition of truth. And uh oftentimes man's comments on it can be more dis distracting from the truth that is here than it does uh can be an asset to it. But this morning we're going to be considering the first chapter of Hebrews And more specifically, taking a text from the third verse, I'm going to read all 14 verses of chapter 1 of Hebrews as we begin this morning. May we give close attention to the Word of God. God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets. Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. To being the brightness of his glory, and the expressed image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on High. Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. For unto which of the angels said he, At any time, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. And again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a son. And again, when he bringeth the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire? But under the sun he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy fellows. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou remainest. And thou shalt wax they shall wax old as doth a garment, and as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be chains. But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. But to the witch of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand Until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be the heirs of salvation? Let us bow for prayer as we approach this glorious portion of God's Word this morning. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that in this book is contained truth. In this book is the testimony of Jesus Christ. In this book are all things that pertain to life and godliness. Father, guide us as we consider your word this morning. Bless us your people, we pray. Through thy truth, glorify thy son. In Jesus' name. Amen. We read there in the last portion of the first or the third verse, that when he had by himself purged our sins. Sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on High. I'm not A huge fan of sermon titles, but the title we have in our bulletin this morning is When God Sat Down. What a marvelous truth we find here in this third verse, that when Christ Jesus our Lord had completed the work of salvation, When he had purged our sins, God sat down. Jesus Christ was seated at the right hand of the Father. And so I'd like us to consider this morning. Why did Jesus sit down at the right hand of the Father? And the first of three reasons that I would like us to consider this morning is that Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father. Because it is his rightful place. It is his right to sit at the right hand of God the Father And it is a right that belongs to no other. It is an honor that is his alone. In the 110th Psalm, we read in verse 1. And the Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. And in verse 4 of that same psalm, the Lord hath sworn and will not repent, thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father because it is his rightful place. And it is rightfully his exclusively. Because Jesus Christ is God. That's right. That truth which seems so familiar to us And we in some ways almost take for granted because we don't doubt it. We know it is true. And yet the world does not believe it. The world does not believe that the baby in the manger is God. And Satan does everything he can to distract from that fact. But Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he alone is deity. He is God. And we find in this glorious chapter, in this third verse, that Christ Who being in the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person He was the express image. Now when we think of an image, we think of a likeness that represents something else. But that's not what it means when it says that he was the express image. He was the express representation of truth. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, but the Word also was God. The same was in the beginning with God, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us And that is why in our context we find that when he bringeth his first begotten into the world, he says, And let all the angels of heaven worship him. No man is worthy of worship. No object of earth is worthy of worship. But here, Jesus Christ, having fulfilled the purpose of his birth, he came to seek and to save that which is lost. Having provided eternal redemption for us, he sat down at the right hand of God the Father. Because he is indeed God. And we come to verse 8. And in verse 8 it says, But he saith to the Son, Thy throne, O God, is forever. And ever, a scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. And then God makes it very clear in this passage that this honor of being seated at the right hand of the Father because Jesus is God is exclusive of all others. We find first of all that the angels have no right to sit in this position of honor. Look at verse 4. Being made so much better than the angels. Further in verse 4, a more excellent name. Verse 5: When the witch of the angels said it in a time, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And we need to pause in that word begotten. Because we know in Scripture that so-and-so begat so-and-so, and this one begat this one. And I have begotten three sons and a daughter. God has blessed me with four children. But when we talk about Jesus Christ being the only begotten Son It is not that he gave birth to a son, but rather that he proceeds from the Father. And that term begotten It's not a reference to his being born in the manger of Bethlehem. That was only when he entered human flesh But rather, this begotten is a declaration of who he is. God the Father says, I have begotten Christ. He is of me and part of me and one with me. It's a declaration of deity that we find here. And it's a declaration that is not given to the angels, and indeed Lucifer desired it for himself. And when Lucifer desired to be his God, to be like the Son of the Morning, he was rejected. Because Lucifer, an angel, at one time an angel of light, had no right to sit at the right hand of God. Ah, but what wonder. Here we find Christ seated at the right hand of the Father, seated in the place of honor. And if you go over to chapter 2 with me, and then verse 5 of chapter 2 But under the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come whereof we speak. That's an honor that doesn't go to the angels. Verse 6. But one in a certain place testifies, saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? Thou matest him a little lower than the angels. Thou crownest him with glory and honor. Thou hast set him over the works of thy hand. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he hath put all things in subjection under him. He left nothing that is not put under him, but now we see not yet all things put under him, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death. crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste of death for every man. And these words, which are So glorious and often so often applied to man. Yet, dear brothers, these words in chapter 2 are more applicable to Christ than they are to Adam. The first Adam was put in charge of everything, but he sinned. And now we see not all things in subjection to the first Adam, for the lion roars, the lion of earth. And the roaring lion Satan seeks who he may devour. But we see Jesus there in verse 9, made a little lower than the angels. The angels have no right to sit at the right hand of God because they are not God. But Christ became man. And he took that position that Adam, the first Adam, had, lower than the angels. And even today, we see not all things under the subjection of Christ, because yet death is the last enemy. to be conquered. But Christ shall reign until he hath put all enemies down, and the last enemy is death. And so this position at the right hand of God the Father is not a position for the angels. But then we find marvelously in the Word of God That even the son of David, that David himself was not worthy to sit on the right hand of God the Father, but the son of David is. In Matt and Luke chapter 20. In verse 41 through 44, and he said unto them, this is speaking to the scribes and Pharisees, How say ye that Christ is the Son of David? And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, the Lord said unto my Lord, Sit on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him that is Christ Lord. How then is he the Son? David was the greatest king that national Israel ever knew. And yet, this position is the right hand of God the Father, it is Christ alone who sits here. And we find further That the prophets who were inspired by God to give us the Holy Scriptures What honor is that? What honor hath Isaiah and Ezekiel? What honor hath Paul These godly men who knew first-hand inspiration. Consider Moses, who went up on the mountain and God gave him tablets Written, inscribed by the very finger of God. What glory and honor! But this position is not for them. Why did Christ sit down? Because he's greater than the angels. He's greater than his father David. And he is greater than the prophets. Going back to chapter one God at some sundry times and in diverse manners has spoken unto us by the fathers, unto the fathers by the prophets, but in the last days he's spoken by the Son. He's spoken by the greater Jonah. Jonah is the greatest of the prophets. And yet Christ said in Matthew 12, a greater than Jonah is here. James and John in Matthew 20, their mother, comes and asks Jesus for a favor. And he says to them, Well, what would I give you? What would you have? Ah, that my sons may set the one on the right hand and the other on the left hand. And Christ says, it will give be given to them for whom is prepared of my Father. You see, there will be others of honor, but Christ prepares the places of honor. And there is only one who sits on this right hand, and that is Jesus Christ. The Son of God. And so Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because it is his rightful place. But there's one more category that we need to consider that is unworthy to sit on his right hand. We've seen the angels, we've seen the prophets, we've seen But here, you are not worthy to sit on the right hand of God. I am not worthy to sit on the right hand of God of God. Of what am I worthy? Judgment. Condemnation. Rejection. And yet, what we see in the world today is men making themselves to be God. Men exalting man. This Christmas season that we're approaching is all about man. It's all about what I want. It's all about the parties that man is planning. It is all the worship of man and the Almighty Dollar. And yet for the child of God we understand that we are not worthy to sit on his right hand. Yet we'll fall at his feet. Do you see what a glorious truth that is? Because Christ has redeemed us from our sins, we can joyfully cast our crowns before him And I don't uh you have to be careful when you read the Psalms because there's some pretty wicked men. that are quoted in the book of Saul. I'm sorry, I said Saul, I mean Job. There's some pretty wicked men that are quoted in the book of Job. But let me read to you what Eliphaz says in Job 22, because he was correct, even though he was an unfaithful friend. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said Can a man be profitable unto God? Hmm. Can a man be profitable unto God? Oh my friend, we are not worthy of that position at the right hand of God the Father, but Jesus is because He's God. Because He's greater than the angels. Because he's greater than the prophets, because he's greater than David. He alone is God. Why did he sit down on the right hand of the Father? Because it was his rightful seat. It was where he belonged. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father But secondly, Christ sat down at the right hand of God the Father because he alone is righteous. Sin cannot come into the presence of God the Father, and none that are unrighteous could sit at the right hand. But Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he alone is righteous. Look at verses 8 and 9 of chapter 1 of Hebrews. But under the sun he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. First of all, we find that the scepter of God's kingdom, the scepter of Christ's kingdom, is a righteous scepter. What is the scepter? Well, the scepter was the rod, the staff of the king. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. The scepter often was shaped like a shepherd's crook. It was a symbol that the ruler was the magistrate over all his subjects It was a symbol of his rule, of his authority. And we find in Esther where Esther could not come before the king unless that scepter was extended. The scepter of his kingdom is a righteous scepter. He alone is the righteous one, and he extends his scepter, just as you're welcomed into the presence of the king by the extension of the scepter. So the scepter of his kingdom is a righteous scepter by which we are brought into his presence by righteousness. And so Christ alone is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he is righteous. But look again at verse 9. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. No man can make that claim. Every man by nature loves iniquity and hates righteousness. There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all Man by nature will seek out iniquity. But Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he loved righteousness and hated iniquity. And there is none other. No man could be seated there. Satan wanted to be seated there. Lucifer wanted to be seated there, and he could not Why did Christ sit down at the right hand of God the Father? Because he is righteous. Look over to chapter 4 and verse 15 of Hebrews. Chapter 4 and verse 15, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are. Yet without sin. Turn over to chapter seven and verse twenty-six. For such an high priest becomes us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled. Separate from sinners and made higher than the heavens. Is there another like this? Christ sat down at the right hand of God the Father because he was righteous. It was his rightful place because he was God, and he alone could be seated there, for he alone is righteous. 1 John read, My little children, these things write unto you that you sin not. And if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. And you can finish the verse for me. Jesus Christ the righteous. Why is it that he can be seated there at the right hand of the Father as our advocate? Because he's righteous, folks. Because he alone is holy. And so it was his rightful place because he was God. It is his rightful place because he alone is righteous. But also we find that Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he alone is the Creator. Look back to chapter 1 and verse 2. He hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. To bring the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. And upholding all things by the word of his power, Jesus Christ has the right to sit at the right hand of God the Father, because he is the creator of all things. He made the throne on which he sits. He made the heavens in which he exists He made the earth below. His hand spans the universe that he created. You see, he sits as the ruler. And he made it. It belongs to him. It is his eternal possession. If you look down to verse 10, And thou, Lord, in the beginning, hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens of the works of thy hand. It's all thine. Jesus Christ sits At the right hand of God the Father, because He alone is the Creator. And we considered last week that it is He that hath made us And not we ourselves. He has made us to be his own children. This is his rightful place. Now, why is this significant? Well, because the same people that brought us Santa Claus have also brought us an ape and said, Here is your father. They have tried to substitute man at the right hand of God. And even theistic evolution has come along. Well, God is the clockmaker. He wound the clockwinder. He wound it up and let it go. He started it and then nature took over. No. Thou hast laid the foundation of the world. All things are the works of thy hands. God spoken into existence. Why is it important that we understand that Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father? Because the passage tells us very clearly He made it. He's the creator. It is the works of His hand. But then the most important reason that we find that Christ is seated here at the right hand of God the Father, why is it in his rightful place? Because he is the Redeemer. He is the Redeemer of mankind. Look at verse 3 again. Back in chapter 1, who being the brightness of his glory, an express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when that's a time word, isn't it? When he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty. on high. He sat down because he's the Redeemer. He is the one that has done the work. Turn with me over to Revelation chapter five Revelation chapter 5, just a few pages actually in your Bible. There's a few books between Hebrews and Revelation, but only a matter of pages in your Bible. Revelation 5 and verse 1, and I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside, sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book. And to loose the seven seals thereof. Look down at verse 9. And they sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to our God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Why is Jesus Christ seated at the right hand of the Father? Why is he in this place? It is his rightful place. Because he is God. It is his rightful place, because he alone is the Creator. It is his righteous place because he alone is righteous. And it is his rightful place. Because he's the Redeemer. But then why did He sit down? Why would God sit down? Well, Jesus Christ sat down because his work was done. We finish our work and then we rest. God created the earth in six days, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, being the agent of creation, and he rested on the seventh day. We rejoice. We rejoice that we have a day of rest, that we as the children of God are not obligated to this day, but rather joyously given this day. It is set apart to our God. Christ sat down because his work was done. Going back to verse 3 When he had by ourselves purged our sins, by himself, sorry, when he had by himself purged our sins, he sat down. Turn over to chapter 10 of Hebrews with me. Chapter 10, and I would love to read verses 1 through 14 of the chapter, but uh Time doesn't permit, but let's start at verse 11 of chapter 10 of Hebrews. And every priest standeth daily. We read in the Old Testament the furnishings of the tabernacle. There was the table of showbread. The altar of incense, there was the golden candlestick, there was the Ark of the Covenant itself. And on the Ark of the Covenant, there was the lid of the Ark of the Covenant, which we call the mercy seat, but that was not a place for man to sit down. The mercy seat is called that because it is the place where God met with man, but it is not a seat as in a chair. There is no chair in the tabernacle. And here we find in chapter 10 that every priest standeth daily. And what is he doing daily? Ministering and offering oft times the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. Why do we not have an altar here today? Well, because the sacrifice is done. Why did Christ sit down at the right hand of God the Father? In other passages, we find Christ pictured as standing. He stands at the right hand of the Father. He stood at the stoning of Stephen. But why in this context do we find Christ depicted as sitting down? Because it's done. Because it's finished. Every priest daily in the Old Testament stood, and there was no chair provided. Because his work was never done. He offered off times the same sacrifices which could never take away sin. But Christ declared on the cross it is finished. And having finished the work of our redemption, he sat down on the right hand of God the Father. How dare man think they can add to it. How dare men think they can do it for themselves? What folly! What foolishness! How dare men think they can choose to accept it or reject it! The work is done. That's right. Christ is never defrauded of that for which he paid. That's right. He gave his life a ransom for many. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will noise cast out No man can pluck them out of my Father's hand. No man can come unto me, except it were given him of my Father, Jesus Christ. Sat down on the right hand of God the Father because he had done that which no priest before him had ever done. Every priest before him, if we read all of chapter 10, it talks about shadows All the priests before Christ had done was going through the ritual with great faith and great earnestness and great fear. For if unrighteousness was found in them, they would perish before that very altar. And they had no chair because they had to keep going. They had to keep doing it And they did it tomorrow, and they sacrificed the day after that, and they would sacrifice throughout the course of their priesthood. But when Christ had made one offering for sin, he sat down Because the work was done. And so we read Again, starting in verse 12 of chapter 10, but this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever sat down on the right hand of God, from this expecting to his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering hath he perfected for ever them that are sanctified. Turn back to chapter 7 of Hebrews. And chapter 7 and verse 24, but this man, again Christ, because he continues ever hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Verse 27, who needeth not daily as those priests to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for the peoples, for this he did once when he offered himself. And so that great Benediction in the 12th chapter. There's 13 chapters by view. Chapter 12 is the benediction to this book, looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Jesus Christ sat down on the throne of God because he alone was God. That honor went to no others. Jesus Christ sat down on the throne of God because his work was done. It was ended. It was completed. But then finally, in this glorious text in chapter 1, we find that Jesus sat down because he's waiting for justice. He sat down because he's waiting for the end of all things. He sits waiting for justice. Look back to chapter one with me again. And verse ten And thou Lord in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth. And the heavens are the works of thy hands, they shall perish, but thou remainest. Even global warming, warming can't uh get beyond Christ here. They shall perish. This world will perish not with global warming, but with fire. They shall perish. But thou remainest. They shall wax old as dust a garment. I don't think any of us today were born in the garments we wear today, and we may wear some old garments, but we're older than our garments for the most part, probably. They shall wax old as a garment, and as a vesture thou shalt fold them earth. This earth shall be folded up, and they shall be changed. But thou art the same, and thy year shall not fail. But the witch of the angels said he at any time, Sit thou on my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool. Ah you see Christ is God. He's seated at the right hand of the Father because this is rightful place. Christ is the Redeemer. He's seated at the right hand of God the Father because he did the work of redemption. It's done. But Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father because he waited God will make it all right. His enemies will be his footstool And though it may seem that the enemies of truth triumph over the children of God today, and though men may deny Christ, and it may seem that his truth is failing, He's waiting. He's waiting. And he will make all things right. His enemies will be his footstool. Satan is a defeated foe. We find in Revelation that the martyrs beneath the altar cry, How long? How long? But God's answer is not long. Christ is waiting for judgment. In First Corinthians fifteen and verse twenty-four, then cometh the end When he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father, and when he shall put down all rule and all authority and power, for he must reign. Till he put all enemies under his feet, and we find that the last enemy is death. We read for our responsive reading this morning quite deliberately from the second Psalm. Why do the heathen rage? And the people imagine of vain things. He that said in the heavens shall laugh. And in the 37th Psalm, we read in verse 12 and 13: The wicked plotteth against the just and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. The Lord shall laugh at him. Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of God the Father because he's waiting for judgment. He has conquered the foe. The battle is won. The victory is sure. Turn with me to chapter twelve of Hebrews as we conclude this morning. And I mentioned there's thirteen chapters, but uh I see a glorious benediction in the next to last chapter. And of course the chapters were were added for our ease of finding passages. But Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 through 3, wherefore, that word wherefore connects us to the whole book. Because of all these things. Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Think about that. Why is Christ sitting at the right hand of God the Father? Because he's God. Why did he sit down? Because his work was done. What's he doing while he's sitting? He's waiting for judgment. And so we as the children of God today, it's often been said we're on the winning side, seeing we're compassed about so quite great by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which used we You see, our God is seated in the heavens. He's done with everything, whatsoever he pleases. The battle is won for our soul. And so we need to be busy about the master's business because he's waiting for judgment. Verse 2. Looking on the Jesus, the author and finisher. The one who wrote the book, the one who finished the job of our faith, for the joy that is sat before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God For consider him. Think about him. Meditate upon him. Take him as your master. Take him as your guide. Consider him. Think about who this is. Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be weary. And faint in your minds. Ah, let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we'll reap if we faint not. Our Messiah, God Himself, is seated in the position of honor which no one else is deserving of. He is seated there because he's done all the work, it's all completed, and he's seated there waiting for judgment. What have we to fear? Ah, how we must lay aside every weight and the sin which sets so easily before us, set easily beset us. And run with patience the race was set before us, constantly considering him, constantly meditating on him, constantly keeping him in mind and in view, lest we be weary. And we faint from the way. The victory's ours. And Christ is on the throne. Let us stand for prayer.