Alright, very good. So tonight we're going to get into our continuing series of doctrines that you all have asked about. We're getting near the end of the list, but there are some very interesting topics, and one of them was where do I go when I die? You would think that that's a pretty straightforward answer, and for the most part it is. It's a good thing you made the first part of the study because the summary is real easy. The souls of believers immediately after death enter into the glory of heaven That's pretty much it. I'm going to give you some quotes from some catechisms, how others have summarized these teachings, and I thought very effectively, and then we'll look at some passages of scriptures that talk about these things Next week, we will look at some other views that are beginning to regain in popularity. There's nothing new under the sun. Heresy just tends to get recycled He comes along by the name of the different advocate or proponent. But uh there are at least four other views as to where we might go after death. And I'm not even talking outside of the Christian circle. I'm talking about inside the Christian circle. I'm not even going to get into reincarnation or anything goofy like that. So uh uh let me just review for you uh some very excellent statements that have come from some confessions in the past. Confessions are simply a way to write down what we believe If you've ever tried to write down what you believe, it's kind of hard to do. And sometimes people just kind of hit the nail on the head and you go, hmm, these are pretty good. We're holding fast the form of sound words here. Heidelberg Catechism was written back in the 1500s, I believe, and Lord's Day 22, Question 57, it's kind of written in a question and answer format. Ask this, what comfort does the resurrection of the body afford thee? And the answer is that not only my soul after this life shall be immediately taken up to Christ his head. but also that this my body, raised by the power of Christ, shall again be united with my soul and made like the glorious body of Christ. Now that question was about the resurrection, but they were pointing out that there will be a reunion of the body that had been in the grave with the soul, and that implies that there is a separation at death and that the soul continues on with the Lord. The second Helvetic confession has this to say, we believe that the faithful after bodily death go directly unto Christ. Very simple to the point. The Westminster Divines and the Westminster Confession of Faith in the 32nd chapter put three sentences to it. A little bit more than three, but it's in three sections. And I'll read them all to you because I think it's pretty comprehensive. And there's a lot of scripture proof text, of which we're going to go over much tonight. And they write this: the bodies of men after death return to dust and see corruption. But their souls, which neither die nor sleep, having an immortal subsistence, immediately return to God who gave them. The souls of the righteous, being then made perfect in holiness, are received into the highest heavens, where they behold the face of God, in light and glory, waiting for the full redemption of their bodies. And the souls of the wicked are cast into hell, where they remain in torments and utter darkness, reserved to the judgment of the great day. Beside these two places, for souls separated from their bodies, the Scripture acknowledges none. I like that concluding part to make it clear, don't try to find anything else. At the last day such as are found alive shall not die, but be changed, and all the dead shall be raised up with the selfsame bodies, and none other, although with different qualities, which shall be united again to their souls forever. The bodies of the unjust shall by the power of Christ be raised to dishonor, the bodies of the just by his spirit unto honor. to be made conformable to his own glorious body. Well there's a lot of scriptural proof for those statements, and I think those are pretty good summarizing statements. But I do like the language that we find in Scripture that just warms my heart as we read it, and so I hope it does this with yours as well. So let's turn to our first passage in the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 5, and verse 8. I'm going to go over the clearest scriptures and the clearest passages first, so that there's no confusion as to the tone. in the teaching of Scripture on this topic. Where do we go when we die? Well, according to the Scriptures, if you're a believer, the Apostle Paul writes this, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 8 We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Certainly that has rolled off your tongue at some point in your life. And uh I suppose as we get older in life and our mortality begins to be felt and aches and sores and pains of joints and elbows and the like, that all of a sudden that verse starts to take on a grander meaning. It starts to shine as a little bit brighter hope and promise from the the the Bible The apostle also writes, keep your hand here. Actually we'll just go to it right now. Look at 2 Corinthians 5. 1. He says it a different way here. It says, We know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved We have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Now let's unpack that a bit. He says If our earthly house of this tabernacle, hmm, that's some pretty high-powered language. What's he talking about? What is the earthly house of this tabernacle? What's he talking about? The body. He's talking about our physical body. Exactly. We live in an earthly house, a house made of dirt. When you walk up to a uh a body, sometimes at funerals they like to preserve the body and have an open casket burial. I particularly don't care for those. I just as soon have an immediate burial, just cover up the dead and put them away. But uh you go up and you see that that's just a house. It's always very evident that whoever was there is no longer living in that house because it's just a carcass and it's uh You can definitely tell something's missing. It says if this tabernacle were dissolved, it's even worse than death, it says dissolved, meaning It could have been destroyed in fire or after the ravages of time and the grave just eats away at all the cartilage and the carcass is just gone, nothing but bones left and eventually ground to dust The scripture tells us we have a building of God, a house not made with hands. He talks about a building. And he goes another step and says, not with bricks and stone and glass and rubber and metal. It's something in the heavens. It's eternal. It's eternal in the heavens. Verse 2, it says, In this we groan. earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house, which is from heaven. That word house is sometimes rendered habitation Jesus says, I go to heaven to prepare what? Room. He's going to prepare us room. And so he has a habitation for us. Turn to Philippians chapter 1 and verse 23. Philippians 1. 23. Under the inspiration of the Spirit, he says, I am in a straight betwixt the two. Having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful. for you. He just came off that great verse, that great statement in verse 21, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. You would think, what does it mean that there is great gain in death? Isn't death something the world wants to avoid? Doesn't every fiber of our being want to avoid death? Indeed it does. Uh there's something in us that desires life. There's something good about life. And the Apostle Paul says, No, as a Christian, I know that when I die, I'm going to be with Christ. And in fact Compared to the life we have here on this earth, to be with Christ is better, not just better, because it says it's far better. He makes it plain that it's going to be wondrous and glorious. Hebrews 12, 23 is another plain passage that speaks about this topic. Hebrews chapter 12, again, one of my favorite books in all the Bible. He says, we'll pick up the sentence in verse 22. It says, Ye are come unto Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels. to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all men, and here's what else we're come to, and to the spirits of just men made perfect. You see, this is what we find in heaven, that there are just men. Now that doesn't mean there's only men. It means that there are righteous people in heaven. They're righteous people. It's their spirits, but they have been made perfect. That's what we find in heaven, a perfected soul in heaven. What a wondrous thing to think that upon death all that's required to make us suitable for entrance into heaven, whatever is required here on earth, has been completed. And whatever is lacking, somehow God makes up the difference. I don't think anything will be lacking. And God Almighty takes a perfected spirit, a perfected soul, right into heaven It's truly a glorious thought. Well, there's other scriptures that prove this, but before I turn to them, let me just ask you If someone were to ask you, gee, where do I go after I die, what other passages of Scripture come to your mind that would point out this truth and teaching? It'll give you an opportunity to share some verses that you think uh plainly point this up The thief on the cross. Right, let's go to uh Luke uh uh where's that at? I'll check it off. Luke 23, the thief on the cross Beginning in verse 39 of Luke 23. And one of the malefactors, which were hanged, railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. But the other answered and rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds But this man hath done nothing amiss. There's a sermon in itself right there. What a marvelous testimony. And I tell you, that's about as good of a repentance as you'll find anywhere in the scriptures And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee Today shalt thou be with me in paradise. You know, it just occurred to me, the Lord's telling him two things. What two things is the Lord telling him? You're gonna die when? Today. Today. You're gonna you're gonna die today. And the second glorious thing is that he'll be with the Lord in paradise. Ah! But some would say, well that doesn't mean heaven. That's just some holding tank before you get to heaven. Some of them actually tried that. But it clearly is re a reference to heaven, and we know that because of 2 Corinthians chapter twelve. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. The apostle is speaking about a quote-unquote man he once knew. He's probably talking about himself. Then he says in verse two of Second Corinthians twelve, I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, whether in the body I cannot tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell. God knoweth. Such an one caught up to the third heaven. The Bible talks about the heavens that are here on the earth. This would refer to where the fowls of the earth fly in, the fowls of heaven is talking about birds flying in our atmosphere. Then there's the heavens, the heavenly bodies where the basically most of the visible universe is at, stars, moon, etc. Then there's something called the third heaven That's where God dwells at. That's the one that we're going to, our destination, our eternal home. That's what it's speaking about here, third heaven. And then notice again in verse 3, I knew such a man, whether in the body, out of the body, I cannot tell, God knows, how that he was caught up into where? Paradise, or same word that the Lord Jesus says to the thief on the cross. So very clearly, very plainly, the Lord Jesus gave this Brand spanking new convert on the first day of his salvation and the last day of his life, the greatest assurance that any human clay has ever had that they will be with a Savior. And indeed I think this man needed a good dose of it, because guess who was going to die first? among those three hanging there. Christ would. So this thief would get to exercise faith for the remaining hours of his life Because Jesus would then at that point be dead. He had only heard Jesus say, Today you'll be with me in paradise, and then he's dead and gone. He can't ask him, did you really mean this? He might see that maybe he was hoping that he died and he would just whoosh disappear and go up in a whirlwind like Elijah to heaven. He didn't see that. He saw a corpse hanging there He would have to exercise faith while on that cross to believe everything that God said. And he hung on one and only one thing. Today you'll be with me in paradise. He had to believe that. So even he had to exercise faith for a season, a brief season and a painful time in his life, with no comforts other than that which the Savior Himself directly said. So uh yeah, I every time I look at the thief on the cross I learn a little extra something from him. I tell you, you can you can squeeze that that apple and get a lot of apple juice out of it. I'm telling you, there's a lot there All right, other passages that you can think of. That's a good one, thank you, Nicole. What other passages come to your mind to prove that upon death the believer goes to heaven? Very good. In the book of Acts, let's turn to Acts. Acts chapter seven and verse fifty-nine. Acts 759, they're stoning Stephen. He looks up the veil between this life and the spiritual life is peeling back, and at that moment he sees Heaven open, he sees Jesus standing there, and what does he say? They stone Stephen, Stephen, as it were, calling upon God, saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. He said to the Lord Jesus, take my spirit. He somehow knows at that point his body just ain't going to make it. His body's going to die. He perceives that. But he also realizes that, you know what, my soul has a destination. My soul has a place to go to. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Yes, that's a good one. Any others? I know this is more of a miraculous one, but uh Elijah when he was taken up in a whirlwind. Okay, yeah, very good. Elijah taken up into a whirlwind, but uh let me pull on that thread a little bit more Was there another time when Elijah showed up in the New Testament? So we saw him go up into heaven. That's a very good reference. We'll look at that actually. That's in uh first Kings I didn't think of that one, so you're going to make me think. Uh it'll be after seventeen, 'cause that's where we see Elijah the first time. And let's see. Second Kings two and verse eleven. And it came to pass as they still went on and talked that behold There appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder. This would be Elijah and Elisha, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind unto heaven. So, yes, we certainly see that that's how Elijah, the great and notable prophet of the Old Testament, went to heaven. Do we get to go to heaven that way? Typically not. I don't know of any believers that I've come across with that have uh Uh other people reported that they were part of the sunder and what you see, Brother Chris, man, he flew up into heaven with a chariot. Boy, you should have seen that. It was really impressive. No, we we tend to don't see that. So that's unusual, and that's how God sent up a prophet. But the fact remains he went to heaven. Is there a time he came back to earth? Yeah. Yeah, go to Matthew seventeen. And let's also look at this because when God says He gives us eternal life, uh there's nothing stopping it It continues on, and so we see at the mouth of transfiguration, let's start in Verse 1, in case we're all not familiar with that, Matthew 17, 1. After six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and brings them up into a high mountain apart, meaning separately, and was transfigured before them. His face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. Behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. That's referring to Elijah. They appear talking to him. In fact, Peter is so confused by it, he offers to make three tabernacles or tents, one for Jesus, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Peter said that and I forget, maybe it's not in this one. Somebody's comment once where he knew not what he said. Yes. Uh can you expound upon that? Was that just Peter thought that Jesus and Elijah and Moses were on the same level? Is that and is getting it? So uh he's um There's a spiritual depth to that. Let's go find that account. I believe it's in Luke 9. Luke gives us some excellent additional information in this account. You're thinking of Luke 9. 33. It came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, one for Elias, not knowing what he said. So Luke adds an important thing. Number one, Moses and Elijah were departing from the mountain scene. That's number one. Number two They were there, and it says in verse 30, Behold there talk with him two men. Yep, I should have gone to the Luke account. That's where I saw men, which were Moses and Elias, where Elijah who appeared in glory and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. So Moses and Elijah appear on this mountain, and they're talking with Christ about his decease that he should accomplish at Jerusalem, meaning Jesus would have to die on a cross in Jerusalem. Now, Moses is a grand picture of who or what in the Old Testament. The law. Elijah is a grand picture of who or what in the Old Testament. The prophets. The law and the prophets are saying Jesus had to die at Jerusalem. And indeed, that's what the Old Testament is all about. That Christ should come, that he should die. That's what they were there to proclaim. They're heralds of that. Peter just wants to kind of have a little hangout session. No, they're there as a prophet, they're giving a prophetic message, and off they go. Why would they want to stay here and leave the glories of heaven behind? That's not something that they they were there only to speak of that to give Peter, James, and John and you and I insight in terms of what is really going to happen to the Lord Jesus Christ. He had to die And again, another little instance of God showing forth his plan of salvation, his plan of atonement, his plan of redemption. He drops it in little Bits and pieces along the way. So they were all off base. Theologically what they requested made no sense. Okay, thanks for asking though. Other uh scripture proof that you can think of thinking you're thinking of Luke 16, although that's the language isn't as clear. Okay, but it's it's a valid uh a case. Uh let's go to Luke 16. Luke 16 and beginning in verse 19. This is the account of the rich man and Lazarus. It says there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs, which fell from the rich man's table, moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. A pathetic state. Came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. Boy, that's how I'd like to go. Carried by angels. Just take me home. And the rich man also died and was buried, and in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. So it's very clear that there was a distinct difference on the other side of the grave in terms of the state of affairs for these two men. One lived sumptuously. The Bible points out that he fared sumptuously. The Bible points out that he was wealthy, that he ate well, he was well dressed. You have a clear statement that in fact this is exactly what he had. And then you have another account of another man. He's very poor. In fact, he's so poor he's begging. A pathetic estate, I don't need to expound on that any further. But the second that the spirit of that of those individuals departs from them, then something radically different occurs The rich man at that instant finds himself in the torments of hell. He is alive, he's fully conscious, and it's torment. While the beggar is also alive and fully conscious, and he's comforted. That's exactly what the subsequent passages speak about. Verse 24. The rich man, it says, he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things. And likewise Lazarus evil things But now he is comforted and thou art tormented. Notice that. God points out, hey, in that life you you had something good. You had a lot of good come your way. You had a lot of benefit. So it's only right that you should get hell now. That's kind of the thrust of the argument. Pretty stunning statement. And likewise, look at the great and grand hope for everybody who lives on this side of eternity and always just seems to struggle to make ends meet and always has great difficulty just trying to pay bills or trying to get through in this life or can just never seem to get ahead. The faster I go, the behinder I get, as they would say. And yet he says But yeah, he received evil things in his life. But now he's comforted. And that's that eternal state. Verse 26, it's an eternal state because of this. Beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot. Neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. There's no falling out of favor in heaven. And there's no getting out of hell. There's no second chance. I think many people feel that when they get to hell That there's somehow something they can do to change the condition. I'll be partying with my friends like I'll have a uh a bad day, but then we'll all just get together and do something good. Like there is some small way that they can change the conditions. Not so. It's called eternal torment. It's called the fire that's not quenched. The most horrible language used. The most painful experience a human being can have is called second-degree burns. It's second degree because your nerves still feel the pain. Third degree means the nerve endings are shot, you can't feel any pain, and this is very dangerous because that means you have no feeling. But second degree burns are absolutely the most painful. And it's no coincidence that God uses the language of fire when he talks about hell as a suffering, a punishment. It's very intense. So we're fully alive and conscious in the afterlife. That's a relevant verse. What other passages? I'll give you one more chance and then I'll uh read a few others I discovered Yes, very good. That's a tough one to think about. Job nineteen and verse twenty-six. Here Job says this in verse 25 where the sentence begins, he says, I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another Though my reins be consumed within me. Now it's that latter part that's interesting. Job is clearly speaking about his hope of the resurrection. He knows that his body will be rejoined to whatever dead carcass awaits him at the end of life, or when his Soul departs and goes to heaven. He says, I know that even though worms destroy my body, and that is the typical course of action. That even though that happens, he says, I'm going to seek God for myself. Well, if his body has been destroyed, How is he going to see God for himself? He says it's going to be true even though the last part, my reins be consumed within me, even though My my inward part rains sometimes I I think the literal rendering in the Hebrew, uh don't quote me on this, but you can check it out. There's probably the word kidneys, which means the the the deep inward part, though though all my inner stuff is gone, yet he says, I'm still going to see God. So the the implication from this is that He ultimately really doesn't die. He believes in eternal life, and he really believes that he's going to be rejoined with his body that'll somehow be perfected. So that in the latter day, when Jesus Christ comes and stands on the earth, in judgment to bring his own home, that he in fact will see God. It's a grand hope and a grand testimony that even back as far as Job, that he had that hope. And that's a great, great passage Well, let me give you a few others. Turn to Psalm 73 and verse 26. Psalm 73 is another psalm that also talks about the rich versus the persecuted. Those who seem to have everything going great for them in this life, verse uh the ungodly in the world who prosper and increase in riches. Versus the one who's cleansed his heart in vain all his days. Psalm seventy-three twenty-six He makes this statement which alludes to this teaching. My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Well, if his flesh is failing, yet God is his portion forever, that's any statement of eternality, somehow it means his flesh is not going to make it, but his soul will forever be with the Lord. He forever has hope with the God of the Bible. Again, it's an allusion to it. It's not as clear as the passages that we've read. What about this one? Look at Matthew 22. The Lord Jesus used this when he was speaking to the Sadducees. Does anybody remember what doctrine the Sadducees did not believe in? That's correct. They did not believe in the resurrection. So they came up with this wild-eyed story. of a man who had a bunch of brothers. And the oldest married a woman, he died without having children, and the second one married her to raise up seed to his brother's name, and he died without having children. And he goes through all All seven brothers. A woman's a black widow. She, you know, the black widow spider eats the male. I'm nobody here gets that. That's all right. Um And uh Jesus points out in uh verse uh twenty-nine, he says unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God, for in the resurrection they neither marry nor given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. Now that of course is talking about a period known as the resurrection. After that, this is what they're like. Okay, got it. As touching the resurrection of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead but of the living. Well now that's very interesting because the resurrection hasn't occurred yet What Jesus is talking about is that these fellows have had a resurrection of the soul. They were saved, and that means that when they died, they're in heaven with God. And of course, at the Mount Transfiguration We saw Moses and Elijah return. It could have just as easily been Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, for they were all alive. He makes that point here. He's not the God of the dead. You know, that reminds me of another passage that just came to mind in Psalm 88. Psalm 88, and if memory serves me correctly, it's going to be right around verse 10 to 12. I hope I'm right. Yep. Psalm eighty-eight, ten to twelve. Listen to what the psalmist is saying. He's pointing up the purpose of our salvation. And he's talking to the Lord, and he says this in Psalm 8810. Wilt thou show wonders to the dead? Shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave, or thy faithfulness in destruction? Shall thy wonders be known in the dark, and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? Those are six rhetorical questions. Thank you. That's the word I want to say hypothetical, but they're not. Those are six rhetorical questions. Meaning the answer to all of them is no. God is not going to show wonders to dead people. He's going to show his wonders to living people. The dead That are physically dead and are going to stay dead aren't going to just pop up and and arise and praise Him. They will be made living. Living things will arise and praise Thee. Dead things don't praise God. Will his loving kindness be declared in the grave? Oh, look at the love of God upon this this person. You look down, you see a corpse. How is the love of God manifested in that? He says, no Well, the point behind all these things is that, no, he's the God of the living. It's the living that praise God, and he is going to give them his life, and they have eternal life, and it will never be taken from them. Alright. Well we've seen the Job, and see I had one in Psalms and um Acts, I think we hit them all. The last uh couple that we'll look at is 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 10. Oh yes, okay. The martyrs, right? Yep. Okay, let's go look at that Revelation six Revelation 6. 10, it says, uh actually the sentence begins in verse 5. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the Word of God, and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? So they're there, they're speaking, they're talking, they're asking the Lord for vengeance. They're not saying, oh Lord, just forgive them. Everything's fine. It's okay. I forgive them. No. They're saying, uh, we want vengeance here, Lord. This is the right thing to do. Because in heaven, we're going to agree with everything God believes and thinks and teaches. And we're going to hate everything God hates. We're going to hate every false way and we're going to love every true way. And the right thing is that vengeance, the vengeance of the Lord, would come upon them. They themselves don't want to take vengeance. They're begging the Lord, Lord, you take care of this You need to avenge us because we are your children. And so it's a right thing for them to say that. Yes, that's a good passage. And they're not in pain as they say that. They're in bliss. They're in joy. They're enjoying Glory, and that's their petition. Wow, think about that. Here are all these people, ISIS, murdering Christians, not realizing that they are about to send one of their worst advocates right there to the throne of God. As soon as that person is decapitated, they're right there as a child of God on the throne of heaven saying, Lord, vengeance on this one. Vengeance on this one. That's the message that God the Father is getting in his ear continually from these people. They are doing themselves a tremendously hideous disservice to send their own attorney against them and the prime witness too. Ouch, that's not a good thing. First Thessalonians five, ten. I've got three passages left. Sentence begins in verse nine. 1 Thess 5:9, for God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. That whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. You see, this is a beautiful statement here that the Lord Jesus Christ Died for us and he died on purpose. And one of the reasons he died is that that we would be with him, that we would always be with him He's trodden the path to death, and he's gone to heaven. He's made room for us, and that's his prayer, and that's his purpose, that we would be with him. I think he's going to accomplish that. I think that's going to happen Well, one other point I want to make is that for the believer it's a state of rest and endless bliss. You see that in Revelation 14. Revelation 14, 13. Usually when I'm Revelation 14, I'm talking about the wrath of God, where they're tormented in the presence of the angels and the holy lamb, and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up in forever and ever. That's back in ten and eleven. But for the saints, they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus, you read in verse 13, I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. Their works follow them. That they rest from their labors. Boy, we've been looking this week in the Cluth House in the book of Hebrews, in Hebrews chapter 3 and 4, and notice that term again, rest. From labors. That's really a wonderful thing. Then it also adds, and I do want to comment on this, it says, their works do follow them. What do y'all think that is? What does it mean their works do follow them? Uh they haven't if they have done something good. If they've done something good, okay. Okay. Pling in the souls that they've won. Sure. I think that's probably a a better way to look at that The following works, I don't think, is a record of our deeds. I think it's rather the people that you've helped form into disciples of Jesus Christ. Now, why would I say that? Go to Ephesians 2. 10. It says, we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Now the second part, of course, is an exhortation to good works. We know what those are. We know in general what that's talking about. But notice that it speaks about people as workmanship. We are his workmanship. You know, sometimes I meet some interesting people in my job. They have a very distinguished character to them. And um, to put it mildly, they'll say, boy, that one's a real piece of work, aren't they? Meaning that person's quite interesting or different or boy, what a doozy. We're quite the doozy in God's book, too, because he took something from the bottom of the scrap heap, from the bottom of the dung hill, and fashioned us like unto his glorious son. We are his workmanship. He's working on us. Don't give up on me yet. The Lord is still working on me, some people may say. We are the work. And then you also see in 1 Corinthians 3 this language. This is another passage that is commonly misunderstood, but if you listen carefully to the language, you'll see plainly that the works that follow is referring to people. In 1 Corinthians 3 and verse 9, it says this, we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. Now we work with him towards furthering the kingdom of God. But at the end of the day, we are the work. He works in us as he works through us. We're that building. We're being created, formed into a tabernacle in which he dwells. And he goes on to talk about there's only one foundation that's called Jesus Christ, verse eleven. And verse twelve, if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or stubble Well, what are the gold, silver, and precious stones? It's people. It's people. Good people, you could say. People who are Christians, people who became saved. And so what would that make the wood, hay, and the stubble? People who didn't become saved, unbelievers. Now it says, if any man, referring to you and I, build upon this foundation, who's the foundation? Jesus Christ, if you and I build upon that foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, or wood, hay, or stubble, I don't know. You know, I look out here at you, and I've seen other people that have been in my presence over some 20, 30 years of ministry, and I don't know who ultimately becomes saved or who doesn't I really don't. I gave up on trying to figure that out a long time ago. Because there are some people I thought surely that's a child of God and watch them tear off and go A completely different direction. Another person I thought, man, I don't know what they're doing here. They turned out to be some of the most faithful followers of Christ you ever imagined. You just can't tell. It says in verse 13, every man's work shall be made manifest. It's talking about people. Every man's work, that gold, hill, silver, precious stones, or wood, hay stubble, it'll be made manifest. The day will declare it, because it's going to be revealed by fire. The fire will try every man's work of what sort it is. I think it's the fire of his glorious presence. If he was transformed on the mount of transfiguration, his clothes were white and glistening When he comes, it says his presence will be seven times hotter than the sun. It says they have no need of the sun because the Lamb is there. He's just Who can dwell with everlasting burnings though? It's asked in the Old Testament. Our God is a consuming fire, it says in Hebrews 12 When he returns in full glory, there's a reason why you don't need the sun. It has no purpose. He illuminates everything. Now who can dwell with that? Gold Silver, precious stones, that can handle fire. That doesn't vaporize. You can't vaporize gold by heating it too much. Can't do that with silver either. It doesn't boil off. What about wood, hand, stubble? Utterly consumed. That's not the kind of house you want to live in. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, notice, which he hath built thereupon He shall receive a reward. The reward is, hallelujah, brother so and so or sister so and so made it into heaven. If any man's work, that person shall be burned, go to hell, he shall suffer loss. Oh rats, I thought this one was saved. He's not. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as through fire, meaning you're also a silver vessel that passes through the fire. That's what that's talking about. It's talking about people. And so I conclude with this. Are you going to have works following in heaven? Is there somebody you can say you're discipling? Is there somebody you can say you're witnessing to, you're working with? You have a whole lifetime to do this now. Don't panic and run out and feel like you've got to grab somebody off the street and start working on this next week. Although it may not be a bad idea to kind of get started sooner rather than later. But you know, we don't want to be like that one fellow who hid the treasure in the napkin fund and he buried it in the napkin and says, Here Lord, here's your here's your napkin. I knew you're an austere man uh reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you didn't sow and so forth. Uh I I took it here, take it, it's been laid up in a napkin here, take that which thine own is He says, You wicked servant, your own mouth condemns thee. You see, God gives us these things to be able to share with people. We don't know who the children of God are. And you know when it says we're a builder with him It's a very laudatory term to say that I'm the builder. At best, I'm a garden hose. I'm just a garden hose, and there's just water coming out of it. And lo and behold When I put water on the plants in the garden and they grow up, the garden hose doesn't jump up and down and say, woo, look what I did in the garden. It'd be ludicrous to think that that hose, and yet God looks at that garden hose and says, Well done, good and faithful servant. That's what it's like. There is a time which will come of learner and of glory. And, you know, it'll be to the praise and glory of those who have gone before us and shared the word of life with us and shared with us, their life and their testimony of faith. And the time will come when, you know, there's a next generation beyond you. I'm looking at some young people here. At some point your life has got to show for Jesus Christ. You've got to be a bold soldier for the cross. You've got to go forth and send forth the words of life and explain it to somebody. And don't try to convert Mao Zhe Tung or Kim Jong-un or some exotic character out there that you can have a real trophy. Start with a little person. Start with somebody within reach. You know, it doesn't have to be far away. Alright, next week we'll look at some wrong ideas about where we go when I die and what the scripture says about that and how that's refuted.