Isaiah chapter 53, and I'll read the entire chapter. Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised And we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is broad as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people was he stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. Because he had done no violence, neither was there any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to open grief When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death, and he was numbered with transgressors And he bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Let us bow for prayer. Our gracious, glorious God, if these words do not drive us to our knees, then Lord, we have no sensibility to spiritual things at all. If reading of the sacrifice and suffering, the substitutionary atonement of our Christ, of our Messiah, does not thrill and break our hearts at once. Lord, we know nothing of thee. Father, this morning, as we come to this place, we come desiring to learn of thee. We come desiring to be fed with spiritual food. Lord, we come desiring that you would peel away the layers of our own pride and show us our sin. Lord, we come before you today, desiring to partake of the Lord's table, and yet coming with fear and trembling, examining our own selves Lord. But Lord, as we examine our own selves, our examination is in vain, except that you search us with a candle. Except, Lord, that you show us our sin and our failings before thy grace and mercy. Father, this day, mold us to the image of Christ Cleanse us afresh and anew. Lord, show us our secret sins. And Father, may we rejoice in this one who was sacrificed, who sacrificed himself for us. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What a glorious chapter this is. This 53rd chapter of Isaiah. is read in synagogues and then again it is often not read. Uh I don't know this from first hand knowledge, but I've been told that a lot of times they will actually Just kind of skip over this passage. It's not one that really fits their form of godliness that denies the power thereof. I also heard a glorious testimony of a rabbi who, studying the Word of God intently, came to this 53rd chapter of Isaiah and he read it. And then he read it again, and then the tears welled up in his eyes, and his heart broke, because as he read this 53rd chapter of Isaiah His heart cried out, What shall I do? For indeed this is the Messiah Indeed, this chapter is talking of the one who was the promised one, and my people and I have rejected him. And yet that rabbi came to realize that yes, this chapter speaks of him For when it talks of Christ being wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement of our peace being upon him, and with his stripes the we are healed He realized, oh, those pronouns include me. And he was gloriously saved. He actually continued as a rabbi. Teaching his own blood and flesh family and people of Christ. And he he died many years ago, but he said he felt like a man on a rock in the middle of an ocean. Who had found protection from the raging storm on that rock, and his people were all drowning around him. He was crying out to them, come to the rock, come to the cornerstone. And very few would heath believed our report The message of salvation, the prophecies of Messiah were there But who has believed our report? And of course, we enjoy the chapter divisions in our scriptures because it makes us Convenient for us to find specific passages and without the chapter and verse divisions, which of course were not in the originals but were added many years later, without them It would be far difficult, more difficult in our study, but I believe to rightly divide chapter 53, we need to go back to the concluding verses of chapter 52 So turn back one page to chapter 52 and verse 13. And let me bring in the last three verses of chapter 52 before we consider chapter 53. Behold, my servant, verse 13 of 52. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. And many were astonished at his visions as the His visage was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. So shall he sprinkle many nations And kings shall shut their mouth at him, for that which hath not been told them shall they see, and that which they have not heard shall they consider. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. And that word prudently is a word which we think of as wisely or intelligently, and that is a good application of that word However, the word that's used for prudently here also carries the idea of prosperously or successfully. In Joshua 1 and verse 8, this book will also not be parted out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous. It's the exact same word. There in Joshua 1 verse 8, and also the word is used as prosperous in Jeremiah, Joshua 1, verse 7 as well. It's the same word there in Joshua that's translated prosperously. Which here in Isaiah 52 is translated prudently. My servant shall deal prosperously He shall deal successfully. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. All mine are thine, and thine are mine. I have kept those which thou hast given me out of the world, and none of them is lost except the son of perdition, who was not a believer in the first place. And so here we have this prophecy that this suffering servant in wisdom will succeed in all that his sacrifice was designed to accomplish. And we find also that he shall be extowed very high. Remember after the triumphal entry when the people had cut down the branches and laid them in the way? Right, Hosanna, Hosanna the King of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And the disciples said afterward they remembered that they had done these things to him. My servant will deal prudently and will be exalted And then, of course, in verse 14, many shall be astonished at his vision, his visage, his face was marred more than any man. But look at verse 15 of chapter 52. So shall he sprinkle many nations, and the kings shall shut their mouth at him for that which he had not been told them That which had not uh not been told them shall they see, and that which they have not heard shall they consider. Here is the prophecy. That this one that is coming will sprinkle many nations. He will deal prosperously And he will sprinkle many nations. What is being spoken of here? What is this veiled illusion? Well, it's veiled to us because we're not of the Jewish system. But to the Jews reading this. It was abundantly clear for the priest would take the blood of the sacrifice. And he would dip into the blood and he would Sprinkle seven times around the altar with the blood of the sacrifice, the number seven being the number of completion or the number of perfection. And then for cleansing the priest would dip in the water, and he would sprinkle the book, and he would sprinkle all the people with that water. And so that blood Sprinkled from the altar was the picture of the remission of sin, and the sprinkling of the water was the picture of the cleansing from sin. And so here is the prophecy that this coming Messiah will sprinkle the Jews. That's not what it says, is it? That he will sprinkle many nations, he will remit their sin, and he will cleanse them from their iniquities. Saved by water and blood, by the forgiveness of sin and the cleansing of that same sin. And so he will sprinkle many nations, and the kings of the earth will shut their mouths at him. They will be rendered speechless before him. Now, with that background and these verses that extol what Messiah will do, that the ends of the earth will see his truth, who has to leave their report? And to whom is the altar of the Lord revealed? This is a term of great uh A term of great wonder and amazement that this message has gone forth, it has been given. But who is believed? How could they not believe? It is so clear. It is written in stone, as we saw. This morning in Sunday school. And yet, who has believed our report? Have they not heard? Yea, verily their word went into all the ends of the earth. But I will provoke them with jealousy by them that are not a people. Who is believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed. We read in chapter 53 and verse 2 that he shall grow up before them as a tender plant. And as a root out of dry ground. Why did they not believe? Because he wasn't what they wanted. Because the Messiah was not what they desired. He was not the God they were looking for. There was no beauty. That we should desire him. They were looking for an earthly king to deliver them. He was a heavenly king to deliver them. But he was the root of David. We find there that he shall make his arm And Isaiah chapter eleven, let me read chapter eleven, verse one and verse ten. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots And verse ten of chapter eleven, and in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand as an ensign of the people, and it shall be And the gate Gentiles shall s and to it the Gentiles seat, and his rest shall be glorious. And so the root of David was promised. That there would be this Messiah. And yet who hath believed our report? The arm of the Lord, the branches revealed from the most unlikely source. I enjoy plants. Some of you have noticed there is a gathering of plants in my office that seems to increase About every month I bring another plant in. I enjoy plants. What happens when you take a root out of dry ground? Well the plant very quickly begins to wither, doesn't it? And very quickly begins to die away. You can't grow a healthy plant with the root in dry ground. And yet, from the most unlikely source, coming from Abraham, one as good as dead, childless Through David and all of his sin, through the line of the Israelites Not a righteous one of themselves among them. And yet here comes the Messiah. And then not from the palace of the king, but out of Nazareth. Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Not this one. This is not the regal king we want. This is not the Messiah we've waited for. This is it. We don't want this. Who hath believed our report? Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Oh no, but I I want to be good to be saved Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. But give me something to do. What must I do to be saved? Oh, but but if if I just crawl up the steps of the Vatican on my knees, won't that do it If I just bestow all my goods to the poor, won't that do it? No. Salvation is found in a gory cross. Salvation is found in him whose visage was marred more than any man. Salvation is found in him who is despised and rejected of men. Who hath believed I report, and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? In John 1, we find that he was in the world, and the world was made by him, and he came unto his own, and his own received him. Did you ever just stop and wonder at that truth? That there in those two verses has encapsulated so much truth. He was in the world that he made. He created it all. He spoke it into existence before he spoke. There was none of it. He humbled himself, was found in fashion as a man, and then he came into his own creation. And it received him not. You think about who obeyed Christ. Well, the donkey that had never been ridden on. It obeyed Christ. The fish with the coin in its mouth, it obeyed Christ. The rooster who crowed on his command. It obeyed Christ. He was despised and rejected of men. And men nailed him to a wooden cross that came from a tree that he created. And men put him in a tomb of rock that he created. Who hath believed our report? In verse 53, he was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And that word grief is another word we need to pause and consider, because when we think of grief, we think of sorrow and weeping, and yet the passage already tells us that he was a man of sorrow. And so it's not a duplication here, but rather this word grief, it's translated grief in Isaiah four times. But the typical translation is sickness. Acquainted with sickness. And we find the New Testament quoting the Old Testament is exactly what we find in Matthew chapter 8 and verse 17. We find a quote from Isaiah, and in Matthew 8:17, it says that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities and bare our sicknesses. So the New Testament, quoting the Old Testament, calls it sicknesses. You see, mankind has a fatal disease. It's called sin. As an Adam all died. In the day that you eat thereof, in the day you take that fruit, it will bring into you death, because the taking of that fruit is rebellion. The taking of that fruit is sin. And when Adam and Eve sinned, death came upon all men, and the cure for that death is Christ. And so he was despised of men. He was a man of sorrow, and he was acquainted with our sin. He was acquainted with the sickness of our soul. And Jeremiah cried, Is there not a bomb in Gilead? Is there not a physician there? Why then is the health of my people not recovered? Oh, who has believed a report It's as plain as the nose on your face to the man with a mirror. But the man who has never looked into a mirror does not know how plain the nose on his face is. Until man looks into the mirror of God's word, not as a natural man beholding his face in the glass and forgetting what manner of man he is. But until a man truly sees the broken iniquity and sin of his own nature as revealed in the Word of God. That man will never be saved. Who has believed our report? He was a man of sorrow, and he was acquainted with our sickness. He knew well the condition of man, for he was the great physician, the healer of the sickness sick. And how often in the miracles do we find Christ healing a man and then immediately saying, Thy sins be forgiven thee? And the Pharisees and the scribes would get all upset because he had, who is this that forgiveth sins? Only God can forgive sins. Well, they were right. And God was there forgiving sin, who healeth all thy diseases. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. It was, oh, not that No, I don't wanna look, I don't wanna look, I don't wanna see that. That turns my stomach, that that offends my senses. That is not at all what I would desire or what I want. No, not him. We hid our faces from him. But you remember when the children of Israel had sinned And God sent fiery serpents among them, and many were bitten. And God told Moses: Make a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole. And those that looked upon the serpent of brass, they were healed. And we all know John 3. 16. And a lot of unbelievers can quote it. For God so loved the world that gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth at him should not perish but have everlasting life. But oh how they feel fail to look at the previous verses John chapter 3, verse 14 and 15, as Moses lifted up the servants in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whosoever believeth in him, verse 15, should not perish. But have everlasting life. You see, man hides, as it were, their face from Christ, and yet the very thing they need to do is gaze into the eyes of the face of Jesus Christ. Christ. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. But who hath believed? I replied Surely he hath borne our griefs, and that word griefs there in verse 4 is again the word sickness. Surely he hath borne our sin. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him smitten, stricken of God and afflicted. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross and will believe you. He saved others himself he cannot save. This can't be Messiah, because look what we were able to do to him. We crucified him. If he was the Messiah, certainly we couldn't crucify him. You know what? In fact, what we did was God's judgment on this one who tried to make himself the Son of God. What we did was what God wanted us to do. We stamped him out. We crucified him. And now we're going to put him in a tomb. But we'd better ask for some guards just to be safe. We're going to put him in the tomb, but we'd better make sure his disciples don't come to steal the body and say he's risen again. What? The guards are saying that it was an angel. Guards are saying the disciples had nothing to do with this. Well, here's some money. Don't tell anybody that. Because he's not what we want. He's despised. He's rejected of men. You that said you could destroy the temple in three days and build it again. Well, he destroyed his own temple. He gave his life a ransom for many. And in three days it was restored. And he rose again from the dead. Ah, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Who are the personal pronouns? If those personal pronouns are, our, our, we The iniquity of us all. If those personal pronouns are referring to every man, woman, and child ever born, And Christ shall deal prudently, he shall prosper, then every man, woman, child ever born must be saved and must go to heaven. Not the case, is it? We don't preach universalism. We preach Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. And he gave his life a ransom for many. And so he was wounded for our transgression. And of course, the personal pronouns there originally referred to those of the blood of Abraham. And he came unto his own, and his own received him not, but go back to the end of chapter 15, and he will sprinkle many nations. And so it's quite evident that the people of God ultimately were not those solely of the blood of Abraham. The people of God are those that are of the blood of the Lamb. The people of God are those upon whom the blood of the sacrifice is sprinkled and the water of cleansing is sprinkled. I am redeemed. and I am cleansed. And so when he sprinkled many nations, he sprinkled me. But who has believed our report? Because all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted. He was taken from prison and from judgment. And who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people was he stricken, and he made his grave with the wicked and with the rich. because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet, verse ten, it pleased Jehovah to bruise him I think any loving father disciplines his children in pleasure. We discipline our children not in pleasure, but in grief. We discipline our children. And the old phrase, the father said to the little boy, this is going to hurt me more than it's going to hurt you. And the little boy thinks, no, no way. And the father says, I'm doing this because I love you, and the little boys thinks I wish you didn't love me so much. A father does not discipline in pleasure, he disciplines in grief. But here, it pleased the Lord to bruise his son, because that was the means of my salvation. That was the bringing of his people unto himself. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He had put him to grief. And that word grief there in verse 10 is that same word sickness. He hath put him to sin. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. in him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, a dry root A root out of dry ground does not bring forth seed. But here, this one, the root of David. shall see his seed, and he shall prolong his days. Up from the grave he arose With a mighty triumph over his foes. He arose a victor from the dark domain, and he lives forever with the saints to reign. He rose from the dead. Prolong his days, for he is the eternal God. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seedy pros long as days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a sacrifice. Where is the lamb? For the sacrifice. Here's the wood. Here's the fire. Where's the lamb? Who is the lead to report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. I remember as clear as if as it was if it was yesterday, the day sitting in my office in Jamaica, probably close to 30 years ago now. When I discovered verse eleven of chapter fifty-three. I had read it before. But finally, the Spirit of God just brought to my heart amazing joy and peace through this verse. For it says that he shall see the travail of his soul. Christ will see the sufferings he bore, he will see what he did, and be Satisfied. And be satisfied. He will not be wandering, wondering who will be saved. He will not be pleading during altar calls for people to be saved. He will not be wringing his hands in heaven, wondering who will come to him. But rather, Christ will see the sacrifice of his soul and be satisfied. He will see that which is done. Now go back to verse 1 of the chapter. Who hath believed Our report. But he shall see the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. Verse 12 Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great. I'm sorry, I skipped the last part of verse eleven. He shall see the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied by his knowledge. shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear personal pronoun, their iniquities He shall bear the iniquities of his people. And so who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? I said this was a question of great wonder. Of great astonishment, because the word has gone forth, who hath believed our report, and who are those to whom God hath revealed his arm? To whom has he made his holy arm bare? To whom has he shown himself to be the root of the tribe of David? You see, who hath believed our report? The answer to the question is the second question of the verse. Those that have believed our report are those to whom the arm of the Lord has been revealed. Ah, you see, our Christ will deal prudently. He will deal prosperously. Not one blood, drop of his precious blood, is wasted, for he hath redeemed his people from Their sin. And therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoiled with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul into death, and was numbered with transgressors. And he bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgression. Do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Have you believed the report to you Has the truth of Jesus Christ been revealed? Ah, Christ, Jesus was not the one that the Pharisees wanted. He was not the one that the scribes wanted. He was not the one that the Jews wanted. He was not lovely. There was no beauty in him that they should desire him. But he was the one sent from God to redeem all of his people from their sins. We're going to partake of the Lord's table. And we observe what we refer to as open communion in this church. In other words, you do not need to be a member. to partake of communion. And yet you do need to be a member. You need to be a member of the body of Christ.