Turn in your Bibles with me, please, this morning to the one hundred and twenty-first Psalm. We read the one hundred and twentieth for our responsive reading. And the 120th Psalm is the first of the Psalms of Degrees. The psalms which were chanted or sung as the pilgrims climbed the steeps up to Jerusalem, to the city of Zion. Uh they are called Psalms of Degrees, excuse me, because they are psalms of climbing upward. The one we read for responsive reading is the introduction to the Psalms. And so I want to Or to the Psalms of Degrees. So we'll briefly go back to those seven verses and we're not going to actually expound on them But I would like you to notice a few things from them. The first verse of the Psalms of Degrees in Psalm 120 and verse 1, in my distress I cried unto the Lord and he heard me. Don't raise your hands, folks. But how many of you this morning know distress? I've told you before I don't watch the news at night because I want to sleep. And uh I Have to stay away from the news feed on my computer when I want to study. Because there's an awful lot that causes distress. If you look up the first two verses of Psalm 121, the Psalm we considered this morning, I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. In my distress I called upon the Lord. And he heard me. Folks, we have a God who's a God who is faithful in distress. The disciples were in a ship and there was a storm, and they were fearful. They were very distressed. Why? Well, because Jesus was asleep in the boat. But were they in danger? Well we used to sing a chorus with the kids in Jamaica with Christ in the vessel. I could smile at the storm. Smile at the storm, smile at the storm. With Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm. And so In the second verse of Psalm 120, deliver my soul from lying lips and from a deceitful tongue. God deliver me from all the lying lips around me. Everywhere we look, there are lies, lies, lies. And you know what lies do to the believer? They cause us? Distress. They cause us to fret and worry. How could anybody do this or how could anybody do that? Because they're believing lies. They're believing in lies. But verse 3, what shall be given unto thee? That's what shall be given unto the lying tongue. Or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? Verse 4 gives the answer, sharp arrows of the mighty. God will pierce the lying tongue with his sharp arrows. It doesn't matter what lies he tells as far as I'm concerned. My God knows the truth And my God will pierce the lying tongue with sharp arrows and with coals of juniper. Juniper is sometimes referred to as the broom tree because the boughs are used for broom. But the wood of juniper is burned down into coals and it's a coal that burns hot and for a long time. God will pierce the lying tongue with his arrow and burn. You ever burned your tongue? Everyone was a burn our tongues. Burn the lying tongue with coals of juniper, and there'll be no water to quench that fire, folks. Woe is me, verse five, that I sojourn in Mesak, that I dwell in the tents of Keter. Mesek was a son of Japhath. Japhath was the third son of Noah, and Japhath is the father of the Gentiles and the Arab nations. The Europeans come from not the Arab nations, of the Gentiles and the Oriental nations. Came from Japheth. It's the Gentiles. Here he says, I dwell among the Gentiles and in the tents of Keter. And Keter was the son of Ishmael. Now what is it about Meshach and Keter that the psalmist is pointing out? He's saying, I dwell in among those that are outside the covenant. That are Gentiles and of Ishmael. Ishmael was of Abraham, but Ishmael was not of the covenant. God is saying to his covenant people that dwell among the uncovenant people. I dwell among Mesak and Keter. Woe is me, because I live among those that are not of the covenant. Verse 6: My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am for peace. What is the message of our gospel? It's a message of peace. Peace, peace to you that are far off and you that are near. But there is no peace, saith my God to the wicked. The gospel is a gospel of love. It's a gospel of mercy. It's a gospel of peace, and the world hates it. And the world tells all kinds of lies against it. I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war. Folks, we live in a wicked world. We live in a world that does not know any peace. If you look at your bulletin this morning and the sermon title, you'll see the title of a message this morning is Who Will Win the Election? And I promise you that before this message is done, I am going to tell you who is going to win the election. So let's go in to the psalm of our consideration this morning. Psalm 120 Well, 121, excuse me. I lift mine eyes to the hills, from whence cometh my help. I lift up my eyes to the hills. Where is my help going to come from? Here, the pilgrim on his way to Jerusalem Climbing the steps, he sees Mount Moriah from where the law was given. My help comes from the Lord He sees Zion, the city of God, where the temple is. My help comes to the Lord. He may even see Mighty Masada, where in uh A. D. 72 and 73, a group of Jewish rebels would hold off the Roman army for over a year. You see In military terms, you always want the high ground, because the high ground is the most defensible One man on top of the mountain can defeat many. When I was a kid we played a game, King of the Hill. Wherever we had a big dirt pile, one guy was on top of the hill and he would push off anybody who came against him. Right. I lift mine eyes to the mountains, where my God stands on the top of the mountain. My help isn't in the mountain, but rather my help is in the Lord who made heaven and earth. Verse number two. Some trust in chariots. And some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God, Psalm twenty and verse seven. Psalm 118, verses 8 and 9. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. It is better to trust in the Lord than to trust in any senator or congressman. It is better the trust of the Lord than to put your faith in any president. You see folks The answer to America's problem is not electing the right, I'm sorry to say the right man, not electing the right president Oh, that could help temporarily, but that's not the solution. That's only a patch on the problem. Don't put your confidence in elected politicians. Psalm 146, verse 3, put not your trust in princes. nor in the Son of Man in whom there is no help. But verse two, and if you want an outline We find, first of all, that we have the providence of God. We find that God is the Almighty potentate. And our hope is in the Lord. Secondly, we're going to see the promises of the Lord. And finally, we're going to see the preservation of the Lord Almighty. But continuing with our help being from the Almighty Potentate, the God whose feet are planted on the top of the mountain he has made, my help coming from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. And that word help is an interesting word there in verse 2 of Psalm 121. It's not the common word for help. This particular word in the Hebrew is only used 22 times It's you know that we you if you look through your your English Bible you'll find the word help a multitude of times but this particular word is an unusual and you understand that a lot of times we'll only have one English word to use for a multitude of Hebrew words or Greek words. Well there's a multitude of Hebrew or Greek words. The only way you can translate them is help. But this was only used 22 times. That's not much in the scope of the whole Old Testament. That word is used three times in the book of Deuteronomy and one chapter, chapter 33. In Deuteronomy 33, verse 7, hear, Lord, the voice of Judah. And bring him unto his people. Let his hands be sufficient for him, and be thou and help to him from his enemies. And then again that same chapter, verse 26, there is none like unto the God of Jeshua who rideth upon the heavens in thy help. And then again in verse twenty-nine of Deuteronomy thirty-three, Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people, uh saved by the Lord, the shield of thy help. Folks, we need help. But folks, we don't need help from anywhere but the Lord. You see, we don't need some alliance to come along and help us. We don't need some law to give us some handout. We don't need some politician to show up and say, I'm here to help you. The scariest words in in uh in the English language, I'm from the government and I'm here to help you. Folks, if your help is in reduced taxes If your help is in removing taxes from Social Security, if your help is in anything in this world, you're looking to the mountains rather than the God who stands upon the mountain. You see, my help cometh from the Almighty Potentate. My help is from the Lord who made the mountains. My help is from the Lord who made heaven and earth. Psalm one twenty-four, another the the um Psalms in this same series, one twenty-four verse eight, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Jeremiah said in Jeremiah three, verse twenty-three. Truly, in vain is salvation hoped for from the hills and from the multitude of mountains. Truly, in the Lord our God is the salvation. of Israel. My help comes from the Lord who is the Almighty Potentate. But folks be encouraged this morning because Jehovah has made promises to his people And that's what we're going to see here in the middle portion of this psalm. Glorious promises. And again, if you want an outline, the Lord will keep, the Lord will not sleep, and the Lord will shade his sheep. Love that alliteration? Penny and I worked on that one a long time yesterday. The Lord's made promises. Look what we find in verse number three He, that's Jehovah the Lord. And by the way, you'll find Lord in all capitals or he in this Psalm nine times, nine references to what Jehovah does for his people. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Folks, the foot of the believer is not going to be moved by war, by flood. By famine, by recession, what will move the foot of the believer? And why will our foot not be moved? Well God's not going to allow it. That's what the word suffer means. Suffer the little children to come unto me means allow the little children to come unto me God will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Notice that the power is not in the one that is protected, but rather the power is in the one who protects. You see, if I'm depending on my own strength, I have no strength. But the power is not in the one who is protected, but in the one who protects 1 Samuel 2 verse 9. He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength shall no man prevail. The feet Why does God say He will not suffer thy feet to be moved? Why does he say not suffer thy heart to be moved? Why does he say not suffer thy head to be moved? Why is Which is the feet, or the feet of the foundation, huh? The feet are what we stand on. You see, if the feet are solid, everything else is solid. Mm-hmm. Um when when I did some fencing in high school or in college, and the most important part of the fencing is not the sword hand with the repeat the a pee. The most important part of fencing is the feet And if you ever watch fencing in in the Olympics or something, you'll you'll you'll see them advancing forward and that front foot is smack, smack, smack as it's going forward, and then they'll retreat the same way. It's the footwork That is more important than the sword work. Why? Because if you're on a solid basis, then you can defend yourself. And the same with a boxer. His feet work. Now God doesn't say, I won't suffer your hand to be moved. Because our hand gets moved around. And our heart gets moved around. And our mind gets moved around. But God says, I'm not going to suffer your feet to be moved. You're on a solid foundation. You see, what do we stand upon? The wise man built his house upon the rock. We stand upon Christ And though we may be battered about with all the things of this world, our feet stand upon the solid rock, and God will not suffer that to be moved. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and loses his own soul? Job lost everything he had, but his feet weren't moved. You see, folks, all the things that can happen in this world, what if we end up with a communist government? We're heading that way The feet of the believer will not be moved. What if our freedom of worship is someday taken away? Our feet will not be moved. What if we're no longer allowed to defend ourselves? Our feet will not be moved. I shall not be, I shall not be moved. So he will not suffer thy feet to be moved. The Lord will keep. But then the Lord will not sleep. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. In Psalm 127, in fact you can turn to it if you want to. It's probably on the same page or one page over, another one of the Psalms of Degrees. Psalm 127 verse 1 Except the Lord build the house What is the building the house is the foundation where the feet the foundation are? Except the Lord build the house They labor in vain that buildeth it, except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. You know what that word watchman is? It's the same word keepeth It's the same word keep us. Now take that word keep and go back to verse uh tw three. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that is the watchman He that keepeth, the same word watchman, will not slumber nor sleep. Folks, do you ever find a sleeping watchman? You know, in in Jamaica companies hired watchmen to guard their properties at night because there were so many places broken into And uh when I was in Kenya, there even on the mission station, they had watchmen out there at night. But you can walk out and find them asleep. They were there, but they were asleep And you know, some of them were pretty slow to wake up, you know. Oh, yeah. It wasn't like they were instantly on their feet But folks, he that keepeth us never slumbers. He doesn't even drift off and blink his eyes. The watchman is awake. But again, if you look there in verse 27, verse 1, except the Lord build the house, it's talking about a foundation. The house is what? It's the elect. It's the church. Except the Lord build the church. They labor in vain, except the Lord keep the city, are watchmen of the church. of the elect does not sleep. Jehovah is our watchman. In Proverbs 3, verse 23 and following Then shalt thou walk in thy way in safety, and thy foot shall not stumble. When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet Be not afraid of sudden fear. Be afraid of sudden fear? Well, the believer doesn't have to be afraid of sudden fear. Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the d desolation of the wicked when it cometh For the Lord shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken. Proverbs 3, verse 26. Behold, Psalm 21, 4, behold, he that keepeth Israel, that keepeth his covenant people, shall neither slumber nor sleep. The watchman. The watchman. In Psalm 86, verses 1 and 2, we find these words: Bow down thine ear, O Lord. Hear me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my soul. And you know what preserve my soul is there in Psalm 86 verse 2? You guessed it. It's Watchmen. Preserve, keep, be the watchman of my soul, for I am holy, O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth. Lord, doesn't matter what kind of fortress I build, except you build it, it's in vain. Lord, it doesn't matter what kind of alarm system I have, it doesn't matter what is under my pillow, the Lord is my watch. And though I sleep, he never slumbers nor sleeps. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep For thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. For 17 years, Penny and I prayed that at night as we were falling asleep in Jamaica. Verse 5. Again the outline: the Lord will keep, the Lord will not sleep, and the Lord will shade his sheep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord, Jehovah, is thy shade upon thy right hand Somebody help me here. Where is the text? Where is the verse where God says that the believers will never have problems? Where's that one found? Where is the text that that says that the believers are exempt from troubles, trials, and tribulations? That's not in our Bible. It is in the prosperity gospel Bible, but it's not in ours. God never promises that we won't have problems. In fact, in Isaiah 43 verse 2, when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the river they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, Thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. You see, God does not remove us from tribulations, but rather God is our shade in tribulations. He's a shade to his sheep. In Psalm 37, verses 23 and 24, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way, though he fall, He shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hands. Many, Psalm 34, 19, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but The Lord delivereth him out of them all. Micah 7, verse 8, rejoice not against me, O mine enemies. When I fall, I shall rise. When I set in darkness, the Lord shall give light unto me Folks, we're not exempt from problems. We're not exempt from tribulations and trials, but God is our shade in tribulations and trials. Folks, you know, I I've said to many of you privately that I fear for my grandchildren because I don't see this country existing as it exists today in ten or fifteen years. We may go through great and hard trials, and God never promised we wouldn't. But we find here in this glorious psalm that God is our shade. Through trials and troubles. But look more particularly at what it says. The Lord is thy keeper, verse 5 of 121. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. It doesn't say it's a shade upon our heart or our head. It says upon our right hand. The right hand is the place of privilege. The right hand is the place of power and is the place of protection. God is the shade to his people. Upon the right hand. God will bless his people in tribulation, and God will bless his people, get it here, with tribulation. God sends tribulation to his people because we're made better thereby. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept thy law. And folks, we have observed, and I don't mean to get too personal with this, but we've observed with Mission Bible Church that we came about through great trials and tribulations, and yet what a blessing we have! And folks, we wouldn't trade today's blessings for yesterday's tribulation anytime, anyway. We are better We are better for having tribulation. And folks, if you look at the history of the church, if you read church history, every time the church has been persecuted, it has prospered. When you stamp on a fire, the sparks go everywhere. And we read of the persecution of the first century church after the stoning of Stephen that they went everywhere preaching the gospel. Folks, the United States is not found in history, or not found in the Bible. You will not find our nation in the Bible. That means one of two things. It means either Christ has got to come back very soon, or it means that this nation's got to disappear. Before the fulfillment of God's plan. One or two. So what about the saints? He will not suffer thy feet to be moved. He will not slumber. And he will ever be the shade on our right hand. We'll make it through the tribulation. Verse six, the shade. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. What's important about that? Well, in Exodus 13, verse 21, and the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them the to lead them the way. and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light and to go by day and night. He took not away the pillar of cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people In Psalm 87 or 78, verse 14, in the daytime also I led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. Folks, we don't have the visible cloud that Israel followed. We don't have the visible pillar of fire by night. But folks, we still have the cloud, and we still have the fire. He's our shade. You see, the children of Israel walking through the wilderness, it gets hot and dry out there. Many of you that have spent time in a desert, I haven't spent much time in a desert, but I know some of you have lived in desert areas and you get out in the desert, you better have a good hat And you better have plenty of water because you can go from full strength and healthy to almost dead in the sun in just a matter of a few hours. The sun smites. Folks, this world is having all kinds of issues and problems and wars and rumors of wars. But God is the cloud of his people by day. And God is the pillar of fire by night. He is our light by night. Remember when the children of Israel came to the Red Sea, and Pharaoh's army was ready to attack, and the fire that had been leading them in front went and stood between them and the enemy for their Folks, my feet shall not be moved because God stands between me and those of lying tongues. In Psalm five, Psalm three, verse five, I lay me down and slept. I awake, and the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people that have set themselves against me round about. Arise, O Lord. Save me, O my God. For thou hast smitten all my enemies upon the cheekbone, thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Salvation belongeth to the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. See And so our help comes from the Almighty Potentate. Our help comes from the Lord who has made ground gracious promises. But then thirdly, our help comes from the Lord who preserves his elect. Look at verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from evil, the Lord shall preserve thy soul. It doesn't say the Lord shall preserve thy bank account or thy employment or thy nation or thy retirement plan Or thy peace or anything else. It says the Lord shall preserve thee from evil He'll preserve me from Satan, and he shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth. even forevermore. Vence made reference to the going out and coming in, or someone did this morning already to going in and coming out. That is a traditional Hebrew blessing. Mm-hmm. I'll bless thy going out and thy coming in. It's a hidden Hebrew idiom that is an overall sign of providence, blessing, protection, strengthening, and preservation of the elect by the mercy of Jehovah. Remember Caleb When Caleb was an old man, Joshua and Caleb were the only two survivors of all their generation. And they asked Caleb, well, what part of the world of the Canaan land do you want? He said, I want that mountain where I saw the men the giants. I want the mountain where we got the great big grape clusters that took two men to carry. And his tail his testimony was this. As yet I am as strong this day as I was the day that Moses sent me. My strength even then, so is my strength now for war, both to go out And to come in. God will bless our going out and coming in. I promised you But I would make a certain prediction as to who will win the election. Who wins the election? Well, the person that's elected wins the election. Who is elected? We are. Who will win the election? We will. I'm not talking about a political party. He will win the election. We will. I'm not talking about a candidate. Folks, we of the covenant. Remember where we began dwelling among Mesek and the tents of Keter? We live around surrounded by the non-elect. We are surrounded by those that are not part of God's covenant. But the elect those who are the covenant children of God by faith Those that have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, we win. It doesn't matter what happens on November 6th. It's irrelevant because our feet will not slide. We are kept by job. And so who wins will win the election? The elect will win the election. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear unto my cry. Hold not thy peace at my tears, for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner as all my fathers were. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you that the elections of this world are irrelevant. But the election of grace is the saving of the soul. We thank you, Father, that we have these glorious promises, this glorious protection. We thank you, Lord, that you will keep, that you will not sleep, and that you will shade your sheep. Father, we thank you that you are the great and almighty potentate who has made glorious promises of preservation to your people. Father, forgive us, for we tend to begin to look at the winds and the waves. We are so prone to be fearful sheep. But Father, we help us to keep our eyes on the shepherd. Help us, Lord, to cling to thy promises. And we thank you that the church wins. Father, bless your words, your people this morning. Comfort this congregation with glorious truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.