Looking at Mark chapter three this morning. And we did in our responsive reading uh Cover the basically the same story that Matthew writes about it, but there's just a few minor differences that we picked up. up on. That's nice to know. Let's just read it again. Mark chapter 3 and verse 31 is going to sound very much like and very similar to what we have Mark chapter 3 and verse 31. And there came then his brethren and his mother, and standing without Sent unto him. They're with outside the multitude that's gathered. They can't get through the crowd. But they sent unto him, calling him. And the multitude sat about him. Or encompassed him. And they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brother without seek for thee. And he that is the Lord Jesus Christ answered, saying, Who's my mother or my brethren? Seems like a strange question. I think we all know who our mother and our brethren are, but this is what he says. And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and he said, Behold. My mother and my brethren. And it and Matthew he said he stretched out his hand and he said, Behold, my mother and my brethren. And he he was pointing to those who were sitting there dutifully uh uh devouring the the teaching and instructions he was given. He said, they're my brothers. And he says in verse thirty five Uh verse 34. And he looked round about and then which sat about him and said, Behold my mother and my brother. And verse thirty-five, For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same as my brother and my sister. Well we see that his mother is coming. This would be what we often refer to as the Virgin Mary and the brothers of Christ. And they're standing without they can't get in the crowd is such oppressed so many people they can't get close enough to him and they must have tapped some in the shoulder and passed the word up to him. Uh now we have to ask ourselves why did they come? Did they come out of concern for his health? He wasn't eating, he was uh uh just Or they come to learn what he had to say. Maybe they were interested also. Well in our responsive reading, Matthew twelve and forty-six, we we find the answer there. So we can kind of ignore all the commentaries. They said they came because they were desiring to speak with him Alright? And that's always encouraging when people want to speak to the Lord Jesus Christ. I think it's always encouraging when somebody tells you they've been praying and talking to the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's encouraging if this is what they want to do. They want to speak to him as well. And I think it's good when we profess a desire uh to want to pray, a desire to uh speak with the Lord. And that's what they had uh w the reason why they had come. I might ask you this morning, how great is your desire to speak with Christ? How great is your desire to pray? Theirs was was a great desire from what we note here. And uh so then we we find that uh Christ um as he hears all this, uh we find as we read through all this that um Christ did not allow his family, his mother and brethren, to distract him from what he was doing. He was teaching He was discipling. He was uh instructing people on the things of eternity. And instead of saying, Oh yeah, let him come in. Sure, all right, we're gonna stop gonna shut this down for a minute, and I'm gonna go over and talk to my mom and my brother, he doesn't He says, Who's my brother? Who's my mother? He wouldn't allow even his mother or his brethren to distract him from what he was doing. And I think sometimes we do get distracted. We start to pray We start to do our Bible studies, the phone rings, the doorbell rings, and one of the kids falls and cuts their leg and we gotta run to the hospital. I mean there's just seem like every time you retry to set a pattern, we're at six o'clock every night, we're having prayer in this household, and guess what will happen every night at six o'clock? You know, it it's really difficult not to be distracted sometimes from setting a typical time to pray early in the morning or late at night. This just seems like there's more things that happen to distract us, Christ would not be distracted from what God would have him to do. He'd come to preach the gospel, to save souls. He would not be distracted. And we find the same thing in the book of Ruth, chapter 1 and verse 16 When uh Ruth's husband had died and uh Orpah's husband had died as well, and Naomi's going back to Israel. And she says, Well you two girls, you're Moabites, this is where you live, this is your family. You go back to your mother and your brothers and sisters and and I'm heading back over to Bethlehem. And Ruth says, No, you're not by yourself. I'm going with you. No, no, no, no, that's okay I understand this is where your family is, this is where your brothers and sisters. And of course, you know how that turned out. Ruth would not be distracted. She felt God had called her. And it touched her heart. She was a saved girl. She didn't want to live with these Moabites anymore. She wanted to live with the Israelites. And so she said to them, They are my people, and their God is my God. You got something going on? Oh, I'm sorry. It must be one of these alert things that yeah, somebody's been kidnapped. See the distractions that take place When you're just trying to I thought it was somebody else's phone out there. I was getting ready to tell you to shut your phone off, you know. Okay. Um so done with that distraction. But we're talking about distractions. Ruth would not be distracted. She felt God had called her, had touched her heart. She really felt that she wanted to be with God's people. She says Naomi that your people should be my people, your God should be my God, and I'm going to Bethlehem. And she would not be distracted from God's calling. in her life. And so we we find that. The same with Peter. Peter goes to the house of Dorcas. Dorcas has died. And they said, You're too late. She's dead. And Peter goes in and says he kneeled at the at the bedside of Dorcas And he prayed. If you look at it closely, it said he kneeled the bedside and he prayed. And then it says, and then turning to Dorcas. You see, if he'd look at her dead body, that might have been a distraction for him. Oh yeah, she's dead all right. Well, how many how am I gonna pray over her He turns and he prays and then turns back to her and and says for her to arise. So there can be distractions that can read that can really stop us. We read about that in Acts 9 and verse 40. A lot of things distract us. I I just I sometimes wonder um What we'd rather in talking to Christ or praying to Christ, what other kind of things that would distract us? I think some people would rather talk to their broker than than pray and talk to Christ I I think some people would rather talk to some sports star, you know, that's coming out of the baseball stadium or that they see you in a mall somewhere than that they would take time to speak with Christ. I think some people oh boy, I'm gonna step on toes of the this one. Some people enjoy more talking to their dog than to the Lord. Nikes. And your dog can be a distraction, you can't. You start to pray if you're if you're on your knees at home, the dog comes running over, starts licking the ear, you know, jumping all over you. He thinks you want to play, you're down on the floor or whatever. Lots of distractions that keep us from talking with the Lord And uh Naomi would not be distracted. Peter would not be distracted. And Christ is not going to be distracted here by his family. Uh have you ever been distracted, as I said, and while you were reading the scriptures, while you're praying, since you've been called, since you've been saved? I bet we all have, haven't we? So here is the Lord Jesus Christ. The distraction comes, and rather than make a fuss over his family, he continues to develop the disciples. disciples who are before him. Wow. That we could do that. I think sometimes we make the big fuss over our family, and I not think of anybody particular here but I know it's happened to many of us here. Some said we won't be in church on Sunday. We've got grandma's eightieth birthday or we won't be in church on Sunday. We're taking the kids to King's Dominion or the Park or go and I don't mind going on vacation. I think we should go on vacations. But uh sometimes it just seems like we find things to do Sunday morning. And uh we put or make a fuss sometimes over our children or our family uh when we should be discipling our children in our family. Let them know that the Lord's Day is important. And uh that's one of the the toughest things we have to do when we go on vacation, Liv and I, to look for church out there that we can go to on Sunday morning And we're w sometimes we're up there 35 times and Thursday and Friday we're driving around looking for church, you know, beating on doors and making phone calls. But your children need to know, and your grandchildren need to know that the Lord is important in your life And uh Christ here says, I'm not going to make a fuss over my family. I'm going to spend time discipling my disciples And why not? His disciples had left their own family for him, hadn't they? So why couldn't he they set their family aside? Remember James and John? They left the ship with their father and they followed him. Matthew 4 and 22. So sometimes if if if it If the disciples have set aside their family, how could Christ not set aside Mary and his brothers and spend some time with the disciples? So I just wonder how many Christians here are like Matthew, or right like James and John, and the Book of Matthew. How many of you here have ever, as a Christian, left anybody behind? Because if you weren't a Christian and you got saved, there surely are people you need to leave behind. How about that old booze buddy? That you used to go out drinking with. Did you finally leave him behind after sharing the gospel with him? Uh how about that cussing cousin you got? Have you finally left him behind and given up on them? I mean there'd already be people out there that we leave behind because James and John left the ship and their father behind, and they didn't don't even appear to be ungodly. But the call of Christ Had put a priority in your lives. How about that promiscuous pal who's always bragging on Monday morning about the things he did during the weekend? That promiscuous pal or gal. Have you left them behind Because James and John left the ship and the father behind and they followed Christ. Now that doesn't mean we abandon our families altogether. That doesn't mean we don't love our families, don't give them time But sometimes they're a bigger distraction than they should be, and we need to deal with that. So the brother comes, the brethren come, and the mother comes and says there's a multitude about Christ, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren are without. The Greek word there for brethren is a delphus. Okay? You know Phylla Delphia. Phylla means love, right? Phil love and then Phil Philadelphia is the city of brotherly love, right? And the Delphas Philadelphia, okay, the city of brotherly love. The first word fill is love, and the last word is brother. City of brotherly love. And what we have here is the brethren. They are called Adelphus. Alright? That's a Greek word. And the word Adelphus or brethren means from the same womb. Wow. Because you know you a lot of your your Catholic friends will tell you that uh Mary the Catholic Church teaches she was a perpetual virgin, never had any other children. But here we have in Matthew it's also or in Mark and it's also in Matthew and elsewhere in the scriptures. She did have other children. And these these brethren coming here, they are Adelphus. And uh I've seen the commentaries and uh I got a couple of Catholic Bibles and looked at Well they weren't his cousins. Elizabeth was a cousin of Mary. Remember that when she went up and said, I'm I'm with child and And I rejoice in God my Savior. And Elizabeth rejoiced too. And it said Elizabeth was her cousin. And we we read that she was her cousin in Luke 1 in verse 36. And the word cousin is not a Delphus. The word cousin is Sugenus All right, genus like genealogy, it means a relative, okay, a cousin. But these brethren coming, they were a Delphus, they were of the same womb Now the other definition for a Delphus can mean having one parent in common. So they could be a half-brother or a half-sister, alright? Except there's a problem here Who was the mother of Christ? Mary. If she is a perpetual virgin, they can't be his half-brothers, can they? Because Joseph is not his father at all. The only parent that these brothers can share that they can share is Mary. Because Joseph is not Jesus' father. So the only way they could possibly have in common to be a Delphus, if you want to be a half brother or half sister, would be Mary. She has to have had children. And the Delphus it says of the same And I know that your your Catholic friends and we've had some calls sometime when they start reading their Bible. I didn't know that Jesus had brothers and sisters. Oh yes. And then they go to the priest, the priest says, Well, they were cousins. No, they weren't And so I just think this is interesting what we find here. And then if you go further in Luke 2 and verse 5 through 7, it says that Jesus was Mary's firstborn. Okay Mary's firstborn. What does that imply? Well, let's let's think about that for a second. If I tell you we're going through a magazine, I see some old 1957 viewing, I say, oh wow, that was my first car The implication is I've had another one since then, right? Or if you show them pictures of an old photo album, you say, oh look at it that's the house that we first lived in The implication is, well, what house do you live in now? Right? I mean it's this idea when it says or you say, oh uh uh it you're at a family re-reunion or you're at a class reunion and you'll and you'll say to a body, hey, there's my first girlfriend What does that imply? There's been other girlfriends since, right? And so here when it says that Mary, that Jesus was her firstborn Son, it implies that there were others that would be born out of her womb, other sons. And so here we have it. In fact, uh when we read uh elsewhere in the scriptures, we find that they they not only tell you about the sons, but they they name them And for the moment here I don't see this in my notes. I'll probably come across later. But they actually name uh the children, uh his his brothers. So uh Uh that that kinda should should cleanse it for everybody. It's just that sometimes we we lift Mary up so high she's a perpetual virgin, she had no other children, uh Christ was the only one. We you know and then we talk about her assumption into heaven and she never died and that she was sinless. We start it starts to fall apart very early here when you realize that Mary had um other children as well. And uh Um they came, Mary and the brother, and they wanted to close the gap, didn't they? They were outside this large multitude of people and they couldn't get in. They wanted to get closer, they can't get in closer, you know, the four brothers and and the sisters and And that uh maybe he can come out himself. If Moses can part the Red Sea, he could part the crowd and come to us. They wanted to close the gap between them and Christ. In fact, they said in verse 34, they they came seeking Christ Wow. Everybody here have you done that yet? If you've come to see Christ Uh why are you here today if it's not to seek a closer relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? Why why are you here today if you're not seeking We leave here and we spend a week out there in the world and we get a little further and further away sometimes from our Bible and and from other Christians and from the the from the input of scripture. And so we come on Sunday mornings to close the gap to get back to being a closer with the Lord. So are you seeking a closer relationship with the Lord? I I hope everybody here this morning you've come and if not, I hope before you leave you'll say, Boy, it's been good to come and And close that gap and you're close to the Lord and and to touch his hem, as it were, the hem of his garment as we read the scriptures, or to touch him as we read the scriptures. We want to close the gap, and I hope everyone here uh is coming to close the gap, that bridge that's uh divided, that wedge that's gone, the world has put between us uh since last Sunday. Now Christ answers them in verse 33 and he says, uh, who is my mother or who is my brother? And then in Luke 8, verses 19 to 21, Christ actually answers the question: Who is my mother? Who is my mother or my brother? These which hear the word of God. He said, that's my mother and my brother and my sister, the ones that hear the word of God. Christ attaches a real importance to listening to his word. A real importance to it. And you know his faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God, Romans 10 and 17. Hearing. He attaches a real importance to hearing this word because hearing is the beginning of our spiritual life. There was a day, if you're sitting here saved this morning, when you just didn't hear, so God so loved the world, He gave the all that. But what you heard one day you're sitting and you said, God so loved the world. How so? He so loved the world that he gave, sacrificed, crucified his only begotten son. Whosoever believeth should have eternal life. We know John 3. 16, we say it so fast it means nothing to us. don't really hear it. But Christ said that those that hear the word of God, they're my mother, my brother, my sister. Those who hear, that is those who listen to it, those who find it to be something important. Hearing is the beginning of our spiritual life. It's the beginning of, if you're really hearing, hearing is a beginning of your obedience and a walk of holiness. You can hear it and not apply it, so you didn't really hear it. You know your mother says that, you know, wipe the mud off your shoes before you come in, the kids come running in, yeah, okay, and they run in and they leave mud everywhere, right? They heard their mother say it, but they didn't obey it It's not until you obey God's word that you really can say, I hear his words. I like what Job, Job's attitude towards the word of God. I hadn't seen this verse before, and I I just I fell in love with it. Job says in 23 in verse 12, when he's talking about the Word of God, he says, I esteem the words of his mouth. More than food. Wow. How many of us can say that? I mean we got a lot of restaurants to choose from, a lot of dainties out there, a lot of great foods to eat. Do we esteem the Word of God more than food? I mean if you've got a choice, if you were in some prison somewhere and they said here you've got a bowl of soup and a bowl of rice, you get that, or you get the Bible. I'd want the Bible. Second, third, fourth day. Yeah, eventually you're going to have to have some food or you're going to die. But you know something? Job esteemed the Word of God. More than food. Anybody here got a little growing to do yet? You know? Why is it? Oh I'd like that. I was gonna have prayer time and I was gonna read my Bible, but I'm hungry, man. I'll I'll do it after breakfast. I'll do it after lunch. And it never gets done, right? Because we don't esteem the Word of God more than food. Wow. Christ is explaining here how important the word of God should be. James chapter 1 and verse 22 he explains further. He said that the believing brother will be doers of the word and not just hearers. You can hear the word, but you've got to be doers. If you're only a hearer, James says you're deceiving your own sons. So you can say I read the Bible through three times a year, I listen to the Bible on the radio all the time, you're a hearer. But are you a doer? James says if you're not a doer, you're deceiving yourselves. It's not enough to hear the word. We need to be obeying the word. And Christ is instructing the listeners here that those who hear the word and do the word, they're my brethren. The Lord Jesus Christ was saying that the physical relationship of a brother, I want you to get this, the physical relationship of your brother or your sister. your mother, that physical relationship is inferior to a spiritual relationship you may have with somebody else. This old deal blood is thicker than water, no it is not. I don't know where that comes from He's kin. He's blood. I gotta stand by him. No, you don't. You stand by the Lord. You stand by other Christians. Christ is saying here that My mother and my brother, they're out here. Who is my mother and brother? Those who hear the word and obey it. Those are my mother and my brother. as they are in our life, because we want to see our physical families saved as well. But as important as the physical relationship is to a brother, the spiritual relationship is superior Now think about that for a second. If you think that the brotherly relationship is more important, ask Abel if he thought that his relationship with Cain was better than his relationship with one of the other brothers in the family No, I don't think that Cain would have been considered his brother in the Lord, would he? Or or think about Adonijah who wanted to kill Solomon He wanted to be the king, till Solomon. So do you think that the brother relationship between Solomon and Agenizah, the physical relationship, was stronger than the spiritual relationship that he had with others who were saved, like his father David The physical ties aren't near as important as the spiritual ties in our life. Sometimes we say we we we marry someone and we say, man, I got myself a real soulmate. And some people are looking for a soulmate. I'm gonna tell you something. I don't care how much you have in common, you may be stamp collectors, and you may be bicycle riders, and you may love the opera, and all this stuff, yeah. You've got all this stuff in common If you have the Lord Jesus Christ in common, you have not found a soulmate. And you may have Christ in common and still not have a soulmate, but you're not going to have a soulmate that you're looking for unless there is that spiritual tie. In other words Uh ladies, you want to marry your brother in the Lord. And gentlemen, you want to marry your sister in the Lord If you just marry some pretty girl, some handsome guy who's a nominal Christian, you'll not have a soulmate. You've messed up. You've taken the physical over the spiritual. And spiritual trumps the physical every time. Christ was teaching here, who's my brother, who's my mother, who's my sister? He was teaching that a relationship to him is closer than any earthy relationship. Our relationship with Christ must trump our relationship with a mother, a father, a brother, a sister. It trumps everything. And when Christ calls it His brother, mother, or sister. He loves them. He cares for them. Uh but he does not love them or care for them more than any blood relative out there, he does not care for or love a blood relative out there more than a believer. Christ loves the sheep. More than the unbelieving family members. Now we know that as we go through scripture, we find that Mary was a saved But here we are, we're looking at this, and we um we realize that the spiritual relationships in our life are so much better. They they last longer, they last forever Your physical relationships they only last three score and ten or sometimes a lot less than that. So why does Christ use the term brethren? Remember the word brethren, Adelphus? That means uh that they are of the same womb or it can also mean uh they have at least one parent in common. So we we've been walking around for maybe twenty, thirty years saying, hey brother, how's it going? Hey brother, you know we talked to we we uh Randall a family last night uh a family from uh the inner city of Baltimore. He was a bishop, he was a pastor, and um we got to talk and he was a brother in Christ. And he had his wife there and sisters and all that and they were having surgery and uh I called him brother and he knew exactly what I meant. You know? I mean th th this fella he's not a Caucasian, but we're brothers. And in just that short deep time we were laughing and we've gotten a circle and we're And I I said I may never see you again except you know here or there or in the air in eternity, but I just you know and we Wait it to run into someone and feel that close in thirty seconds. There's a spiritual tie. And so we have Christ here, he's he's he's calling us brethren if we're believers. And we don't have a we didn't come out of the same womb. Why does he call us brethren? Why does he call us a Delphers? Uh do we have a a a A parent in common? I mean that's the other way that a Delphus can be taken. We do have a parent in common. If we're saved, we all have the same father. Heavenly Father. That makes us brethren. That makes us brothers and sisters in Christ. Our Father. Our Father. That's the believers say, our Father which is in heaven. We all got the same Father, right? According to Matthew 6 and 9. That's what we have in common. And then he says, as we go further on to the scriptures, that these men he's calling brethren, Peter. Peter, we find several chapters later, he walks out on the water, remember that story, and then he starts to sink. He gets distracted, he looks at the waves. You know, he wants to walk in water. If Christ can walk in water, can I walk in water? Sure, come on out. And so Peter's out and he's walking on the water, and he looks around the white caps and the waves and the sea and and he starts to sink. And what does Christ say? Oh yeah of little faith. But though he has little faith, and I'm saying this to maybe the younger people here or those who have been recently saved, though you have little faith, you're still the Lord Jesus Christ's brother. It doesn't change anything. If you're a brother of Christ, you can be a wee little one or a ninety-year-old adult. It doesn't change anything. And we we find the same thing uh when he's in in Matthew sixteen and eight. Got four thousand people out there and he wants to feed 'em. And they said, uh how are we gonna feed four thousand people? And he says, Well we got uh a couple of small fishes here and and we have a little bread. And they said, But it's four thousand people. It's four thousand people. In fact uh the I think the commentaries will tell you it was four thousand heads of households. We don't know how many other you know children were there and and wives and sisters. But 4,000 people. And he says to all of his disciples, O ye of little faith. So we think, well, I'm sure he's calling Peter a brethren because Peter is a you know he's a he's a one of the pillars of the church, you know, and and sure he's calling Matthew one you know because he's going to write the gospels. No, no, no, no. He's calling them brethren when they are of little faith, have hardly proved themselves at all, and yet Christ calls us brethren. We don't have to be five-point Calvinists To be brethren. You know, we don't have to have the Westminster Confession of Faith memorized. We don't have to have the 23rd Psalm and the Wars Prayer and have more Bible verse memorized than anybody else to be called brethren. We can be someone very new in the faith. But he calls us brethren. Wow. You know, I think there's the two things I want to hear when I get to heaven. Well done, no good and faithful servant. And brother. Wow. I mean the Lord's going to take uh you know if Satan's going to try to cast things at us and have us tried at you know a jury or uh you know he's gonna bring charges against us And we say, well, Jesus Christ is my advocate. He's my mediator. He's going to present my case before the Lord. And he said, Well, who are you to Jesus? I'm his brother. Whoa! Fixes it, isn't it? Got a great lawyer. And my father's the judge. My lawyer's my brother. Sounds kind of nice, doesn't it? To know the Lord and have that that's the kind of relationship you want when you die. That relationship it is available today. People ask that question. It says that we are of the household of faith, Galatians 6. 10. If we are of the Spirit of Christ, Romans 8. 9, we are of the household of faith. And uh though we be the poorest and the shabbiest of people on this earth and sometimes you run into Christians, you run into in the inner city of Baltimore, you run into uh in in places like uh uh Kenya. You go over to Kenya and the people are just living in poverty. They're destitute. They don't know from hour to hour where the next meal will come from. They're starving over there. Uh there's the the the droughts over there. So we find that some of the poorest of the poor, of all the creatures of earth, the King of Kings has called them The King of Kings has called some of the poorest of the poor, and he's called them on the marriage supper of the Lamb, Revelation 19, 9. Christ is not ashamed to call his brother. Though we might be the shabbiest and the poorest in all of the earth, he's not ashamed to call us his brother and his sister, and he's not ashamed to call us his brother and sister. before all humanity. He's not ashamed to call us his brother and sister before all the cherubim and the seraphim and all the holy angels, Matthew 25, 31, and before his own father. He is not ashamed to call us brother So are you ashamed before the world to call him your Lord and Savior? Boy, such a small thing in exchange for what we get when he calls us brethren. We are the brothers of Christ if we're saved. And just grab wrap your hands hard around this one. If you really are a brother of Christ or a sister of Christ, or Christ used the term mother here, woe unto those And so here in verse 34, Christ looked around And them which are sad about him, he said, Behold, my mother, my brother, my sister. And he's just pointing out the the believers that were sitting there, uh listening to them. How precious believers are to the Lord that he should be uh to us of uh uh uh he would esteem us like that. We're we're supposed to esteem others better than ourselves. Philippians 2. 3. But Christ even uh lifts us up And we're supposed to lift others up? Esteem others? Do you ever have days that you find it hard to think of anybody else but yourself? I mean we're supposed to esteem each other better than ourselves and here's Christ lifting these folks up. They're my mother, they're my brother, my sister. I mean do we ever have days when we find it hard to think about anybody else but ourselves? I would say yes. But not so of the Lord Jesus of Nazareth. He's on the cross Talk about time when I think just about yourself. Talk about time when you think uh these these verses are being fulfilled, uh ancient prophetic verses and and I'm all into prophecy and and and we do again all the prophetic verses are being fulfilled But Christ is on the cross, suffering immensely, physically, and they always forget about the spiritual suffering he's going through for our sins He's suffering immensely, and yet at that moment he provides paradise for the man on the cross next to him, and he provides for the care of his mother through the disciple John. I mean he's thinking of everybody else, it seems, but himself. He's thinking of everybody he's dying for on the cross. So why is it we find it so hard to think of others he's a to be our example that we are to esteem others better than ourselves. That includes are wives. You know, esteem others better than yourself. That includes your wife. That includes your husband, ladies. You're esteemed them better than yourself. My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. That's what his mother said. Here's another one of those doctrinal things that that the Protestants picked up on and the Catholic Church still uh hasn't arrived. You know, they say Mary was without sin. Uh Christ said, Who is my mother? Well, uh the Virgin Mary was his mother and she was a saved lady, and and uh you know he But I just want you to, as we look at that, his mother, the the real physical mother of Christ, said, My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. Luke 147. She believes she's a sinner. She's rejoiced in the fact that she has a God who is her savior. And then we find in Luke 2 and 24 that Mary and Joseph they come bring in according to the law, Leviticus 12. 2 and Leviticus 12. 8, they bring a pair of turtle doves to the temple. Why It's a burnt offering for and it's a sin offering. Why would Mary bring a sin offering after the birth of Jesus? Because Leviticus 12, too, says that a sinner A woman whose womb has been opened, who's delivered a man's child, as a sinner, she must bring a sin offering. So here we've got two verses. Mary rejoices in God her Savior, and Mary brings a sin offering There's a lot a lot of stuff to unpack here, I realize. And um Christ concludes in verse 35 by saying This, whosoever shall do the will of God, the same as my brother, and my sister, and my mother Whosoever shall do the will of God is my brother. Do you realize how exclusive that verse is? The Buddhists don't do the will of Christ's Father. The Muslims don't do the will of Christ's Father. The nominal Presbyterian, the professing but not possessing Presbyterian or Baptist or Catholic or Methodist if they're not doing the will of the Father. This this is a very this verse excludes them from The kingdom. This verse excludes them from heaven. Whosoever shall do the will of my God, the same as my brother. And if you don't do the will of my God, or the will of God You're excluded. You're not my brother. You're not a sheep. You're not a part of the flock. Philippians two thirteen says It is God which worketh in you both to will and to do this good pleasure. And people say, Well, if I do the Lord's will, yeah, if you do the Lord's will, oh then god then it'll be good, yeah. But how can you do the Lord's will? Well I I uh I said here that God says that He worketh in you to do His His will and to do his good pleasure. The only reason you're able to do God's will is because God, the Holy Spirit, is already in you, Christ is already in your heart, and they enable you to do his will, or you can't, and you're excluded from eternity. It all goes back to God. It's just like when the earth was created, well, where'd the material come from? Well God created the material. Where did the material come from for God to create the material? No, no. God just did it. You got all the way to back before there was an earth, there was a heaven. Before there was material, there was God And the same thing with our salvation. You go back far enough, and it wasn't you making the decision, it was God willing, it says in Philippians two thirteen, worketh in you both to will and do his good things If you're doing God's will, if you're doing God's good pleasure, it's because you can go all the way back, it's God that has willed you to do so. Talk about election. First Timothy 5. 21. I know people don't like the term election. Did you know that in 1 Timothy 5. 21, there are angels that are elect? Does that bother anybody that God's got elect angels? Some of the angels cast out of heaven, they're going to hell, they'll never be saved. But there are elect angels that will maintain their position in heaven forever. They're called the elect angels. Now nobody's offended by that. That doesn't Okay, if he wants to choose angels, that's okay. How about Israel? He chooses Israel, doesn't choose the Philistines, the Canaanites, the Moabites, the Jebusites. He chooses Israel and pulls them out for salvation And does that bother us that he chose us one country? That doesn't bother us because that was thousands of years ago. But now when we talk about election and and God's chosen and God's sheep, uh Ephesians 2. 1, you hath he quickened. What if he didn't quicken us? Then you're not quickened. You're not made alive. What about John 3. 16? I love John 3. 16. sixteen. For God so loved the world that whosoever believeth should not perish. That's right. Who are the whosoevers? The ones according to Philippians that God worketh in them to will and do his good pleasure. So here's the here's the big question for you this morning. I often call you a pilgrim What will Christ call your brother? Take that one and meditate on it this week. You can be a pilgrim, but not be a brother. Will Christ call you brother? Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day that you are a loving God and that you have chosen people. Oh by the millions and millions, maybe it's billions. We don't know how many. We know that in comparison the population of this entire world That many are called and few are chosen. We know that straight is a gate and narrow is a path, and few there be that find it. And yet, Lord, this country has been so blessed to have the gospel preached for hundreds of years. And probably more Christians in this nation right now than there's ever there is anywhere else. Maybe as many as were were once in Israel. Lord, we just pray that you might touch a few more hearts this morning. That someone here, a brother or a sister of ours, would become the Lord's brother or the Lord's sister. For all eternity. Oh Lord, you can quicken. You can do this work. We ask that you would. In the name of our Our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.