O Lord, this morning we indeed enter into thy case with thanksgiving and into thy courts with praise. Lord, we worship before you and thank you, Lord, for the glorious privilege of gathering to worship. We thank you, Lord, that we are indeed drawn to worship by thy Holy Spirit. That the new man, the regenerated self, hungers and thirst after righteousness. That is not the appetite of the old man. That is not the appetite of the natural self. Lord, today there are multitudes that are engaged in all kinds of entertainment And the feeding of the flesh. But O Lord, we desire the feeding of the Spirit. And so, Lord, this day, may we indeed hear a message from thee. May thy word be alive and quick to our hearts. May we be drawn to deep repentance of our failing before Thee, and re deep rejoicing in the success of Christ. We read that he shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. May we never be satisfied with our spiritual condition. But we thank you that God the Father and Christ are satisfied with our redemption. Bless thy people this day, in Jesus' name. Amen. Our call to worship comes from the eighth chapter of Isaiah. Beginning part way through the nineteenth verse and continuing through the twentieth. Should not a people seek unto their God, for the living, to the dead, to the law and to the testimony? If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. Good morning, good morning. It's one of my favorite passages, Isaiah E twenty. It's a good one. We turn to our opening hymn number seven hundred and five, seven oh five in your blue song book. will be near the back of your songbook. 705, Marvelous Grace of Our Loving Lord. And I trust you're familiar with this song. 705. And we sing all three stanzas. More less grace of our loving Lord, grace that is Yonder on Calvary's found out there with the blood of the land. Praise, praise, God, praise, praise that will broaden and went within Grace God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sins. Sit in despair like dust. Grace that is greater, yes, grace unfold. Going to the revenues for Mighty Cross Goles Grace. Say when grace, praise and will pardon and bless within normal grace. Grace that is greater than all thy sin. Dark is the state that we cannot find what can I Avail to wash it away, but there is no wing of red sun tight Why should I store you maybe? Today praise grace God grace Grace that will pardon and place with him. Grace, grace God's grace, grace that is greater than all thy sin. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. It's good to sing about that infinite redeeming grace that preus from our house of bondage. Brother Anton, if you would. Good morning. Good morning. Let's turn to the back of your bulletin. This morning we read from the 21st article of the Belgian Confession. This is the second portion of it. Regarding the satisfaction of Christ, our only high priest for us. Christian, and what do you believe? Therefore he restored that which he took not away, and suffered the just for the unjust, as well in his body as in his soul. Feeling the terrible punishment which our sins had merited, insomuch that his sweat became like unto three drops of blood falling down to the ground He cried with a loud voice, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me and hast suffered all this for the remission of our sins A person might claim, might say, out of a show of love for somebody else, that they would be willing to go to hell for them. That they they make they can make that expression to say they're willing to suffer, to endure punishment for them so that they wouldn't have to But truly nobody's done that. Nobody's really gone to hell for anybody else. Um nobody was worthy of it. Nobody's worthy to pay uh that debt for somebody else, to be able to make that exchange as Christ did, for having their own righteousness and exchange it for the other person's sinfulness. Uh you have each person has their own hell to pay for their sin. And so it can't be paid for anybody else. Paul himself said that he would be accursed for his brethren's sake, if it were possible to do it that way. He cared for them so much. But even he was not worthy. Only Christ was worthy to suffer, as it says in the scriptures, the just for the unjust. And he really did experience hell for his sheep. He took on that judgment, the torment and the agony that was due for sin. It was poured out upon him at the cross. Nobody living has actually experienced that kind of torment. In all suffering that there is on the earth, there's a glimmer of hope, a glimmer of potential relief, an extra breath that we can take. Not knowing necessarily what might happen. Maybe there will be some relief in the future, maybe not. But in hell it's very different. There's a pulling away of all of those common graces of God You're separated from the kindness, from the grace of the Lord, of the long suffering of God. And uh even in Second Thessalonians chapter one It speaks of those that don't obey God and the punish that's due to them. It says that when the Lord comes, he'll come in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. They'll be taken away from that gracious presence of the Lord. They're still abiding under His wrath. He's the one that's punishing them, but they're taken away from every kindness of the Lord that he fors that he gives us while we're here, while we're alive now. And that's what Christ experienced when he went to the cross. He was truly forsaken of God as he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He truly took and endured the full wrath of God And all those mercies and graces that are given to every man were t took were were taken away from him. He knew that there was no hope for him, there was no uh salvation that would come to him that he would be able to uh part from the cross and not have to go through it. He fully endured that wrath, even as as people that are in hell endure it But he took it upon himself for all of his people. Well praise the Lord that this one suffering was sufficient. He who is truly just suffered for the unjust. So that we would be forever at peace with God, which is an amazing thing. And I'll leave you with that verse, 1 Peter 318. For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. Thank you, Brother Yes, Anton mentioned that phrase everlasting destruction And when we think of something being destroyed, we th think of it as a point in time. It is destroyed. We have all seen multiple times the videos of the uh World Trade Centers collapsing, but they got to a point and the collapse stopped. We know have seen pictures of volcanoes and a volcano, there's a volcano currently in Hawaii throwing lava uh hundreds of feet into the air, but it ceases. We know of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah when God ringed down fire and brimstone and they they were destroyed, but it ceased. But that everlasting destruction doesn't mean destroyed and done, but rather it is a destruction which never ends. It is a destruction, a volcano which never ceases, a collapse that never reaches the bottom, a Mount St. Helens that explodes forever. What terror awaits, and yet what mercy that Jesus paid it all. He paid my price. Well, let us go to prayer together today. Oh gracious Father, our hearts are full of with rejoicing before thee today. For indeed the Lord has done great things for us whereof we are glad. We come before you this morning. Bearing the needs of thy people. Lord Justice, the high priest of old, went before the mercy seat of God with twelve jewels upon his breastplate representing the twelve tribes of Israel. So we come before you this morning with the needs of thy people, rejoicing, Father, that you know what things we have need of before we ask. And so, Lord, we do not come before you to inform you of our troubles, but Lord, rather in faith, believing that you are able to work your mighty power in each situation. We come before you presenting our needs in full faith, believing in the might, power, wisdom, and love of God. Father, we have a lot of empty seats this morning. Lord, we know a lot of your people are enduring great difficulties and trials. And Lord, we find in thy words the trial of our faith worketh patience. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to your purpose. We know that you will not suffer us to be tempted above that we are able. We know, Lord, that you are working all things to make us into the image of Christ. And yet, Lord, we find that the Apostle Paul had an affliction in the flesh, he had a messenger of Satan even, and he prayed three times that you would remove it, and your answer was, My grace is sufficient. And so, Father, we come praying that you would remove the physical burdens, the emotional burdens, the financial burdens, the spiritual burdens of thy people. And yet, Lord, in so praying, we pray Thy will be done. And Lord, we pray that in echoing the prayer of Christ in the garden, where he prayed, If it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not my will, but thine be done. And so, Lord, you know our will. You know how we would desire the sicknesses to be removed from bodies the aches and pains to be assuaged, the financial burdens to be relieved, the spiritual turmoils to be brought to peace. Lord, you know all these things. And yet, Lord, you are wiser than we. And oh Lord, indeed, you are too wise to err and too good to be unkind. And so, Father, we pray in our will, but Lord, we pray, may thy will be done in each of these. Father, we lift up before you the needs of our brethren abroad. Let me pray for the ministry there in Jamaica We pray that as they are preparing for the summer camp, O Lord, that you would prepare the hearts of the young people to attend camp. Father, I remember back in the years when at camp we saw so many young men's lives transformed, and even serving thee today. Lord, it was At a summer camp, Lord, that our dear friend Bigga came to the understanding that his life was not his own, that he owed it to you. Lord, I pray that you would prepare the hearts of the young people for camp this year. Lord, may you save souls and transform lives through that ministry. Father, we pray for the persecuted church. Lord, I pray for the dear ones that I will mention with the congregation when we're off the recording later on this afternoon. But I met just this week, oh Father, men who know true sacrifice for the cause of Christ. May you bless them and protect them. Lord, be with the persecuted church, those that worship thee in peril of great hardship And even perils of their lives, men who have hazarded their lives for the cause of the gospel of Christ. May you bless them and strengthen them and encourage them. Father, we thank you for the time we had with our dear friend who has returned to China. And pray, Lord, that you would bless her and that you would strengthen her, Lord. Visit her with thy salvation. We pray. Lord, we uh Pray for those that are not with us today for various reasons that you would bless and enrich their souls. And Lord, I pray especially for our far-flung congregation. Lord, we will enjoy a meal and fellowship this afternoon, which they are unable to partake of because of their distance from us. But oh God, may you bless in Texas and in North Carolina and in Arizona and in California and in Wisconsin. Lord in Alaska and around the country and around the world, Father, be especially dear and near to those that are so much a part of us and yet are In your providence, separated from us by many, many miles. Oh Lord, may you bless and encourage them. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that the entrance to thy word gives light. Oh Lord, enlighten our dark dead souls, our living souls, but our our Sleeping souls this morning. May we awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. And this, O Lord, is spoken to our shame. Bless us, thy people, this morning. May we in this assembly be made keenly aware of thy presence. Keenly aware of our need of Thee, keenly aware of our sinfulness before Thee, and keenly aware of the righteousness of God that is given to us through Jesus Christ. O Lord, may we your people indeed, be careful for nothing, prayerful for everything, and thankful for anything. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to Psalm 107 for our responsive reading. Once you found Psalm 107 in your Bibles, please rise. This morning we'll be reading all forty-three verses of Psalm 107, which is a lengthy passage. But I hope you'll be attentive, and there's many jewels that are very helpful speaking of the Lord's marvelous works to his people. Psalm 107, starting with verse 1. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Let the redeemed the Lord say so. Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathered them out of the lands from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way. They found no city to dwell in, hungry and thirsty. Their soul fainted in them. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distress. And he led them forth by the right way. that they might go to a city of habitation. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wondrous works to the children of men. For he satisfieth the longing soul and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. Such as sit in darkness and the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron, because they rebelled against the words of God and contemned the counsel of the Most High. Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down and there was none to help. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble And he saved them out of their distresses. He brought them out of their hearts and shadows of death and break their bands in thunder. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron asunder. Fools because of their transgression and because of their iniquities are afflicted. Their soul abhoreth all manner of meat, and they crawl near unto the gates of death. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses. He sent his word and healed them and delivered them from their destructions. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving and declare his works with rejoicing. They that go down to the sea in ships. that do business in great waters. These see the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deed. For he commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof They mount up to heaven. They go down again to the depths. Their soul is melted because trouble. They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble and he bringeth them out of their distresses. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still They are glad they are glad because they be quiet. So he bringeth them into their desired haven. Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. He turneth rivers into a wilderness and the water springs into dry ground. A fruitful land into barrenness for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into water springs. And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation, and sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase. He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly, and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. Again they are diminished and brought low through oppression Affliction and sorrow. He poureth contempt upon princes and causeth them to wander in the wilderness where there is no way. Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock. The righteous shall see it and rejoice, and all the iniquity shall stop her mouth. And altogether Whoso is wise and will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of the Lord. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of his holy word. Return to our Sermon Psalm today, number five eighty-one in the Trinity, five hundred and eighty-one. An adaptation of Psalm 16, it's sung to the tune of Leo Minster, You Know It by the Tune, Not What My Hands Have Done. Number 581, and we will sing all three stanzas plus the almatic So that was a very good idea. To thee, O Lord, I won thy healthy pen. Thou art my Lord and King most high. Heritage for me. My portion, Richmond policy, my rights will maintain. Alone to me that well is beautiful and fair, our vision which I dwell. It could be uncompare. I praise the Lord of God, whose council guides are right. My Lord instructs me in his love in season of life he for me still. The Lord who might have proof at my right hand he got strong and I shall not be moved. I start an else and show through thy right hand will die where streams of pleasure ever Workflow and destroys of the Turn to your Bibles with me this morning to the book of First Thessalonians in your New Testament. First Thessalonians and chapter five. First Thessalonians, Chapter Five I'm going to start reading with the 16th verse and read through the 24th. And our focus this morning will be on verses 23 and 24. First Thessalonians chapter five and starting with verse sixteen Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit. Despite not prophesyings. Prove all things. Hold that which is good. Abstain from all appearance of evil. And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now open thy word to our hearts, and open our hearts to thy word. O Lord, that we might see, receive instruction, admonition, and blessing from Thee. Father, help this morning That your word may be clear to your people, and that your son might be glorified therein. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This is the glorious prayer, isn't it, that Paul has. He prays for the Thessalonian believers That they might be wholly sanctified. And then he rejoices that the prayer will be answered. He prays in confidence. And so we're basically going to look at this from three headings this morning. First of all, the God to whom he prays Secondly, the prayer that he makes, and then finally, the confidence that he expresses in the answer to that prayer. Note who it is To whom Paul prays that the Thessalonian believers might be wholly sanctified. He says there in verse 23, and the very God of peace. Sanctify you holy. He doesn't just say the God of peace. He doesn't just say God our Father. But he calls him the very God of peace. And we've considered that word very and the phrase verily, verily in scripture before. Essentially, what Paul is saying is The very God of peace, he who alone is himself, the God of peace. The Thessalonian believers had been brought to Christ from idols. They had followed many pagan gods. But there is no confusion left as to who this prayer is addressed to. It is the very God of peace. To whom Paul prays that these Thessalonian believers might have a little drop of sanctification. No. May praise the very God of peace. Sanctify you holy. And folks Why does it call him the God of peace and link it to sanctification? Because the lack of sanctification is the source of all conflicts. The lack of holiness before God is the source of all conflicts In the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve sinned, what did God say? I will put enmity between thee and the woman. That's the first conflict in humankind. And what very quickly followed after that first conflict on earth, well Cain killed Abel. The first murder came to earth. And so the first conflict among mankind, there had been conflict in heaven previous to this But the first conflict among mankind came because of the lack of sanctification in man. Man sinned against God, and therefore the fellowship with God was broken And because the fellowship with God was broken, the fellowship with man and man was broken. And man no longer had peace with God because Adam and Eve, by habit and by joy, would walk and talk with God in the garden in the cool of the day. But now they ran and hid themselves. Why? Because their sanctification, their rightness, their separateness to God Their holiness before the righteousness of God had been stripped away, and Adam said, I knew that I was naked. And I hid myself You see, here Paul is linking for these Thessalonian believers in this prayer the very God of peace. With sanctification. And he prays that the very God of peace sanctify you wholly, because we can have no peace with God apart from the work of Jesus Christ. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enity with God, a lack of sanctification. To sanctify, we're going to talk about that word a little bit later on. But it means to set apart and it makes means to make holy But a lack of being set apart from the world and a lack of holiness, friendship with the world, is enity with God. Only the very God of peace can wholly sanctify the elect and thereby remove all enmity between man and and the righteousness of God. In the absence of sanctification, there is no peace. And we can bring in a multitude of scriptures. There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked. Men cry, peace and safety, but there is no peace. There is no peace to the unbeliever, there is no peace to the disobedience, and folks, there's no peace to the elect When they dwell in disobedience. Ah, my friend, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. We find again and again in Scripture, Peter being one of the greatest examples, that when Peter sinned, when Peter brought iniquity between his soul and the peace of God. He went out and wept bitterly. David cried in Psalm 51 over the lack of peace. And his prayer was, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Because that peace had been broken And so, by praying to God and calling him the very, the only God of peace. Paul is pointing out to these Thessalonian believers that God is the source of peace, and there is no peace outside of Jehovah God. We find in Isaiah 45 and verse 7, God declares, Jehovah declares, I form the light and create darkness. I make peace. And create evil. I, the Lord, do all these things. And Christ, when it was Heading to the Gethsemane, he told his disciples in John 14 and verse 27, Peace I leave with you, my peace. I give unto you, not as the world, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither be afraid. Don't let your heart be troubled. Well, what is that? That's the lack of peace. Neither be afraid. That's the lack of peace. But Jesus says, My peace I give unto you. Did Christ come and stop all the wars in the world? Oh no, not at all. But what did Christ do? He made peace between my soul and the Father. God is absolutely exclusive as the source of peace. There is no peace apart from God. The depravity of man can only generate war Strife and genocide. Mankind may make temporary truce, but man can never create Peace. And so peace comes from God. He is the source of all peace. In Psalm 46 and verse 9, we find He maketh war to cease. under the end of the earth. He broke breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot with fire. God is the only source of peace But also he is the only ordainer of peace. He ordains peace. Men cry peace and safety, but there is no peace. The adversary, the devil, certainly is not trying to create peace. But Christ ordains peace. He grants peace to his elect and withholds peace from the wicked. And in Isaiah 62 and verse 12, Lord, thou wilt ordain peace for us. Thou would ordain peace for us, for thou hast wrought all our works in us. And so in prayer this morning I quoted from Philippians 4, verse 6. Let me read verses 6 and 7. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God, and the peace of God that passeth understanding. shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. The peace of God that passes understanding God is the source of peace, and God ordains peace for his people. God is the fountain of peace. And we find that glorious verse there in Isaiah 48. Oh, that thou had hearkened to my commandments, then had thy peace been like a river. Folks Peace flows from the fountain of peace. And that fountain is God alone. Great peace. Psalm 119 have they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Psalm seventy-two, the great messianic psalm, verses six and seven, He shall come down like rain upon mown grass. as showers that water the earth, in his day shall righteousness flourish, and abundance of peace, so long as moon ordaineth. And so the first thing we see from this text is to whom this prayer is made. The prayer is made that the God of peace Would wholly sanctify the believers. But then consider also with me That for which the request is made. And looking again at verse 23, and the very God of peace, sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of the Lord. I said I would make reference to this word sanctification and talk about it a little bit. We don't use the word sanctification. today in our common use at all. It is a biblical word. But to sanctify has two primary meanings. It means, first of all, to set apart to a specific purpose And secondly, to make something holy. And though we'll not go into it in depth, we have in the Old Testament the great example of the furnishings of the tabernacle. And how the cups were sanctified, they were set aside, and the table and the lamp, they were not for common use. I'm wearing a suit this morning. I love gardening. And I've spent the last couple weeks, any free time I had on my hands and knees, not in prayer, but in digging in the dirt. Uh because I put flowers, uh, sixty-some petunias and uh about a dozen geraniums and more marigolds than I could count. We call them stickin' marries in Jamaica because they they they look pretty but they don't smell particularly good But I wouldn't do that in this suit. Why? Because this suit is not to be gotten dirty. It's set apart for special occasions. Well that's a simple, maybe silly illustration. But we are set apart to the worship of God. We are made holy to our God. We're not disposed to have our soul in the dirt of this world. Digging around and soiling ourselves with the things of this world. We are set apart. We are sanctified unto our God. In fact, that word sanctify that Paul uses in this verse is the same word that Jesus Christ used in the Lord's Prayer: our Father which art in heaven, hallowed Be thy name. Paul uses that same word in prayer: Lord, may your people be holy hallowed. Now we understand it then, because when Christ spoke to God the Father and said, Hallowed be thy name, he said, God my Father, your name is separate. It's not used for common things. And it is holy. We do not take it in vain. We do not use it in common conversation. We do not use it as a curse word. It is hallowed. Folks, the believer is to be hallowed unto his God. We're to be separated from iniquity and the filth of this world. And holy unto our God. It's one thing to separate, but you have to separate to something. And so we are sanctified. But folks, what is it that Paul is praying for? Because I would pose to you this question very seriously. Are not these elect believing Thessalonians already sanctified? Because you see, sanctification is the work of God. And the newborn believer. The moment he believes, the moment he passes from death to life, is as holy as he's ever going to be. Let me say it again. The newborn elect believer is as holy as he's ever going to be. I cannot make myself holy. Only God can make me holy. And God does that at conversion. Yea, rather there is strong biblical evidence That my true sanctification before God the Father was accomplished in the mind of God at election before the foundation of the world. It was determined by him. And yet Paul prays for their sanctification. If he prays that they might be wholly sanctified, did God only do part of a job? Did God not complete the task of sanctification? We find in Hebrews chapter 10, verses 9 and 10, and then verse 14. Then he said, Lo, this is Christ speaking, lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first that he might establish the second, by which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all Verse 14, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. And so here Christ is declaring that he has perfected us forever. And so we seem to have a quandary here. Why is Paul praying for something that has already been done by God? And this is where I want to spend our time this morning, because Paul doesn't leave us to wonder. He explains it to us Look again there at our text in verse 23. Notice that Paul's prayer encompasses the threefold nature of man. Man was made in God's image. God is God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Man is body, soul, and spirit. First Thessalonians five and verse twenty-three again. And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit. And we can insert whole soul, and we could insert whole body, be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Be preserved blameless. And that word blameless is a beautiful word. Can you guess what blameless means? You know what blameless means? Blameless! It means exactly what it says. May your whole soul, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless. Let's take that apart and consider them individually. The spirit preserved blameless, the soul preserved blameless, and the body preserved blameless. The spirit that is spoken of here is that immortal part that dwells within the believer, which is sanctified. the very moment of conversion. It is that spirit within man that Paul prays first of all, that is the recipient of eternal life. In fact, the word spirit that Paul uses here in 1 Thessalonians 5 is the same word we find in Mark and in Matthew at the crucifixion of Christ. Specifically Mark chapter 15 verse 37, and Jesus cried with a loud voice and gave up the ghost. And that word ghost that Mark uses there is the same word spirit that Paul uses. It is that immortal part within the believer. And Paul prays for the Philippians sorry, Thessalonian believers, that their whole spirit be preserved. James speaks of this as well in James 2 in verse 26. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead. And again in Ecclesiastes, the Old Testament, verse chapter 8 and verse 8. There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit. Doctors may try to keep someone alive. And machines may keep the body functioning, but when the spirit is departed, the person is dead. And so, the first reference here is to the Spirit. In fact, to read further in Ecclesiastes 8 and verse 8, there is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit, neither hath he power in the day of death. No man can hang on to that spirit and retain it in the body. And so in this first element of the prayer, what is Paul praying? Paul is praying that you're genuine. Paul is praying that these Thessalonian church members That these Thessalonian churchgoers, that these now religious Thessalonians are truly saved. Paul says, I pray that your spirit, your whole spirit, be preserved blameless unto the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see There's a lot of tares among the wheat. There are many that may appear to be children of God. And they can sing a good hymn, and they can recite a good psalm, and they can put on a suit that looks clean, but in reality their suit has been out planting flowers. And they're contaminated with the things of this world. And so Paul prays for these beloved Thessalonians. over whom he has labored and to whom he has preached again and again. I pray that the God of peace would sanctify you wholly. Oh Lord God, may your whole spirit be preserved To the coming of Christ. May you not be tarrors among the wheat. May you not be a beautiful plant that never brings forth fruit. May you not be one that gives the appearance of being a child of God, but ultimately is a child of the devil. Christ declared, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish It's very specific, folks. And so Paul prays for these Thessalonian believers that their spirit is truly sanctified. by God. But then Paul prays secondly for their whole soul Paul prays that their whole spirit and soul be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, the soul also is sanctified at salvation. But what is the distinction here? We often think of the spirit and the soul as the same. They are actually not There are two distinct and different properties within man. The Spirit is that eternal soul we say sometimes, that eternal entity which was chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. and which is redeemed by the blood of Christ. But the soul being spoken of here is man's volition or man's will. God changes our volition. He changes our will at redemption. In fact, we find in the 103rd Psalm, sorry, 110th Psalm in the third verse Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. And that is a reference to the volition, the mind, the soul that God transforms. And the best way to illustrate this difference between the spirit and the soul is to turn over to the book of Romans in chapter 7. So turn there with me to Romans chapter 7 And these are very familiar verses, verses we ref recite frequently, but Romans chapter 7, and I'll start reading in verse 14. And as soon as I begin to read, as soon as you see the verses which Probably many of you have multiple markings on in your scriptures. But in Romans 7 and verse 14, Paul says, For we know that the law is spiritual But I am carnal, sold under sin. For that which I do I allow not Paul said, there's a will in me. I don't allow these things, and yet I find that I do them. For what I would, I do not. And that I do uh for what I would, that I do not, but what I hate That I do. Then if I do that which I would not, I consent to the law is good Now then, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. For I know that in me That is, in this body, in this flesh, dwelleth no good thing, for to will. There is the soul. For to will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good, I find not For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil that I would which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that, that I would not, it is no more I that do it. But sin that dwelleth in me, not the eternal spirit that is sanctified but the earthly flesh is sins I find then a law that when I would do good evil is present with me, for I delight in the law of the God after the inward man But I see another law of my members warring against the law of my mind, well, against the law of my understanding, the law of my soul. And bringing it into captivity under the law of sin which is in my members, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Folks, the mind, the will of the believer is sanctified at salvation. And yet still that mind is encapsulated in a body of flesh. And folks, I'm sure, if you're truly a believer, you can think of things that once you loved, and now you hate them. And yet in times of weakness you find that thing tugging at you again and drawing you back. And I've used the The illustration of a man now many, many years with the Lord, Robert E. Jordan, who had been the town drunk. He was never sober and everyone in Harper, not everyone, but all of Harper County, most of Harper County knew who he was and knew that he could sharpen a saw like no other man, a hand saw. He could sharpen them But you didn't go there unless he was sober, and he was so rarely sober that his business failed. He staggered into my grand my father's milking barn drunk. Got down on his knees and dad has always said he stood up so confused that when he stood up, the effects of alcohol were gone and he never drank it again in his life. But he told my father, he said, I cannot walk past a saloon or a place where they're serving alcohol because I cannot get within the smell of it. It has such a great hold on me. That man's soul was sanctified. His heart and his mind were transformed by the power of God. His heart and mind were now set aside for God. And just as the Apostle Paul says, the good I want to do, I do not. I fail in every day. And the evil I don't want to do, I find myself pulled back to them. I am wretched because I dwell in this in-between. But folks, God looketh on the heart, and man looketh on the outer appearance. And when God saw the heart, The soul of the Apostle Paul. He did not see that soul as yielding to the iniquity. But rather he saw that soul as resisting the iniquity. And so Paul prays for these Thessalonian believers That their whole spirit, that eternal part of them be sanctified. And hallelujah, if their repentance is true, they are And that their whole soul be sanctified, and hallelujah, before the throne of God it is. And this may not fit exactly with this idea of the Spirit, but I believe it does. I found this week a beautiful definition of the relationship between the believer and the law. And so I'm just going to read it to you because the the law and grace and this don't do that and do do this, that conflict we find within ourselves, it is this I am freed from the penalty of the law, but not from the precepts of the law. I am no longer under the curse of the law, but I am not exempt from the conduct of the law. The law leads me to Christ to be redeemed. And Christ sends me to the law to be regulated. Isn't that beautiful? Christ, our schoolmaster, leads me to the law to be redeemed. But then Christ, our sorry, sorry, I said that wrong. The law leads me to Christ to be redeemed. And Christ sends me to the law to be regulated, that my life might be lived for him. And so Paul prays for these Thessalonian believers that their mind might be sanctified to God. The sanctification of the believer is complete in the part of the Spirit. The elect child of God will never perish. The sanctification of the believer is complete in the part of the soul, while we may still stumble and fall. God has sanctified us, set us apart, and God views me day by day through the lens of his own son's righteousness. But then Pope Paul comes to this third element of man, and he prays that their whole body might be sanctified, that their whole body might be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, we still live in a body of sin. And if you claim that you committed no sin this week, you just committed one. Because you're lying. And yet, it is incumbent upon the believer to live in righteousness And this third element of sanctification is that which will not be completed while we live in a body of sin. It will be completed in glory. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 1, and having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfect holiness in the fear of God One word I did not emphasize at the outset that we need to go back to. Look at the first word of verse 23. And. We don't often begin a sentence with the word and, do we? And means there's something else Well, folks, the and ties back to rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, in everything give thanks, quench not the spirit, despise not prophecies, prove all things. And see, folks, we have to put feet to our prayers. Paul is praying this prayer after giving the Thessalonians very specific instructions. Prayer requires action. I may pray, oh God, make me healthy, but then I must eat right and exercise. I may pray, oh God, make me wise. Then I must study and apply my heart to wisdom. I may pray, oh God, supply my needs. Then I must work and use well the resources God puts within my hand. I may pray, O God, give me understanding of thy word, then I must be diligent to study God's word. I pray, O God, sanctify me. then I must apply my heart to righteousness. And so Paul here tells these Philippian believers, these Thessalonian believers, To rejoice evermore. Paul did tell the Philippians in chapter 2, verse 12 of Philippians, Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God with worship worketh in you, both to will There is that soul, and to do, there is the body of his own good pleasure. Rejoice evermore. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Folks, I tend to be of a sour spirit I confess that. I tend to be able to find a lot of things not to rejoice about. And yet, part of that sanctifying work within the body. Is that rejoicing in the Lord always, when we fail to rejoice, we open our soul to the sin of complaining And so, Paul, in praying for these Thessalonian believers that they would be wholly sanctified, he's just reminded them of the need of rejoicing. Pray without ceasing. Remember Christ's words to the disciples? What? Could you not watch with me? Could you not pray with me one hour? And in that same context in Matthew 26, 41. Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The Spirit is willing We've just talked about the spirit and soul, and here the spirit is referring not to the eternal spirit, but that mind, that volition of man. Your new nature in Christ is willing, but what's the problem? Your flesh is. And that verse is is a warning and a teaching. It's a warning your flesh is weak, but it's a teaching on how to overcome the weakness of the flesh. Watch and pray. Lest ye enter into temptation. Pray without ceasing. Be always in an attitude of prayer. Be continuing instant In prayer before God, that is one of the elements of daily bodily sanctification. Pray without ceasing. The psalmist David said, morning, evening, and at noon will I pray and cry aloud. In everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. I came across this little phrase in a devotional book I've been reading and it's meant a lot to my heart. Be careful for nothing Be prayerful for everything. Be thankful for anything. In everything give thanks. That means be thankful for flat tires. That means be thankful for the thing that you picked up and it fell three times. Let me confess no little my sins. I pick it up the first time and it falls. And I'm frustrated. So I pick it up the second time and it falls again. Folks, when I pick it up the third time and it falls, I'm exasperated. But that is Not how it ought to be. In everything, give thanks. That means give thanks in the things that give you pleasure. And then give thanks to the things that get on your nerves like you can't believe. And everything give thanks. But folks, that is part of that sanctification that is yet incomplete within these Thessalonian believers. That sanctification within the body, that overwhelming spirit, that spirit of man that is ruled by the Spirit of God So that even in the things which drive us physically nuts, we can say, thank you, Lord, there must be some reason why this has come upon me. In everything, give thanks. Quench not the spirit In Ephesians 4, we find and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Folks, we know what it is to do that which comes between our soul and God. And how when the Spirit is unquenched within us, we can read the Word of God with such joy. Folks, when we're not in that fellowship, the Word of God is something pages. The heavens are brass when we pray. And the Spirit is quenched. Quench not the spirit. Despise not prophesyings. That word prophesying does refer to the foretelling of future. But the future is all foretold. Now it's right here. Despise not the Word of God. Find yourself under the preaching of the Word of God. Don't find excuses to miss the preaching of the Word of God. Give priority to sermon audio over whatever may happen to be on TV. Give priority to the needs of the soul even more than the needs of the body. If you want to be entertained, find the Word of God and read it. If you want to be entertained, find a good devotional and read it. Find the Word of God. Despise not prophesying hear the word of God, love the word of God, and seek the word of God. And moving on quickly, I know our time is about done. Prove all things, hold fast that which is good And the word proof, you know what it means? It means test. We know what proof steel is. It means test everything. Hold everything up to the light of God's word Throw away that which doesn't match up and hold on to that which is good. Test everything, reject the evil, and hold tightly to the good. Abstain from the appearance of evil. If it looks wrong, it is wrong. If it looks evil, and back to dear brother Reverend Jordan. He died when I was like three. I I have very vague memories of him. He told dad he couldn't pass by, so he had to cross the street. He had to stay as far away as possible. Because he could not get near that which is evil. If it looks evil, don't go there. Stay away. Avoid the appearance of evil, because when we are engaged in the appearance of evil, it will be not long at all before we're involved in evil. Folks, finally, we've seen the God of peace to whom the prayer is praised. We see what the prayer is made for, that their whole soul, whole spirit, soul, and body be sanctified. holy unto the coming of the Lord. But then the confidence is in verse 27, faithful is he who calleth you who will also do it. Folks, it does not matter how hard you try, you can never save your own soul But God can. Folks, it doesn't matter how hard you try, you can never change your own mind, your own spirit, but your own soul, but God can And folks, no matter how hard we try, we can never fully eradicate sin in this body. But God can and will. And the timeframe that Paul uses is beautiful because the end of the time frame is the coming of the Lord. We shall not all sleep. We shall be caught up together in the air And then all the sin and trials of this world will be passed away, and it will be accomplished because He takes us home and not because we managed to beat it all down. And yet daily we are required to die daily, as Paul said. Paul said, I keep my body under and bring it into subjection, lest after I have preached to others I myself should be a cast away. In First Corinthians chapter one, verses four to nine, Paul gave us these words. I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given unto you by Jesus Christ, that in everything ye are enriched by him in all utterance and in all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, so that ye come behind in no gift waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall confirm us, shall also confirm you unto the end. that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he who calleth you, who will also do it. But it's stand for prayer. Oh Father, we pray with the Apostle Paul, O Lord, may our whole Spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless under the coming of Christ. Sanctify us your people, O Lord. We thank you, Lord, for the salvation we have in thee We thank you, Lord, that our soul is secured and righteous before thee. We thank you, Lord, that even our will has been transformed and you see us Not as we are, but as our heart regenerated, as our mind regenerated desires to be. O Lord, give us faith and grace to discipline the body according to thy law. To live by thy precepts day by day. And Father, our prayer is this: even so come, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen. Return to our closing song today, 719, near the end of your songbook, A Shelter in the Time of Storm. seven hundred and nineteen at the end of her song book. Ira Sankey songs popular Fellow that puts together the tunes, I think he was the fellow that supported um what's the man's name you would know Gil. Yeah. Sankey uh he helped uh Moody that Dil Moody and his Evangelism efforts. Shelter in the Time of Storm, all four stances. In him we fight a shelter in the time of salt. Secure whatever it'll be sight a shelter in the time of salt. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary light. Oh weary light a weary light oh Jesus is a rock in a wild lig A shelter in the time of sort, a shade by day, deep fast by night, a shelter in the time of storm. Of store, no fears of arm, no goes of fright, but shelter in the time of store, Oh Jesus is wrong and Weary land, a weary land, a weary land, for Jesus around in a weary land, the shelter in the cyber store. The raging storms may round us be A shelter is the time of store We'll never leave our safety We create a shelter in the side of snow. A weary land, a weary land, a weary. Oh Jesus is around where we have the shelter is the time for so rough divine. A shelter in the time of storm. We now are helper near, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus is the rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus is the rock in a weary land. A shelter in the time of scroll. Amen. Amen. Please receive