Open in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Matthew and the sixteenth chapter of this gospel. Matthew chapter sixteen, and I'll be reading from verse thirteen through verse twenty. The very infallible, inspired, and preserved Word of God. Burley Vince mentioned it, and we can't mention that enough. Matthew sixteen and verse thirteen. When Jesus came under the coast of Caesarea Phil Philippi He asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ The Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee. but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, thou art Peter And upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Then charged he his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus The Christ. Let's pray. Father, this morning as we approach your word, We thank you that we have it. What a blessing that is. Our spiritual ancestors shed their blood and died that we might have the Word of God in our own language. We thank you for it. We thank you, Lord, that it is as true today as it was when it was first spoken. We thank you, Lord, that it is as pure today as it was when it was first spoken. For the word itself tells us all the word of the Lord is pure. You have preserved it for us. O Lord, today, we look into spiritual truths, and we know that the natural man cannot receive them. And so, Lord, may we not consider these things. In fleshly ways or by our old fallen nature. But Lord, may you speak truth to our new redeemed nature through the Word of God. May indeed the Holy Spirit of God be the exegete. May the Spirit of God be the preacher who preaches truth to our hearts this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Don't you love familiar passages of scripture? Isn't it amazing that you can open up passages which you have read again and again and again, and suddenly new, fresh, vibrant truths will bless your heart. My wife sometimes doesn't complain. She's very a very patient lady. But I typically have a stack of old magazines lying around I have read them. From cover to cover. Even read a lot of the advertisements. And if I go back and read them again, I do not learn a single thing that I didn't know already. There's not a bit of fresh truth there. Can you name another book that every time you go to it, fresh truth comes out, even though you've read the same passage before? Does that not alone tell you that there is something special and something different about this book, the Bible, the Holy Bible, the Word of God The psalmist said his mercies are new every morning. And it's only because of his mercies that we understand his word. It's only because of his mercies that this book means anything to us. There are millions and millions of copies of this book in the world today covered with dust. That were given to someone in great love by a believer to an unbelieving relative, and they sit on the shelf. They're meaningless. But to the child of God, what rich blessing. And so we find here that Christ goes to the region of Caesarea Philippi. This is not anywhere near Jerusalem. It's on the northern border of the kingdom. It is far from the crowds. This is not the region of the Pharisees. The scribes care nothing about Caesarea Philippi. This is not where the religious people are. It's the country folk. It's the farmers with dirt under their fingernails. It's the people that earn a living by the sweat of the brow. The common people. And yet we find in the book of Mark that the common people received him gladly. And the next verse, that verse is Mark 1237. The next verse, Mark 12. 38, Christ says, Beware of the Pharisees. Beware of their leaven. And so we see our calling that not many mighty are called, not many noble, but God has chosen the foolish things. Of the world to confound the mighty and the weak things, the foolish things confound the wise and the weak things, the mighty. And so it's very significant that this question is not asked in Jerusalem. It's ask out in the country among the common people. It's not ask of the Pharisees. He's talking to his disciples And he asks his disciples, who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Don't you love it in school when the teacher asks a question and gives you the answer and the question? You know, multiple choice questions always the answer is there. It is one of these. Well, this is not even a multiple choice. Christ says, who do men say that I, the Christ, that I, the Son of Man, am? Who do people say that I am? And so, he's asking this question of his disciples, and he is giving them in the question the answer. For Christ here very, very significantly refers to himself as the Son of Man. The Pharisees would have understood that phrase, Son of Man, but not believed it. But these disciples, fishermen, a tax collector. These common sinners understood that Daniel had said in Daniel 7, I saw a vision in the night, and behold, one like unto the Son of Man. came with the clouds of heaven and came to the ancient of days and they brought near him before him. They were brought before him. And there was given him a dominion and glory and a kingdom that all nations and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. Who is that talking about? It's talking about Christ. which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. You see, this name, the Son of Man, by which Christ addresses himself. is the name that signifies the one who will rule the kingdom which shall not pass away, the kingdom which cannot be destroyed, the kingdom which is eternal. The disciples don't know what's coming, but Christ does. He's about to declare his kingdom against which the gates of hell will not prevail. He's about to declare his kingdom, which is eternal. He's about to prevail his kingdom, which will conquer the gates of hell. And so he uses this Old Testament prophetic name. Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Christ says. He doesn't say who do men say the Son of Man is. It's not general. But he asks his disciples Or shall we say he declares to his disciples, I am the Son of Man? What's the world's response? What do men think of this? What do men have to say about this glorious truth that I, Jesus, born in Nazareth And the Son of Man, the conquering king, the one whose kingdom will not pass away. Men have all manner of responses to such a question. If you were to walk down the street today and go up to a stranger and say, Who do you think Jesus is? You would get all kinds of answers. In Jamaica, one of the answers we used to get was Jesus Christ was the name of a slave ship that brought my ancestors here. That was that was a common response from the Rastafarians. And I believe there may have been some historical significance to it that there was a ship named the Jesus Christ. But men will have all kinds of oh he was a good man. Well he was a teacher, he he was a prophet. Well he he gave us an example. He gave us Christmas. What nonsense. Nonsense. And so when Christ asks this question, they answer, and some say thou art John the Baptist Some Elias and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. Some say, well, this must be John the Baptist. Now, Herod has killed John the Baptist And we find in another passage that Herod himself is quaking in his boots because Herod is afraid that this is John the Baptist come back from the dead. The ministry of Jesus Christ and the ministry of his cousin, John the Baptist, are very similar. They were both faithful preachers. They both preached in the wilderness. But Jesus Christ was not John the Baptist, come about, come back. And when John the Baptist's birth was predicted there to his father Zacharias in the temple The angel told him that this one, your son, is going to go before him, which is to come. He is the forerunner. And so this is not John the Baptist. Some say Elias or Elijah the prophet. Well, Elijah as well was prophesied to come before the coming of Messiah, but in the case of John the Baptist, the angel told Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist that John his son would come in the spirit of Elijah. And so the Elijah prophesied and the John the Baptist, they are one. It is the type of ministry which was given to them. So this is not John the Baptist. Micah had prophesied 400 years that Elijah would come, and Elijah did come. His name was John the Baptist. Some say Jeremiah. Many thought that Jeremiah uh would come back to earth, and Jeremiah was the weeping pro weeping prophet And the prophecy of Messiah was that he would be a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And so some people conflate that. It's even occurred to me from time to time that John the Baptist and Jesus probably bore some physical resemblance. You ever think about that? They were first cousins. Uh last night at at at the wedding we met a lot of family members from both families that we'd never met before. But we could see, oh, that must be his brother, that must be her sister. We see the family resemblance John and Jesus may have looked very similar, and that may have been part of the reason that Herod was quetching in his boots and fearful over this. And so we see that all of these answers that men were giving were very honorable. They were saying well, this is John, this is Elias. This is John the Baptist. John the Baptist was very popular in his day. The multitudes went out to see him. Well, this must be Elijah. They all gave very respectful and honorable answers. They all supposed that this Jesus was someone come back from the dead. John the Baptist was dead. Jeremiah was dead. Ezekiel was dead. was dead. And so all these answers that men are giving are very respectful, very honorable. They are Assuming that it's someone coming back from the dead, so there must be some miraculous element here, God must in some way be using them. But all these answers were absolutely wrong. You see, the most deceptive error is the one that is closest to the truth. Satan does not go around telling people to be as wicked as they possibly can. That's right. Rather, the devil tells people to be very, very religious. And the fact that our world is so filled with false religions is evidence of this. You see, Satan did not tell Eve that apple is rotten. And I say apple, you understand, we don't know what the fruit was. But Satan did not tell Eve that fruit is going to destroy your life It's going to destroy your family, it's going to destroy your health, it's going to destroy your children, and it's going to destroy the world. No You'll be as God. You'll be as religious as possible. You'll be as close to the divine as you can get. You see, Satan's deceptions are always very, very close to the truth. And very, very far from Christ, from reality And so all these answers that men are giving are very respectful, very convincing, very good arguments. But very, very wrong. And so Christ changes the question In verse fifteen, He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Christ does not say, but whom say ye that I, the Son of Man, am? He's already revealed himself to them. They know. It's a rhetorical question. There are some liberals, some deniers of God in the Bible that will suggest from this passage that Christ did not know he was God. That he somehow was discovering his divinity. And that that he was looking he would he would had doubts. He wasn't quite sure. And so he wanted his disciples to reassure him. That he indeed was God. I see a lot of smiles and shaking heads. It is foolishness. But remember that Satan's lies are so close to truth And in liberal churches and in liberal congregations, oh yeah, that makes sense. And whom the God of this world has blinded the minds and that believe not, lest the glorious light of the gospel of Jesus Christ should shine unto them, that they should be saved. And so he changes the question, who say ye that I am? This is the most important question that could ever be asked. And not to get too far ahead of myself or my notes, but this is the key to heaven. This is the key to the kingdom. This question is the question of life or death. Dear sir, on the street corner, do you want to live or do you want to die? That's the message of salvation. That's the message of the gospel. Who do you say that Jesus Christ is? That is the dividing line of all history. It is the dividing line of all mankind. This is the most important question that can ever be asked. And it's interesting when Jesus asks his disciples this, and I mentioned that he's already revealed to them who he is, they should know the answer. They've been with him now for two and a half to two and three quarter years. They should know the answer. There should be no hesitation here. But it's interesting that after Peter's confession, which is found there in verse 17 and 18, chronologically in time, after that confession, we find John 14. And in John 14, Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no man cometh to the Father but by me. And they say, Show us the way. And Christ says, Philip, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Philip, have I been so long time with you, and you have not known me? That discourse takes place after this fight. How blind our flesh is How much revelation is necessary for us to ever comprehend spiritual truth? If Philip still after this, and Thomas still after this, didn't get it, didn't get it. And so we find in verse 16 that Peter answers this question. And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. That word Christ means Messiah. I think some people think of the name Jesus Christ as Jesus' first name, Christ's last name. That is not what it is. It is title. We put our titles before the name, Mr. So-and-so, Mrs. So-and-so, Dr. So-and-so. But here it's reversed. We could say Christ Jesus as we do sometime, but that word Christ means Messiah. It means the Redeemer. It is his title. It's not his name, it's his title. Thou art the Christ. Thou art the Messiah. And that article there is of infinite importance. For there are many false Christs. There were many false messiahs. And we have the warning. If they say he's in the desert, don't go out there. If they say he's in the mountain, don't go there. Peter doesn't say you are Christ. He doesn't say you are a Christ. He says thou art the Christ, the one and only. There's not another. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there's none of the name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. This is the Christ and the only one. John the Baptist was a great preacher of righteousness, and many people believed in John's preaching. But he was not the Christ. Elijah was a great prophet who had power from God to call down fire from heaven. Who had power from God to lead an entire nation in revival? Who went in the strength of one meal forty days and forty nights by the power of God. He was a great preacher of righteousness. But he was not the Christ. Jeremiah, the weeping prophet, greatly mourning over the sin of his people, greatly mourning over his own sin. Suffered much, thrown into a miry pit by a wicked king. Great, mighty, powerful servant of God. But he was not the Christ. And Peter, who speaks these words, was not the Christ, nor was he the vicar of Christ. For Christ has no faith. And so here, Peter declares, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. the Son of Jehovah God. And this declaration was not the first one. For when Christ filled the sea, there in Matthew 14 The response of those in the ship was, of a truth, thou art the Son of God. And when Jesus sees Nathaniel miles away and Nathaniel comes and Christ says, Thou art a a man And Nathaniel said, Well, how did you know who I was? And he said, And Nathanael's response was, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, the King of Israel. We think of this declaration from Peter, but it wasn't the first one. And it doesn't stand all but alone. It is not an unusual occurrence. Remember the demoniac, out of whom were cast the demons. And the response was, Jesus, why are you come to torment us before the time? The devils believe and tremble. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Literally, thou art the Christ, the Son of the God who lives. Isn't that beautiful? The Son of the God who lives. There are no other gods who live. Not a one. Remember Paul on Mars Hill looking at all the deities? Everyone was dead. And my my missionary heart always goes back to the Old Testament, where the poor man chooses a goodly tree and he chops it down. And he carves and he makes himself a beautiful god, and he fastens it with pins, and he sets up his God, and then he takes the shavings and cooks his dinner and sees no contradiction. You think about cultures where they worship animals. They have to clean up behind those animals, folks, and I don't mean to get crude. But those are not gods. But thou art the son of the God who lives. In response to Peter's Proclamation, Peter's declaration, Christ makes three very important statements, and that's where we want to focus our attention at this time. In verse 17, Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my father. Now remember the context. What's going on here? Christ has asked the question of the disciples, who do men say I am? And they've all given good answers, respectful answers, but wrong answers Okay? They've given good answers that they've reached by logic. They've given good answers that they've reached by study. They've given good answers that they've reached by consideration of the Old Testament. They're talking about the prophets. But for some reason, they have not been able to come to the right answer. The truth has eluded them. The important fact has missed their human understanding in spite of their study, in spite of their intelligence, in spite of their wisdom. In spite of their earnestness, they have been unable to come to truth But here, Peter says, Blessed art thou, or Christ says, Blessed art thou, Sarum and Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father which is in heaven. So here the first thing Christ declares is that this knowledge must come by divine revelation. It doesn't matter how wise you are, how powerful you are, the scribes and the Pharisees, you know what the scribes' job was. Their job was to copy the scriptures, to create copies. I don't know if you ever had to write sentences in school, but I had to write I will not talk in class, I will not talk in class, I will not talk in class, I will not talk in class. To drill it into my head These scribes, they wrote the word of God and then they counted the letters and counted the punctuation marks on each page. To make sure it was correct. And if there was one jot or one tittle that was wrong, they tore up the page, they destroyed it, and they wrote it over again. These were people that knew the scriptures in a way that we could not imagine And yes, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, but the word of God by which hearing ultimately comes is Christ Himself. Again, my years in in Jamaica, the Rastafarians can quote the King James Bible extensively. Extensively, they know it. They know it. They know it. But when you ask them who Jesus Christ is, they cannot give the right answer. Peter, you have a great blessing. Flesh and blood did not tell a fisherman that this was Jesus the Christ. the Son of the Living God. But my Father, my Father, has told you this. And so the first declaration that Christ makes Is that we are very blessed to have this doctrine. The second declaration that Christ makes is that upon this doctrine Upon this truth, revealed from God the Father, that He is indeed the Christ, the Son of the Living God Upon this doctrine, this truth, I will build my church. Verse 18. I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Peter, there's a doctrine, there's an understanding, there's a truth that you've received from my Father. You're blessed. Peter, this truth that you have received from my Father is a sure foundation of my church. You see, what Peter had been revealed, what had been revealed to Peter by God the Father was that Jesus Christ was, or Jesus was the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that is the foundation. He is the chief cornerstone of the church. And so upon this revelation you receive, I'll build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. We can have a whole message just on the gates of hell in this passage. I've actually, so you know, I've been working on a study on the gates of hell, which is allowed to turn into another long series, because there's 437 mentions of gates in the Word of God. And in other places where it doesn't say the word gate, but it's a gate. The gates of hell will not prevail against it. Briefly, the gates of hell are not an offensive weapon. The gates of hell are not designed to keep men out of hell. The gates of hell are designed to keep men in. And all men are born in sin, therefore all men are born bound behind the gates of hell. But this truth that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you fall make you free, is actually to quote the verse properly. not set you but make you free and it's an important difference. The gates of hell will not be able to stand against the gospel of the church. The gospel of the church, the gospel of salvation, comes to the gates of hell and the gates of hell collapse before it. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. They're in my hand, Christ says, and no man can pluck them out. And then again he says, they're in my father's hand, and no man can pluck them out. Christ defeated the gates of hell. In Psalm 68, verse 18, thou hast ascended on high. Thou hast led captivity captive. Thou hast given gifts to men, yea, for the rebellious also, for the Lord uh that the Lord God might dwell among them Now, when we just read Psalm 68, 18 alone, it doesn't seem to come to our understanding. Aren't you glad that the scripture is the commentary on scripture? The New Testament interprets it for us. In Ephesians 4 and verse 8, wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive. And gate gates to men. Now he that ascended, what is it but he first descended into the lowest parts of the earth? And he that descendeth is the same also that he that uh ascendeth far above the heavens You see, when Christ died, he prevailed against the gates of hell When Christ died, he destroyed the strength of those gates. They no longer can hold the redeemed in. They no longer can prevent the elect from coming to Christ. These gates cannot prevail against the gospel of the church. These gates cannot prevail against this foundational doctrine that Peter had because God the Father gave it to him. And that Peter was blessed because it didn't come from flesh and blood. And upon this foundation, upon this truth, that Jesus is the Son of God, he'll build his church. And the gates of hell will fall. And so the first great proclamation that Christ makes is that this doctrine must come by divine revelation. Secondly, that upon this doctrine, the church is built. But thirdly, this doctrine is itself the key to heaven. Verse nineteen And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me If you believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. What is the key that unlocks The gate of heaven for man to enter in. Oh, it's the shed blood of Jesus Christ. It's the truth that He is God. It is this one true doctrine. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so it comes back to this question: Who do men say that I am? Well without divine revelation we'll never know. Who do you say that I am? Thou art the Christ The Son of the Living God. Peter, hallelujah! My father has told you this. Peter, I'm going to build my entire church on this truth. And it will destroy the gates of hell, for hell cannot hold men in that believe this truth. Peter Go out with this truth and proclaim it because this truth is the key to heaven. You see, Christ is not here setting Peter up as a Pope. Christ is not exalting Peter. He's exalting himself. And if you want proof that Christ was not exalting Peter, look down to verse 23. And he turned and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. A couple sentences later. Is Christ calling his first pope Satan? No. No. My friend, if you look at verse 20 And he charged his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that profound? But what about all these people that say he's Elias? What about all these people that say he's Jeremiah or John the Baptist? You see, we go and tell men about Christ, but except my Father draw a man, except the Spirit of God draw a man, he cannot be saved. Salvation is of the Lord. It is not of man. And so, to conclude, we are to go tell men of Christ. But it is salvation that comes from the revelation of the Father. What Christ is doing here is He is focusing this question back to the disciples. Who do men say that I the Son of Man am? Who do you say I am? I asked every one of you this morning. Who do you say Christ is? Well you see. It was after this that Philip said, Lord, show us the Father. It was after this that Thomas dealt. It was after this that Peter denied that he even knew him. Who do you say? Oh Lord, we thank you for this glorious passage of your word. We thank you, Father, that these familiar passages, ones we heard in Sunday school as little children, ones we've read. uh ten, twenty, thirty times or more. O Father, what rich food there is for the soul, as God the Father reveals truth to our heart. Bless your word to our hearts this day, in Jesus' name