Why study Bible doctrine? So I'm going to open it up with a question. And uh I'm going to try to put more questions into this and slow down a little bit. We've just come off a lengthy study in Revelation, and I'd like to get into a different series, and as you might imagine, it's going to be some doctrinal topics. So I just put the question to the floor, why do you think it is of use or benefit or interest or not for studying doctrine? No answers are bad answers, but uh I believe the sound coming to mind of the scripture about by sound doctrine uh speaking and correcting those who are being saved. Okay, so by sound doctrine speaking and correcting the gainsayers, okay, that's certainly one one thing to do Uh Bina? Well told some of the studies show and some of the food and what the state crappy students and we're That's a very good reference, uh the the um child of God, the worker that needs to be uh a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth, study to show thyself approved, a workman not ashamed. Yep. That's a good reason for it so that you're not ashamed. Yvonne, what do you think? Uh the reproof, for correction, for instruction, and righteousness. Yep, the reason flat out given in Second Timothy 3 and verse 17 Anton? From uh destructive heresies. Yeah, defense against destructive heresies, right? Well I hope to give you some other ideas as well We kind of plow into this because actually people um often object to any talk about doctrine or the study of it because they wrongly imagine it's an unnecessary cause of strife and division Uh but the fact is we can't really have unity if we don't have doctrinal unity. If we're not on the same spiritual page, how can two walk together except they be agreed? Amos asks in Amos 3-3. So, doctrine is not everything in Christianity, but nothing is more important than doctrine, uh I would assert. Gospel doctrine is the foundation of all true faith. It's the basis of all real comfort. It's the inspiration for why we worship God. It's the inspiration inspiration for obedience, for for devotion. Maybe some of you have heard people say, well let's, you know, let's not talk about, let's not discuss doctrine. Let's just get on with evangelism. Let's not talk about doctrine. Let's just worship the Lord. Don't preach doctrine. Let's just preach Jesus. And and you hear this kind of watered down, reverted down to something so incredibly basic that who could not, you know seem to agree with that. But that makes about as much sense, folks, as a basketball coach saying to his players, Boys, don't worry about hoops and lines and court and and and and baskets and all. Just get out there and play basketball It's the the baskets and the lines and the hoops and the referee and all that that makes it basketball. That's part of the deal. You can't have evangelism. You can't have worship. You can't have Christianity without doctrine. It's the backbone to it So the study of doctrine is important because it's foundational. Turn to Psalm 11 and verse 3, and this is kind of a reference verse Psalm eleven verse three, it says, If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? And you're ought to highlight that verse in your Bible if it's not already highlighted. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Now believers recognize that we have a sure foundation of God that stands firm. And yet we also know in this dark apostate age in which wicked religious men and women walk in darkness, without knowledge and without understanding, as it were, all the foundations of the world are out of course. As the psalmist writes in Psalm 825, the religion of this world constantly attacks assaults, seeks to destroy, undermines, sets it naught, belittles the foundation of doctrinal truth, Christian doctrinal truth. It is under assault and attack. So, what happens if the righteous do not know doctrine very well? What effect does it have? This is my next question. If the righteous don't know doctrine very well, what effect does that have? Yeah, that's a big one. Error in the walk with the Lord. Yeah. Orthodoxy leads to orthopraxis, right? Doctrine leads to right practice. Absolutely. That's a big one. What else, Caleb? They're asking questions for the questions. Sure. If someone asks them a question, question and they're uh not prepared uh to give an answer, then they have to come back with, duh, I don't know. And it they look like they're uh an unprepared soldier. It's kinda like a soldier going into battle and he doesn't know where the front lines are. It's not not too terribly helpful. Won't be much edification to the brethren, right? It has pretty much nothing to add. Yeah, that could be a problem Some big things is they can be robbed of their comfort in Christ. They can be robbed of their edification. Chris, as you pointed out, they could be spiritually malnourished. They can be led into some very bizarre practices I know a man who uh came around upon occasion uh with a group of folks that used to fellowship with Brother Bernie and I back in San Diego and uh uh I'm not gonna give you his real name, but I'll just call him George just uh out of the blue. And uh George recently posted on his Facebook, this is a fictitious name, uh, that uh he didn't believe that there is a coming uh uh of Christ physically and bodily. He's come here spiritually and there is no uh uh future resurrection. In other words all the promises and all that are everything is fulfilled Everything in the scriptures that says is to come in the future has already been fulfilled. And so he says this is heaven right now You know, it's it's uh he he he over spiritualized it to a point where he's really swept off into some very bizarre doctrines and teachings, and uh this is what happens. People can be deceived in doing things that God hates. Let's look at some verses. I'm going to pass around, some reading assignments. Maybe you can read them real loud. We'll start with Dan if you could cover Proverbs 7. 21 Proverbs chapter seven verse twenty-one. Uh Anton, if you could get Colossians two, twenty through twenty-three. Uh Yvonne, Ephesians four, fourteen And Edward, if you take 1 Timothy 4, 16, and I'll capture Hebrews 13, 9. So everybody catch the verse reference? Alright. Alright, Dan, go ahead and belt out Proverbs 721. With her much better speech she caused him to yield. So this is the infamous adulterer in the book of Proverbs. Now it is a proverb. It's not the book of practicalities, it's the book of Proverbs. And so it's a dark saying You might say, where's doctrine in that? Well, it's that word fair speech. It's the same word used in the Hebrew. Everywhere else you find the word doctrine. This was my verse discovery of the day. And it uh could be literally rendered uh with her uh abundant doctrine She caused him to to to to in widen to to get large. You know, she kind of stretched things. It it made the narrow road a little broader. with her much doctrine. This is what she did. She had a reason for this and a reason for that. And so she just attacked him with all these doctrinal points to eventually where this young man who is You know, in the context, somebody who is void of understanding. Verse 7, a simple one. He's a youth. And he or she comes and attacks him doctrinally and he's swept away into something that's false. Colossians 2, uh if you would uh Anton. Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why as though living in the world are ye subject to ordinances? Touch not, taste not, handle not, which all are to perish with the using, after the commandments and doctrines of men. Which things have indeed a show of wisdom in willed worship and humility and neglecting of the body Not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. That uh last passage could also be rendered, but of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. The restrictions that men put, touch not, taste not, handle not, uh restrictions on perhaps certain foods that God no longer says are to be restricted. Um he talks about will worship, worship of the will. All of that says he says that's not going to help you against the battles of the flesh. That's of zero value. So you It's like purchasing something, some medicine that really doesn't do anything for you. You lose your money and it produces nothing. Ephesians 4. 14, this is a one I really like. Yvonne, if you would. May we henceforth be no more children toss to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the flight of men with cunning craftiness whereby they lie in waste and seed. Well, what imagery that is carried about with every wind of doctrine. I'm going to give you an illustration that when you drive down the road, hopefully it'll stick with you. As I go down the beltway, sometimes a piece of trash will be floating around on the road. And uh it's being tossed about with every wind of the passing car. And it's moving fast. You know, it's going 30, 40 miles an hour. Boy, it seems to have a direction in its life. But it's not anchored in anything. It's just being moved by a wind. And if it happens to float up and cross over the medium, zoom, it moves back the other direction. So every time you see some floating trash walking around, or not walking around, but just Flying around out there on the road, have that verse come to mind. Carried about with every wind of doctrine. That's how some people are If not rooted in what thus saith the Lord is, and are prepared to simply say, No, I'm not buying that. You know, that's an interesting idea, but no, I'm not buying it, and to be and and to be prepared to stand firm First Timothy four sixteen Take heed onto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continuing them for for in doing this thou shalt both to thyself in them that Wow, what a verse that is. Continue in the doctrine, for in doing so you will save both yourself and them that hear you. That sounds pretty like a weighty promise to me. Hebrews 13. 9 is our last one. We can uh you can go there if you'd like, or I'll read it. It says, Be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines, for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. or literally that have been walking therein. Notice the connection between meat and doctrine. There's the milk of the word, there's the meat of the word. The meat of the word is more doctrinal things, things that cut across passages of the scriptures. So, what can and must the righteous do? If uh in in light of the assault of the world, in light of this need, I think there's three things that we can and must do is the first is to recognize and assert the importance of doctrine in the Word of God. Doctrine really is a dirty word. When we talk about doctrine of the Bible, we're simply talking about the teaching of the Bible. What does the Bible teach? To say doctrine is insignificant is to say that the teaching of the Bible is insignificant. Doctrine is not insignificant is vital. And gospel doctrine is absolutely necessary to saving faith Faith in Christ is not a leap in the dark. It's a walk in the light, in the clear light of the Word of God. You don't abandon your intelligence coming to Christ. It's very reasonable to believe in the things the Scripture says. It's very provable and tangible. The person not taught the doctrine of Christ, or believes that which is contrary to the doctrine of Christ, according to the Word of God, does not know Christ. It's just that simple. It's a very this is not speculation, it's just a matter of revelation. Look at Romans, direct your attention to two passages. Romans 16. Romans 16, 17 and 18. We read this. Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses. Mark them. Mark them. Mark them. That if you're afraid to say their name, that's not marking them. Mark them which cause divisions and offenses. You're not speaking evil of them, you're speaking the truth. Evil is to tell a lie. The Apostle Paul said, Alexander the coppersmith has done me much harm. The Lord repay him according to his deeds. He was telling the truth. Mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you have learned and avoid them. Doesn't say tackle them, doesn't say twist their hisses, avoid them. For they that are such serve not her Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by, I love this phrase, good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple You know where that phrase fair speeches or that word fair speeches shows up at elsewhere in the Bible shows up as the word blessings. With good words and blessings. Oh, bless you, my son. You're so nice. They're very kind. They say good words. They're just very sweet-sounding, right? The devil doesn't come to your door like a Doberman pincher, snarling, you know, gnawing and barking his head off. He comes with smooth words and fair speeches. uh like the harlot. She's coming, she's not coming in a way that would in any way alarm this young man devoid of any understanding as so as to what her real intention is, which is to to to take his soul So this is a uh a good insight into into uh how the false prophets operate. They have good words and fair speeches. Oh, but they're such godly men, oh they're such nice neighbors. Yeah, I I thought so too Until when you they start talking about very significant doctrinal differences uh that cannot be brushed under the table, uh I don't care how nice they are. They're heretics. They're heretics. Second John 1 9 2 John, just before the book of Revelation. There's only one chapter in 2 John. Whosoever transgresseth And abides not in the doctrine of Christ. They don't dwell in the doctrine of Christ. They don't live in it. Hath not God. He that abides in the doctrine of Christ, he has both the Father and the Son. So there is a sharp indicator of significance of doctrine. If somebody It says in verses 10 and 11, if someone comes to you and doesn't bring this doctrine, you get a knock on your door, hi, we're here from so-and-so, and they got a little badge on, elder so-and-so, and they look to be the ripe age of about 20. I've left them with this passage of scripture in their mouths. I've said, Do you have a Bible? Oh yes, we have a Bible. So would you mind turning this passage and reading it for me? And I'd have them read 2 John Uh verses nine, ten, and eleven, as soon as they get to that last part, he that bids him Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds. The last thing they hear from me is the close of the door, Kerchunk Leave it off. Let them there sitting there meditating with what just happened to them because they're not coming with the doctrine of Christ. Sound doctrine is necessary for godly behavior. I don't doubt that many people may live in an outwardly moral and religious manner without doctrine. But you cannot live for Christ, to the glory of Christ, and after the example of Christ without the doctrine of Christ. It doesn't match. Paul tells us the doctrine of Christ is that doctrine which is according to godliness in 1 Timothy 6 3. So our comfort, our comfort as believers, not only our Our saving faith, not only godly behavior, but our comfort as believers living in this world greatly depends on our grasp of the doctrine of Scriptures. It greatly depends on it. These things are recorded for you for a reason. In fact, look at Romans 15. 4 because there's a very good reason given to you and I. Romans chapter 15 and verse 4. Maybe you've heard me give this passage before. It says, whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. That word everywhere else is rendered Doctrine, it's the word didiki, written for our learning. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope Why did God record all of these bizarre things in the book of Genesis? Why did God record Isaiah's prophecies? And why did God record what is required of a sinner in the law of God for a perfect sacrifice and uh the soul that sins must surely die. Why does God record all these things so that you and I can take maximum amount of comfort in knowing that the Lord Jesus Christ has fulfilled all those things on our behalf and all who believe in him by faith in his name have everlasting life. That's tremendous comfort. That'll get you through anything in life. So if it were not for the teaching of Scripture regarding God's sovereignty, his grace and predestination and providence, Christ's substitutionary atonement, and the Spirit's efficacious grace, where would we find the strength and comfort we need to face and deal with life in this world. The second thing here is that we have to importance uh recognize the importance of doctrine. And if and when men uh try to destroy the foundations on which our soul rests, we have to cling to the word of God. So in this world of chaos, there's one thing that stands unchanging, firm, and unmoving, and that absolutely is the word of God. The foundation of God stands sure, Psalm 11989 says. The Word of God is a firm foundation. We sing a hymn to that effect. Isaiah 40, verse 8 says, The word of our God shall stand forever. Our house is not built upon the shifting faith and ever-changing philosophies of men. Do you know how in psychology the psychologists come up with this big book of all these different psychological issues? Um they get in a room, they pull something out of the nearest orifice of their body and concoct some idea, and they say, well, this child doesn't is not a sinner. Uh he just has a uh uh parental uh uh what's the phrase oh gloria's not here she would know it Parental rejection s uh uh uh uh uh uh symptoms or disease or uh I forget the terms that they use in this crazy field. Uh nothing's a sin. Uh i it's all a disease. Just blame it on the society, blame it on something else. But they come up, they just make these things up. There's there's no uh medical basis for it. There's no uh scientific proof behind it. They haven't observed and and and and uh uh actually tracked this thing back to any kind of a physical material cause. It's all made up The scriptures tells you why men do what they do. One of the things to me that proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Bible absolutely is the Word of God is because it tells the truth on men. I see men in this book doing things exactly the way I'd expect them to do it. Very deviantly, very deceptively, uh when the God gives a historical record of the sin of Judah going down to uh hire a uh a prostitute or whatever. It's like, yep, I could see men doing that. Yep, I could absolutely see men doing that. When you see Peter denying the Lord with a curse, because a little maiden girl by fire says, You were one of them, weren't you? I raise my hand and go, Yep, I can do that. There's no sin in the Bible I could say, Well, I would never do that. Absolutely. You just see a uh a true record of the way humanity uh really is. And so when God talks about uh doctrinal weighty topics like total depravity, it's very credible Because it it uh it it just smacks of uh of a divine origin and indeed if man were to write this book it'd be very different The Apostle Paul exhorted Timothy to earnestly contend for the faith. He says, the time will come when men will not endure sound doctrine. But because they have itching ears, they will heap up to themselves teachers and be led away from the truth. They'll heap up to themselves teachers. I like that heap. They just oh throw another one on the pile. Let's get a few more You know, like Jezebel had. She had four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and four hundred prophets of the groves. Let's throw a few more on there, right? We all want to be saying the same thing. And they all mount up. And it's uh that's that's how that works The doctrines we believe are those taught in Scriptures, believed by all true Christians, are not of men but of God. These are not denominational dogmas, they're not church confessions, they're not doctrinal debates, they're not theological theses, they're the teaching of God Himself. vital to our soul, vital to the knowledge of God, and vital to salvation. All of it known by divine revelation. 2 Peter 1. 21. 2 Peter 1. 21 tells us how these things come to us. Apostle here writes, he says, Prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Moved is the sense of a of a sail of a ship. It's very large sail, and when that wind catches it, that ship goes a specific direction. Which direction? Wherever the wind is pushing it Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. David said, the Spirit of God spake by me, his word was in my tongue. How did he know that? I don't know. How do you know when you've touched electricity in the socket? You kind of know there's something there. You might not see it, but boy, you can feel. There's something very strong and powerful flowing through me right now, and I can tell it So it it must also be true for David when he was uh recording divine inspiration from the scriptures. And because it's divinely given, it can only be divinely illuminated. Go to 1 Corinthians 2. This is how we know doctrine. If you want to figure out how do I actually achieve and learn doctrine, doctrine of the Word of God, how do I get to that? Beginning in verse 12 of 1 Corinthians 2, it says, Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God. God gave his Holy Spirit to us. He gave the earnest, the down payment of the Spirit. Why did He do that? Well, He tells you. That we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Ghost teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things Romans 7. 14 says the law of God is spiritual. We compare spiritual with spiritual. You compare the Bible with the Bible. You compare scripture with scripture. That's how you arrive at truth. It's really that simple. Is it fast? Not always. Does it take a little bit of time? May. Maybe the best investment of time you have for the week. Will you arrive at truth? Yes, you will. You can But the natural man, however, receives not the things of the Spirit of God, for there is foolishness unto him. It's absolute foolishness He hears this book, he thinks this is a complete waste of my time. I have no interest in this. Or he may look at it and says, I'm I I really shut that thing as too much judgment. Why? Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned Now that could also be rendered at the end because he is spiritually judged. It's the same concept, same words there. I know when I was unsaved, I dared not look in the book of Revelation. I didn't like it, because I knew what happened The believers are getting beat up and they won at the end, but man, I didn't want any part of that. I was like, ugh, uh shut that, I'll just kind of put that over here. Tell me something about the love of God. I want to read about that. That I'm more interested in. And then God saves you and all of a sudden you're highly interested in revelation. You're highly interested in what God says in all parts of his word. We are in fact taught of God if He is our teacher. So let me ask another question. Now this may appear redundant and even silly, but it's not. What is the source of true doctrine and what are some wrong sources? Yeah, that's pretty simple, isn't it? What are some wrong sources? Scholars? Caleb? What's that? Yeah. Stuff that's made up, myths or fables, okay. Books of the bookstore. Books at the bookstore. What are some sources that people When they want to learn doctrine from the Bible, what and they don't turn to the Bible, what are some common sources they turn to? Commentaries, huh? Oh the internet. Oh yeah, there's a good source of truth for you right there. Huh? Believe everything that's out there, it's all right. It's all good. Well, listen, in the minds of most men, there are many sources for true doctrine. They do not limit themselves to one book. Most people say that's very narrow-minded. God says yes, that's that's correct. It's a narrow road that leads to life. And few and few and few there be that find it. That's right. It's a narrow road. It's a very narrow road. God insists on that. He makes no apologies for it. If God wants to be broad-minded, he can. This is it. The commandment is exceeding broad, the scripture says Psalm 119 says, I have more understanding than all my teachers, for I meditate on thy precepts. Most would assert it's a primary source, but very few would look upon the Word of God as the only source of doctrine. They will not limit themselves to the, thus saith the Lord, alone They will grab uh confessions and there are some useful confessional statements. They will reach to many different things. So I'm going to tell you a few things that other people look upon other than Scriptures alone as a true source of doctrine. So many like the Pharisees will build their doctrine upon the Bible and tradition. They got a Bible in one hand, but they just can't have that alone. They got to put something in the other hand. But we gotta have the Bible and, right? You can just cut off everything after and you can pretty much assume it's a disaster. The Bible and tradition. And those who do so by their tradition make void the Word of God To be sure, there are good traditions that the scriptures talk about. Whenever people attempt to build their doctrine on the Word of God and tradition, eventually, inevitably, it never fails, they will prefer the tradition. over the Word of God every time. Every time. The Word of God will take the back seat and the tradition will be elevated. It'll become day number one. It'll make the word of God of none effect. Turn to the book of Mark. And for exhibit A, I will lay to your consideration the religious elite of Jesus' day, known as the Pharisees. And he speaks about them here in Mark chapter 7 and verse 7. Let's start in verse six. We'll start in verse five. Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders? There we go. They just pull it out. But eat bread with unwashing hands. He answered and said unto them, Well hath Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. It's interesting. Jesus says, you're honoring me with your lips. What you say, what comes out of your mouth, is a glorifying thing. That's great. But your heart is as close to God as a groundhog. It's not. It's it's down in some hole. It's in it it's in the dirt. Verse 7, howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men? And he gives a couple of examples. He says, for laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the washing of pots and cups. By the way, that's the word baptism. It has to do with a a uh the they're they're uh they're trying to bless the pots and cups. Do you know their denominations today that still do this sort of thing You can have your pets baptized. You can have your house baptized. They'll baptize your clock. They'll sprinkle some water on. Some priest will come. He'll baptize your clock Now your clock will be Holy Ghost blessed and it'll work right. He'll come and baptize your house. He'll baptize your plants. You give him enough money. He'll baptize anything you want to. Right? So this is the they'll quote unquote sanctified. He says, you've you've that's the doctrine of men. He says, many other such like things you do. He said unto them, verse 9, Full well ye reject the commandment of God that you may keep your own tradition. You see, the Bible talks about these people who come with a Bible in their hand and something else in the other hand. And it gives the enemy and the adversary an occasion to blaspheme that worthy name by which you're called. See, you Christians always do X. You Christians do Y. Well, I'm sorry to tell you, that guy ain't a Christian. Because he's not abiding in the doctrine of Christ, so he's none of God's. Verse 10. Moses said, Honor thy father and mother. Did Moses say that? Yes, he did. Is that in the Ten Commandments? You bet. Written no less with the finger of God And An, whoso curses father or mother, let him die the death. That's what Moses said Verse 11. But ye say, if a man shall say to his father or mother, it is his core band. Speaking of money, it's a it's a a gift devoted for the temple. Sorry, Mom and Dad, I know you can't have any food to eat this week, but I've set all this money aside for the temple. It's for the temple of God. That is to say, a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited with By me he shall be free. And you suffer him no more to do aught for his father and mother. Jesus says, I don't care if you take in that money you say you want to devote to the temple, you're running roughshod over Moses He says, verse 13, you make the word of God of none effect through your tradition which you have delivered, and many such like things do ye Powerful instruction, isn't it? You see how it weaves it in there? You got a little thread of money, you're interested in money. You know? Oh, if it's devoted to the temple, you're you're relieved of your obligation to your parents. And your guy says no You can serve God quite nicely by helping your aged parents. There's nothing unbiblical about that. That's altogether supported. Um lost my place. Sorry. Oh, that's because I gotta go to the next page. The Bible and tradition, that's one source. uh that is wrong. Others build their doctrine on the Word of God and got the Bible in one hand and the creeds of the church. There are some churches that have some notable creeds, they have some noteworthy creeds, they have some wonderful confessions And there may be a proper place and a use for creeds and confessions. But our faith is not determined by the creeds of even the best of men. Anybody know why that might be? Why what country? Why our faith is not determined by even creeds from the best of men Something in Proverbs, I don't know if it necessarily applies to godly men also, but it says, you know, at their best speech they're less than vanity. And so if it's a godly doctrine, even if it's a godly man who goes out of his way to make up his own idea that's uh the dangerous thing and you know he he himself by his own works is less than vanity Yeah, in 1 Corinthians 13 9 it says, We know in part and we prophesy in part. The best of us, the best of us, the best of any of us. We only know in part. See, God has a complete, clear, full view of everything, and He knows what needs to be emphasized and what doesn't need to be emphasized. He understands what's the weightier matters of the law and the uh uh uh and tithing of mint, cumin and annas. He understands that balance. And so our faith has to stand on the Word of God alone. You have to find somewhere why you're doing what you're doing, why you believe what you believe, there has to be some anchor passage, passage as in Scripture as to what you cling to And boy, you just, if you just chew on it, meditate on it, it'll just blossom out and open up more and more, and you find out, hey, this is pretty rich. This is this is pretty good. Near man spake like Christ did. And I tell you, when you really chew and meditate on the Bible, you'll find out there's new vistas and new levels and new layers you've never discovered before. I've read a lot of stuff men have written There's not a whole lot that I've read that is worth reading twice. You know, just really you go through it Kind of like, you know, I don't like gum. You know I don't like gum. Because you chew on it for a little bit, you know, in about the first two minutes this is nice. After that, you're just gum, you're just jawing away and there ain't nothing to it. You know, you're just chewing, you're not getting anywhere You spit it out, the flavor's gone. I guess that's why they sell chiclets. You just pop in another one, so you get the little sugar burst again. And that's kind of how men's writings are. They're a little chiclet. They last for a couple of minutes and pfft toss it Not so with the Word of God. Very, very, very different. Very different. Bible creeds are useful. The Apostle Paul talks about one that he received, and guess what? It's recorded in scriptures. Look at 1 Corinthians 15. First Corinthians 15, he talks about a creed he delivered and uh that that he received and that he delivered. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 1 Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand. By which also you're saved. If you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. In other words, he's Telling him, I received this. I I I got this from from somebody. How Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. Notice that statement, according to the scriptures. I love it And that he was buried and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. He repeats it. Christ's resurrection on the third day is not a mystery. It was foretold in the Old Testament So we're so that's a hit. When you go reading through the Old Testament, you come across something that talks about the third day. Hmm. You might want to You might want to pique your interest in that a little bit. It might have something to do with the resurrection of Christ. Might, might not, but it's there, according to the scriptures, Paul says Verse 5, and that he, Jesus, was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to this present. Some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James and of all the apostles, and last of all he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. It's something he received. Christ rose from the dead, and he was seen, and he was seen, and he was seen. He underscores the fact that, hey, we really saw this. There was a real, no-kidding, resurrection. Because that's a big deal. That's something they preached a lot. Another source of false doctrine comes from the Bible and the tradition, the Word of God and Creeds of the Church Many build their doctrine upon this one, the plain statements of the Scripture, plus something they deduce from the Scripture. This is a slippery one. The plain statements of Scripture plus something they deduce from the Scripture. So there is among Protestants a commonly accepted doctrine called the doctrine of necessary consequences. It's written in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Okay? Now, when men attempt to build a doctrine on the plain statement of Scriptures and what they think must be deduced from Scripture, they try to build on two foundations, one of sand and another of rock. And the result can be destruction. Now, when sinful men make their reasoning the basis of believing something, there's no limit to the nonsense that will be passed off. There are useful ways to make deductions from the Scriptures, but the Scriptures ought to guide you to that. It ought to lead you to those conclusions. For instance, when the Sadducees came up and wanted to know about the resurrection And the Lord Jesus, because the Sadducees don't believe anything beyond the first five books of the Bible. There's a lot of Old Testament verses like in Job Where uh the Bible talks about uh the resurrection, Job says, I know my Redeemer liveth, and that uh he shall stand upon the earth in the latter days, and I will see him with my own eyes and uh uh worms after After my flesh destroys my body, yet I shall arise and see him in my eyes and not another. I'm horribly paraphrasing uh Job's passage there. Jesus goes to the burning bush at the foot of Mount Sinai, on the backside of Mount Sinai, before Moses goes into Egypt, and he says, when Moses talked to God and he says, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He says, He's not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. In other words, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are alive. He's the God of the resurrection. So Jesus used godly deduction to point that out. And so we can go to that scripture and say, yep, according to the Lord Jesus He's teaching and deducing for us something from Scripture. Again in the book of Hebrews, when he says that consider how great this man Melchizedek was, who Abraham paid tithes, and even Levi did when he was in the loins of Abraham. He's making that deduction. He's looking at it with a God-breathed inspirational insight into that. Those are good deductions. There's nothing wrong with that But others have have tried to to to wedge in all kinds of bizarre uh angles at it and and and they they go out too far in a limb. They go way out too far in a limb There's another source of truth, some in this day of charismatic nonsense, multitudes. And I mean multitudes build their doctrine on the Word of God and experience. The Word of God and experience. I experienced such and such. I had a vision. I experienced a dream. I had an out-of-body experience. And they recorded and made a wrote a book about it. Experience is no basis for faith. Saul had a real experience in the house of a witch in Endor, but that experience is not the basis for our doctrine. Neither are our own experiences good or bad. Martin Luther was exactly right when he said any teaching which does not square with the Scriptures is to be rejected, even if it snows miracles every day. It's an interesting statement. Let me tell you how God puts it in the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter one. Galatians one verse eight. He says, Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so I now say again, if any man preach Any other gospel unto you than that you have received, let him be cursed. Notice, an angel from heaven. He's saying, make it an angel from heaven. Let him come down and speak. Wow, that's not an angel. Do you know what he told me? You couldn't believe it Paul says, don't believe it. If it's not the gospel that you've received, let him be accursed. So The only basis for doctrine, the only source of divine truth is the Word of God. I want you to turn to Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 20. Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 20. Because when we talk about doctrine, we talk about scriptures, the teaching of the Bible, we don't have a right to entertain even our own thoughts and opinions, much less express them. In these matters we dare not speak either more or less than that which is expressly written in the Word of God. Isaiah 8. 20 To the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. That's the verse you ought to highlight. I can pretty much tell you a rule of thumb that I have found to be accurate easily in the high 90 percentile. There are some helpful books out there that other theologians have written, and from time to time I will read them I didn't for probably the first decade or so of my Christian walk. I just spent time in the Bible and got real familiar with this book That's a great start. Just get familiar with the book. And in a heartbeat, you can tell when somebody's trying to railroad their ideas into it. If you should happen to find a religious book, somebody maybe ask your opinion about it, or you're interested in reading it I'll give you a real simple trick for figuring out real fast without getting your head wrapped up in a bunch of nonsensical theological arguments trying to sweep you off your feet Real simple trick is this. Just start to look through how much quotations and references to thus saith the Lord do they have? How many Bible verses are they pointing you to? Does it start off with, now, here's the framework you gotta have to understand what I'm about to say. In other words, they're gonna put they're gonna take this off and they're gonna put a rose pair of colored glasses on your eyeballs with kaleidoscope and other weird stuff bolted at the end. And then if you look at it that way, oh yeah, I guess I see what you're saying. Don't put that junk on to begin with A good Bible teacher is going to be pointing you to this book, to thus saith the Lord. They're going to point out scriptures to you. That's what they're going to do. That's the role of a good Bible teacher. They're pointing you to thus saith the Lord. Present, past, future. Every even faithful man I've come across when they make a point I look in their section, okay they've made an interesting point. Which scriptures are they pointing me to that shore up that point? If it's not there, it's suspect. It's suspect. It really is. So try it out yourself. See if I'm not right. You will discover that more often than not, if there's not a bot of thus not a lot of thus sayeth the Lord in there, you can safely reject him 1 Corinthians 4. 6 is another interesting passage. I don't know if you're aware of this one, so let's uh turn to there. Isaiah 8. 20 is a really good one for you to hang on to. Isaiah is the fifth gospel. He's got everything in it. But 1 Corinthians 4, 6. Especially in the King James, it's helpful because those brethren were so faithful they italicized. Those words which are not found represented by an actual Greek word, but the sense might be there. So they're not wrong to include it. The sense could be there, but the underlying word isn't there Look at verse 6. He says, These things, brethren, have I, in a figure, transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sake. Here's the punchline. That you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up one against another. Now that phrase of men is italicized. So let me read it without the italicized portion. That you might not learn in us, that you might learn in us not to think above that which is written. Ah. Interesting. In other words, Don't try to get up into this high and lofty zone where, you know, you pretend like you've got this big commanding sweep of everything the scripture says You don't. This is the mind of God. I seriously doubt you're going to soar anywhere near that. Right? Nowhere near that. You don't want to be thinking above that which is written. You want to as much as possible be trying to express and think God's thoughts after him. Use if God chose these words, what's wrong with us using those words to describe it? Uh I I I don't understand that. Okay. Next question I have. What part of the Bible is most relevant to doctrine? Yeah, all of it. Yeah, this is a no-brainer. But again, I'm asking these questions and I and you may think, Vince, I thought I was coming to some really insightful Bible study. We're stuck in first gear Yes, I am stuck in first year for a reason. Because I'm still surprised at how many people missed first year. Somewhere along the way, they they they they skipped that. And and they're not going anywhere. Their engine's sputtering, they got this really strange, awkward, you know, back and forth. You know, uh, if Yvonne earlier read 2 Timothy, look at 2 Timothy 3, 2 Timothy 3, 16, and 17. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17 say this: that all scripture, all, is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine. For reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. By the way, that is, you've just read there, the biblical method of psychological counseling. The four-step process. It's right there. Step one, doctrine. You better know what God says, because that's the standard. Let's see whether you're in line with the standard or not. Okay, this is the standard. Otherwise, it's just shifting winds of opinion. Oh, you're fine. Well, you want to change your gender today? Sure, why not Yeah, i if you have no standard, uh I feel like a donkey today, you know, that's what I feel like. Uh I won't go down that path. Alright, profitable for doctrine. Next step. For reproof. This is what God says. You're over here. You need to be reproved. You need to repent. You need to get back into the way that God would have you to go. For correction. Alright, you reproved for doing that. That's wrong. Now we're going to correct you. That's the positive thing. We don't leave them there stuck. We give them a correct way. and for instruction in righteousness. Now let's move past that. Let's do that which is righteous. That's good biblical counseling. There's a standard, you're out of the way, you need to be corrected, here's the right way to go. Perfect. And the reason that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. By the way, the uh NIV omits uh uh uh some of the parts of that that the man of God may be perfect, it omits that part. It's optional. Yeah, Sabina? Oh okay, alright. Yeah, I couldn't really mean that. Acts chapter twenty. What did the apostle Paul teach? Acts 20 and verse 20. He says, I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and taught you publicly and from house to house. Verse 27. I have not shown to declare unto you all the counsel of God. One of the downsides of Venturing into a series on teaching doctrine is that men have hobby horses. They have particular doctrines they like to talk about. They're very excited about them. And they want to make everything surround that particular doctrine. Okay? The Apostle Paul says, I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. The whole counsel of God. Now it's interesting, my estimation of the Apostle Paul's time in how much he spent at different churches was about three years. He would be in a place for uh as short as a few months and as long as three years, and then he moved on. And that appeared to have been sufficient for him to lay out the the basics uh of the faith the a and through his writings to then shore them up Uh it wasn't this ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. It's something that is achievable if you pay attention to it. You can get anchored in some basics and you can move on to some strong meat But ours, as Abina said, is the doctrine of the Bible, the Old and the New Testament. We don't simply hold the doctrine of the New Testament. Now some critics will say, well, when the Apostle Paul wrote to Timothy and said all scripture. There wasn't a New Testament written yet, so it doesn't include the New Testament. Well, uh God sealed the canon, called it Scripture, and he and he dotted the I and crossed the T in the book of Revelation If any man adds to the word adds to the word of the book of this prophecy, I'll add to him the plagues written therein. Amen take away from it, I'll take away his name out of the book of life So God made plain what he means by the scriptures by that. He sealed the can. They're all tied and associated together. You can't go to that argument, it won't work. The Old Testament, in fact, teaches the exact same thing as the New Testament, except with a little less clarity and fullness. It's the colors, right? The Old Testament is the shadow. The New Testament is the substance. The Old Testament is the type. The New Testament is the antity. The Old Testament is the promise and the prophecy. The New New Testament is the fulfillment, okay The Bible is one book. It's got one message. It has total uniformity of doctrine. That is the marvelous thing to me about this book. Written over so long by so many different people, they're all teaching the same thing. That's phenomenal to me. Someone once said the Old Testament is the New Testament concealed. And the New Testament is the Old Testament revealed. Maybe you've heard something like that. That's pretty good. It may not be true anymore, but many of you may have the old-fashioned car key, which is a little rough piece of metal sticking out. Some of you many people now have a little fobs and they just get in their car and push start and they go. So, you know, we we we've lost uh an illustration here. But for the old timers like me that still have a piece of plastic with uh metal sticking out of it, it's got these little rough, bumpy edges and ridges to it Uh same thing with a house key. Some of those house keys are really sharp. I mean you can actually, you know, hurt hurt yourself with it. Um Can you imagine somebody taking that house case it it's always cutting my pants when I put it in there and it it hurts my I think I'm just gonna file off some of these edges These edges are just a little too sharp. It's just a little too graphic. Just file it down. Is it going to unlock your house? No. You're going to make a trip to Home Depot to say, I've messed up my key, can I make a new one So it is in this book. There are some very strange things written in here that are written in very specific ways. And if you try to smooth it over to make it smooth to the itching ear You're gonna miss the opportunity to unlock some teachings in the Old Testament. You're totally gonna miss it. Because I'm telling you, it fits like a glove and when you see it, the hair just goes up on your back. The back of your neck it just stands up and goes, Oh, can you believe that Can you believe that? Would God really put that in there? And you just go, oh, that's just unbelievable. And you read another translation and you go, what? What? You're just you're just upset. I've been robbed. How did you mess that up? It just it it just it blows me away All true doctrine is the doctrine of Jesus, the apostles, and the prophets, and faithful men taught exactly what they taught Jesus, it says in Mark 1, Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, saying the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand, repent and believe the gospel. When Jesus' earthly ministry was finished, he ascends back up to heaven. The Apostle Paul and the other apostles taught the same thing. Paul came into his lodging to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets, from morning till evening. Boy, how would you like to be able to fly on a wall in that house? He was dwelt two years in his own hired house and received all that came into him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Paul did. Okay, my last section here. I gotta wrap it up. I don't know how I'm gonna do this in five minutes. How should we study Bible doctrine? Well, I'm not going to lay down some absolute rules as to the best method of Bible study, but many people do things in different ways, and they seem to get along just fine, and I'm good with that. I'm not going to suggest you change your method of study if it's working. But no matter what method you use, I think there's some rules or guidelines you ought to follow that I think are helpful. The first is to study all doctrine contextually, meaning in context. I cannot emphasize that enough. By context, we mean there's a local context in which that shows up, and there is the larger context, meaning the whole Bible It has to fit in both, sports fans. It's got to fit in the local context and it's got to fit in the larger context. I have seen people take something in a different context and try to wedge 500 pounds of some other ideas in there and the local context just doesn't support it. It just falls apart. God chose to communicate to us through Hebrew, a little bit of Aramaic, and Greek. Those are now dead languages. Their meaning is frozen in time. English keeps changing. English language changes. I don't talk about a basum anymore, I talk about a broom. And so there's some a few words, a handful of words. I got a booklet back there that'll help you with uh your archaic uh King James words. It's just a handful, very small number of them. It's not huge. It's not catastrophic. Um but those were In languages that that that we can understand and we uh it really doesn't use too terribly complicated words. It uses words like sun, light, rock Dirt, sin, you know, mind, flesh, lust. You know, these are not complicated things. They're hard for us to hear because it offends us. That's a separate story. It's a different problem. Context. You go to the Bible to get your doctrine. You don't go to the Word of God to prove your doctrine. You exegete it, you pull it out. What does it say? Don't try to force fit it in. I've tried that, it doesn't work. I get on a hobby horse and I think, oh this is great. Man, this must be what this is. And I start going and I just can't find support for it because it I had some verses crosswired in my head and it just doesn't work. Second point is you study the Word of God submissively. Uh we have to bring everything uh to the touchstone of Holy Scripture. We have to ask God the Holy Spirit for wisdom and insight. It's not a bad idea. In fact, it's a very good idea to pray before you read the Bible. That's why we do that before Bible study. God, the Holy Spirit, is the one who opens the book. I'm rushing a little bit, but uh I'm running a little short here. Number three. To the degree that's possible, we should state our doctrine in the very language of the Bible. Now, I know that For sake of clarification and to uh help express faithfully what we're trying to teach from the scriptures, we may use terms that are not in the Bible, like sovereignty, like trinity, uh like substitution. like satisfaction. Those words per se don't appear in the scriptures. But they nicely capture the many passages that do speak about the Trinity of God. As much as possible, we shouldn't get uh uh we we try to use the very language of the scriptures. Don't get caught in the trap trap of requiring others or being required by others to say things in a specific way. Because Bible doctrine is simple and clearly revealed. It really isn't too terribly difficult. The hard part is believing it. Because it's contrary to everything that we want it to say. It doesn't say what we want it to say. It's not given to us in code. The word of God is not the secreting of God, it's the revelation of God. These things are revealed unto us and to our children. So if a man has to take you all the way around the world just to get to around a corner, probably a little too far. Too many words, right? Fourth point. Give no doctrine greater or less prominence or importance than it is given in the Scriptures. Give no doctrine greater or less importance than the scriptures gives it. Let me take you to Matthew chapter 23 and verse 23. He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anis and cumin. And have omitted the weightier matters of the law, and elists them, judgment, mercy, and faith. These ought you to have done, and not to leave the other undone. So, yes, all doctrine is important. There are weightier matters. There are some that are, frankly, weightier. So we want to major in the majors and minor in the minors. The message of the Bible is very simple. It's about Jesus Christ and Him crucified. On the two walking back from the road to Emmaus, the Lord Jesus pulled alongside these couple of fellows, Cleopus and the other one, and They're all sad. It's the third day, and some women came and told us strange things, and and then he reproved them and says, Fools are slow of heart Ought not the Christ to have suffered and enter into his glory? And it says, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets he expounded unto them in all of it the things concerning himself It says in Psalm 40, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me. This is a hymn book, H I M book. It's a history book, his story. That's what it's about. It's about Jesus Christ and Him crucified. The devil will get you off of that track. He'll have you talk about, he'll have some people talk about end-time theology, and man, he'll they'll just run with it. And they'll never preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified, and an atonement that satisfies and pays and redeems and that appeases an all mighty, wrathful, angry God They'll never get to some of the weightier matters of the law. Last point is this. We adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things. Because we have to take great care to conform our lives to the doctrine that we know. That's probably another reason why God gives us as much doctrine as we are able to bear. If we were to know, it says in the in a place, with much knowledge comes much grief. And I'm here to testify that that is true. That is true. It's very grievous. The more you know about what the right way of things is, uh are to be in the scriptures and the right things of God. When you look at the world around you and how so much of Christendom is just lost. It it's subject to the very things the Lord talks about, being tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine. It's heartrending It's heartrending. When you go into a church building that seats 1,700 people and there's barely 20 people inside, you go, my God, what happened here? What kind of a wave swept all these people out of this building? And you just, uh May God bring us to a greater knowledge of Himself as we obediently apply what we know. Well, I close with these two things about testing doctrine. First John talks about try the spirits, don't believe every spirit, but try the spirit whether they're of God. Here's another simple rule of thumb. You can test it by, you can test a lot of doctrine and figure out where path it's on with a real simple test. Number one, who gets all the glory? If God ain't getting all the glory out of that doctrine, if man gets a little sliver of it, if he gets a little wedge, if he can keep a little bit of self-respect, It's probably not from the Bible. You ought to be a vile sinner to be justified by Christ It's not your righteousness that'll it's not your unrighteousness that'll keep you from heaven. It's your righteousness that'll keep you from heaven. You gotta be a complete loser. In that equation, the just is Jesus Christ, and I'm the unjust one. That's where I've got to find myself at. And the second is this, does the doctrine lead you and cause you to rest in Christ? Do you find that you absolutely positively need him? That he's your all-in-all? That you've got to have him. Sir, we would see Jesus. If that's the conclusion, then you're in the right place.