We are now going to take a rather large chunk of scriptures today. We're going to go from verse 20 all the way through 28. So if you have your Bible, please open to Hebrews 7. I'm going to begin. Gonna begin, I'm gonna attempt to begin reading in verse twenty. Hebrews seven, beginning in verse twenty. Hear now the word of the Lord. And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest, for those priests were made without an oath. But this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord swear and will not repent, thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. By so much Was Jesus made surety of a better testament? And they truly were many priests because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's, for this he did once when he offered up himself. For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity, but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated forevermore Thus ends the reading of our scripture for today. A rather long section. We hit the pinnacle last week of this long, narrow staircase climb To verses 18 and 19, which said, There's a disannulling of the commandment going before. The law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did. So now we kind of have to grab that territory. We have to grab that ground. He's taken us from a change of the law to the sun, and now he's got to grab that territory. But I have our discussion question And I emailed it to you. I hope you all were able to see it. I'm going to read the question, then I'm going to read some of the responses. There's quite a lot of responses that came back, so it was very good. You know, there's an old saying among business owners that it's hard to find good help. Imagine you're a business owner. Some of you actually are business owners, so this isn't too hard of an imagination. What would you do to make sure you don't lose your best, and I mean best employee, not yourself, but your best employee? What would you do to keep that in person? Well, somebody wrote, here's a couple of answers here, a fair commission and salary. Excellent working conditions, clean environment, providing essential tools to do the job, equal treatment, getting a deserved attaboy is priceless, respect, encouraging participation. open door policy exhibiting self-respect and ethical behavior. That's all really good stuff. Another person said, you give them retention pay. Or give them important titles. Especially if it's got the word manager in it and if they're in their early 30s, put the word manager and then they get a little put the word director in there And if you ever put the word executive in there, it can be executive bottle washer. It doesn't matter. If it's got the word executive in there, well you're going to have to carve notches in the door because their head's going to swell up so big they'll need a place for their ears to fit through. It's incredible. I called it psychic income. Annual reviews with bonuses might help people stay focused. Another person in Texas wrote, I'd show respect to one and all, give them the same praise. I know it doesn't sound like much, but it might go a lot further than you might think. Also from Texas, incentives. Yes, incentive compensation is an old trick. Bonuses, adequate paid time off, good pay with opportunities for advancement. taking time to know their story, treating all with dignity and respect. But what are your thoughts? What would you do to keep your best employee? It becomes popular right now in China for the business owners to give shares to their employees. Uh-huh. To make them feel that they work on the same goal. Yes, put 'em on the same incentive as perhaps the owners, they also get a share or a stake in the company. Yeah, that's that certainly is an effective uh uh technique. Any other thoughts? I would search out what my top talent is trying to achieve in life and then help them to realize their career goals. Okay. Uh find out what they're trying to get to as well and then help them realize career goals. Yeah. That's that's that isn't a technique that's used. Other thoughts? You're just bristling, I can tell. This submarine will not surface until You're not gonna lose them Right. Yeah, you're you're you're shackled to the ship. A pension plan, no offered 401k, and your pension immediately disappears the day you leave the company. Yeah, that's that's the the the old beating In line with his hangings will continue until morale improves. Yes, hangings will continue until the morale improves. Absolutely. Yes. I've certainly had bosses that that work that way where we call it no good deed goes unpunished. Seriously, an employer that that um works side by side. Um you know when I was I was in management in in healthcare, but everybody in management had to do s shifts in the houses as well So, you know, there was no job that was below management. Yeah, management that's working right alongside. In fact, a Fortune 500 uh magnate, I think it was um it might have been Bloomberg, I don't recall which, had his desk right there in the middle with all the others in the trading floor. He was right there with I mean not the trading floor, the Nasdaq near stock exchange, but in his business here he didn't have any special desk. Uh Bezos started off the same way. He had an old ratty old desk that he sat in. It was the rattiest around. He just invested everything in the business. I would say personality. matters if you're not the type of person that people want to be around, you're probably not going to attract. That's true, personality. So that implies that the executive has to work on themselves And you're hitting on a good point. People do have to want to work for you if you're that business owner. They have to want to work for you. Yep, absolutely. Personality does matter. Good good thoughts. What about uh the other employees? How do you keep them focused on the job? Praise them. Okay. The other employees praise them. Okay. What else would keep other employees focused on their job? Let them know that you can have this that you've given to this uh special employee if you you continue along a positive uh track. Yeah uh the incentive part uh give them something to uh want to to look forward to uh by letting them know that that uh these other people are not just privileged but they've earned it and you can earn it too if I'm phrasing what you're saying correctly. Yeah, okay Well, you're probably trying to figure out how this line of questioning goes along with what we just read in Hebrews, as I know some of you try to second guess where I'm going with it, and that's okay. But The study today has to do with why Jesus is better, and there's three reasons that are given in this section of of Scripture. And I wanted to take it all at one shot. I wanted to move on into the uh part that I glossed over a little bit where it mentioned that he is Uh uh verse 22 today, Jesus has made surety of a better testament, a better covenant. That's going to come up at length in the eighth chapter. And subsequent chapters as well. So I'm going to reserve those comments for that. But I just want to focus on why Jesus is better. And there's really one big point I want you to appreciate from this. And that is Jesus is duty an oath bound to his job as high priest. And he is the best man for the job. And God has assured us that he will not leave that job by what we've just read here. at the end of Hebrews 7. That's where we're going to show why Jesus is that best employee, so to speak, of heaven, and why he's duty bound. Oath bound and the best one for the job. So we're going to look at three three key points verses from verses twenty to twenty-two Uh it has kind of a double negative it says in as much as not without an oath he was made priest. That's a little awkward language we don't Your grammar school, high school uh English teacher tells you to avoid double negatives, but there are times when that's important because you're comparing the negative without an oath to to the the flip side with an oath. And what it's fundamentally saying is is this This is the fourth time now that the penman is directing us to two key points in Psalm 110, verse 4. That Jesus was put under an oath. The Lord God swear that Messiah would be an eternal priest. We've seen that verse several times already. He's really milking that verse for a lot of information. And the second point is that God would never change his purpose, meaning he won't repent. And so, without an oath is a reflection to the Levitical priesthood. But let's think about for a moment why Jesus, the benefit that Jesus has with an unbreakable oath to execute this office. God swear that he would be in this office. Well, back in Hebrews 6 and verse 16, we read that an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. When somebody is under oath and you believe their character and credibility, and that the proceedings are legitimate, Then you have every reason to quell all bouts. Look, he's under oath. He's under oath to carry this out. Under oath, this was the testimony given. You know, even in our day When men in politics show up in front of the news and make blattering statements, Congress may call them in and in a closed door section Adjure them, meaning put them under oath, they'll give a different account, because they know they're under oath. Even today that still happens They then are slow to publish what they really said under oath because it was a closed session. We know that's not gonna once they know the news is not gonna get out, then they're more willing to tell the truth. Regardless, an oath is supposed to be an end of strife. But this is in stark contrast to the Levitical priesthood. They never took any oaths How did they get to be a Levite? How did they get to be a priest? Were any of them voted into office? No. They were born into it. That's all. They were royalty. They were simply born into it And death likewise removed them from office. They came in through birth, they went out by death. Wash, rinse, repeat, the cycle continues again and again and again. And the problem was, is that the next guy coming in might not be as good as the first guy. Maybe the first guy was a really good priest. We love that priest. He was such a wonderful. He was so compassionate. He was helpful to us, he went the extra mile, it was everything you could want, and then he up and died on you. Now what? Oh his sons. Oh, we don't like his sons. Think Samuel. We don't like the sons. Oh, these sons are a disaster. Guess what? You can't vote them out of office. There's no impeachment. You're stuck with them How do you keep the right guy on the job? And our conversation today was about earthly jobs But you can't keep him on the job forever because at some point he's going to retire, get old, and well, go the way of old men. Jesus, in fact, is our eternally avowed priest, and so he can rightly be called the surety. of a better covenant. Anybody have any idea what assurety means? This is not a common English word in our use today. It still occasionally surfaces. I see it once every two years or so. Assurety is a guarantor. You know, you buy a product, we guarantee it, the company is backing it We might use the word cosigner today. How many of you have ever served as a cosigner on a loan, maybe for a child or whatever? Yeah, you're the backstop, which means If junior or whoever your friend fails to pay, the company's going to come to you. They're going to go knocking on your door to say, uh we find on this record, dated such and such a date, you're the guarantor You're the surety. You're the cosigner. We're going to come to you. Jesus is our surety. You see this example in scriptures, and I love this illustration that God gives us. It's in Genesis 44, and I printed it in your in your handout In the insert of the bulls. Genesis 44 and verse 32. This is Judah. This was one of the patriarchs, one of the sons of Jacob, and he's now speaking to his younger brother. Joseph, who he doesn't know to be Joseph, who's now the vizier, the prime minister of Egypt. And he tells to him Thy servant became surety for the lad, that is Benjamin, unto my father, that is Jacob, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then shall I bear the blame to my father forever. Wow, that's a big statement. You recall the account. They're starving in the land of Canaan. Jacob has run out of corn. His first trip to Egypt didn't end so well. They got They're food, but they also had a rough run-in with the Prime Minister doling out the corn. And this time, before they can go back Joseph slash Prime Minister said, yeah, you have to come back with Benjamin. And Jacob's in a tough spot. Do I let him go or do we starve? And I guess the rumbly and the tumbly got the better of him and said I better have some food. And so he sent Benjamin. But to get him to go, Judah said I will put myself in his place. If any ill happens to him, I'll let it happen to me first. That's a surety. And that's a great example. of a biblical surety where the person stands, their entirety, not just their bank account, not just their wallet, but their whole being stood in the place. Proverbs 6 gives this counsel from Solomon because the biblical concept of surety is so strong. It has such a high mark It's the whole person that's at stake. They didn't have the concept of credit cards, line of credit, those sorts of things in those days. Proverbs says, My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, thou art snared with the words of thy mouth. talks about trying to deliver yourself quick out of that. And to this day it's still good advice. Don't become a cosigner for somebody. It's still a piece of good advice I've done it before. Yep, the knock came on my door three times to cover someone's rent. That was pretty tough. So I have been there before and Solomon's right. He really is right. In Psalm 119 and verse 122, the psalmist says this. He's praying to the Lord. He says, Be surety for thy servant for good. Let not the proud oppress me. Here he's beseeching God to be his backstop, his guarantor. And so in the New Covenant, Jesus is the backstop, glory be. He's the backstop of our soul He'll not let our soul suffer harm. He's putting his whole self in the line of harm, in the line of damage. It will not come utterly to me. Your illustration is excellent. And it gets even more interesting when you consider on an auto loan. The cosigner is listed first on the title. You know. And and we had you know when I was selling card death, people complain about that. But it's viewed as if the the one who's been co-signed for has no ability whatsoever to pay And so and that that is Christ. We have no ability, but he's our short key. Thanks for that. That's very interesting. I didn't know that about that. So I get back to my question in the business. So you're still a business owner So it just seems to me like you need a vow. So why can't business owners get their best employees to make a vow, to swear under oath that they're gonna do their job for the foreseeable future. Why? Why hadn't that been tried? You know, they're gonna be let down. I mean and even the employees probably doesn't feel like they're gonna be worthy to keep it. The employee might not feel able to keep it. They when you say they know they're going to be let down, who would be let down? Why why even try it? And and the employee, they're gonna call and sick one day and be found in Kings and May, you know Disney World, you know, so Lack of trust in the oath part. Now when we put someone under oath we are um basically You're you're you're now making a legal obligation. It's not something they can just skirt on. It is a legal is a matter of legal obligation on the record that have found otherwise penalties fall. Why can't businesses just do that to an employee? Any thoughts? Don't think you could find an employee willing to make that vow. Yeah, I think that's a good observation. Is an oath stronger than a contract You know, 'cause sometimes employees are under contract for a certain time and they those contracts sometimes do get broken. But uh just honest question, is an oath stronger than a contract? It is a verbal contract which is legitimate, just a little more difficult to prove in a court of law, but it depends on the terms and conditions of the oath. And in this scenario, I guess I should have added, get them to make an oath that they will stay with the company as long as the company is alive. Right. And for a few minutes that may work, but for three years that's who knows the future. Mm-hmm. You can see why this approach is just not used in business. It's good luck finding, quote-unquote, good luck finding an employee willing to do it. If you did, could he's a good employee today. And I've had really, really good employees, and after the project they go to the next one, it's like, oh no, the The fellow that was on your job is not the fellow that's on my job. I don't know what happened to him. They just can't change. They they just Yeah. It doesn't work among the sons of men. All of a sudden the weakness of their character comes out And so do you see why the world has the phrase it's hard defined slash keep good help Jameson Fawcett Brown makes this observation concerning the Lord Jesus. He says Jesus ensures in his own person the certainty of the covenant to us. This he did by becoming responsible for our guilt By sealing the covenant with his blood, and by being openly acknowledged as our triumphant Savior by the Father who raised him from the dead. Thus he is at once God's surety for man and man's surety for God, and so mediator between God and man. He is a two-way surety We are insured of access to the Father because of him. God has ensured satisfaction of the law and all the demands. To meet eternal life because of him. He's a double surety. I thought that's rather impressive. That's the first point why Jesus is better. He's bound by an oath. He's oath-bound. Second is that he has an unchangeable priesthood. We've covered this before. This is in verses 23 to 25, and it really just speaks for itself. We're really landing on a benefit of the goal of salvation, being made right with God and restoring access. Hebrews 7 concludes he's able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Um he he he he restores this access. Listen to the language of the Old Testament the sacrifice and offerings that typified, that gave kind of the Federalist Papers, if you will, the backstory of some of these actions of Jesus. In Exodus 29, 42, we read this. This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord, where I will meet with you to speak there unto thee, and there will I meet. With the children of Israel. That was the whole point of the tabernacle, is that was where God would dwell with his people. He would manifest himself very evidently during the wilderness sojourn, but he insisted I have named this as my place. This is the place of my name. I will be there. I will meet with you there. And he was very jealous about that When the northern kingdom met in Samaria, that was a huge violation. God did not say his tent would be in Samaria. He said it would be in Jerusalem. It would be in the tabernacle. And so, again, this passage of Hebrews 7, because this man, verse 23, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. It's an unchangeable priesthood. And this brings some interesting thoughts. Consider for a moment these passages in Ephesians. Maybe I could get a couple of readers here. Jesus is able to save to the uttermost folks because he's always on the job. You want your best employee on the job. Whenever we would have big deployments that go out of a lot of equipment, you know, I'm talking uh a whole tractor trailer full of computer equipment all jammed in there headed off to a classified location. We wanted to know, is Greg on this trip? I won't say his last name, but boy he was the go-to man to make sure all employments were successful. Oh yes, he's a son. Manage would just, okay, good. Because we just knew this guy was crazy smart. He was really good. Alright, Ephesians 2, 14 and 15. Who could read that? It's just the one from your handout. Gabriel, why don't you read Ephesians 2. 14? Record it if you can remember, if you have it from memory. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enity Even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, and came and preached peace to you which were afar off. and to them that were nigh, for through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. So here the Apostle Paul writing to the Ephesians, some Gentiles spells out in plainer language what the Jews would have understood, this access to God, that he has broken down this middle wall of partition. There was the court of the Gentiles that could only get so far, and that was it. That wall of partition is broken down. We have access to the same God. Jude 1, 24 and 25. Somebody got that? Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God and our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion, and power, both now and ever. Amen. Notice that he's able to present you faultless. I was berating myself this morning as I was eating breakfast or preparing for it that I recently came across some silly video on YouTube which Plugged back into my head and tickled the memory of an old song from years ago that sadly has now been echoing through my brain And I'm berating myself that here I am preparing for worship on a Sunday morning and I have a pagan song going through the very dwelling temple of God. And I had to fight to kick that out. I started to sing about Creator, Redeemer and King. It was a tremendous song that uh I forget the name of the quartet that sings it, but they they do a marvelous job of that. And I began to force myself, No, we are gonna have something better going through these between these two ears this morning than some worldly bunk before a priest could enter into the temple and and to the tabernacle to offer a sacrifice. He himself had to offer sacrifices to cleanse him. He had to be acceptable. And here it says that Jesus is able to present you faultless He's always on the job. The high priest is still there. He's still doing his work. This is what the atonement did for you. You have such a high priest, you realize. He's always on the job. There's been some great company companies many years ago. I have a list somewhere of men who were very wealthy back at the turn of the century. That would be the 1900s, not the year 2000. Some very significant names, tremendous resources they control. They were monopolists. And then their dismal end and we hear of their names now and we go, uh who were these people? They're still not on the job. They're still not able. For 2,000 years, Jesus has still been on the job, still doing it perfectly Still doing his work. You know, here's another meditation. First John 2, just let me read this real quick, because it's relevant. My little children, these things I write unto you that ye sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate. An advocate with our father. This isn't somebody that's just gonna rubber stamp it, okay, here's the you know, oh you're Oh it's Vince again. Yeah, okay. Well we made a form for you. Just check off the boxes. Yeah, here's your top ten common besetting sins. Check the boxes Okay, we'll pray for that. Great. Next. Oh, it's Mrs. Ross. Yeah, she's got a shorter list. Alright, we'll check off one or two boxes here. No, no. Oh no. This is an advocate. And what's the difference between an advocate and a clerk? The advocate's gonna plead on there with that. Show your if you have any better size. I emphasize But of course he's emphasizing himself as the better. Yes, so the advocate is someone who is advocating for you. They are pushing for you. On universities they have typically an office of the ombudsman And their role is not some money-sucking office that you have no idea what they do, but rather they are there as the advocate for the student if they come across something where The professor or even the dean seem to be at amiss with stated objectives. You can go to the ombudsman and they can advocate on your behalf. Hey This is a student. They've got a legitimate case here. We need to correct our issues. That's your advocate. We have an advocate. Can you believe it? That's a tremendous thing. I had this thought and I don't want to belabor it too much In fact, I probably should move through it fairly quickly, but, you know, it says Jesus is our eternal high priest. Eternal. Well, eternal is a long time. Eternal, folks, carries on even past the time when the Lord Jesus returns. destroys this earth, gives us the new heaven and new earth, and takes us into heaven. In fact, it tells me, according to this, that he's a high priest even in the new heaven and the new earth. He continues to serve there. What purpose would that serve? I mean, that's a sinless existence at that point. Why would he still be doing that Well, let me give some thoughts on that here from two passages that come to mind. Now this is just a meditation. This is speculation somewhat on my part. But I think it's a good meditation to think about an eternal change priesthood, an unchangeable priesthood. He ever lives, as Scripture says, to make intercession for them. Focus on this phrase tree of life. When you see tree of life, we're talking about Jesus, right? Genesis 3, the pre-fallen, perfect Adamic world. Shortly after the fall, the Lord God said, Behold, Genesis 3. 22, the man has become as one of us to know good and evil. We knew good, we didn't know evil. And now, lest he put forth his hand, lest Adam put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat and live forever. Meaning, lest a work salvation come about, lest man reach out, lest man's will, lest man's effort Create his own salvation. Therefore, the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden. He cast him out. He said, No, we will not have that as a means of salvation. You cannot Reach forth your hand to this tree of life. Lo and behold, we don't read much about a tree of life or the tree of the knowledge of good and evil elsewhere in the scriptures. But curiously enough, the tree of life appears in the very last book near the last chapters of the Bible. Did you know that? Listen to it. Revelation 22, and he showed me a pure river of water and life, clear as crystal. Proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river was there the tree of life which bear twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month. And the leaves of that tree, the leaves of the tree, were for the healing of the nations. Now Folks, I don't know how God's eternal kingdom actually works out. There's symbolic language. I don't really expect to find things flowing through the middle of the street, all right? But Jesus will always continue as our high priest in heaven, and we have him as our source of renewing life So that, and it's not possible, but even if it were possible, we still have access to the tree of life. We will have life and we will have renewed life. That's a double buttress. That's a double fortress. You know, sometimes you have extra protection for something when it's very important. This is extra protection. This is extra benefit. We have a very sure foundation in heaven. Question time. Back to my business analogy. You can see I really ran with this one this week Your business just found a top-ranked employee who is willing to forswear himself to take a vow into the toughest role in your company. He's willing to do it. He's read the terms and conditions. He'll go down with the ship if the ship goes down. He won't surface until the sub surfaces. I mean he's he's willing to do it Now, what assurance would you have that that individual will not change his behavior or his attitude even after being sworn in? Jeffrey's a realist. None. What assurance do you have? Now he's willing. And he's one of your top employees, by the way. So you've already seen his work. You've seen his work ethic You're impressed with it, very impressed. Sitting around the coffee pot with the HR director, you know, you consider uh Jeffrey, well he's he's just crushing it. This this this fellow's just he's really, really good. He's willing to forswear himself? Bring him into my office today. What assurance do you have? You don't see any. You don't see any other than his oath. Other than his oath? I mean in in in sports sometimes somebody has a guaranteed contract, but they break their leg, they still get paid. Yeah, but they can't perform anymore. I'd say it comes down to trust. It comes down to trust. That's an interesting perspective. Can it flush that out a little bit more? I mean do you have faith that they're actually gonna continue their outstanding work? And and not just do it for the money, so to speak. It really does come down to trust. You know, one example that came to my mind is in the 80s We had a marvelous president named Ronald Reagan, a tremendous communicator, and we had great hopes that when he made appointments to the Supreme Court, that finally we're going to get some conservative thinking people And they took an oath of office and they went in, and several of them turned out to be the most bleeding liberals you could ever imagine. A complete flip. Even the president of the top dog superpower nation, with the best legal mind in front of him, Commended by the Federalist Society or whichever vetting board brought these candidates forward with a demonstrable track record of conservative opinions, even then Even then, you couldn't get a reliable outcome. Do you see how in Adam's world, do you see how among the sons of men Do you see how these so-called prophets and false Bible teachers and those peddling a works gospel are utterly bankrupt because they cannot give me a high priest. They can't give me a good advocate who's going to always be on the job, who can demonstrably deliver the goods, and who has an interest and is willing. And is capable of doing it. Do you see why Jesus is so much better? And the third point is this, he is eternally consecrated. This is not a common phrase that we use. What does consecrated mean? It means you're You're declared, you're set apart for that role because you uniquely fit that role. In verse 26, it uses a unique word. There's a lot of unique words in the book of Hebrews that the Apostle Paul does not use, and this is one of them. It's the word holy. For such an high priest became us who is holy. And I'm not going to get into the other words to be kind of a flushing of all things out. It is a very unique word. It's not hagios, it's hosios. And it has to do someone who is undefiled by sin. So imagine if By some strange happenstance, your company had access to a a good Generation 32 artificial intelligence lie detector was very advanced. And you could discern that this employee is absolutely telling the truth. They absolutely have trustworthy character. Of course, among the sons of men we don't find that. And I don't think we trust the artificial ignorant thing either. But the Lord Jesus is utterly undefiled by sin. His very character is perfect. His very character is fit for the job. And so Lo and behold, as the Son, he doesn't need daily to offer up sacrifices for his sins. He doesn't need it. He's been sworn in. He offered the sacrifice of his blood once to atone for us. To ceremonially consecrate him to that task. Now he's in it. He has an unchangeable priesthood. He is not a sinner. Only sinners need to go through some kind of ceremonial cleansing, some ablution. He doesn't need to do that. Why? Because he's perfect. He's holy. He cannot be defiled by sin. It's impossible for God to lie. It's impossible for God to sin. God does not tempt any man. He tests and tries people. He proves them. As a good business owner, you're going to prove this person. God likewise is going to prove prove individuals. He does that. But he himself After having been tried, sorely tried, beyond what Job ever did, beyond what all the patriarchs ever experienced, he's proven himself multifold over that he is inherently undefiled. He's sworn into office. He lives forever. His role will never change. And now we're told we've absolutely positively got the right man on the job. You know you've got the right man on the job. This is going to succeed. This company is going places. Here's an employee who's never going to die. They say when you first build a company, and there's some people who are truly visionary, who know how to build a company. It's been said that you better figure out how to make it so that it can be run by idiots because someday it will be. Someday it will be. That's why you need a good constitution. Yeah, yeah. And you hope idiots can read. It didn't come out of the Baltimore high school system Jesus is inherently undefiled, inherently unchangeable, his character cannot change, nor his holiness. In Hebrews 4. 14, we've already read that seeing that we have such a great high priest that's passed into the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. And when when the Apostle John saw Jesus in the book of Revelation, As the angel comes and presents Christ to him, it's hard to tell when it's the angel speaking, when it's Jesus speaking. John says, Well, I saw him. I fell at his feet as dead, speaking of Jesus. And he, Jesus, laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. Do you know why God can tell you, fear none? Those sin issues? He's an advocate. I've taken care of all that. Fear not. The children of Joseph after, and the sons of Jacob, after, just before Joseph died, says, now, now make sure you tell Uh make make sure our father you tell him that everything's gonna be okay. Joseph's like, don't fear not. I've taken care of that. I've taken care of that. Fear not, I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. So he can legitimately tell us. Fear not. He's sworn with an oath. He lives forever. His job never changes. He's always on the job. And he's the right man for the job. He's so much better. Then the Levitical priesthood. So much better. Fearhead Torment perfect love casteth fear. And it's his perfect love to us that cast out fear. Bottom line, Jesus is duty-bound by an oath to this vital role as our high priest. He's intrinsically holy, he's unchangeable, he's vastly superior to anything the Old Testament could offer Jesus is so much better. Amen. We'll close out there. Ruvan, could you close us in prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for thy word. Thank you.