Right. And uh today we start so I'm fiddling with the technology here. There we go. Now we're ready. Good morning, good morning. We are in uh one verse of Hebrews twelve, we're trying to focus, and I honestly wanted to take a much larger portion, but uh there was just some I thought would be useful to Slow it up a bit and have some discussion. The text reads as follows Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. I um started to go down this path. I rewrote the Sunday school lesson in its entirety uh due to a good prayer session with uh my brother here, so that was great. Um I have a strange question for you. Which I hope will stick and I hope all of you got the email and said, Okay, Vince is either eating some strange burritos or uh uh he's just watching too many stupid YouTube videos. So let's say you have a beloved relative. I could be a favorite niece. I could be your grandson, you fill in the blank, and they've invited you to a wedding. What is the least amount of water you would use to get ready for the event? And that would include not only bathing, but cleaning, cleaning your clothes, maybe cleaning your car. and um uh and so on. I had some interesting um online responses here. One said I would estimate it would take thirty gallons of water to prepare for a wedding or funeral, shower, car wash, it's sheets, one load of laundry. So if somebody really engineered that right out, that's that's great. Another lady engineered it better, five to ten minute shower. This is from a woman, five to ten minute shower. That's two thumbs up Uh typical amount for load of clothes and jupy car wash if needed. So very practical. That's an approach, didn't give me a gallon amount, but we can deduce it from there, right? Uh one answer was about fifty gallons of water, nothing further than that. Um another one said, not even sure I bathed before Anton and Marissa's wedding. So this person's uh really uh skimping on the water supply here. Sorry, Marissa. Now you know where that strange odor came from in the wedding. Then I had a bonus question under what conditions would you perform heart surgery on yourself Uh one person said I would not perform heart surgery on myself or anyone else under any circumstances. So this was just ruled it out completely. How many of you are with that one? Oh yes. Yeah, okay, right Another person said I wouldn't even if I were a surgeon. So this says even if I'm qualified, I wouldn't pull it off. Another answer, uh was uh uh about heart surgery not only in my dreams, not in any universe where the vision by zero is undefined. That sounds like a college student anyway So, to you, a beloved relative, what's the least amount of water you would use to get ready for a wedding? If you didn't have your answer already selected here and you had something different, I'll take it Okay, your question is the least amount? Yeah. So the least amount would be I don't know, whatever a shower is. teeth and out the door. Shower, brush teeth out the door. That's it. I mean least frankly, i if it was the leaf and it was like a lack of an invitation and you know I hadn't been pulling weeds all morning. I would just get dressed and go. Okay. Right, that's what I was thinking. Yeah. A lot of circumstances. In Jamaica we basically were all free. We did have electricity sometimes. And um our water supply was just what rain gave us. So we had a big pan in the shower and you took a shower in the pan because then the shower water got poured into the toilet for flushing. Right. You know. So you know in in some circumstances just about zero Yeah. It depends on the circumstances, right? Yeah, okay. How about the heart surgery? Heart surgery? Well no, then not to that one. Not touch yeah not touch it. Not touch yeah, good fun. Under what conditions would you perform heart surgery on yourself? Under what circumstances? It's not possible. It's not possible. You couldn't do it. Pass out into the first incision. Maybe if you're not in your right mind? Question. Are you referring to the organ heart or to the inner man heart? Well, that's where we're going with the study, so that's a good segue because our text says, follow peace with all men in holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. Back in June, middle of June, I'm sure you all recall, Pastor uh preached a sermon that expanded a lot upon this business of peace, peace with God, what peace is. There was one notable um uh comment that he made, point that he made in that message which really stuck with me. You know how sometimes there's these little little jewels, these little arrows that come out and just stick. And this one was uh uh that peace is not the absence of conflict, but the absence of evil. Now that's a really good observation because You can learn a lot by contrasts. I found a few others like that in scriptures. Peace is the absence of hypocrisy, the absence of confusion. You know, if you're in a confused state, you have anarchy, you have chaos. uh th they are for war, I am for peace, so there's that, you know, traditional concept that we have there. And um I think we, you know, we'll benefit by refreshing ourselves from that particular message. I didn't want to pursue that much. I really kind of want to look at this stern caveat at the end. And we will be flipping in our Bible today, so you might consider uh opening to 1 Thessalonians 4, which would be the first place we go. Our text says this, peace, follow peace, follow, that word is a racing term, means to pursue as if you're following someone in a race Race cars follow, they draft each other. Somebody says, hey, follow me. You know, it's a close thing. It's not a loosely, you know, laxadasical approach. Follow peace with all men and holiness. And then it says, without which no man shall see the Lord. Yikes, that sounds pretty serious. Without these things you're not going to see the Lord. That's a pretty stern caveat. The Lord our God is a king of kings. Even seeing an earthly king is a privilege. There was a text in the Old Testament where David in 2 Samuel 14 said, Let him turn to his own house and let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face, even though this was a son He said, No, you're not going to see my face. Seeing the face of even a secular ruler, now Israel was a theocracy, but even seeing the face of an earthly king is a privilege. You just don't walk up to 10 Downing Street or whatever that address is over in the UK. We got rid of Kings also 250 years ago, so I don't track them too much. And knock on their door and say, I'd like to see the Prime Minister, I'd like to see the king. You don't do that You know, this passage is not the only time that such things are forewarned. Anton, would you read 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 through 6? Just turn in there. First Thessalonians four, three through six. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor, not in the lust of concupiscence. Even as the Gentiles which know not God, that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter, because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified. Yeah, there's a lot of common words in use here and common ideas. That word sanctification is that word uh. . the same Greek root word for holiness, it's hagios, hagiosulos. All of that has to do with holiness, sanctifying, being set apart. And it says he's not called us unto uncleanness. That again is also a related word to purify. Blessed are they pure in heart, for they shall see God. That's that word purify. that we have here as uncleanness, same root word. Now, when you consider uh uh the next verse, 1 Thessalonians 4 7, read that next verse, uh Anton, and somebody tell me what's the opposite of uncleanness. Of holiness. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. What's the opposite of holiness? This isn't a tough trick question. Unholiness. Unholiness? Okay, we just put an un in front of it. That works. Self-righteousness. Yes, self-righteousness. From our text, uncleanness. And that would include everything you just said Uncleanness. Now this is not talking about physical cleanliness. There's an old adage from the 50s where mothers would berate their children. Now cleanliness is next to godliness. And you know, there the the admonition was for little Jimmy to clean up after he came from playing around in the field all dirty and sweaty and that's that's what he had to do. Well, I get it, mom's trying to get him to be clean, but that's not a biblical concept. because you can't mix physical cleanliness with spiritual holiness. That doesn't match. In fact, um When the Bible talks about uncleanness, look now to Mark chapter 7. Turn to Mark 7. 15, because there's no point in me describing to you what Uncleanness the Bible's talking about when Jesus has already answered the question. In Mark chapter 7 we have the context of Jesus and his disciples coming, they're going to eat and Oh my word, they did exactly what your 1950s mom told you not to do. That is, they weren't washing their hands before they ate. So Jesus is going to hit these people, happen to be Pharisees, and we begin reading in verse 15. Rick, do you have Mark 7. 15 handy? Yeah, read if you don't mind, could you read fifteen and then skip to verse twenty-one. There is nothing from without a man that entering into him can defile him But the things which come out of him, those are they that defiled man. And then twenty-one all the way to twenty-three, the whole sentence. For from within out of the heart of men proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fortifications, murders, theft, covetousness, wickedness, deceit. Lasciviousness, that's an old English word meaning unbridled lust. Go ahead. An evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile within. So Jesus gives a rather lengthy discourse of what constitutes uncleanness. that defiles an individual. Jesus is saying, to eat with unwashened hands doesn't defile you. Now Jesus is not coming to give a biology lesson about how to uh keep yourself physically clean on this earth. Men can eventually figure these things out. Jesus is talking about A true inward cleanliness that God, who sees all things, even in the dark places, even in our hearts as to what truly constitutes that which is unclean. You know, uh perhaps now you're beginning to see where I was going with the question about heart surgery. The key word there is heart You know, 1 Corinthians 6 speaks to this language as well, so you might want to turn there, 1 Corinthians 6. We're doing a little bit more than normal jumping around today, but that's okay. I really want you to see it. This is a A basic point, yet a good point, and I I hope to reinforce even those familiar with to the reinforce to those familiar with scriptures, a a grand truth that we we don't want to lose track of. 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10. And Joey, if I could prevail upon you to read those two verses, 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of thou selves to mankind. nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor excursioners, so inherit the kingdom of God. So you can't see the king without following peace with all men and holiness, and I think That word holiness is probably the all-encompassing one. You can't even see the kingdom of God. You won't see God, because if you have a king, you have a kingdom. And if you're not seeing him, you're not seeing his kingdom either. So what's the point in all this? The point is that unclean people, spiritually unclean people, will not see God. Period. They especially won't see him at his wedding. Turn down to Matthew 22, Matthew 22, and verses 11, 12, and 13. Matthew 22. Eleven, twelve, and thirteen and I'll read those three verses It's a familiar parable, I trust, where it says, When the king came in to see the guests, Jesus says, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which made a wedding. The king came in to see the guests. He saw there a man Which had not on a wedding garment. He saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. He's stunned. He's stunned that the king would come up, and instead of the king saying, nice to see you're here. You know, hope you enjoy the festivities. Instead he says, you don't have a wedding garment on. What are you doing here? That would be kind of a heart-stopping moment. You know, the king is not like our president, some recent Street protests seem to have been great demonstrations and ignorance in our form of political government, but they're protesting something else, I suppose. But the king has the power of the purse, the power of the sword, the power of the law. He can do it all If he doesn't particularly like you or what you're doing, he gives account to no other man, and he simply executes you. And that's in fact what happens, because then we read, the king said to his servants, bind him hand and foot. Take him away and cast him into outer darkness, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That seems rather sharp just because you go to a wedding in the incorrect garment, but in God's king kingdom It's a big deal. It's a very big deal. You know, it appears from scriptures, and I'm just touching on the very obvious texts that speak to this. that holiness, the pursuit of holiness, has a goal. Anybody guess what that goal is? For you personally, that pursuit of holiness has a particular goal. What is that goal that's in mind? Christ-likeness. Christ-likeness, yep, that's that's that that's I'm looking for multiple adjectives here, so there's not one right answer. Christ-likeness, what else? What would be the goal Uh continual goal would be sanctification. Yeah, that's the process, sanctification. Yeah, yeah And when you finish that out, what does that look like? What's that end state? What's that goal? Eternal life. Eternal life, yeah. What else? Yeah? Okay. Yes. Cleanliness. Yeah. That appears to be the main one, because it says, Follow peace with all men in holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord So that is the goal, cleanliness. So if you were to ask this man who showed up at the wedding without a wedding garment how much water he needed to get clean Would two ounces cut it coming into the presence of the king? Apparently not. You have to have the garment, and you yourself have to be clean. You know, and we might want to ask ourselves that If we talk about cleanliness, and I've already mentioned Hebrews 5. 8, you know, blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God. Excuse me, Matthew 5. 8, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Taking this idea of what's the least amount of water you would use to go to a wedding, you realize you have been invited to a wedding, if you're a child of God. You are going to appear before the king. He will come in and see. Can you imagine? And this is a private fear I've had over the years, you know, my Many of you have heard of my testimony, you can see it online, that uh there was a season of life when I was uh worshiping the bottle, the drink. And of course that doesn't take you anywhere but downhill. It's it it's the violation of the rules of stupid. Don't be with stupid people in stupid places at stupid times doing stupid things. Alcohol supports all of those, and you can only imagine the disaster it comes in. I was a very unclean person. Can you imagine Showing up before the King of Kings, and Vince Cluth is at a bar I would just be, that would be like the wrong time. Can you imagine the King of Kings shows and I'm standing here telling you a joke That just cringe. You know, this is not a venue for jokes. This is life or death matters. You know, how little water do I need to be sanctified to see the Lord? I think that's just a wrong question. Doesn't it strike you as a wrong question? It's really saying, how unholy can I be to see God Just how unclean and impure can I be to see God? Now, even by me saying this, you're probably now beginning to wonder Well, yeah, I think the right answer is boy we need a lot of water. We gotta get constantly clean. We just need we really need to be lathering up on a regular basis. This is But something about that doesn't sound right either. So do you see that we're kind of on the horrors of a dilemma between grace alone And our text which says, follow peace with all men in holiness. Without that, you're not going to see God. You're just not going to see God. The text is clear. You can't get around it. That's the whole point of this passage. And we've already read Thessalonians. It says, I forewarned you, those that do such things will not enter the kingdom of God. Corinthians says, know you not. So there's three passages that really stick you right in the eye that says Without holiness, you're not seeing God. When I was a young man going to Irving Bible Church, I was the ripe age of, I don't know, 15 to 17 years of age. One of the books that the associate pastors handed out was a book by Jerry Bridges entitled The Pursuit of Holiness. I looked at the cover. I read those words. It went right on the shelf. I was not interested in that. I was dead in sins and trespass that I wasn't unsaved. Because when I heard holiness, I heard no fun No partying, no friends, no loud music, like loud music. Boy, loud music was a great thing. None of those things. And those are the things I liked. So the pursuit of holiness to me was just running contrary to those things. And I was interested in it until I became saved. And nobody had to hand me that book. I didn't dig it off my shelf. I don't even think I kept had kept it When God saved me, I was like Lazarus waking up from a tomb. What is all this? I'm in a filth I'm in a what? I gotta get out of this. This place is filthy. This is a disaster Sold every single one of my albums, must have had 2,000 of them. I was a DJ in college. For 15 bucks, I'd invested thousands of dollars in those things. And I gave the money to missions work Nobody had to tell me to do that. Why? Why? Because there's a change. Change of what? A change of heart. Change of heart. You know, my question is, how are we going to get spiritually clean so that we can see the Lord? Does anybody have any ideas how we're going to get spiritually clean? So that we can see the Lord. Yeah, the blood of Jesus Christ. You've got to have something else from without change your heart. And now maybe be you're beginning to see why I asked the question about under what conditions would you perform heart surgery? You know, turn to Matthew chapter 23 because the Lord Jesus again speaks to this business about the need for a clean heart. Matthew chapter 23 And folks, when I make illustrations and examples of myself, I'm I'm not doing it to promote the speaker. I'm doing it because I don't want to give you a fictitious scenario and I don't also don't want to unnecessarily pick on somebody else so just understand that's my motive for doing that. Matthew 23 25 says this He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye, old English word y'all, all of you, make clean the outside of the cup, clean. That's that same word pure. You may clean the outside of the cup. You may clean the outside of the platter. We would say the bottom of the plate, but within They are full, full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also You missed the spot. Right. Yeah, you missed a very big and important spot. You know, the Pharisees were the school of Home Depot. You can do it, we can help. We just got to clean up the outside a little bit. Go to Alcoholics Anonymous. They can get you off of those. It's a good deal. And they'll point you to some higher power, some whatever, and all you've done is made a lane change on the road to hell. It's a broad road that leads to destruction. Men can clean up the outside of the platter. But Jesus has told us already in Mark 7, that's not what defiles you. What defiles you is what is on the inside, because that will come out. You've got to cleanse the fount. Some of you live on well water. You dig a very deep pit, you extract water from the well, there's various pumps that bring it up, you either put it into a pressurized tank or you have it in a large container overhead that's about 39 feet high so that you can get sufficient water pressure to run it in your house. And every now and then you have to test the well. To make sure there's no corruption in it. Oh, you can clean the outside of that tank all you want. You can clean the faucet handles. They're nice and chrome and shiny. But if that well, spring, if that well had is contaminated if it's got some microbes in it. You may have to put a little bit of something down in there to clear it up. And then the whole thing is fine. Whether or not your chrome head is clean or not, that doesn't matter. Well, the same is true spiritually. The fountain of all your activities is your heart. Keep your heart With all diligence, for out of it proceed the issues of life. How are we going to clean the heart? How many of you here volunteered the idea that you would be your own heart surgeon? Who said heart surgery on yourself is a great idea? Anyone raise their hand? Anybody out there? It's a dumb idea, isn't it? And so it is spiritually You and I spiritually cannot change our heart. Watch it now, one bit. You don't have that power. Proof in point. How many New Year's resolutions have you kept from, I don't know, whenever you started making New Year's resolutions, if you did such foolish things? You probably did them for a while. To this day have you kept it. Sheer willpower. You start off, I'm going to lose X pounds. I'm going to do. Doesn't happen. You were serious? You wanted to do it, but you can't. Because you're trying to change a heart issue. Turn now to Ezekiel, the book of Ezekiel, where we're going to learn a little something. about this business of the heart and how God speaks. Because this is likewise important. In Ezekiel chapter 18, it's a very big book. And in this 18th chapter, in the 31st verse, God tells us this. Cast away from you all your transgressions whereby ye have transgressed, and make you a new heart and a new spirit. For why will you die, O house of Israel? God tells them Make yourself a new heart. Make yourself a new spirit. Can they do that? No. Why would God command that? Because the power is in the Word of God. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The scalpel of God is the scriptures. Turn now to Ezekiel 36. And verse 25. But I I hope for some of you these are familiar passages. But I want to try to lift it up out of the technical arena and put it to a practical one. Ezekiel 36, 25. God says this, then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean. From all your filthiness and from all your idols will I cleanse you. Are you catching the wills and the eyes here? Just circle how many times you see the word I. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh. And I Will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments and do them. This sounds like a heart physician that I can handle This sounds like a cardiac surgeon who can do the job. You know, basically, there are two ways, spiritually speaking, to get cleaned up. There's two ways. There's the self-help method. The self-help method. I mentioned Alcoholics Anonymous. There's others There's lots of YouTube videos of unemployed psychologists. They're bladdering all kinds of help and aid. Some of them become preachers There's New Year's resolutions, sheer willpower and motivation. All of this is cleaning the outside of the cup. That's all it's doing. It's a pretty shiny outside cup I've been in corporate America, some of you have been in jobs with uh consummate professionals. These people look like they've got their act together. They show up. Nice. How are you? They have greetings in the parking lot. They have nice meetings. It's not a meeting, it's a meal. They bring in food for the meeting. It's nice. They hand out raises and they they they have good answers to things. They just seem to have their act together And they never mention God. The word of God is not in their lips. It's not fitted. You make a reference to something in Scripture. They don't even recognize that it's scripture. They have no time in the book. Thus saith the Lord is utterly alien to them. But they seem to have their act together, and you're not the first generation to observe that The psalmist in Psalm 73, and you can read that in your spare time at home, and if you've never studied Psalm 73 or meditated on it, this would be a good occasion to Make a little note in your next devotional time and read Psalm 73. The Aeseth, the psalmist, bemoan that same fact. So that's one way to get cleaned up, the self-help method. There's another method, and that is to get a new heart. You have to lean on somebody outside of you to do this work. You have to avail yourself of their services using the means that they prescribe. And the path you take depends on whom you trust the most to get the job done. Did you catch that? The path you take depends on whom you trust to get the job done. Who do you trust the most? Let's consider a bonus question. So imagine you physically have a serious heart condition. You've got shortness of breath. Our brother recently had a heart attack, so he described the symptoms to me, so I can relay them to you. Praise God I've never had That might tiny touch of AFEB, but nothing more serious than that. You're weak, short of breath, you can't even stand up. They do imaging, they show some arterial blockage. How would you resolve this if that was your diagnosis? How would you resolve this? What's your steps you would take to get that dealt with? Any ideas? Somebody walk me through that process. Go to a cardiologist. Yeah, go to a cardiologist. What a grand idea. They've dealt with this before. And you go to them and then what happens? They give they take pictures. They'll take pictures, they kind of get an an image of what's going on inside. Okay, excellent. What else They'll give you s they'll give you steps to kind of about what you should do to Improve your health. They'll give you some steps to improve your health. Okay. So going back to Lisa, let's try to draw this out a little further, like a worst case scenario. Let's say imaging shows You got blockage, major 90% blockage in a couple of arteries, and you need a stent. Okay, now what? That's what imaging tells you. Now what are you going to do from here? What what happens next Set up an appointment. Go get her done. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. You know, I I'm thinking it would be it might look something those are great answers. I love them very much. I might ask a lot of questions. I might want one maybe want to get a second opinion. We're talking about my heart here. This is a big deal. I don't want anybody monkeying with the old ticker, right? It's kind of like it. Um I might uh learn about that procedure, schedule those appointments. Uh he's probably gonna hand you pre-surgery guidance I don't need no pre-surgery guide. No, I'm going to read this stuff. Don't do this on this day. You got to do that. You got to, you know, have somebody to drive. I'd pay attention to all this guidance I would show up at the cardiac center wherever they do the surgery. Mr. Kluith, you have to unrobe. I would get naked, because that's what they're asking me to do. Put on a different robe and garment. I would lie down. I would submit myself to their process. I would pay attention to the post-surgery instructions going home. I would seek to avoid repeating that again. Isn't that the process we do for just a physical heart surgery? Folks, I hope you see the spiritual analogy to that as well. Isn't it beautiful? It's perfect. You know, most people actually take the self-help approach. Moses in the Old Testament, his people did, and Joshua 24, they said, all that the Lord has spoken, that we will do. He repeated the old covenant to them. And in Joshua 24, And uh I'm doing this off the cup here. He said in verse 19, after they said, all that the Lord has said, we will do. We will serve the Lord. He's our God. Joshua said to the people, you cannot serve the Lord. He's a holy God. That word holy is our word Holiness related to sanctify. You can't serve him. He's a holy God. They said, we'll do it. They made a New Year's resolution. He said, you can't do it. For he will not forgive your transgressions or your sins. If you forsake the Lord and serve strange gods, he'll turn and do you hurt and consume you. All the people said, Nay, nah, we will serve the Lord. We can do it. That passage has always struck me as strange. But I hope you understand what God is getting at. Here you need heart surgery, and none of us in our right mind would do surgery in ourselves. You've got to go find a heart surgeon and follow his process and follow his steps, and that's who you have in Jesus Christ. He's that heart surgeon. God uses ordained means to clean hearts. He uses his ordained means. This is not, okay, yep, I can't do it. Well, just I'm going to sit around and do nothing. No. If I'm having heart failure, I'm weak, I'm going to do something. But you're going to take the right steps because you're going to trust that somebody else who has the means to change your heart will in fact do that. What are those God ordained means? The old timers referred to these as the means of grace. I used to butt against that term, but it's a biblical concept. You're not going to find that exact phrase in scripture, but it's a biblical concept. Spiritually speaking, trying to stick with my cardiac surgeon analogy here for a moment. We go to the front office, the church. Of the great physician, Jesus. We hear his instruction, the word preached, study it at home, ask questions, pray. I hope before you read the Bible you pray, Lord, open up this portion of your word to me. Help me. And submit. Just submit yourself to it. Just do what it says. I gotta admit, it's a scary thing when you walk into a room, you're rolled into a room that's really, really cold, and you're in this thin garment. It's like, I'm kind of naked here. It's kind of a scary situation Do I really want to go through with this? Those exact same same thoughts ought to happen if you're taking care of your soul Because it's got a deep and a serious problem. It's defiled. It's unclean before God. You've got to have a solution. And you need to have somebody who's done this before doing it. We find in 1 John 3, I'll just read these passages. You can turn there if you'd like. 1 John 3 and verse 2, just before the book of Revelation, near the end of the Bible. Beloved, now Right now, are we the sons of God? Our text in Hebrew says we're the sons of God. It does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that has this hope in him, what? Purifies himself, even as he is pure. When God changes you, takes out that heart of stone and gives you a heart of flesh, the stony, stubborn, obstinate, cold, hard-hearted Stony heart. That's a great analogy for it. God gives you a heart of flesh. The only time in scripture where flesh is using a good reference, it's alive, it's sensitive, it's living, it's sensitive to the pricks. God gives that to you. When He does that There's a hope, there's growth, there's progress. And it's fed by you guessed it As the apostle said, I planted a polished water, God gave the increase. There are means of grace that God uses to stimulate that growth and encourage it, and it moves in that direction. One of those is hope. And when you lean on that hope and you quit trusting the things around you, that's a purification process. You're not going to go To stupid spiritual people in stupid spiritual places doing stupid spiritual things at a wrong spiritual time You won't follow the four rules of stupid. Titus 2. 11 says this. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. Grace has appeared, teaching us that. Grace teaches, teaching us that Denying ungodliness, denying worldly lusts, that we should live soberly. It's not talking about off the bottle. Yes, it is, but it's far more than that. It's to be sober-minded. I'm sorry, many of the nut jobs on the other side of the political spectrum are just that they've lost their ever-loving mind. I've never seen people so absolutely confused as today. And it's true in the church as well. Oh, we have a variable canon. No, we don't. It's fixed. You can't have a canonized book without canonized words. How can that be constantly changing? That's next. That's just next Fifty years ago, I don't think that really would have been accepted. That's just nuts. That's stupid. That's militating against the concept of a canon, which is the original Greek and Hebrew. When ye shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath his hope purifies himself. Titus II, my eyes jumped up a bit, teaching us that we deny ungodliness. We live soberly, righteously, godly, in this present world Looking for that blessed hope. Are you hearing a common theme? Hope. Hope in what? The promises of God that pull you out of uncleanness, that washes the garments. He that keeps his garments, do you read in scriptures? Keep this commandment spotless. Are you hearing the cleaning? Right That he might uh who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good good works. I love this one from Psalm 34 37 verse 4 Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. As an unsaved person, that doesn't mean he's going to give you that Fancy red sports car and winning the lottery. It's not what he's talking about. He's going to give you the desires, the good desires. And there's so much more to this that I don't have time, but uh yes, please. I'm gonna get that. I try not to jump in and interrupt you, but Well while you were teaching, I was just thinking about we have a well, we have a pressure tank, we have a a pump down in the well, and the pump died. So this this is like three years ago. So we had our plumber come, he pulled all the pipe out, he replaced the pump and put a new pump down that well. I thought he was done, but he was not. After he put the new pump in our well, he poured gallons of bleach down our well. We had this wonderful tasting water. We loved our well. For a week our water tasted bad, we couldn't drink it, and we had and the showers smelled like that chlory. Putting the new pump in was not enough. He had to cleanse the well And that's why he poured the bleach down, because he put a new pump in there, but then he had to ensure that that well was now clean. And uh you know, it's what Christ does. He gives us a new heart, and then he has to clean everything else up, and it's not always tasteful. Yeah. But But it produces the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them that are exercised thereby. Let me give some practical applications about all this. Where am I going with it? Alright, Brother Vince, I'm caught in some sins. There's some sins that I've got How do I get rid of these things? You're telling me self-help process doesn't work, you're correct, it won't. I'll tell you what will. Conviction. Start reading the scriptures, reading scriptures that deal with that. Pray. And you can be honest with God about this. Very honest. Lord, you know I love this thing. 'Cause he does. You know he does, right? You know I love this thing, Lord. And I'm even reluctant to pray this because I love this thing so much. But Lord, you know I love it. Can you give me a hatred for it? Can you give me a distaste in my mouth for this thing? Can can you show me that it really is stupid? And it's defiling and it's unclean. You know, none of us would want to go to a wedding uh you know with a massive spot of salsa right on your tie, right in the middle, right? Oh, that salsa tasted so good. It was wonderful at the restaurant. But seriously? Don't you want to clean this thing off? Maybe change that thing? Oh, but I love the Lord convince me, put a mirror up to say, you know, this is what you look like. This is kind of stupid. So there's practical things for that. If a man therefore approached himself from these He shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, prepared unto every good work. So consider the heart surgeon Would you do it yourself or would you go to the one you know who can do it? And he has post-op procedure instructions right here You just have to spend time thinking about it. It'll it'll have its effect. It'll convince you it's a powerful tool. Alright, I pray that was a blessing. Would you mind closing this, brother, please? Gracious Father Lord, uh the heart is deceitful above all things and deathfully wicked. Who can know it? And Lord, the only people that understand the deceitfulness of the heart are the people who have Been to the office of the great physician who have shown us through our word that we need the transforming power of the blood of Jesus Christ. Uh Father, we thank you. That blood does cleanse us from all sin. Lord, indeed, take away the stony heart from our flesh and give us a uh a heart of flesh that we might believe and pray. Well, we thank you for our brother's labor in the Word this week. And pray, Lord, that you would make rich application to our hearts through it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.