Mark chapter two thirteen through twenty-eight and actually our responsive reading in Matthew nine verses nine through fifteen and Luke five twenty-seven through thirty-nine are uh also uh dealing with the same story here. So in Matthew nine, verses nine, uh rather Mark two verses thirteen through twenty-eight, we'll read there first this morning. Being at verse thirteen And he that is Christ went forth again by the seaside, and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them. And as he passed by he saw Levi, the son of Elphaeus, sitting at the receipt of custom. Levi was a publican or tax collector. And he said unto him, follow me. And he rose and followed him. It came to pass that as Jesus sat at meat in his house, that's in the house of the tax collector, whom we come to find Levi's name Matthew Matthew was of the tribe of Levi, that's why he's called Levi here. Many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many, and they followed him. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans, that is, tax collectors and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it, or why is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast. And they come, that is, the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees, they come and they say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bride chamber fast while the bridegroom is within? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days. And then drop down to verse 23. And it came to pass that he went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples began as they went to pluck the ears of corn. And the Pharisee said unto him, Behold, why? Here's another why. Why do they on the Sabbath day that do that which is not lawful? And he said unto them, Have you never read what David did when he had need, and was a hungered, how he and they that were with him, how he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and he did eat the showbread which is not lawful to eat, but for the priests, and gave also them which were with him. And he said unto them, The Sabbath was made for man. And not man for the Sabbath. And therefore the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath. I skipped two verses because it I couldn't find a way to tie it in uh clearly with the message today, but it's worth looking at. And maybe at another time we'll do those verses as well. Title of the message this morning, because there are three whys here. Why, why, why. And again we find Christ walking along the seaside in verse thirteen where he picked up some fishermen. We remember that, Peter and and Andrew and Uh and now he's walking along the seaside, not to get a fisherman this time to join with his disciples, but a tax collector along the Sea of Galilee. And it was located on the main hubs for tact uh collecting taxes in all of Galilee was was there um at Calpurnium. And so here was Matthew, here's the one of the wasn't the chief tax collector, but he was one of had made life very powerful for himself. And they call him here Levi, but if you look in the book of Matthew, the same story, he calls himself Matthew rather than Levi. And the commentators believe that Matthew was of the tribe of Levi. And Christ spake unto him just two words, we read there in the reading this morning, just two words, Christ says, follow me. And the two words he also spoke were just two words to Lazarus. When he said the Lazarus, come forth. John 11, 43. And on another occasion, Christ used just two words. to the dead daughter of gyrus, he said, made arise, Luke 8 and 54. Just two words Just two words of Christ, the power of those two words, used many times, the power of them to raise a young maid from the dead, to raise a man Lazarus from the dead, and to call Matthew to be a disciple And to leave a luxurious, profitable life you had. Just two words changed their lives, and those two words are often in scripture changed the lives of many others. You may not think those two words have changed your life, but they have. Because Matthew will eventually write the largest gospel. Matthew will write more about the life of Christ than Mark or Luke or John. And many of us here, our lives have been changed by the writing of Matthew. But it started with just two words. And some people think that, well, maybe two words aren't that important. But you know, when you look at different Bible translations, I find that they are. In the NIV in Colossians 1. 14, it talks about how we are redeemed to the blood of Christ And are given forgiveness. But in NIV it just says they're redeemed and given forgiveness. They take the blood of Christ out of the NIB Bible in Colossians 1. 14 I've often felt that when you remove the blood from the scriptures, whether it's one drop or a whole vial, when you start removing something as important as the blood of Christ, some sort of spiritual vampires are sucking the saving blood of Christ out of our scriptures. And we also have the RSV and and they remove their virgin birth in Isaiah 7. 14. And yes, the virgin birth is mentioned elsewhere but we start removing important words like that. If two words can call Matthew, if two words can resurrect Jairus' daughter, if two words can resurrect Lazarus, removing a word here, removing a word there, it can become really important in time, can't it? And so they removed the word virgin. I was talking with a man one time about them taking the virgin The name virgin, the virgin birth, you know the I show you a great sign, a virgin shall give birth, and name him Emmanuel. Great prophecy. I said they've removed the virgin birth from that book, from that Bible. And he said to me, Well, the virgin birth, that's Well, that's the equivalent to it's like a fly speck in a truckload of pepper. It's not that important. Yikes. The virgin birth, like a fly speck. in a truckload of pepper. Believe me, two words are important. In fact I think every word, every jot, every tittle, some famous person said, was important. I hope you know who that was Why would anyone want to remove words from our Bible? Why would anyone want what we've got the Reader's Digest Condensed Bible version? I was looking that up last night. How many of you ever heard the Reader's Digest Condensed Bible version? They they boast that they've been able to condense the Bible and make it 40% shorter, 40% less reading. So wow, that's more than two words, isn't it? I wonder what we miss in the reader's digest condensed version. Well, we missed 40% overall in that Bible. That's more than two words. And they even tell us, almost in a boasting manner, if you go on the internet, they've also removed 10% of the words of Christ. Wow. Can you imagine the things that Christ can you imagine removing 10% of the Sermon on the Mount or 10% of the Beatitudes? I mean What are we missing when we're moving and removing words from the Word of God? And they said the only reason is so we can get through it quicker, quicker to wear. You know Then there's another one called the Bible Condensed Version and you can go on there. You can buy the book. You can go on the internet and you can buy, you know. I I looked at that one. Uh we're not gonna use the Bible condensed version. We can get through Mark a lot faster In the Bible condensed version, they remove five whole chapters. And if you look in Matthew, they remove more than five chapters. In the book of John, they remove almost five chapters. In the book of Luke, they remove more than five chapters. So you can get through the Gospels really fast What would have happened here if these two words had been removed? Follow me. And Matthew never heard them. Mow. The Word of God, His Word is with power. We don't want to remove it. Luke 4 and 32. quicker and more powerful than the double-edged sword he before in verse twelve. We don't want to remove the words. There's power in the word of Christ. It changes people Deuteronomy 4. 2. You shall not add on to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish aught from it. Okay, we shouldn't take anything from the Word of God. Oh, I'm sorry. That verse is missing from the Bible Condensed Version. The verse that says not to take anything from the Bible is missing from the condensed version Bible. How about this one? Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. Romans 10, 7. That's important to know that faith cometh by hearing. Hearing what? Hearing the Word of God. That too is missing from the Bible condensed version. I I just spent a lot of time on this. But I won't. But I just want you to realize that he says to Matthew this morning, follow me. And there was power in the words of Christ. And we want Bible versions that give us all the words and don't question Don't question what Christ has said and what God would have us to know. And he says, follow me in the tax collector called Levi here, but we find out later on. His name is Matthew. The tax collector's immediate response was obedience And his obedience was obvious. And his obedience was so astounding that other tax collectors who knew Matthew, they wanted to know what happened to him, what had changed him. He walked away from the customs and the receipts. And th these collectors are retor notorious for, you know, charging you more for taxes than they were supposed to. You know, they'd up the ante a little bit and they'd pocket some of it. And there wasn't a poor tax collector in all of the Roman Empire. I mean they made a lot of money, much, much more than even S Caesar and and Herod and Pontius Pilate knew that they were pocketing He just walks away from it. You know, the fishermen they walk away from their nets. And they had a business. It was probably a good little business, but Matthew walks away from so much more. The power and the money and the notoriety and the people you got to rub elbows with, he walks away from all of that. He uh it says in Luke 5 and 28, he left everything He left everything. Now when you read the script later on, it doesn't mean he left his wife, you know. He didn't do that. But I mean when he left sitting at the customs and receipt and the money and the taxes He left everything. You know, once in a while you find a a born-again lawyer. I've been around now for about sixty years. I have yet to find a born-again tax collector. I'm sure there's one out there. But they were they were rare in this day of Matthew And it came to pass, it says here in verse 15, that as he as he sat at meat in his house, that is in Matthew's house, Christ says, Follow me, and they're and they're walking, and they're talking, and they end up at Matthew's house, and he invites the Lord into his house. And there's publicans and sinners who have followed. I mean, they're just so amazed what Matthew has done and they've known Matthew for a long time. And it says there are publicans and sinners, they also came and joined in and sat down at the meal It's interesting how many times you go through the scriptures and you find that tax collectors called publicans, all right, that they're often they're called publicans and sinners. They're just wrapped together. If he's a publican, he's a sinner You know, if he's a sinner, he might be a publican. I mean, all the scripture you find publicans and sinners, the two terms are often just combined together. And they sat together with Jesus and with the disciples of Christ Why were they there, these other tax collectors? This was quite a meal, quite a feast was given. It was Matthew's farewell banquet To all those he'd worked with all those years. And he wanted them to know why he was leading it. This was his evangelistic outreach, as it were. He wanted his fellow tax collectors to meet his Savior to hear the gospel one time at least because he was moving on. He was going to follow his Savior. And so he brings in all the men that he worked with, the tax collectors And many a sinner whom he also knew, and they came in and they sat down, and Christ is there to share with them. And perhaps said to some of them, follow me. And we know eventually one did by the name of Zacchaeus. We don't know if Zacchaeus was here at this point, but Zacchaeus was another tax collector. And we could read about him in Luke 19 and verse 2. But so he they're sitting there, and they meet the Savior, and they're hearing the gospel, and along come the scribes, and the scribes of the Pharisees saw him eating with publicans and sinners. What is he doing eating with this riprap? What is he doing eating with these extortions because that's what most tax collectors did? They extorted more money than they had to Bribe takers, they were known as bribe takers. They were traitors to the nation of Israel because they worked for the Roman government, and they were a repulsive segment of scum of society. What are they doing here And they said unto disciples, these Pharisees, they said unto the disciples of Christ, How is it? Or why does he, Christ, eat and drink with publicans and sinners? It's our first why. Why does he do this? You go down through history and you can you can type it up. There's a man named Sabinas, um S-A-B-I-N U. S. Sabinas. He was a tax collector. And the reason I mentioned this morning, and the reason is that that the Pharisees and uh and the scribes couldn't believe that he would sit down with these tax collectors. And in all the history of Rome, there was only one tax collector that anybody thought was honest. Only one. In fact, so honest was he that they they built a statue to him. They built a statue of Sabinus. Some say there were several statues of Sabinus. all over the Roman Empire. And on the on the statue of Sabinus it says, here lies one honest tax collector. Wow, one. And so what is Christ doing with all these other tax collectors? There's only one that was ever honest Here lies one honest publican. What would be written about you when you're buried? You know, on your what could be written about us? Here lies a liar, here lies a lustful individual, a licentious one, a loathsome man, or here lies one who has a love for souls Or here lies one who loved his Savior. What will be written on our statue or our tombstone? Or what could be written there? Well that being said, the question is still there. Why would Christ sit with repugnant publicans, tax collectors? And why would he call Matthew, one of the tax collectors, to be one of his disciples? This was the Pharisee's first why. And if you can't answer it this morning, Christ does for us. First off, I want to know that the scribes and the Pharisees were discouraging Christ from reaching out to lost souls Because that's why Christ was there. Christ wasn't there hobnobbing with them. He wasn't there having a good time or a party. He was there to give them the gospel. You know, there's a big difference. Sometimes when we meet with family and it's always just for a birthday party. Well I mean there's always a reason for the occasion, maybe it's Christmas, some holiday, uh fiftieth anniversary, you know, wedding there's times when we meet with family and there's something going on and we meet there But if we just go there to tip a beer with them, if we just go there to to schmooze with them and rub elbows with them, it's a waste of time. We have something they don't have. We have the gospel. We have the Word of God and we ought to be there sharing with Well if you do that they're not going to be happy. If they do that they're not going to want you to stay. If you do that, they'll never invite you again. Probably so. But if you are invited to a family occasion like that, you go, you use it as an open door as an opportunity to talk to the family. And that's what Christ was doing here. He was invited by Matthew to come to his house for a banquet, the festivity. He said, I've got a lot of other tax collectors. I want them to hear you say, follow me. I want them to hear you say, Why I am following you. I want them to hear you. presented them the gospel, the good news. I think they need to hear it before they die. We find in Scripture that not only were these Pharisees wrong in saying, why is Christ sitting down with these repugnant publicans? I'm going to say repugnant Republicans, there's some of them out there too. So why was he sitting down with them? He was being evangelistic. He was reaching out to lost souls. And we find that these men are these Pharisees and these scribes are forbidding Christ from reaching out to lost souls. We find that again in 3 John 1, verse 9 and 10, there was a man there who had preeminence in the church where Gaius was was an elder and theotrophes, he wanted his preeminence, and he was forbidding John the beloved to come and speak at the church He won the preemption. And John the Beloved, who had walked with Christ and spent time with Christ, John the Beloved who took care of uh the Christ's mother, whom we call the the Virgin Mary uh she was at one time and and he he's what a unique disciple to come to preach your church and Diatrophese doesn't want that In fact, he says that anybody else receives him and puts him up while he's going to be speaking here will cast you out of the church. And so Diotophys was discouraging The message of the gospel from reaching others from John the Beloved. Wow. Has anyone ever discouraged you from ministering to others for some reason or another? That's the spirit of theatrophies when they would discourage you from reaching out and to try to touch the hearts of someone who's not saved. Such discouragements are not rare. Diotrophes is one, and here the scribes and the Pharisees again are others. That's a dangerous breed that would discourage us from ministering. to the souls of others who are lost. And that's what they had here. So Christ sat with these fallen creatures. And he's asking about their soul's destination. That's what we should do. If we're put in a situation where we, like I say, with a family or or friends or relatives or co-workers, if there's a company, office party, you know, Christmas party, you know, go to it It's advantageous to say, especially a Christmas party. What's a Christmas party all about? They have no idea. Well you tell them that Christ came. You give them the gospel You talk about their soul's destination. Yeah, they'll never invite you to another Christmas party. But you take the opportunity You want to talk to them about their sin because their sin is the worst disease that their body could ever have within itself. You know, gallstones give you a warning. Some of you know about gallstones, right? You got a warning. It hurts. Kidney stones, you get a warning, it hurts. But a stony hard heart, a stony hard heart that is rotten through and through, it goes undetected for years. You just don't know it The owner with a stony heart that's that's rotten through and through, he believes, and you talk to these people, they believe everything's okay. You talk to an unsaved person with a rotten heart, a stony heart. He says, I'm better than most. He might be, but how bad are most? Oh my goodness to be better than most is still to be pretty bad. I'm better than most. God is all love. Hell is for unbelievers. No, it's not. Hell is not for unbelievers alone. Because Satan and the demons believe. And hell is believable. Prepared for them too. And so these people that oh hell's for unbelievers. I'm a believer. I know there was a Jesus, and I know there were miracles, and I know there was a virgin birth, I know all that stuff. I'm not an unbeliever. Well, the devil knows that too. But their hearts are so cold and they're so stony and they're so rotten that they don't have any perception that they're on their way to hell for all eternity. And so we take those opportunities we can to sit down with publicans and sinners, not to rub elbows, not to be hobnobbing and having a good time, but to look for an opportunity for some serious conversation And it does generally throw cold water on the whole party, but that's what we're to do. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Jeremiah 17:9. People think that they're okay. Well, Christ sat down with these pelvicans and sinners. He says you're not okay. People say, look, I've got a good conscience. That's another problem. We don't follow our conscience. Our conscience of sincere with a hot iron. And we have no conscience worth anything, really. The heart is deceitful, or it's delusional, would be another word for it. People are delusional. They think I'm a believer, I'm not going to hell. They're delusional. God loves everyone. No one's going to hell. That's delusional. That's not scripture. So Christ says to these Pharisees, when they ask him why you would sit down with these sinners, Christ said, I'm a physician. I am speaking to sinners about their rotten souls in need of a holy prescription. And wouldn't any doctor do that? I mean, if someone is sick, does the doctor call it in, or does the doctor have them come in to see them, or is the doctor go and visit them? Certainly a doctor wants to get as close to his patient as he can to look at the pupil of his eyes, to look inside his ears, to listen to his heart. Doesn't a physician have to get very, very close to the person who's got a disease that might kill them So if we've got a spiritual disease, Christ has to get close to that, doesn't he? And we have to get close to people sometimes. And yes, sometimes these people are they are repugnant to us. We don't want to get that close to them You know, Christ says you tell us the pearls before the swine once and twice, and if it's rejected, you leave. But give it a couple of shots with someone that's not saved. Talk to them. Listen to them. Look into their eyes. And share with them the prescription. That will cleanse and cure their soul. And that's what Christ was doing. He said, doesn't the physician go to the sick? The great physician, the physician of spirituality, the physician of souls that are lost, that are dead and trespasses and sin. That's what you Pharisees ought to be doing. You ought to be looking out for lost souls, dead souls Sinners and publicans and sitting down with them and sharing with them the prescription for salvation, the cure. And the cure is repentance. The cure is regeneration, the cure is conversion. The cure, if you've got it, you'll recognize it. If you've been cured of your sin, that is, if the gospel has touched your heart. in such a manner that you have turned around. Metanoie is the Greek word meaning to turn around. If you if that has happened, there's been a there's many Transformation in your life. There's been actually a permanent transformation in your life. You don't get lost and lose it, lost and lose it. It's a permanent transformation. You get saved and you're saved. You can't lose it And it's a radical, permanent transformation or change of the heart, and change of your will, and change of your mind and change of your conduct. That's what salvation is. It just changes everything. And it is so obvious to everybody, even to a publican or a sinner, that Matthew had changed radically Permanently. Listen, pilgrim. Christ can cure anything Disease. Christ can cure any soul. He can cure any disease in the latest stage. People talk about having third and fourth stage cancer. Not a problem for Christ. We've known some people four-stage cancer, cured, went off for another 17 years, totally gone. He can cure your sin sick, dead soul and trespasses and sins While you're in the worst stage of agony, he can cure you while your your last breath on the cross hanging next to him, and he can cure you that quick and permanently That you'll live in heaven for all eternity. You'll die on that cross. Sure, we're all going to die. Oh, is that something you didn't know? I mean, is there really somebody here that doesn't think we're going to die? Yeah, the rapture may come. But you know some I've been waiting for the rapture now for forty years. See a lot of people die in 40 years. And a lot of them thought the Lord was coming back and they weren't going to die. They thought that'd be great. That would be great. It's going to happen to a generation of people, but What is the chance that happens to us? 50-50. It will or it won't. You know. People also talk about, uh, what's the chance of the Lord coming back today? 50-50. He either will or he won't. He's a great physician. So why wouldn't the Pharisees have a physician or Christ speak to these sin Sick, lost, dead publicans. Why wouldn't they do that? Why didn't they see this? Why would they say, why are you sitting down with these sinners and these publicans? Why would you do that? Well, the answer is the Pharisees and the scribes were lost too. They were the blind leading the blind. And when he responds with the sick near physician, you know what they do? They just jump up with another why question They just have us another why question. Verse 18. And the disciples of John and the Pharisee, they come and they say, Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast? But your disciples they fast not. And what we have here is these unsaved Pharisees and scribes. They've stumbled on something. They fast twice a week, it says elsewhere in Scripture. They like to fast. I remember this church went through a fasting period. Nothing wrong with fasting. Uh sometimes you know people still do fast. But we went through a thing where uh people come in and say, I've got a real need and I want all the deacons and elders to fast. And so we would fast for like two days I think one time it was three days. And then a week or so later they somebody else would come by and say, Hey, I wanted to fast too. I want you to fast for two or three days for me. And we were fasting for about four or five weeks in a row until I started banging against the walls and falling in the bathtub and everything. I mean, you know it was um I think everybody thought that that was the the thing that would get you what you wanted. And these Pharisees, they fasted a lot. They fasted twice a week. And John the Baptist, his disciples fast too. In fact, they were fasting about this time frame because John the Baptist had been Arrested and were soon to be beheaded. So there was a good reason to be fasting for the disciples of John the Baptist. But these Pharisees, these unsaved Pharisees and scribes, they've caught on to something here. Hey, we fast, us Pharisees. Because we're so holy. And John the Baptist, his men fast uh because they're so they're so they're aesthetic, they're very uh they're they're very oh almost legalistic but they're but they fast and we fast we got something in common. And although John the Baptist's disciples seem to be very close with This Jesus the carpenter. In fact, some of John the Baptist disciples have joined with Jesus the carpenter. You know, they're very close. We have a way to sow discord among this relationship. That's what we're going to do. And so the Pharisees say, John the Baptist disciples, you know, you guys fast. That's really great. We fast too. You ever wonder why Jesus and his disciples don't fast? There's something wrong there. I mean fasting is good. Good for the body, good for the soul. Let's get out and ask him. And so the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees, they come in together And they say, how come Jesus? Why don't your disciples fast? Wow. Sounds like a pretty good question. But it's coming from the Pharisees. You got to get suspicious of that. But it's also coming to the disciples of John the Baptist. Just sowing discord among the disciples of Christ and the disciples of John the Baptist. You have that story back in Numbers 12 where Miriam and Aaron. Why is Moses the big hancho? Why is Moses the only one speaking for God? Miriam's pushing this thing with Aaron I think there's something wrong here. I think we should be spokespersons for God too. And Miriam's driving this wedge between Aaron and Moses, so in discord between the two brothers. How's that turn out? She gets leprosy, doesn't she Yikes. And then how about Ahab and Jezebel? Elijah. They weren't happy with Elijah. And what could they do to hurt Elijah? Well Elijah asked for there be no rain, remember for about three years. And so Ahab and Jezebel they're running around saying that Elijah is the one who troubleth Israel. Make all of Israel who loves Elijah for his miracles and his preaching and his and his following of God, but they're going to drive a wedge between Elijah and the people. And he starts spouting that, you're the troubler of Israel, you're the trouble of Israel. And Elijah confronts Ahab and says, no, I'm not the troubler. You're the troubler of Israel But they're trying to store a discord between Elijah and the people of Israel. And Jesus answers their second why? He says, as long as the bridegroom and Christ is the bridegroom and the church is the bride, he says, as long as the bridegroom is with them, they cannot fast. They don't have to fast. There's no reason for them to fast. I mean here I am, the bridegroom. I'm present. I'm performing miracles. You know, healing the sick and curing the lepers and raising the dead. And he said, I'm I'm here performing. There's no reason for mourning while I'm performing and I'm here. This is a festive time, not a time for fasting. But the days will come, he says in verse 20, the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away And then they still fast. Take it away, right? Take it away, put on a cross, take it away and place the tomb, take it away. He's dead. Then there'll be a time for fasting And so what did the Pharisees do with all this in the reading we had this morning? They just jumped to another why. You ever meet people like that? Why? Okay. They got children. I remember I forget how old my daughter was. But she could talk. And no matter what she said, she'd say why? Why? Ever had the why period that the kids go through? Why? These are Pharisees, they're full-grown adults, and they're always asking why about the scriptures, why about the prophecies, why about the carpenter from Nazareth. It's all these whys And they never stop when they get the first answer, they just go on and on and on to create distrust of the carpenter from Nazareth, to create distrust in the gospel message. And so they have a third why here in verse 23 and 24. On the Sabbath day Christ's disciples begin to pluck corn Or or the word corner is grain. If you're ever out in a grain field and you see the stocks of barley and wheat and so forth, and if you're hungry According to scriptures, you can go out in that field if you're hungry and you pluck the heads off. The head's about that long, uh maybe as thick as your baby finger, and you roll it in your hand, and then you kind of throw it in the air and you get rid of all the chaff. And you've got maybe twenty little seeds, they're not very big and you throw them in your mouth and you chew on them. They get like gum after a while and you swallow it. And you go, okay, well that wasn't Too bad. I mean, but you you get tired quicker than you get full. But you're allowed to do that. That's in the scripture that says you're allowed to glean out of the fields. And uh we read of that in uh Oh, I've got it written down here. I don't here's Deuteronomy twenty-three, verses twenty-four and twenty-five. That was legal. There was nothing wrong with that. But on the Sabbath day Christ decides to begin to pluck corn or to glean and rub the grain in their hands. They were hungry And the Pharisees said, Behold, why do they on the Sabbath day that which is not lawful? Well, first off, it is lawful to glean in somebody's field. Uh if you ever go in a grocery store sometimes and they'll have a bowl sitting out there with with grapes in it, or a sliced piece of cattaloupe or or watermelon, and you're allowed to take it right and eat it and see if you want to buy the watermelon That's kind of like gleaning. You you might go up to a uh a delicate testin' and on a on a delicatessant, they'll have uh little cut pieces of cheese and so forth, or or smoked meat. They want you to taste it, see if you want to buy it. That's that's that's our our modern day way of gleaning. It's legal. They don't want you to walk through a groceries run grab an apple and bite into it, you know, but they might have slices of apple set there for you. It's all legal. And I guess their biggest contention was that they were doing it on the Sabbath. And so they got this third why here And this is the third time that the pharisaical crowd is going to be wrong again. For gleaning in another field that was legal. And then Christ says, you know, there's a time when there are needs that need to be met that need. Not wants, but needs. He said when David was running from King Saul and his men, and they were they were out of food and they were out of water and it was a dangerous situation, they run up to the uh the the tabernacle there where the showbread was, and the showbread was only for the Levites and the Levites. Levite's family. They clear the showbread off once a week and it would be given the family. And when the Levite had the bread and he and his family they could eat it And if a guest came by, guess what? They could share it with the guest as well. So David goes to the tabernacle and says, Hey, we're we're really starving, we're really this is a really bad time. We need some showbread. We need some we need some nourishment And uh Abby Arthur and his father, the high priest, they said, Well, we're just about to remove the showbread, you know, and put the new showbread on the table. We got the old showbread We'll share it with you. There was nothing wrong with that. And there was a need here. David had a need. He goes in the house of God and he did eat the showbread. He didn't steal it. He had permission from the high priest And the Sabbath, Christ said, it was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. He said, You guys are going too far with your legalism here. There are times when there's a real need for people. And we need to meet it They're just full of whys. You're gonna run into that young people when you go to college. The professors are gonna throw all kinds of whys into your head. And if you answer one or two of them, they're not going to be satisfied. There's always going to be more wise. Is there anybody here that's a part of the why crowd? You just always got questions and you never are content. The white crowd is ever asking, why repent? Why repent? Because in Matthew 4. 17, Christ said to do so. Is that a good enough reason? Why should I repent of my sins? Christ said to do so. Why must one be born again? John 3 and verse 7, Christ said you must be born again. Why? You must be born again. That's why you must be born again. Why should I believe the scriptures? Because John 2 and verse 22, Christ said you're supposed to believe the scriptures. That's why. The white crowd pilgrim is ever learning and ever able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Timothy 3. 7. Get away from the wide crowd and just get into the Word of God and read every word. Because sometimes there's a verse there with just two words. Jesus wept. Powerful verse. It's just two words. Get a Bible where there are no words removed and read it. Read it every One, every chart, every title. And then you'll know why instead of asking why. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day as we continue through the book of Mark. That Christ had a lot of opposition. He still has a lot of opposition. It's amazing how those out there in the world say he is dead and yet they still hate him. They still attack him. They attack those who love him. They attack those who read his words. If he's really dead and gone, and if he's really powerless, and if praying means really nothing. And the Word of God is just myths in fairy tales. Why do they hate it and oppose it and burn it and destroy it? Oh Lord, we know why. every individual here today, before they leave, know why the gospel is so important for their soul. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.