Verses in the book of Hebrews, so maybe I'm biting off more than I can chew, but we'll see how far we can go. And the subject is why Jesus is better than angels. Let's read Hebrews 1, 5 through 7. It'll be in your Bible. I didn't want to overjam your bulletin, so it's in Hebrews 1, 5 through 7, where we read as follows. For unto which of the angels said he, at any time, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. And again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels, Esau, who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers, a flame, a fire. I decided to take those three verses altogether because they predominantly speak about angels, and this is one of the main points that God through the writer, the penman of Hebrews, is making. There's four fundamental points that are made. He's pointing out that we have a begotten Son that he's in the royal family, that uh he is to be worshipped, and that angels instead are simply ministering spirits. And those are the points that he's going to cover. Well, let's kind of open this up with a little review of angels, and I have an opening question. You know, I believe throughout scriptures, angels are kind of a big deal. in that they are pretty impressive. Can you think of some biblical examples of their power and their abilities? What is it that makes angels unique and different? They aren't stopped by like physical buildings and structures. They suddenly appear with Peter in prison. Yeah, poof. They appear and poof they disappear. We might call them UFOs. They they work behind the scenes. Yeah, they work behind the scenes. Kind of what she's saying where they disappear and you sort of don't see them. Yeah, they work behind the scenes. In their first appearance they're well armed. The flaming sword of the garden. Okay, yeah, Garden of Eden had a flaming sword, so they're well armed. Yeah. What else do you know about angels? And one angel can kill five thousand Oh yes, one angel killed a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrian troops, which by even modern warfare That is a tremendous leverage. A 1 to 185,000 ratio is incredible, especially when he doesn't even seem to be phased, didn't even nick an elbow or anything Oh, that's an interesting statement. As if though they are the weapons of God. Totally different warfare. Yeah. A level of warfare you can't reach They don't seem to have their own volition. They're always so in the will of God. Ah. Except the rebellious angels, obviously. Alright. They they uh certainly don't have their own volition, right So insofar as their power and ability, you know, we think about Sodom and Gomorrah. You know, it was two angels that rained down fire and grimstone And it were it was as it were the angels themselves were casting down the brimstone, the fiery conflagration from heaven itself. You know, all throughout the book of Revelation you have the seven vials, the seven trumpets. There's angels involved there. A handful of them that are wreaking tremendous destruction. So indeed they are tremendously powerful. In fact, they're so powerful that what do you find in Revelation when uh sometimes an angel appears And the Apostle John falls on his face and begins to worship him. And the angel says, No, don't do that. Why do you think John would want to fall down and worship that angel? Actually looks like Christ, behaves like Christ, acts like him, they so reflect the image of of of God Almighty. that even an apostle thought, wow, this is worthy of worship and praise. And so you might begin to think That men might want to worship angels and exalt them. And indeed, that's what you have found throughout time and throughout history. Men are exalting spirits, different kinds of spirits and they will ascribe great power to them, and you can certainly see why. So we're now going to look at four reasons why angels, although they are powerful, are grossly inferior to Jesus Christ. So now we're making a comparison between Jesus Christ and angels. So I want to talk about angels first so you understand the comparison. Well, interestingly enough here in Hebrews you have one sentence that introduces The Son of God, and I gave you that little graphic in the opening lesson to illustrate that the Son is the centerpiece of it all. And immediately in the second sentence you have four quotations from Scripture Immediately there are Bible proof texts that are given, which I think is a very unique approach. So here we've got Verse 5, and I'm going to focus on this phrase. Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee Uh and then again in verse six, so that we'll talk about it one time, again when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world. Again meaning Not that the first begotten comes in twice, but here's another verse of scripture. And here's another verse of scripture. That's the sense of that word again. He calls him the first begotten. There's actually two different Greek words used there. One is monogenes and the other is protocos. Both of those are used nine times each in the New Testament. And this verse in Hebrews 1 and 5 and 6 link those two together. They're talking about the same individual, the Son. He is the first begotten, the firstborn What do you suppose begotten means? It's the most commonly known archaic word because John 3. 16 contains it. What does begotten mean? And then what is the implication of it? What do you think begotten means? God so loved the world and gave his only begotten son. What's an only begotten son? Yeah, to be born in the literal sense, that is what the the word is. It literally refers to procreation, uh, that word begotten. The present form is begat all throughout Matthew 1. So-and-so begat so-and-so. John 3 uses the word born again. So that word born. That's our word begotten. So there's just a different tense uh going on here to be grammatically accurate in English. In verse 6, it's literally firstborn. The Nicene Creed even uses that term. It says that Jesus is begotten, not made. He is begotten, not made. And it used and it drew from these Greek terms to indicate that he's begotten, not made. So begotten is very different than made. We think about being born, that's procreation, but when we use that term begotten, there is something different going on here. And in fact, Hebrews 1 helps us understand that difference and I'm here to point out to you that it ties to Jesus' resurrection It ties to his resurrection. Now why do I make that strange assertion? Why would that tie in? Well, let's first of all consider where this quote is coming from, right? So God through Hebrews is quoting Psalm 2 where it says in your bulletin insert, I will declare the decree. The Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. That's where the quote is coming from, Psalm chapter 2. And of course Psalm 2 is all about kiss the son lest he be angry and the power of the king and so forth and it's a begotten son. Keep your uh hand in um Hebrews or look at your handout. God through Peter is going to interpret Psalm 2 for us. He does it in his first sermon and in Acts chapter 2, verse 32. He tells us that Jesus was declared a son at and because of his resurrection. Psalm 232, we read this. Peter's preaching, he says, We declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the fathers, God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children. In that he hath raised up Jesus again. Alright, notice the connection to the resurrection. He's raised up Jesus again, as it is also written in the second Psalm, so he's going to give a proof text for his assertion as he raised up Jesus. As it's written in the second Psalm, so we know what that's talking about, Psalm 2. 7, thou art my son this day. Notice that emphasis on day, meaning one day, there is a day in time when something would happen. Have I begotten thee? Well that song doesn't make sense unless begotten ties to Jesus' resurrection. You see that? Peter is using this as a proof text that God would raise Jesus from the dead because he says he called him his only begotten son. Ah, so begotten has to do with Coming up from the dead. And you see the Apostle Paul and John, both of those reinforce that teaching. So look now at Romans chapter 1 and verse 3. This connection to begotten and Jesus resurrection. Romans 1:3, concerning his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made. Now that word made there is in the sense of declared He was made, he was declared to be of the seed of David, according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God. Notice the word declared here. with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. Wasn't that interesting? He was declared to be a son of God by his resurrection from the dead. You see that? Now he doesn't use the word begotten there, but there's a connection. Because he is the Son, this day have I begotten thee. He is raised from the dead, therefore he is that Son of God. There's an interesting connection going on with begotten, Son, and Resurrection. So let's keep going. Look at Revelation 1 verse 5. Here the Apostle John says this. He's giving his greeting, and it's from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead. Notice it uses now the first begotten of the dead. Well What could that be referring to? Well, obviously, uh he is talking about Jesus' resurrection, that he was in the grave three days and three nights, and then he rose up. Alright, uh we're not alone. The Apostle Paul again in Colossians, speaking of Christ, he says he, Colossians 1. 18, he is the head of the body, the church, who was the beginning, the firstborn, literally first begotten. of the dead. Again, this connection to being raised up from the dead, being the first begotten. And so when it says God loved so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, he's talking about a resurrected son, a son that would come back from the dead. That whosoever believes in him, that resurrected son, should not perish. You've got to believe in the resurrected son. So there's an interesting connection to that Let us often overlook. It's not just pure procreation, right? Jesus wasn't made a son because he physically came into the world He was declared to be a son through his resurrection from the dead, because he carried out what only a son of God could actually do. Very interesting that language. And so it's showing a fulfillment of Psalm chapter two. And we don't read of any angels resurrecting from the dead. You don't find that anywhere. In fact There's no salvation plan for angels. Jesus' death on the cross doesn't rescue or redeem angels. It doesn't rescue or redeem dogs and cats. Sorry, rover's not going to be in heaven. I got some vicious comments from a particular online hearer because I said that pets aren't in heaven. They got all upset about that. Well I'm sorry Jesus didn't die for Fluffy. He didn't. Because it requires a human to die for humans. It would require an animal to die for animals and it would require an angel to die for angels And Jesus Christ took on himself the form of human beings to redeem us. So um The point is, only Jesus raised himself from the dead. Angels were never raised from the dead. And believers are united with him in the resurrection. Because that's when our sonship is revealed in that resurrection. That's when we're declared to be the sons of God at our resurrection. There is a connection there. For instance, Luke 20, 35, Jesus is refuting The Sadducees who say there is no resurrection. And they come up with this crazy story about a man with seven six brothers, all seven die. They took the same woman in heaven, whose wife shall she be. Jesus answers in Luke twenty thirty five, and I'm giving part of his answer to focus on this resurrection tie. He says they in Luke twenty thirty-five, they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world This future, coming, glorious, new heaven and new earth, that world, that universe, that cosmos. They which are accounted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead Neither marry nor are given in marriage, neither can they die anymore. It's impossible to die. Wow, that's pretty, that's a wonderful promise. For they are equal unto the angels and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. So they're equal to angels, meaning we're comparable to them. We will have comparable powers, but because you're A child of the resurrection, you're also declared to be a son of God. And that's why he's the firstborn of many brethren. He was the first one to come in that resurrection body. Isn't that wonderful? Well, as I continue to look at this, there is a um that phrase begotten is uh I have to make a point here. Uh and I'm I I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but a point has to be made uh those using a corrupt translation such as the ESV. The translation in and of itself is reasonable. It's the underlying text that they're using. That's the massive problem The translators are doing a reasonably good job, but unfortunately they're translating the wrong book. They're not translating the canon of God. The word begotten, which appears eighteen times in your King James Textus Receptus-based Bible. The only Bible option out there that's faithful and that's canonical The ESV has it in only three New Testament verses. So that's 15 out of 18 gone. You won't find begotten. Now remember we just learned that begotten ties to the resurrection. So for instance, look at this table in your handout. Because When you remove that word begotten, you totally goof up doctrine, and it makes no sense. So look at John 1. 18 in the King James versus the ESV. And maybe Gabriel can pull that table up on the screen. I'm not sure how he can pull that off. He might have to find a bulletin insert. But I'll read it for everyone. King James in John 1. 18 says, No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten son, the ESV says the only God. The only God. Well, that removes any implied reference to Jesus as the resurrected one. That's what made him the begotten Son Okay, this only begotten son in King James says, which is in the bosom of the Father, ESV says, who is at the Father's side. Well, side and bosom are two different locations, folks, and there's significantly two different implications from that. In the bosom of someone is in the heart embracing They're deep, they're close, but at your side, I mean, you can be walking with a stranger down this down the street, be at your side In fact, it even confuses the Trinity because now you have God at the side of the Father. Well, what does that mean? That's a can the Trinity is supposed to depict the three persons of the Godhead, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, not God, Father, Holy Spirit. You don't use the same word when you're trying to define what's in it. So that's confusing. And then it goes on King James concludes John 1. 18 with He hath declared him. ESV says he has made him known. Well that's very different. Because declared is simply a declaration, a preaching. It's an open uh uh uh discussion, if you will, a dialogue about who the Son is. It's to tell, to proclaim But to make him known means to impart knowledge. Well, that happens when you're born of God. Many are called, few are chosen. Many hear the word, it bounces off. Remember the parable of the soul? So it's a very confusing verse because of their tenacious grip on a corrupt manuscript. We'll keep going because we'll touch on this corrupt manuscript later as we get into it. Our second reason why Jesus is better than angels is that he is in the royal family. In the second part of verse 5, back in Hebrews 1, he quotes another verse of Scripture. He says, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. This is a proof text for why Jesus is better than angels. You know, spiritual sonship, folks, is a role, not a literal descendancy. Remember what we read in the book of Luke that men are like unto angels. Spirit beings do not procreate. You don't have a bunch of baby angels flying around. Renaissance pictures that are glorious that fill the Sistine chapels with little cherubs. They depict cherubs as little baby angels, a cute little round fat, and a gay little No, no, no. That's nonsense. That's sheer fiction That's complete fantasy out of somebody's head. There's no scriptural validation, no warrant whatsoever for baby angels. Doesn't exist because Jesus says they don't do that. They just don't do that Right? And so that's why in heaven there's not husband and wife. There's no procreation there. It's a done deal, right? And you can't die. So it's a settled population that never grows, it never ends, it's entirely stable. That is the apparent language of scriptures. No, spiritual sonship is a role, not a literal descendancy. It's a role. We have it as a sign, as a sh as a shadow, as a type right here and now. We have marriage, this side of eternity, as a sign, as a shadow, as a type of the spiritual realities. So look at John 10. 30 Jesus makes it plain. He says, I and my Father are one. They are united. They're one. One didn't come from the other. There's unity. Verse 38. Though ye believe me not, believe the works, that ye may know and believe that the Father is in me and I in him. So there is that union in the Trinity, but there are different roles. So sonship is a role. Don't think lineage that that that breaks down. That's not going to work. He's that ultimate fulfillment of what it all points to. Alright, so what is the quote and where is it coming from? Well the quote is I will be to him a father and he shall be to me a son. Do you have a comment? Oh, you, I'm sorry. Now the quote's coming from 2 Samuel 7. In fact, it's quoted very often in the Old Testament. It's uh three other times in the book of 2 Chronicles as well which is the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah. In 2 Samuel, this is a promise of God through the prophet Samuel, speaking to David. And in 2 Samuel 7 and verse 12, he says, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. Now God's through the prophet Samuel talking to David. So who is this literally that he's speaking about? Who shall proceed out of his bowels I will establish his kingdom? In the first instance, who is he talking about? Who was David's physical descendant that would have a kingdom set up? Solomon. Solomon, yes. In the very first instance, it's referring to Solomon. Okay? And verse 13, he shall build a house for my name. Indeed, Solomon was the one that built the house. David gathered all the stuff. He got the cedars from King Hiram. Uh he had all the material, all the gold. He did the building collection. Boy a whole life just collecting building materials. It must have been an impressive temple. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Oh, all of a sudden it gets interesting. His throne is going to be established forever. Forever is a mighty long time. I will be his father and he shall be my son. Whoa. Well that's what Hebrews is now quoting, saying, well, that's actually pointing to Jesus Christ, so there's a greater Solomon in view here What God promised to David physically came to pass in terms of Solomon, but spiritually there was a greater promise that was in view. The greater promise was the greater Solomon, the Lord Jesus Christ. Back to Solomon he says in verse 14 of 2 Samuel 7, If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I put away from before thee. So consider the context of Second Samuel. Verse twelve, establish a kingdom. Verse thirteen, building a house Establishing an eternal throne. So there is a greater Solomon, and Jesus talked about that in Matthew 12, 42. Lo, one greater than Solomon is here in the temple. He was referring to himself. This ties then to Hebrews 1. 3 where it says he sat down on the right hand of majesty on high. You see, he's been declared a son. He has been declared one who's in the royal family. He will have that spiritual kingdom. He will have that eternal throne. There's a connection. The son sits on the throne That's how royalty works. It's only given to the sons. It's not given to strangers. The only reason the stranger gets it is because the land's been conquered. Somebody else is sitting on your throne So Jesus was made a firstborn, not created by a decree which grants rights to God's throne. Look at Psalm eighty nine twenty six in your handout. He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. Also I will make him, my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. It's a total different position than what Joseph or Daniel held in the kingdom. They were given great authority, but they were not sons of Pharaoh or sons of the king. Um but Christ is given that position. He is the son of the king. Mm-hmm. Absolutely. Yeah. I mean uh Was Joseph the second or third ruler in the kingdom? Second can second in the kingdom. Yeah, and the kingdom. It was in Daniel. Daniel was third. Right. But um Christ is number one then. Yes. He is equal. Yes, absolutely. He is on that eternal throne. And so angels were never promised an eternal throne You know, it's interesting because the proof texts here given are saying, and unto which of the angels did he say this? He's somewhat arguing from silence. You do read this speaking of the Messiah, but you don't read this speaking about angels, so he's arguing from silence. You don't find angels in here. Well they could be. No, they're not. The argument is made. No, they're not in view at all. And that's the thrust and the strength of what he's arguing here. So angels were never promised an eternal throne, but Jesus was. Third reason why Jesus is greater than angels is that he is to be worshipped by angels. And this is where I stumbled into another area about the critical text. Alright, we read here in verse 6. It says, Again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him. So then you go into your concordance and you go looking for that reference, you go looking for that, and those exact words, that exact phrase, is not found. The concept is, the concept very much is, you get that really from Psalm 97, verse 7. Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols, worship him all ye gods. That's that word Elohim. And there are times when that can be rendered gods. It can also have the sense of angels. It can also have the sense of men and rulers. uh that you would find in the temple. So there's a bit of a broad main range of meanings to that. Here, this is apparently is where it's coming from. Worship him You know, exalted beings, to include angels, they are great and might and power, are told to worship him. Um the um uh uh the unbelieving scholars who are many who have the authority over the critical text. They don't even believe in the miracles of Jesus. They don't even claim uh the basic doctrines of Christianity. Uh they are altogether to be considered enemies and adversaries Uh these unbelievers say, well, uh you see, this is a place where uh the apot uh the writers of the book of Hebrews, uh the Apostle Paul and others were quoting from the Septuagint. Maybe you've heard that They're quoting from the Septuagint. What is the Septuagint? Well, I don't want to get into it too deep right now, because it could be thirty minutes on its own time, but I'll give you a thumbnail sketch. At the bottom of your handout, there are two excellent, excellent links I want you to go hit. And you can look at those phrases from David Daniels site, Chick Tracks, Chick Publications. about what is the Septuagint and what is the LXX. The LXX is the Latin abbreviation for Septuagint. It's the number 50. I mean excuse me, number L is 50, X is 10, so it's the number 70. There is a single letter of Eristolos. I think I'm pronouncing the name correctly. It doesn't matter because it's a fake letter, and even the critical text people know it's a fake letter and acknowledge it's a fake letter. But in this fake letter, it references that there were an effort in the 2nd century B. C. , 200 years before Christ. For the Hebrews to expand their Jewish traditions and knowledge into their Greek counterparts up in the other parts of the Grecian Empire And so it was said that this one individual went to all the twelve tribes of Israel and said, Give me six of your most learned scholars. And so they got six of each of the twelve. So it was seventy-two scholars, not seventy. who were came together and brought to Alexandria, Egypt, where they were put in individual rooms to translate the Hebrew Bible into Greek. And at the end of a brief period of time they all came out and magically every one of their translations was identical, word for word. Not a single one of them uh rendered any of the Hebrew into Greek differently and therefore it's proof of an inspiration. That's the fanciful story behind the Septuagint They do not have an extant copy of the Septuagint. Does not exist. They've never found such a document. There is no other reference anywhere in the ancient writings to such a book as the Septuagint. It is supposed that it exists because Origin's hexapla, where he had different languages listed up side by side for certain verses, contain some renderings. And they say, and oh, by the way, today the Vatican says, well, yes, the Septuagint is the Alexandrian text. It's demonstrated in Sinaiiticus, Vaticanus, and Alexandrinus. Those corrupt manuscripts uh have uh uh also have um where's my note on this oh they also have angels as mediators in that the septuagent also has all the Apocrypha loaded up in it The Alexandrian text do not have Hebrews 9 verse 15 on to the end. And so it's got a raft of problems. For starters, the story doesn't hold water. Folks, there was one tribe committed to handling the Word of God in Hebrew in Judah's day, in Israel's day, and that was the tribe of Levi. If I go knock on the door of Asher, hey, give me some people in your tribe who can translate scriptures like, not in my wheelhouse, go to Levi. We don't have those skills We don't do that. Benjamin, can you we got weapons of war. We don't know how to handle a pen. We've never been trained in that. So this the the story didn't make sense to begin. No self-respecting Jew, even if he were a scholar Would say, no, that's Levi's job. They would fall under the fear of God to pick up somebody else's uh task or role. So that story doesn't even make sense And second, how are you going to find the tribes of Israel? They were scattered at that point. This is after the Babylonian captivity. Only Judah and Jerusalem got a temple and their and their walls back up. You don't read about the rest of the tribe showing up. There's so much that's baked with it, it's nonsense. And so Hebrew takes years to master, Greek takes weeks to years to master. It's really not a difficult language. And so no, it's not a surprise that somebody might translate something from Hebrew into Greek that would render this way. But that doesn't mean it's from the Septuagint. There's no way Jesus would have quoted And there's no way somebody writing to the Hebrews would quote from a Greek book. to Jamaica and say, oh, and then the Spanish Bible says, they'd look at you or or you know, so the North Korean Bible says. I mean they would look huh? What? So Kill this idea. Don't ever give the Septuagint any weight or merit whatsoever. It is corrupt. It has nothing to do with Scripture. This is God the Holy Spirit giving divine insight into what he's speaking about here So, I thought I'd share that with you because this is the first of many places where the commentators will say, oh yes, this is a quote from the book of Hebrews. Alright. Having covered that, and I spent a little bit more time than I wanted to on it, but it's important. Angels are to worship Jesus Christ. Angels are to do that All who are superior to man, including angels, are to worship Christ Jesus. Look at Philippians 2, 9 and 10 and 11, the New Testament. Concludes this as well. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, speaking of Jesus, and hath given him Jesus a name which is above every name. Now you can take that word every and make it as broad as you want That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, well that's kind of where angels are at, and things in earth and things under the earth, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And so angels are to worship him. Well, when you're trying to look at the pecking order, you know some of you are new in corporate America, you have an org chart, there's the boss, and then there's the boss's boss, and then there's the owner of the company, and Does the owner of the company show up and say, oh, stop by the intern's office and say, Oh, I'm sorry, did you get coffee today? Can I go get you some coffee? I've got a really busy schedule, but your needs are pretty important right now. No, of course not You're there at the beckon calling the whim of the boss and the boss's boss and the there's a pecking order. And here it's very clear, angels are to worship, and worship means also to serve. To glorify, to bring honor to, to conduct yourself in a manner worthy of being in that kingdom. Alright, fourth point made here in Hebrews 1. Fourth point is this. He makes a quote. He says in verse 7, and of the angels, in other words, speaking about the angels, I'm in Hebrews 1:7. He saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire? Spirits, flames of fire That's a direct quote from Psalm 104 and verse 4 Who maketh his angels spirits, his ministers a flaming fire. And indeed, indeed we find that's exactly what they do It's exactly what they do. Everything that he just said there is done, and you see plenty of examples, and I've listed a few of them here for you in your handout. 2 Kings 2. 11. This is the departure of Elijah. It came to pass as they still went on and talked, he's there talking with Elisha, his protege. Now, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire. Well it wasn't driving itself, folks. And parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. In these chariots of fire, fiery chariots. You read in the New Testament of the beggar who died and was carried by angels to the bosom of Abraham. uh the the angels as it were from what Elijah saw and was reported was a chariot of fire Elisha saw was a chariot of fire was there angels Those are angels. They're fiery, flaming, ministering servants. And you know, that fire doesn't hurt the children of God. You remember that from Daniel in the lion's den. Because that fire can protect them from any flame that earth can produce. Second Kings later, Elisha is praying to a servant who's afraid because they're surrounded by adversaries, and Miss Saba pointed out that they do behind-the-scenes work. Well, sometimes God rolls back the curtains so you can see behind the scenes. Oh, I'd love for him to do that from time to time, just to roll back the curtains for us, just to see behind the scenes And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw and behold, the mountain was full. Full of horses and chariots of fire, round about Elisha. Full. Now remember, it only took one angel to wipe out the Assyrians. You had a mountain full. Full Joe of angels. Can you imagine the kind of protection, the kind of power that God is exuding from heaven? The restraint against the forces of hell. Because we have an adversary that can even hinder that one angel in the book of Daniel. I was hindered seven days, he said. And so, yes, there is a real warfare, and we have God's servants helping us Isaiah had a vision and he saw these seraphims, there's cherubims, there's seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, with twain he did fly. A six-winged angel Wow, that's a lot of wings. It's a lot of flight. It's a lot of speed. It's a lot of power. And he could take with his hand, so he had a hand. And he reached out to the altar with had a coal on it. He took the tongs and grabbed the coal, but then he put the coal in his hand and he touched Isaiah's lips. Anything on the altar was holy. This is purge thy sins. He could hold a live coal in his hand. And that word seraph is related to the word copper like a burning And the sense is that they can handle fiery things. I believe it was seraphims that were raining down fire and brimstone on Sodom and Gomorrah. Why? Because they can handle the coals. It doesn't burn them. Doesn't bother them a bit. But they can pick it up like I can pick up rocks. But it's extraordinarily lethal to us. And so they can do this. Ezekiel 1. Ezekiel has a vision of of heaven. He says, as for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of lamps. It went up and down among the living creatures, and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning. What a vision he sees. This is the angelic host. that are worshiping him around his throne. This is what he sees and beholds. This is your God. This is his entourage. This is his special security force. He didn't need guard dogs running around sniffing stupid stuff. He doesn't need that. He's got an angel there that's going to drive it all away. He's got a multitude of angels there There's even an order and a power of angels over the very earth that we live in. Listen to this language from Zechariah Zechariah in chapter 6 and the first five verses 2 through 5 reads about these horsemen. The first chariot were red horses, the second chariot, black horses, the third chariot, white horses, the fourth chariot. grizzled, and bay horses. Then I answered and said unto the angel, Talk with me, What are these, my lord? The angel answered and said unto me, These are the four Spirits of heaven. Remember, angels are ministering spirits. They are immaterial beings. That's why they can pass through walls and the like. They're immaterial. They're not compatible with the elements of this world. It doesn't prove a barrier to them. He says there's four of them. These four angels. And they go through the whole earth and they do what they will. And they render war or famine. This is God's servants. These are God's weapons. These are God's tools. He says, yep, send that angel over here, we need some destruction. Send him over here, we need some wrath. Send him over, we need some famine. That's what's driving it. You know, in meteorology, my dad loved meteorology. He wanted to be a weatherman Dad was fascinated with weather. You didn't bother dad around 5. 30 and 6. 30 because he was glued to the news watching the weather and at ten o'clock at night. He was a weather junkie And the one thing that weatherman said is you always can tell what's going to happen with the weather if you follow the upper winds. That drives everything. Those upper winds drive and move. That's the jet stream, basically. Zechariah 6 is the upper winds of heaven. This is what goes around and affects things on earth. CNN's not going to cover that. News systems isn't going to cover that. This is what's covering it. This is what's driving things. Let me finish up here. We also see that angels literally ministered to the Lord Jesus while he was here on earth. In Matthew 4:11, it says, The devil leaveth him and behold. Angels came and ministered unto him. He was driven far into the wilderness, far away from where any disciple or apostle could find him, get to him. Yeah, at that time, angel shows up. And I believe for believers and saints that they do have angels that watch over them. I do believe that. Now Do they just appear randomly at any old time? No, I think when you're in a really, really hard, difficult situation where the normal means that God has ordained. for uh the saints of God, uh a fellow neighbor, uh friend to come and assist or help, the normal means of not being slothful but going about and providing when when those things are utterly beyond you That yes, God dispatches an angel. He helps his children. I do believe that that's the case. And I say so because one time I was so intoxicated in college that I only remember one-third of the trip back home I have no idea who drove my pickup truck the other two-thirds of the way. I have no idea how I got there. How do you go from point A to point B, blacked out behind the wheel? and get home safely without having a wreck. I I just don't know. As far as I'm concerned, an angel had that steering wheel. I really don't know. I really don't know Well the same thing my brother when he was young he fell down one floor down there's chicken uh chicken. Yeah he's fell on some chicken. And I was holding my I wasn't able to I was young too, I was holding his hand so that it doesn't fall down. Um then what he slipped from my hand and fell down All the way one floor down and nothing happened to him. Not and no nothing abroad and nothing. And even if it was not only closed and And the chicken did not bother him, only they they started to streaming. So after Angel has uh I I told you all some time ago about a piece of pipe that broke a window and broke the weld on half entry bar and then fell straight down without continuing its arc. It just it just stopped and went down. Can you answer that one? No. Well, we close in prayer. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for the greatness of the Lord Jesus Christ, far greater in power and might than angels, and one who is rightful son to the throne. One to whom we can cry out, Abba Father, one in whom we have the hope of the resurrection, because as our older brother he goes before us. Lord, what a glorious future we have awaiting before us to be part of that heavenly host, that heavenly company of great power and great might. Indeed, the Son is exalted. Let him be exalted in our minds and hearts today as we worship him. In Jesus' name. Amen.