Turn in your Bibles with me this morning, please, to the Gospel as recorded by Matthew and the second chapter. The verses I'm going to read this morning, I believe probably most of you could recite. I'm sure many of you at some time or another in a Christmas program. memorize these words and it's another reason we love the good old King James Bible because we learned it, we memorized it in our childhood And those of you who know and love Shakespeare and good literature, know that good literature sticks in your mind. And the King James Bible was written in a day of elevated language. We do not need to bring the Bible down to the common vernacular of our day. Rather, it is well. That the words of the King James are a little bit different than the way most people speak. Because these are the very words of God. preserved for his people. And they deserve to be honored and spoken with reverence. Our message today isn't about the KJB. But if you have your place now in your good old KJB, in Matthew chapter 2, I'll begin our scripture reading with verse 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying Where is he that is born, king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes to the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah. For out of thee shall come forth a governor that shall rule my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had privately called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when ye have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And being warmed of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way. And when they were delayed departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and his mother and flee into Egypt. And be there thou be thou there until I bring thee word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him Then he arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled which is spoken by the Lord of the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent, and slew all the children in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under according to the time which he had dil diligently inquired of the wise men. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying In Ramah there was a voice of land uh heard lamentation and weeping and great moaning. Rachel, weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they were not. But when Herod was dead, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared in the dream unto Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise! Take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel, for they are dead which sought the young child's life And he arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. But when he heard that Arch Archelaus did reign in Judea, in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither. Notwithstanding being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee, and he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth. That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, he shall be called a Nazarene. Notice how many times in that one chapter you find the phrase that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, and it was fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. It is the common frequent refrain. The fulfillment of Scripture. And that's going to be part of what we consider this morning. The title of our message today is Behold, There Came Kings from the East. God sent his only begotten Son into the world. The reason that Christ came into the world was to save sinners of whom I am chief, as the Apostle Paul gave testimony. It would seem that God, having sent his only begotten Son into the world to save sinners, That God having sent his son into the world to deliver men from hell, everyone will believe. You'd think. I mean, have you ever been to a grocery store when they're giving away free turkeys? There's a line in the parking lot. And the bowl teams will advertise the first five thousand people that show up will get a bobblehead. Certainly, if God is offering salvation to every man, woman, and child on earth, will not every man, woman, and child want it and rush to get it Stand in line for it. But that's anything but what we find in Scripture. In 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4, we read that the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the glorious light of the gospel of Christ should shine unto them. We find that Herod had an interest in the baby Jesus. He wanted to kill him. We find that the chief priests and scribes had no interest in the baby Jesus. They weren't watching for him. They didn't recognize his star, and they weren't interested in traveling the five and a half miles from Jerusalem to Bethlehem to see where he was. But here we find these wise men from the east. They traveled probably around 900 miles. Maybe as much as four or five months on the back of camels that they traveled following a star. To find this one that was born king of the Jews. So I want us to consider the wise men this morning. And the first thing I want to point out about these wise men is that they came seeking a king. They were not looking for a baby. They were looking for a king. You see, the king was yet a baby, but he was already a king. And there in our text, they come and say, where is he that is born? King of the Jews. We have seen his star in the East and are come to worship him. Why is that important? Why is that significance? Because the very nature of a king is one who is a sovereign lord. One who is a king is a sovereign master, and the only rights that you have under a sovereign master are the rights which the sovereign master grants to you. You have no rights before a king. Our brother mentioned this during the confessional reading. that we have no right to lay claim to anything that belongs to the sovereign king, and certainly grace belongs to the sovereign king The sovereign king has the power of life and death. The sovereign king has the power to bless you or to condemn you. The sovereign king has the power of liberty or of captivity. It's all in the hand of the king. When Pilate had Christ in his presence, he said to Jesus, Don't you know that I have the power to set you free or to bind you? And Christ said, you can have no power over me at all, except that you were given you by my Father, which is in heaven. A sovereign king has all the power. And he dispenses that power at his will. This wise men came seeking a king. You see, a king by his very nature is of a royal lineage. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? He was of the house and lineage of David. Luke chapter 2, verse 4. Luke chapter 1, verse 32, when the angel appears to Joseph, he says, He shall be called the Son of the highest. His lineage is clear. There have been kings in earthly history who were not of royal descent, but they were usurpers. They came to their kingship by violence, but a true king is of royalty. These kings of the East, these wise men, were themselves of royal lines. Remember when Daniel was chosen among the children of Israel to serve in the land of Babylon, they sought out those of the king's house. David was a wise man because he was of a royal lineage. And these wise men, they were of the royalty of royal families. And they came seeking another. Not the son of a carpenter, not the child of Mary, but one of royal lineage. And so they came seeking for a king. Flip over to Hebrews chapter seven. With me. I had not actually paid attention to this idea of a king. of them seeking a king until studying for this message this week. A baby, the baby Jesus. And that's the way everything is portrayed. Do you ever see A depiction of a baby in a manger with a crown on. No. Oh you see you see a halo around Mary and yeah He's born king. He's born king. And in Hebrews chapter 7, verse 4 and verse 7, we have. The story of Abraham coming to Melchizedek. And in Hebrews 7, verse 4, now consider how great this man was. unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of his spoils, without contradiction, the less is blessed of the better. Okay. You have a scenario here where these wise men Are themselves, you could say, kings in their own right. We sang the song, We Three Kings of Orient are. They were of royal lineage. They weren't the common people. They were educated people. They could read and write. These were the cream of the crop. They were the top of society. But they are submitting their authority to an infant. Do you ever contemplate that? That they're coming to this king, and they're coming to worship this king. They are bringing their tithes, their gold, their frankincense, their myrrh to this one who's still in diapers. To this one who cannot yet speak a command or a decree. And yet, you see the faith of these wise men. We will worship this one. And when God brought his only begotten Son into the world, he said unto all the angels of heaven, worship him! Worship this baby in the manger, these kings If you will, came seeking a much greater potentate. They came seeking a king. And folks Men cannot seek after a king of their own volition. Do you remember, Esther? Esther was the queen. And yet, when her uncle Mordecai said to Esther, Go in to the king! Esther's response was, he has not bidden me to come. You see, if you went into the presence of a king without being bidden into the presence of that king, He could have you put to death. And Esther's reply to Mordecai when Mordecai says, Esther, God's brought you to the kingdom for such a time as this. She didn't say God. The book of Esther never mentions God, by the way. But maybe you're brought to the kingdom for such a time as this. Esther says, I'll go, and if I perish, I perish. You see, you don't come into the king because you decide to come into the king, but rather Those that come into the presence of the king are drawn and invited into the presence of the king. You see, you do not come into the presence of the King of Heaven without the intervention of the King of Heaven. And these wise men did not come to worship the baby Jesus because they thought it was a good idea. Nor do they come to worship this king because, well, we want to get in good with him But rather, these wise men came because they saw his star in the east and they believed. They believed. Can you imagine with me that no one in Jerusalem saw the star? Do you think Herod? Hmm, what's that? Do you think the chief priests and scribes didn't see the star? Why is it that only this bunch of Gentile kings understood what the what the star meant? He came into his own, and his own received enough. You see, there's divine intervention taking place here, folks. For these kings to see that star and believe there's a king born in Jerusalem, we gotta go find him. There was divine intervention. Herod, the king, when he heard these things, was troubled. Oh no, there's a king born. Well, I'm the king of the Jews. I better find this guy and kill him quick. Lest he take my place. Christ is the King of the Jews. The rid religious establishment was not seeking him In Psalm ten verse four, the wicked to the pride of his countenance will not seek after God Why didn't the scribes and chief priests, after they heard that or read that this king was to be born in Bethlehem, why didn't they walk the five and a half miles from Jerusalem to Bethlehem? Because they didn't care. Because they had no interest in the child that was born in Bethlehem But these Gentile kings were drawn there to spine this king. And that's the second thing that'll have us to see this morning. They came seeking a king, and they came believing the word of God. And folks, this is beautiful. This is precious. Because you see, Daniel had been gathered up among the sons of the kings, the king's family, and taken to Babylon. And when Daniel wrote the book of Daniel, which is such a blessing to us, he wrote it in Babylon. And Daniel died in Babylon. And his book was still in Babylon. And Daniel was the wisest of the wise men of his day. And from the time of the death of Daniel until the time that these wise men came from the same Babylonian kingdoms. They studied the writings of this great magi, of this great king among us, this wise man called Daniel the Jew. Turn with me to Daniel chapter nine. Daniel chapter nine In verses 24 and 25, we find that Scripture gives us the time of the birth of Jesus. Daniel chapter 9, verse 24. Seventy weeks are determined upon the people and upon the holy city. That's upon Jerusalem. to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for the iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision, the prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to rebuild Jerusalem to the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven weeks. And three score and two weeks, and the street shall be built again, and the wall even in troubless times. These wise men of the Babylonian kingdom had read this before. These were men who knew history. They knew what had taken place before. They knew about the captivity of Israel. They knew about the command to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem. They had counted the days when the star shows up. They said, well, 483 years was what Daniel's prophecy said, and here's a star. This must be it. That's how they knew. They knew because they believed God's word. The scribes didn't know. The chief priests didn't know. Herod was clueless. But these wise men of the East, they come to Jerusalem with a question. And their question is not, is there a king born? That's right. Their question is, where is he? For we've seen his star in the east, and we've come to worship him. They knew it because the word of God said it was going to happen just like that, and it happened just like that. You know, a a new comet or something shows up in the skies and somebody names it after themselves because they were the first to see it And you'll have hear all kinds of theories about, well, it broke off this rock and it's going to come around here again and all these things. Nobody sees a comet or a new star and says, oh, somebody's been born that someday's going to be president. Or there's gonna be a new king in in Egy in um England. But these wise men understood the meaning of the star because they were waiting for something They have been counting the years because they believe the Word of God. But look again at what Daniel says about it. It says, 70 weeks are determined upon the people and upon thy holy city. That's how they need to go to Jerusalem. Jerusalem's holy city. And they come to Jerusalem and said, where is he? They were expecting him to be in Jerusalem. That would have made logical sense. They didn't have Micah. The chief priest had Micah, but in Babylon, Micah's writings were not. But that's what they had. And he's called the last uh part of verse 24 to anoint the Most High. And the verse twenty five, it gives the the dating, understand from the going for the commandments, to rebuild Jerusalem unto Messiah the Prince. And what does Herod say? Look back with me at our Matthew passage. Let me get the verse. And verse 4. And when this is Herod had gathered together the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Say it with me. Christ should be born. How did Herod know this was Messiah? The wise men told him. You see the wise men, these Gentiles from the East, they believed the Word of God when the chief priests and scribes, the scribes who copied the Word of God over and over again The scribes who burned a copy that had one error. The scribes who checked their work again and again and again, who poured their whole lives into copying the word. And my friends, if you ever misbehaved in school 40 years ago, I guarantee you wrote on a paper a hundred times, I will not talk in class, I will not talk in class, I will not talk in class You see, when you write something over and over again, it gets stuck in your head. These scribes who had written the law again and again, Messiah comes, and they don't even know it. These wise men came seeking a king. These wise men came believing the word of God. And so Scripture gives us the time of his birth, and Scripture of course gives us the place of his birth. The scribes had to dig to find out Micah 5. 2, but Thou Bethlehem Africa, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth that shall be ruler in Israel, his going forth hath been from old, from everlasting. I've said it several times before, and I'll say it again. Even when the scribes knew where, they stayed in Jerusalem. The shepherd said, Let us now go, even into Bethlehem, and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. The wise men they hurry off to Bethlehem. But the religious establishment has no interest. He came unto his own, and his own received not. But these Gentile kings came believing. They came seeking a king. They came believing the Word of God, and they came desiring to worship. They didn't come to get out of hell, folks. They didn't come to embetter themselves. They came to worship. And folks, that is the heart of the gospel. We come to worship the Holy God. And the more you worship the Holy God, the more you realize how unholy you are. You cannot worship before God until you have repented. before God. They came to worship him. Where is he that is born, King of the Jews? We have seen his star in the East. and are come to worship him. Verse 11, and when they came into the house, they saw the young child with Mary and his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. They did exactly what they had come to do. They came to worship. I mentioned the verse earlier, but in Hebrews 1 verse 6 we read And again when he bringeth his first begotten into the world, he saith unto all the angels of heaven, worship him, worship him We have the glorious account in John chapter 4 of the woman at the well. And she had many questions. She said, We say we worship in the mountain, and you say at Jerusalem is the place to worship. And Christ says to her, neither in this mountain nor at Jerusalem, the Lord, but the true worshippers will worship in spirit and in truth, for the Lord seeketh such to worship him. You see, the Lord really wasn't seeking for Herod to come worship. Jehovah was not seeking for these vile priests and scribes to worship. But Jehovah was seeking for these kings of the East to come and worship. And their response was to come and worship. You will find the name of Christ blasphemed and the birth of Christ, frankly, blasphemed all around us today. But we are here today to worship. Why are we here to worship? Well, because the Lord seeketh such to worship him. The Lord has drawn us to worship. These kings came to worship this baby in the manger. And it may seem redundant, but it's an important point to make. They came by the leading of God. God led them there. Folks, I didn't find my own way to salvation. I was led. I was led. And just as Abraham's servant said, and I being in the way, the Lord led me. And folks, I can look back across my life. I was blessed to be born in the pastor's home. I had the gospel whispered in my ear as an infant. And I whispered that same gospel in the ears of my sons and my daughter as infants. And the promise of God's word is that when they're old, they'll not depart from it. I was blessed to grow up in a Christian home. And I've expressed to some of you that most of the sins I've committed in this body were after I came to Christ. I was blessed, and yet I can see that I never would have come to Christ without his leading. It was all of him and not at all of me Why would these wise men travel 900 miles to find a baby? Because God led them. They were led to Jerusalem by Daniel 9, 24 and 25. They were led to Bethlehem by Micah 5, verse 2. They were led to Christ by the star, verse 9 of our text. When they saw the star, they rejoiced. And they departed another way because God told them in a dream, don't go back the way you came. They came by God's leading The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as someone counts slackness, but is long-suffering to usward. Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The goodness of God bringeth us God is not slack toward usward. That's the verse that the Palladians like to leave out. Usward talking about the elect. God is not slack. And his promise concerning the elect, but his long-suffering to the elect, not willing that any of the elect should perish, but that all of the elect should perish Why has Christ not come back yet? Well, because there's still more elect to be saved. The wise men came seeking a king, the wise men came believing the word of God, the wise men came to worship. They came by the leading of God. But I think most importantly, the wise men came Without regard for the fear of man. They came in the fear of God rather than the fear of man. Can you imagine? How many wise men there must have been in Babylon? Now we say we three kings because of the three gifts, gold frankincense, and myrrh. There was probably more than three, but probably less than a dozen that came. Where were the rest of them? Weren't there probably remember the hundred and twenty provinces of of uh in the days of Ahasararus the king? 120 provinces? There had to be at least 120 of them. Where were the rest of them? Are there few that be saved? Could it be that the other ones mocked these wise men? You're gonna get on a camel and ride 900 miles? I mean I've ridden to the Ford, folks, but riding on a camel? That's gotta be uncomfortable. You mean you're gonna You're following what? A star? What you believe what You believe who? Oh, these Christians they're all nuts. We are fools for Christ's sake. Hallelujah. They didn't fear what man thought of them And hear what man said about them. And look at our text, verse 8. And he sent them to Babylon and said, Go search diligently for the young child. And when ye have found him, bring me word again, and I will come and worship him also. Oh, yeah. They disobeyed the word of a king. Remember kings have the power of life and death? Of captivity and liberty? They disobeyed the You talk about an international incident, folks. Herod was a his mother was Jewish, she was a Jewish king that had been placed over the Jews by the Romans. They chose a king to establish who had a Jewish mother to try to placate the Jews, but don't mistake it, he was Rome's boy. They have defied the ambassador of Rome. Rome didn't have scud missiles and atomic bombs, but Rome had quite an army. This could flow back to the East. This could break out in an international incident because Rome was the powerhouse, the superpower of the day. But these kings who came to worship an infant king that they recognized was a greater king than they would ever be These kings who came believing the Word of God that God would send a Messiah, these kings That came by the leading of God to worship this baby, they feared God more than they feared Herod. And when God said to them in a dream, don't go back to Herod, they departed under their own country another way. What a glorious account this is. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be. Safe. If you don't have that verse written down, it's Proverbs 29, 25. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Don't call the homosexuals perverts. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso putth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Don't say that marriage is between one man and one woman. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso puteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Folks, it's better to fear God than to fear man. These wise men, they came seeking a king. They came believing the Word of God. They came to worship. They came by the leading of God. And they came in the fear of God. These Gentile kings have given us a pretty good example, haven't they? Oh, we're not kings, but we are priests. We are a royal priesthood. May God teach us to emulate the kings and not the scribes and Pharisees. For you see, the scribes and Pharisees were very religious, spiritual know-alls who knew nothing at all. But these kings were willing to face any hardships, to travel any distance. To go through dangers, to give of their own possessions, that they might worship the King of kings. It's been said that wise men still seek him. I don't know if I agree with that. I would say fools still seek him. It's got because God has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound. the wise. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the glorious clarity. And the glorious eloquency of thy word. Bless thy word to our hearts today. Father, we pray for our own families, many of whom do not know this great King of Heaven. Father, may you save them in your mercy, in your grace. Father, bless your word to us. Father, make us more like the wise men than the scribes and Pharisees. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.