Good morning. Thank you for allowing me a two-week break. It was shocking how much extra time I had. I was really quite surprised by that. But um here we are, back in the ninth chapter of Hebrews And we're beginning in verse 1. As I sent you by way of email, I did not have a question for today. But there is a question at the end. So this is, I don't know, somewhat like a quiz, but perhaps uh you'll enjoy the challenge. It's nothing you have to answer at the spot before you leave So we'll look now and we're going to read the first five verses of Hebrews chapter 9. I only have verse 1 printed out and then 2 through 5 in your handout. They're a little separated, but if you turn on your Bible, you can follow along easily enough. So we're going to read the first five of Hebrews 9. Hear now the word of the Lord. Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. For there was a tabernacle made, the first wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all, which had the golden censer and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant, and over it the cherubims of glory, shadowing the mercy seat, of which we cannot now speak particularly. And that's our section for today. The two phrases that just gripped me this week as I was looking at this passage. I entered into it thinking this is not going to be difficult. I mean I I think we can not knock out half the chapter, right? This is pretty straightforward. It's just listing of the gear and the in the tabernacle, what's so exciting about a you know uh an inventory list. But it was that very first verse. And I want to spend a little time on that, and then we're going to develop that further as we go through there And it's two phrases that captured my attention. And those phrases are that divine service and worldly sanctuary. Now, according to Romans 15. 4, it says that whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. So these things are written for our learning. Though the Jews wandered in the wilderness, though they actually set up this tabernacle, though the Levites did carry out the sacrifices and offerings, it seems that the purpose and the benefit to us was that it would come to us in a written form. It is written. God's very excited about his writings And the two phrases I want to look at right now is I want to start with that one that says first covenant. Now if you'll notice in your King James Bible, there is an italicized word, and that word is the word covenant. Now the King James translators are often beaten up a lot, and I don't want to beat them up because they don't deserve to be beaten up. They deserve to be applauded. They did a marvelous job. of taking very complex languages, Hebrew and Greek, and mapping it into English when it was at its highest form. When you see an italicized word, the common explanation is that, well, that word is not in the text. It's supplied by the translators to help it make sense While that's partially true, it's weak. More often than not, the word actually is in the text. Because Greek, like German, the only other language I'm familiar with is such that you can bolt on multiple concepts together. And if you're trying to translate that one multi-concept Greek word into one English word, it's not going to work. There are some words that need to be translated as an English phrase. And so, more often than not, that is what is happening when the King James translators italicize it. Sometimes, and occasionally, they will supply the word because the context demands it And if you were a Greek student and a Greek reader, in your mind that would pop out. There would be no need to have an explicit Greek word. That word first is the word protos. We get our word prototype from it. You know what a prototype is. It's something that you model and then later you're going to build the real thing. What is that first referring to? Well, actually, if you go back It says covenant. Well where did they come up with that idea from? Well, that word covenant is implied because it tied us to the previous chapter and it ties to the entire context. If you look at the eighth chapter, go back to verses six and seven Speaking of Jesus, but now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, and that is the word covenant. So that's where the word is introduced, and then it continues on, which was established upon better promises for if that first covenant. Now that word covenant is italicized. Did you notice that? Look as the context clearly implies that's what we're talking about. So it's talking about a covenant. Um And just from that, for a moment, I want to stop and make an observation. It says there was a first covenant and then there's a second. It's not talking about a first temple and then there's going to be a second temple. It's not going to be a second tabernacle. Some would try to look at this and say, well, there's going to be a second tabernacle. Not in the context. The context is talking about a covenant. It's a different covenant, and we're going to explore this a little further. The thing that really struck me as odd was the phrase worldly sanctuary back in Hebrews 9 verse 1. I was just It just, I don't know, reached out and grabbed me by the ears and shook my head. Worldly sanctuary? Worldly? We're to avoid worldliness. The Christian is not to be a worldly person, to be a man of the world and Christianity is frankly a bad thing there to be a a holy people, a real a a people set apart for the service of God. In fact, that word worldly is the nasty form That you find in Titus 2. In Titus 2, the grace of God appears, verse 12, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts. That's that same word Lusts that come from the world, very common things, very base things. You don't need to teach individuals how to exercise worldly lusts. Their bodies produce it, their minds automatically gravitate to it, they're kind of in the gutter, and this is where they go. That's that same word worldly And the generic sense of it, so it doesn't mean that the tabernacle was a tabernacle full of lust, although certainly Some of Eli's sons attempted to turn it that way, but it says it's a worldly sanctuary. The generic sense of the world means word, it means it belongs to this world. It is of this world. The source of it is from down below. It's made of very base and common materials. Nothing un nothing exotic there. Nothing spiritual per se. But the thing that struck me is that um uh there's a contrast there. There's a worldly sanctuary, but it has a divine service. Now we want to explore the opposites for a moment. What would be the opposite of worldly? Well, the opposite is the word spiritual or of the spirit. And frankly, the Bible shows a lot of contrast between things that are of the world and things that are of the Spirit. And I just list a few of them here for you, and I'll see if you can think of some others The Lord Jesus in John 3. 6 compares the contrast to things of this world and things of the Spirit. He says in John 3. 6, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. He's making a comparison. There's two kinds of births. There's that first birth that precedes forth and gives a fleshly child. We all understand this. But what is not understood is that there is a second birth It is just as much painful, it is just as much, in a sense, miraculous, it is just as much unusual and rare as the first birth It's unusual that a woman has more than three or four kids. It's amazing if she can squeeze out 10, 11, 12 like they did back in the old days, and I don't know how they survived that, but they did And even so, I tell you right now, it's very rare and unusual to have a new spiritual birth. They're two very different things. Romans 8. 5 describes the differences between the two, between that which is of the world. We're considering a worldly sanctuary, and then the things which are spiritual. Romans 8. 5 says, for They for they that are after the flesh do mind, do think about, do meditate, do talk about, do mind the things of the flesh. That's all that's coming out of their mouth. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. They talk about worldly things. It's all they want to talk about. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit, they talk about spiritual things. They're interested in spiritual things. It's not difficult to get a spiritual conversation going. Why? It's in them. They're interested in it And verse 13 says, If ye live after, meaning according to the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. So part of the warfare for the Krishna is again. So these are just two verses of contrast between that which is worldly and that which is spiritual. Can you think of others that the scripture gives? Other such contrast between world and spiritual or flesh and spirit. Can you think of others that are in the Bible? Because there's quite a few in the New Testament. I didn't want to give them all. Maybe if I give you some prompts. Though we walk not after the though we walk in the flesh, we don't war after the flesh. Right? The weapons of our warfare are not Carnal. Carnal, but are mighty through God the pulling down a stronghold, right? Our battle, our warfare in this life is not carnal, meaning we don't use bullets. Well not not not projectiles but prayers. It's a spiritual warfare that we're in. There's one example of that contrast. Spirit of spirit. Yep. Yeah, John three, six, yeah, we uh we looked at that, absolutely. Um another example is uh Yes, very good. That is a good example. I like that one. In 1 Corinthians 2, he says, the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God For their foolishness unto him. Right? There's a natural man, the man of this world, and there's a spiritual man. It doesn't mean he's an angel floating around. It means he's spiritually mighty. There's something different about him. So that contrast is often found throughout the scriptures, and lo and behold, it was demonstrated back in the Old Testament in the tabernacle. It was a worldly sanctuary, but it had a divine service. And that contrast really impresses me. Just think about that for a moment. That would be like saying, and I know this is going to be a real stretch, that a trash can can run for the President of the United States. How would you expect such a A plastic thing filled with garbage, a very common thing, to come along and have enough intelligence to run a nation. And some of you are thinking, well, we're not too far from that right now. But you can see that contrast. You wouldn't think to have something so lowly, do something so glorious. How is it that a worldly sanctuary, subject to fire, Subject to corrupt men, subject to all kinds of issues and problems, moths, moth-eaten, the the The curtains of the hanging of it were made of cloth. Those could be eaten up by moth. It was a worldly sanctuary, but it had a divine service. It served God in that. So let's look at that tabernacle, because it says there was a tabernacle made. And it gives a number of the components. I have an illustration in your handout. Maybe we can bring it up for the online viewers. that we see here. What we're given here in Hebrews 9, 2 through 5 is an authoritative description of what was in the tabernacle. You can't argue with it. It is God's New Testament commentary on what is in the tabernacle. Now, of course, it does not differ from what Moses wrote about, and uh you can go back and look at that Uh you can see that there was a most holy place. The orientation of it, I would have liked to have done it left or right, but the way it's to follow the way it's written. But it's depicted this way. This is a very common depiction because they're trying to depict it after the wilderness tabernacle where the tribes were oriented north, west, east, and south, and so they arranged it this way. It kind of laid out in this particular shape. And there were two veils. There was one that veiled off getting into the outer sanctuary, the inner veil. That blocked off the Holy of Holies, that would have been the one that was ripped in two from top to bottom when Jesus Christ died on the cross. But this is a very, a very common depiction that you see here. So I'm not going to spend much time on that, but we are going to consider this business of a worldly sanctuary with the divine service. That there is a spiritual component to it The parts are made of very common elements found in the world, but they're used in the service of the true and living God. Now we know later in verse Well I had 9-6. I think it's 10-6. Later in Hebrews it talks about which was a figure for the time. I have 9-6, but it's not 9-6. Verse 9, 99, where it says, which was a figure for the time then present. That word figure is parable. I think we'll we'll cover that next week when we get to that section. All these things are figurative. They're depicting You remember in Isaiah when God says, heaven is my throne and earth is my footstool, what are you going to build me, to paraphrase it? What house are you going to build me? Right? He he he uses Earth as his footstool. That's a mighty big foot. That's that's very impressive the imagery he uses. This is what house Could you he says I fill heaven and earth? What are you possibly going to build me? The gift for the man who has everything Mm-hmm. Right, how are you going to possibly give him everything? So these things are there to teach us. They're figures. They're figurative. And so we're going to look at the spiritual significance of all of these components. That are in the tabernacle. And we're going to start with the candlestick, also known as the menorah, and the showbread. And I'm just going to touch on some of these for interest of time. Does anybody know what that seven-bowl lamp might typify? The candlestick had seven bowls to it. It had a central one. It was an oil lamp. And the outermost one went up. You've all seen a menorah, right? Where the, and then another row, and then those, you have three on each side. And the little bowls are shaped like knobs of almonds, and it was a candlestick and it was to be kept lit. It wasn't wax, it was an oil lamp. What does that candlestick represent? Any ideas? Uh well uh the candlestick was made of gold. It wasn't necessarily a A vineyard or a grapevine, but you're going down the right path, words of Jesus, where he talks about I am. Think of the I ams that Christ said. That's you're going down the right path In Romans or in certain Revelation you find Christ walking in the midst of the seven candlesticks in the midst of the seven churches. Right. Yeah, absolutely. The And that's in your handout, Revelation 1. 12, it says, The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks, which thou sawest, are the seven churches. It's a picture of the churches, the body of believers. Uh well what would they be doing there? Uh what was the purpose of the candlestick To give light? Alright. Now in the tabernacle, what did it give light to? Remember where it was placed. You can refer to your uh uh diagram It would illuminate some things, wouldn't it? So if it's in a tabernacle and it's giving light And it's an oil lamp. How bright are oil lamps? They're not terribly bright. They're not spotlights, but they do give some light. So what's being illuminated from that candlestick? The oil is the thing that's burning, yep, but it's lighting something. What is it giving light to? You can look at your diagram and cheat. The holy place. The holy place, okay. Yep, and everything that is in it. And everything that's in it. Uh-huh. What else is in there? Well the bronze labor in the altar outside of the tabernacle. They're not in that walled part Table of showbread. Yeah, the table of showbread. There was a table in there with bread on it. And so that's interesting. You walk into this little enclosed curtain. It probably might not be much bigger than this room. And it's got a curtain and it's got a a roof to it. Now, if you walk into a room that's totally closed off from exterior like, it's pretty dark, isn't it? And then you light this candle in a dark place, all that you see is what's in that room. And so what's in that room is a table of showbread. And And an altar and an altar of incense. That's all you see. I'm going to talk about the the uh the the the table of shillbread for the moment. So what's on that table? It's kids it's called showbread, but what is the showbread? What does that mean? Anyone remember what's it what's on it It's bread that's been specially set aside just for the priests to eat. It's been sanctified for that. Basically it's a loaf of bread, one for each of the tribes I would imagine it relatively small loaves. And here's a table with bread set out. So you walk in this room, you turn on the lights, and all you see is a table with bread on it. That's all you see Isn't that interesting? Hmm? Okay. Cross here is we did put me nice. Would lit. It's close. It's close. It's close But we're in the Old Testament. I like that thought. That that's page two or three. So you're jumping ahead, which is great. You're getting there. You're past it. These are figures. What does the light represent in scriptures? So the candlesticks, Pastor Joe said, is the church. Or, you know, the Old Testament people of God, the ministers of God, the church. Christ declares that I am the light of the world. Ah, Jesus says I am the light of the world. Right? So that's a picture of Christ, Christ being a light. Christ gives light to the world But he's not lighting everything. He's the only source of light in this world, just as much as that was the only lampstand Among those people. That counted. That was the only lampstand that counted. Others might have had oil lamps in their tent, but that was the seventh, that was the menorah. I'm just going to refer to it as the menorah And it gave light, Jesus says, to the world, but in the Old Testament sanctuary, it's only in that little building as lighting up something else. You said the table and the showbread. So if Jesus is the light of the world, so he's giving light, to give light to somebody means to give insight Right? Oh now I now I see the light. Right? We used to have a saying corporate America management doesn't see the light until they feel the heat. What is that bread on the table? That'd be Christ's words. Mm-hmm. His His gospel. Okay, Christ's Word, Christ's gospel, right What's an I another I am statement he makes? Look at your handout here. I am delight. Yeah, verse John 6. 35. Jesus says, I am the bread of life Jesus says, I am the light of the world in John 8. 12. And Matthew 5. 14 it says, ye are the light of the world. Well, which one is it? Are ye the light or is Jesus the light? Well, both Right? That menorah is the candlestick. And what's fascinating about that candlestick with the seven bowls It's an oil lamp. The source of its light is not in the gold of the lamp The gold sanctifies it, sets it apart. It's unique. I'm talking spiritual things of a very common worldly service here. That oil, when it's lit, Gives light. Jesus is that light, but it's coming off of that candlestick. You're looking at a candlestick right now. I'm a spiritual candlestick. I'm giving a light. And I'm giving light to one and only one subject. The bread of life. Behold, the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Which if a man eat, he'll live forever. I'm giving light to one and only one subject. That candlestick had one purpose. It wasn't to illuminate your tent. It wasn't to illuminate the tent of the king. It wasn't to illuminate Where all the bugs were. It was to give light to one thing and only one thing, that table of shillbread. That was its purpose. It was a worldly tool to give purpose to one thing And so it is, spiritually speaking. That's when Jesus came. Listen to all this language. He says, you know, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. And so this is that light and this is that showbread. It's talking about the body of Jesus Christ. He is that bread of life. So do you see how that's a figure? And it's very shadowy. I know it may be a stretch early in the morning for our minds to jump up to the spiritual dimension of what's going on here, but this is what Jesus is teaching, and this is what the book of Hebrews is dealing with. Then you have something called a veil. And he points out that there is a veil. Ladies, what's a veil? You all know what a veil is. What is a veil, ladies? Somebody tell me what a veil is You wave to be covered the face. Cover your face, okay. Uh how m how effectively okay, what else is a veil? You don't believe a veil covers the what else is a veil You can see through it and it can be seen through. You can see through it and can be seen through. Okay, well is that the veil that's talked about here? Could you see through this veil I don't know. You couldn't. You couldn't. It actually obscured the view. We we, uh, ladies of a wedding veil But there's other things that when you say I can't see it, it's veiled from view. What does that mean? What would another worldly thing be that would veil the view? Hidden. Hidden, yes. What is a worldly thing that we might use to hide something from view? Door. A door. Right, a door. And if you made that door out of fabric, what would you call it? A curtain. Yeah. A curtain. If I shut that curtain all the way, well that was kinda cut strange, I couldn't do it all the way. It blocks views. It obscures the view. It's not as effective as a door. It implies restricted access. You go to the CVS pharmacy, you want to get a shot. They may pull a curtain across there. It kind of hides the view. There's something special behind it, right? So here it's talking about a veil. Well, the veil, now we know this only from one verse of scripture. It's in Hebrews 10, verse 20. We get down a little later The veil typifies our bodies and Jesus, which hide the true spiritual realities that lay within. So for instance, Hebrews 10. 20, we come to him by a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his. flesh. There's even some Christmas hymns, Veiled in Flesh, the Godhead See. There's a great Christmas hymn that uses that line. Christ is veiled by his flesh. All right. Hang on. His flesh, the body of Jesus Christ, hid something from people. What do you think it hid? I have a body. It hides something too. But from a spiritual perspective, what is Jesus' physical body hiding from people? What is it that the Pharisees were accusing Jesus of all the time? You make yourself out to be God. You're making yourself out to be God. You're speaking blasphemous terms. You being a man, have have you uh seen Abraham Are you older than Abraham? They he constantly made himself out to be God. Why didn't they believe he was God? Because his divine nature His divine nature was hid in human flesh. He came as a man. His flesh veiled him. You remember when he temporarily, just very briefly, removed that veil? It was on the Mount of Transfiguration where the disciples went up in Matthew 17. And it says His body and even his clothes became white and glistening. It looked like lightning. And there appeared with him Moses and Elijah in the mount. For just a moment he allowed His glory to shine through. But he hid it. He veiled it. His body, his flesh. You're just a man. You're nothing special. Who are you? And see, that was the case with the tabernacle. There was a veil that hid that inner part, that inner part, that inner mystery. Where was the Ark of the Covenant and the cherubims overshadowing that mercy seat? We'll talk about that in a moment. I think it was Philip to whom Christ said, Thou hast been so long with me, yet thou hast not known to me Yes. Yeah, he said, if you have seen me, you've seen the Father, he says. He says, it's show us the Father and suffices. He says, I've if you've seen me, you've seen the Father They just didn't perceive that this man isn't special. He's just a man. Isn't that Joseph his father and Mary his mother and his brothers and sisters with us? Where does this man have this kind of wisdom from? Why? They saw him in flesh. You're not special. Nothing special. You know what? That is true of the believers as well. All believers have something in them. Christ in them, the hope of glory. You go to 1 John. I don't have it in your handout. Uh I hate it when I go off script. Oh yes 1, 1, wonderful. New word, 1 John chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. 1 John 3, 1 and 2. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knows us not, because it knew him not. Why didn't it know him? He was in a body You didn't look anything special. Verse 2, beloved, now, right now, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, if God the Holy Spirit dwells in you, right now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear. There's no appearance. There's a veil. It does not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. You see, the believers right now Have the glory of God, but it's veiled. Believers right now have God Almighty dwelling in them, but it's veiled. It's veiled by the flesh. It's hidden from view. And that's what the Old Testament tax is. picturing that there was a veil. First and foremost, talking about Christ, and because we inherit him, we inherit those properties as well. Let's talk about the Ark of the Covenant as we move inside of this tabernacle. It's not talking about the whole temple complex. It's really focusing on the tabernacle, the part in the veil. You have a very interesting thing. There was a movie about Raiders of the Lost Ark where they're trying to find the Ark of the Covenant, and if only we could find it. And it'll never be found because it was destroyed. But inside that ark were three things. You had the law of God, you had the tables of the testimony. The literal stones from Moses that came down from the mouth. They carried that around in that box all those years. You had that. You also had a pot of manna. The pot of manna. As you remember, the children of Israel were wandering through the wilderness, and they uh were fed manna from God. The manna came down from heaven and they said, store up one pot of this and stick it in the Ark of the Covenant. And they did They stuck it in there, and there it was. There's proof. And then you also had Aaron's rod that butted. Now we're probably not familiar too much with that, so I'll uh we'll we'll cover that a little more in just a moment here. Alright. The two tables of the covenant clearly are picturing and are very evidently the law of God. That is the written law of God. That is the word of God. And it's in that ark of the covenant. Well, I submit to you that that ark is a picture of Jesus Christ. He is that Ark of the Covenant in whose heart is the law of God. He is that source, he is that container of the law of God. You see in Psalm 40, verse 7 and 8, then said I, Lo, I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea, thy law is within my heart. So here's an ark, here's a box, it's made of gold, and right in the heart of it is the law of God. Alright, that sounds like a great analogy for Jesus Christ. You also have that pot of bread. And you read in John 6. 51, Jesus says, I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever. Ah! That's the source of bread. The bread of God is he which came down from heaven. Again, picturing that Christ is the one who feeds us. He sustains us. It is in him to give us life. It is in him to give us bread. Now, the interesting word is Aaron's rod that butted, and I don't believe it's a familiar account to you. So let's read through it if we can for a moment. Let's go to Numbers 17 Numbers chapter 17. And it's a it's a fascinating little account. This You know like when you clear out a little boy's closet, you come in the back and there's a stick that he liked when he was a kid. He's got to keep this special stick. I don't know why that is. Every little boy's closet's got a stick in there somewhere Well, this wasn't a little boy's closet. This was a special one because this is a very interesting rod. It was a branch that was cut. And the account is in number 17. We begin in verse 1 It says, The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod. It would be a stick, according to the house of their fathers, of all their princes, according to the house of their fathers, twelve rods. So each of the twelve tribes you had twelve sticks, twelve rods. Write thou every man's name upon his rod, so we don't get confused whose is whose. Verse 3: Thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi, for one rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers. And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation before the testimony where I will meet with you. So they took all these sticks and they put them in the tabernacle. Alright? They just stuck them in there. This thing has been cut off from the trees. They took a knife, they whacked it off, presumably stripped off the leaves or whatever, because it's just a rod, not a branch, just a rod. They stuck it in there. Verse 5, it shall come to pass that the man's rod whom I shall choose shall blossom. And I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel whereby they murmur against you. It seems they were grumbling about the house of Aaron, the house of Levi. Why who are you to take all this responsibility upon yourself? We're we're special too. God's going to deal with this in a very interesting way Moses spake in the children of Israel, every one of their princes, gave them a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their father's houses, twelve rods. And the rod of Aaron was among their rods, and Moses laid up the rods before the Lord in the tabernacle of witness. Moses carried out the commands. What happens? Verse 8. It came to pass on the morrow, the very next day. Moses went in the tabernacle of witness, and behold, the rod of Aaron, for the house of Levi, was budded, and brought forth buds. and bloomed blossoms and yielded almonds. Wow! Now I've cut a lot of sticks down in the forest before, but I've never had a stick overnight. produce blossoms, flowers, and fruit, and there's an almond ready to eat. That just doesn't happen. You cut a branch off Maybe, maybe if it's a small one, maybe if it's got a little bit of a root hanging off of it, maybe if you stick it in water and root it better and give it some fish oil or some fertilizer and maybe stick it in a pot and maybe after a year or two or three or four you might get something. Not overnight Well, it was a miracle. That rod was as good as, watch it now, dead And God came to that rod and said, this is Aaron's rod, and I'm going to make it alive. Very alive. How do you know it's alive? It bears fruit. Isn't that interesting? Folks, that would be what the closest picture I could think of in the Old Testament, in as shadowy a form as possible, to point to a resurrection. If you cut a branch, it's dead. You throw it out, it's gone, it's dead. It doesn't produce blossoms and almonds the very next day. And so that's the account. A dead branch becomes alive and bears fruit. Jesus said in John 11, Jesus said unto Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. You see, the resurrection is the person. He that believes in me though he were dead, yet shall he live. Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Believest thou this So here we have this Ark of the Covenant. It's got three things. The law of God. In Christ's heart is the law of God. You have a pot of The bread which came down from heaven. Christ says, I am that bread of God which came down from heaven. And you have Aaron's rod, that buddy, the picture of the resurrection. Jesus says, I am the resurrection of life. The resurrection is a person. He is a life-giving being. That's what's in there. That's what's in there. Well, I've just touched on these things because I want to whet your appetite for the spiritual significance of everything in the temple, but I want to make an application because I'm still struck with that phrase, it was a worldly sanctuary. It was just a box. These were boxes made of shatim wood. If you ever look that up, it's a very common wood. It's an acacia wood. It's like a it might as well be a pine box. It wasn't anything special. It wasn't uh a cedar tree, right? Nice cedar wood. It wasn't that. That's what Solomon made his home with. But that was not in the temple So just as the Old Testament tabernacle used worldly elements for divine service, even so are believers, true Christians today. Believers are referred to in that same fashion. Listen to the Apostle Paul who speaks very plainly about these things. He says, ye, y'all, plural, are the temple of the living God. He tells the believers, you're a temple. A temple? Well, what's in that temple? This tabernacle, all of this stuff, all of these It's a worldly thing, but it has a spiritual service to it. You're the that worldly body of yours that's subject to decay, to pain. To dirt and filth has to be washed, all of that stuff. But it has a divine service because God dwells there. He says in 1 Corinthians 5. 2, we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, he speaks very plainly there, as your body is a tabernacle. We have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. This is a worldly tabernacle, and it's temporary, but it has a divine service to it. Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which you have from God? You're not your own, you're bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are from God. And so my only main point that I want to get to today is to consider that we have a worldly tabernacle But it is divinely selected by God for his purposes. So use that tabernacle well. You're very special. You have a message. Every believer has a message, and that is your Goal in life is to do what you can to shine that light upon the only thing that counts. Christ, the bread of life. Christ. the the the man of God, Christ, the salvation of this world. And a few will hear. But that is your role. You have to do ever that's that's just what you are. You're a tabernacle, you're a temple, you're very special. Does that make sense? All right. Question for next week Do you see anything amiss between Hebrews 9, the passage that we just read, particularly verses 2 through 5? And the diagram that I had printed, was there anything amiss? Now that's your homework assignment, but do you see anything amiss Because if you do or don't, we're going to talk about that next week because this diagram is one that is very commonly depicted. It is nearly found universally throughout Christianity. You go on websites, you look at Bible commentaries, you look at books, they nearly all depict the tabernacle this way. But I'm just going to ask you, and I'll ask you next week, but that's the question, do you see anything amiss between that picture And Hebrews 9, 2 to 5. And it's in the church bulletin. If you're looking for that picture online, you can pull it down or you can rewind the video to where the where that was displayed on the screen. Alright, that's the question. Hope you enjoyed that. I'm relieved by your question. Oh, I was on the few. Good, good. Yeah, so that's why I said it's a common depiction. It's not my depiction, it's a common depiction All right. Let's close in prayer. Father in heaven, we do thank you again for the glories that you've shined to us in your word. What a curious book this is. Uh indeed you do speak in dark sentences. We pray, Father, that uh the uh the stumbling and the the The frailties of the uh of this uh speaker uh would not further obscure things, but rather give that light uh to bring light to all uh who uh have need of hearing and seeing these things. We ask