Chapter fifteen this morning. We had finished that uh long series on the life of David recently, and I'm still not quite sure where I want to go for our next expository book. I'm looking in the gospels and I just haven't really felt letter the Lord which book to choose, so I thought I'd do a a topical this morning. I don't like doing topicals, but people tend to get a blessing from them, so Romans chapter fifteen, just one verse. And for you young people, when I do just one verse That doesn't mean it's gonna be a short message, all right? It can. Romans chapter fifteen and verse four. Paul is writing. He says, Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and the comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So the verses in Scripture are written for hope, and they are written for our learning. The title of Message is Written for Our Learning. What can every generation learn from the Scriptures? If they're not preserved to all generations. I mean, if these are written for our learning, then they've got to be there for us, right? I mean what if they're not there for us? How can how can it be written for our learning if they're not there after every generation, generation upon generation? Or we can't learn from them. So they must be preserved. God's word must be preserved. God's word must be durable and last as long as there are people here on earth. We read in Psalm 12, verse 6 and 7, the words of the Lord, thou shalt keep them. I can't keep them if they aren't around to know what they are, can I? But it says the words of the Lord, thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. So we're told God's word We're responsible to keep it, we're responsible to to know there are blessings and there's hope from it, but we can't have any of that if they aren't durable, if God doesn't preserve them He surely can't require something of us, and yet there's no that his words are no longer in existence. So it's great that God is a God that's capable not only to preserve our souls for all eternity in heaven, but he can preserve a piece of paper. Forever, from generation to generation as well. We often hear that um our Bibles, there's lots of manuscripts out there, and uh many of them go back You know, to the days of Martin Luther, fifteenth century, sixteenth century. Uh some go back to the eleventh century, some go back to the sixth and seventh and fifth and fourth century. And um, you know, many of the Bibles behold, the but the Bibles are pretty good. I I love the King James, but you can even get a King James Study Bible and they'll have footnotes, and the footnotes can be pretty dangerous Because oftentimes the footnotes will allude to the fact that our the verses in our Bible are not accurate or they're questionable and they'll tell you that the oldest manuscripts Do not have that verse or do not have that passage. And so I want to tell you something about manuscripts this morning as we talk about God preserving his word for us First off, there are two manuscripts that are most famous, Baticas and Synaticus, and we are told that they are the oldest. Well I don't know if they're the oldest or not. And then they're saying if they're the oldest, they must be the best. And that's kind of questionable too. But the first thing I want to tell you is this. Are the Vaticans and Synaticus the oldest? Probably when those footnotes were stuck in the Bibles, people thought they were the oldest. Uh they had them around the uh well as early as the fifteen hundreds and and In the 1800s they became uh rather famous and they thought they were the oldest. But in the nineteen forties, nineteen forty-six, they discovered the Dead Sea Skulls. They called them scrolls because they were rolled up and placed in clay jars. Very well preserved. When you find a scroll, that's the way the Jews wrote the Hebrew language, all right, they put them in scrolls The Dead Sea Scrolls, they're not fourth or fifth century as the Vaticans and Synagas are purported to be. The Dead Sea Scrolls go back to two or three hundred years before Christ So when you read in your Bible, uh older manuscripts disagree. No, first off they're talking about manuscripts that aren't the oldest. They're talking about the Vatican Senate. We now have the Dead Sea Scrolls. How many years heard the Dead Sea Scrolls? Were you aware they go back before the days of Christ? That's pretty old, isn't it The other advantage of the Dead Sea Scrolls is the Old Testament, and it's all written in Hebrew. Okay? Baticas the Synaticus Old Testament is written in Greek The original language of Moses was Hebrew. So I don't know how they can say that the Bacchash and the Zenakus are the oldest, because the Dead Sea Scrolls are older, and I don't see how they can say they're the best when they're not written in the original language, at least not the Old Testament. It's written in a language that Moses didn't write in. So I I just have a problem and when you look at your footnotes, uh if you got a good uh good Bible, um you're probably best off ignoring a lot of the footnotes, all right? I just wanted to share that with you. Now, there are those who do claim that these other ones are still very old. They talk about them being um uh three or fourth century, you know, they talk about maybe fifth century. I want to show you two papers I have here in my hands. This one is Kennedy Triumphs. Well, we know that's a pretty old newspaper, isn't it? That was written in 1960. And even it this has been laying in my drawer at home. And it's very yellowed. You know, paper and and uh even even uh leather. It it it starts to age. It gets a pat it's called a patina. Okay? Now I have another newspaper here, The Sun, that came out this uh Friday, no Saturday. You see this? Look at look at the look at the difference in the color. Okay? You know you don't have to look at the headline. You can just look at the color of the paper and say, Wow, that's an old newspaper, right? In fact, you go in a fake an old newspaper, you take tea or coffee and you you dip it in that. But it's a patina. You can tell the age of manuscripts in the same way. And uh Here's a very old manuscript. It's broken up. It's a papyrus actually. And it dates back to around 175 or 200 A. D. Alright? Here's another one. 200 A. D. See the patina? See how dark they get? Go to the website for the Vaticanus. The Vaticanus looks pretty white. It isn't back to the third and fourth and fifth century. It can't be. There's the patina doesn't match it. And there's even some occasions there where they it appears to have been dipped in a solution like tea or coffee, but you just you just can't get it that dark. You just can't get a consistent color like that. So I don't think it's the oldest manuscripts just by the fact that there's no the patina doesn't match the way it should. And the fact that it's not in Hebrew. Um there's just so many things wrong with that. So I just want to bring that out to you this morning when we're talking about that. Because it says that God will preserve his scriptures to all generations. And he has. Well and when you find the older ones they're pretty dark. The Old Testament should be in Hebrew. The New Testament would be in Greek, of course. And some of Vatican's faticists isn't the Greek. And I don't have time to talk about all that this morning either. I'll bore you half to death. But I just want you to know that the Dead Sea Scrolls are 600 years older than the Vaticanus and Synaticus. And uh there are also uh the the Dead Sea Scrolls uh Masoraic text remarkably, it says, remarkably close to the King James Bible and not so remarkably close to the Vaticanus. and Synaticus. So there are there are some big differences in those. But Tom Forty put notes to get in your Bibles because they can sit there and float around for sixty and seventy years before they finally get corrected and some people don't want to correct them at all. So saying that uh if if God's gonna preserve them, if God's gonna uh make them durable, the scriptures, and he wants to make them durable because they give us the hope. He wants to make them durable for us because they are written for our learning, so they must be durable. And then the second thing is they got to be available, don't they? I mean what good is it if God has preserved the scripture and they lay in a clay jar in the Kormum caves out there in Israel, you know, in these clay jars for hundred, hundred years and they're not available. Well fortunately there were other copies, of course, and we have had the scriptures with us uh for all these generations. But they're not just durable, and God has proved they're durable because we still have them, but they're also available. You've got them sitting in your laps this morning, and your parents had them in their laps. and your grandparents and so forth. They've always been available. Sometimes very expensive, but they've always been available. In the days of the Lord Jesus Christ, he's marched walking around the Pharisees and the Sadducees And he doesn't say you don't know the scriptures because they're not available. You don't know the scriptures because they weren't durable and they rotted somewhere in a jar somewhere. And it's really sad because if they were available, if they were durable But that's not what Christ says. He chastens the Pharisees and the Sadducees with these words. Have you not read in the law? In the book of Moses, Matthew 12, 5, and Mark 12, 26, Christ is saying, the writings of Moses are available The writings of Moses have been preserved. They are durable. You have no excuse. You haven't read his law. You haven't read the books of Moses. And so here it is, about 2,000 years later, when from the days of Moses' writing until the days of Christ. He said they're durable and they're available. And you should have read them. They're in the synagogues. And so he was chasing for that. Christ doesn't say the scriptures don't exist, and that's why you are in ignorance, Caiaphas. Ananias. Christ doesn't say that uh that that the reason you're in ignorance is because uh what the scriptures we have, and you probably heard this one, well, they contain some scribal errors And they're just not really available. There's so few of them out there. He doesn't say that at all. Christ says, have you not read because they are durable? And have you not read because they are available? He is saying this. And he does not say, I understand why you're not reading them. They're full of errors in the trends. as they would make copy after copy after copy and translating from the from the Hebrew to the Greek. I understand their scribal errors, and that's why you don't know. Christ never addresses the fact That the scriptures he held in his hands, like the Dead Sea Scrolls, those Dead Sea Scrolls were around 200 years before Christ, and they kept on copying them all the way up to 11th, to the 11th century. The Jews have copies of those manuscripts And maybe more today. But those are the same ones. Christ was reading basically what it was in the Dead Sea Scrolls. They're available, they're durable. He said, Why haven't you read them? And he doesn't he he attacks the Pharisees and the Sadducees for all kinds of But he never attacks them and says, Well, that manuscript you've got, that scroll you're reading from, it's full of errors. He never does that. Why? There aren't any errors in it We take the Dead Sea Scrolls written around 200 or 300 BC and we measure them with the 11th century Jewish scrolls today. And except for a word spelt wrong here, you know, or or a letter smeared that looks Instead of saying the they might say the if in the modern English that's what we do. They don't say those and these. But there are words like that in the Hebrew. Uh one letter doesn't make a difference. It might be spelled different Like we have words there, T-H-E-R-E and T-H-I-R. But you know what they're saying in the sense of use the wrong one And so Christ doesn't say to them, Well, what you've got are manuscripts are flawed and scribal errors, and they're not available, they're not durable. No, he says they're available. Why haven't you read them? Why don't you believe them? Where's the comfort and the hope of the scriptures if they weren't preserved? Where's the comfort and hope of the scriptures if they not only weren't durable, if they're not available? Where's the comfort and hope of the scriptures if they're not available? Reliable, they're full of errors. Where is that hope? Well, after all, a book isn't it only as good as its author? There's people out there they wrote a book on Yeah, if I wrote a book on mechanical engineering, you wouldn't trust you shouldn't trust that book. I know nothing about chemical uh mechanical engineering. If I wrote you a book on on how to be a great painter, you don't want to read my book, all right Uh you you know the man that painted Mona Lisa you might want to read. You know, Leonard uh Leonardo da Vinci, some of these great painters. In other words, uh a book is only as good as its author. You have to know the author to know whether the book is good enough, whether the book is reliable And the author of the scrolls, the author of our our Bibles today, the author is God. And that's what we read in 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17. Is that a pretty reliable author of a book? God? The triune Godhead, the Holy God, thrice holy God. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17. All scriptures given by inspiration. It's God breathe. God is the author. Matthew and Mark and Luke, they're his secretaries. They're just taking it down what he says to write. And they better do it correctly. Because if you've ever worked for a boss, he gives you a letter to Wright and then he you send that letter and he rereads it, he says, That's wrong. That's not what I said. Correct it. So here's God. He's he's he breathes into these men to write these words, and he says that the scriptures given by inspiration of God, God breathes, is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Wow, that covers a lot, doesn't it? That really covers a lot And you say, well, okay, there's one verse. There's one verse. But you know that one verse, does that mean that's going to cover the Old Testament, New Testament? Well, God made sure that we had understand that. And so starting from Genesis all the way through, you also read Thus saith the Lord. Again and again and again. The writers say, This is what God, the Word of God came unto me. The Word of God came on me. He said, Write these words in a book. It's all through the scriptures. Thus saith the Lord, the word of God came unto me. And I know you say, well, there's other supposedly holy books, religious books out there, and they can do the same thing. Yeah, they could. But they didn't. They didn't. You can go through the Book of Mormon, you can go through all these other books. That's not saying, thus say the Lord, thus the Lord, the word of God came unto me. Page after page after page. You do not see that. In the book of Buddha. You do not see that in the book of Quran. They could have done that, but they didn't. Only one claims to be the Word of God from page one all the way through. In fact, what's the Bible start with? In the beginning, God. No book starts like that. So how reliable are the scriptures? They have to be durable so that we've got them. They have to be available so we can read them They have to be reliable so that we can trust them. The author is God. That should be pretty trusty. Luke writes in Acts 1 and verse 3 that we have many infallible proofs. That means. slam dunk set in stone these are accurate and he's talking about there the resurrection of Christ and that is probably the most difficult thing for the world to grasp and believe and hold on to. And so he says we have many infallible proofs of the most difficult thing that the world can ever grasp. But all the other scriptures are also infallible, with many infallible proofs. You go through the scriptures from Genesis to Revelation, and we have hundreds of biblical prophecies in the Old Testament and the New, and when they're fulfilled. That's true. Wow. That was an accurate fulfillment. I mean Christ really was born in Bethlehem. Wow. That's amazing. You know, and you go through all these prophecies, betrayed by one of his own and sold out for thirty first pieces of silver. You go all through these prophecies, you say, Well, that's that's accurate, that's accurate, that's accurate, from Genesis and Revelation. Prophecies that are given and then fulfilled prove the infallibility of those sections of Scripture. And then there's also the miracles that are performed. A man says to you That what thus saith the Lord, and the Word of God came unto me. Moses, how do we know that the Word of God came unto you? And Moses throws down a rod that becomes a snake. And devours the other snakes in the court. He goes, Whoa, okay, what was the word that came on to you, right? I mean, the miracles are there. Infallible proofs when a man says he's speaking of God, that his words are the words of God, God breathed, it's full of miracles. And then there's archaeological digs. I wish I had time to talk to you about all that, but the things that have been found in the archaeological digs are often mentioned. They have found Jezebel's ring with her name on it. They found the ring of Joseph with the seven cows and the seven stalks of corn on it. And they find jewelry with people's names. Hezekiah's name is printed on seals that they have found. All this stuff is established infallibly that these people really existed in the time frame where these pieces of jewelry and so forth have been found. So is the Bible reliable and infallible? Prophecies say so, America say so. Archaeological digs say so there are actually secular historical historical events that reference the lives of people like Nebuchadnezzar and and uh you know we with Matthew and and uh Paul uh just scientific discoveries that were in the Bible and that they didn't understand them You think about when you talk about the Levites, how they had to have these purification ceremonies and these cleansing ceremonies, and some are still do it wrong today. You know, we we go over, okay it's time for dinner, let's go wash and I remember on a farm we come out of the barn, you know, and got my nerve on her feet and her hands and and you you go in the you come in the and there's a big dish of hot water, soapy water and And they have a rain. I'd wash my hand. Well, I wanted to be first, because John and Larry, the two guys who worked to dig in there first. And my time I got there, it was still soapy, but it looked kind of dirty, you know. Okay, I'll do that. In the early years, people didn't understand the bacteria on our hands and the viruses, and they got sick because they didn't wash properly. Just sticking your hands in a labor and washing, and then somebody else will do it until the water was too dirty to use anymore. But the Levites were told by God, when you do a purification ceremony, morning, you hold out your hands and they poured the water over your hands. So nobody's hands were dipping into the same water. Because it wasn't really a purification if you're all going in. And um Just a little side rabbit trail here. Baptism. That's why John the Baptist baptized in the Jordan River. The water was flowing. He didn't have a hundred people coming down and getting into a uh a baptistry all in the same water because that that makes the water dirty, you know? And so he knew about the idea of flowing water Same thing with uh some other uh denominations, they'll they'll baptize by pouring water on someone's head or or you know it's it's the idea of the flowing, the moving water is really, it signifies cleansing There's no other way can. But before they have a microscope and the discovery of bacteria, we didn't know why God said, Oh, it's got to be flowing water. You've got to pour the water over the priest's hands. So why? Well there's bacteria. He didn't know nothing about that. And yet the scriptures, God knew, didn't he And if it's going to be real purification, it's going to be flowing, uh moving water. That's so scientific discoveries have proven that the Bible was hundreds and thousands of years ahead of itself. Not only that, but we read in Isaiah 40 and 2. that God sits on the circle of the earth. Do you know anyone you go back to the days, even in the days of Columbus, 1492, Columbus sailed, the ocean blew. They people thought in those days that the world, the earth was flat. If you went out far enough, you're going to fall off the edge of the ocean. Columbus didn't. Columbus was a Christian, he read his Bible. He said, God sits in the circle of the earth. I think I can go I can go east or west And come all the way around to the Indies. He believed the world was round because the Bible said so. But they didn't believe that back then. But the Bible was way ahead. They often talk about Christians as being a flat earth society. No We were the first ones that did not believe because the scripture said the earth was round. We never believed in the flat earth society. But these are the scientific things in scripture that come out, and people don't know that. Psalm 139 and verse 14 says we are fearfully and wonderfully made. Well we see our arms, our legs, our eyes, our ears. Oh we're fearfully, I don't know, fearfully and wonderfully made, but yeah, we're pretty neat people. Well we're pretty unique against all the other creatures on the planet. But what do you mean by fearfully and wonderfully made? You ask the scientists today who have these electronic microscopes who go inside the structure of the cell, inside the structure of the atom, and they are they are just But they're just flabbergasted what they see. They see inside the cells of our bodies little motors spinning And little conveyor belts moving oxygen and food to the cell and moving waste out of the they say they look like conveyor belts. They look like little motors. And this is unbelievable. That's just in the cell. Then they get inside the the atom and they see the Well they see the electrons spinning around the atom, you know they've known that for quite a while now. And and then they found out deeper there were protons and neutrons in the center of the atom. Whoa, we hadn't seen those before And then they've been saying from my days, it was about I think it was about twenty years ago, but in my day, the question always was, some smart kid would ask it If the center of the atom is full of protons, all positive, why don't all these positive protons boom and explode and go off in different directions? Because lights attract, I mean rather, likes repel and opposites attract attract. How come these protons are all sitting there and they're not repelling each other? And we used to make fun of the law that says uh lights uh uh repel and opposites attract And our science teachers when I was young age, uh like Victoria's age or Caroline's age, we we we stumped them with that one. Now they've known for about two or three decades that inside the protons is a particle so small they can't see it yet. And it's they've named it the gluon. The gluon keeps up protons together. And they They come out of the lab and they say, We finally discover what it is. It's a particle so small that our microscopes can't see it yet, but it's the gluon, keeping the protons together in the atom And they said, boy, we are really fearfully and wonderfully made. Well, God said that. Back in Psalm 139 and verse 14. He knew about the gluons. He describes the gluons in Hebrews 3. Things seen not, made of things which do appear. So that's what we are. We're made up of gluons. They can't even see our gluons. So we're made of things that appear not. And we see what appears only. The reliability scrapes of scriptures, the reliability of the miracles that show it's infallible, of the prophecies that show it's infallible, of the historical references, of the scientific discoveries, and on and on I could go for the other time. The scriptures that you have in your hands this morning, I just want you to notice they are in a unique class, all of their own. God's word. It's unparalleled to any other writing. Unparalleled. What you hold in your hands is so precious, so unusual, so unique. But some will say to us, okay, it's unparalleled by any other writings it's got miracles in it, this proofs and scientific and so forth. But should we believe the miracles in the scriptures? Should we believe these miracles in the scripture? We weren't there. How do we know? Well, it's kind of like the who's the author of the book? How reliable is the book? Who's the author? God's the author. Well, why should we believe in these miracles The New Testament writers like Matthew, Peter, and John and Paul, they wrote of the miracles. 79 times they talk about Moses in the Old Testament and of his miracles. And you say, well, why here's here's Matthew and and Mar and here's John and Peter and Paul, and they're out there saying uh the miracles of Moses, and they're to talk about Moses 79 times in the New Testament. These miracles they really happen And they say, oh Matthew, how do we know that? Hey, Paul, you know, I mean these are you know how miracles miracles. We don't know they happened back then. The scriptures say Christ gave them the power, Matthew and all disciples of create miracles that they could raise the dead and cure lepers. And so when they said, Moses, Moses said when a leper is cured, to take himself the priest, well, when was a leper ever cured? And Matthew could say, right now, he could cure a leper. Well, when was anyone raised from the dead, like some of these people are raised from the dead in the Bible, in the Old Testament? Excuse me? And Paul could go over and raise someone from the dead. They had the power to raise the dead. They had the power to cure all form of diseases and to cast out demons. That's what it says in Matthew chapter 10. And Christ gave his disciples those power. So when the disciples are talking seventy-nine times in the New Testament about Moses and the miracles in the Old Testament, they say, how do we know this He said, Well, we'll perform miracles right now. We can do this to substantiate that we are called of God, our word is of God, and that you will trust the word of God in the Old Testament and trust the word we're giving you now. That's the reason why we ought to trust and believe the miracles of the Old Testament and the miracles of the New Testament. And they would talk. Luke talked about Acts 7, verses 30 through 36. He talked about the miracle of passing through the Red Sea. on dry land, by the way, recorded in Exodus 14, where the Egyptians were drowned. And they also talked about how God appeared in a burning bush. We read about that in Acts 7 30 through 33. So he talks about the burning bush. You know what I like about some of these things? They record they record things, not just the miracles, but they record Little insignificant things that you wouldn't think are all that important. But when you record the little insignificant things, it's like, wow, this is really detailed. They don't just say, ah, there was a burning bush there, and there was a party in the Red Sea. Well, he talks about the going to the Red Sea. Luke taps on On dry land. And back in Exodus says dry land. Well he could use that. It went to the Red Sea. But even taxed on a little little side note, by the way, it was on dry land if you check And then when he's talking here about uh the uh the the period of the burning bush and Moses is there and God says you're on holy ground, you know what Luke text on there? God said to Moses, put off your your shoes. We didn't have to see that little detail, did we? You know you say, I went home today, I took out my shoes. But you might just say, I wouldn't go home today and pick back and relax, you know. But he God, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, He wants them to know that these miracles are actually factual down to the taking off of the shoes, the walking on dry land God doesn't miss anything when he has these men right under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. So we should believe in miracles in the New Testament and in the Old Testament. Find in Hebrews 9 that talks about the manna and Aaron's rod that butted. I'm telling you, you know, people say, I I well, I don't believe the Old Testament stuff. I'm just a New Testament Christian. I only believe the New Testament stuff Boy, are you in trouble. Because the New Testament talks about the Red Sea Party. The New Testament talks about the golden calf. The New Testament talks about the manna and the budding of Aaron's rod. I mean, if you don't believe the Old Testament There's about two-thirds of New Testament you're gonna have to just trash in a can somewhere too. Because it quotes all the miracles of the Old Testament And furthermore, Christ affirmed the Old Testament miracles. Christ speaks of the burning bush in Mark 12 and verse 26. Christ refers to Moses lifting up the serpent in the wilderness, which is in Numbers 21. He records that in John 3 and 14. If they would see the serpent, the fiery serpent that was biting the Israelites in the wilderness, and they were all dying. And Moses makes that brazen circuit on a pole, and he looks up, he lifts it up, and he says, look and live, look and live In the New Testament, we say, look and live. Look and live. Read it. Look at it. And have eternal life. Look and live. And Christ talks about these miracles. And then Christ says, oh, fools. and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. He's talking about the Old Testament prophets. And beginning at Moses, Christ said, and all the prophets, he expounded them in all the scriptures, things concerning himself. Luke twenty-four, twenty. I mean, you say I I can't buy all that there's a really crazy miracle in the old testament. The sea parts, the wall stands up. I mean that's that's you know Jonah and the whale. But Christ talks about all these things in the New Testament. You can't just say, well, I'm not the old testament miracles that you know the plagues are Uh you get this from all the modernists today and some of these evangelists out there say, there was no flood in the days of Noah, it was a localized flood. If it was a localized flood, why didn't Noah just build the boat a hundred yards down somewhere where the flood wasn't going to hit Why put all these animals on the on the ark if the animals are going to survive in Australia and in Europe and in South America? You know, why just there's no that doesn't make any sense But the scripture says there was a flood. And Christ says you ought to believe what Moses says. In Luke 24, he said, Had you believed Moses? Wow. That means Genesis? Yeah, Moses wrote Genesis. Six days he created the heavens, the earth, and all the center, and on the seventh day he rested. Six literal days, talk to any Hebrew scholar. I don't care how liberal he is, talk to any Hebrew scholar and ask him, what was the intent of the writer of Genesis? And every there's every world-class renowned scholar will tell you The intent of the writer was a literal 24-hour day. I don't believe that, but yeah, he the Hebrew syntax and the structure of the sentence, the guy writing that stuff, yeah, he was he was telling you there's a six literal twenty-four-hour days. Don't believe that. Every world-class Hebrew scholar, liberal as can be, will admit that that's what it says. When cornered And Christ said, if you believe not Moses, that means the six-day creation. That means the Ten Commandments. That means the parting of the Red Sea. If you believe not Moses Christ said, you would have believed me. But if you believe not his writings Genesis, Exodus, boy, there's some great miracles there. If you believe not his writings, how she believed my words. John 5 and 4 And I tell people sometimes when you're witnessing a Jewish person, they said, what's the hardest thing? Why don't the Jews believe about Jesus and the Messiah and Christ coming and dying for our sins? Why don't they believe that? Because they don't believe the writings of Moses. You are a witness to a Jew? Take him to the Old Testament. And start talking to him about the writings of Moses. His problem isn't Christ's resurrection. His problem is he doesn't believe the writings of Moses Paul writes in Exodus 34 and 30, Israel could not behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance. He came down off the mount the Ten Commandments, he had been in the presence of God, and his skin glowed like an angel, and the people were afraid of Moses And that's recorded in Exodus thirty-four, and Paul talks about it in Second Corinthians three. And then he says, Moses kept the Passover, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch the first Hebrews 11. You mean God really went to Egypt and killed all the firstborn of the Egyptians and the firstborn of the Jews? Anybody who didn't put the blood on the door of the Lamb. He killed these little babies, these firstborn. Yes, he did. They were told, cover the doors in the blood of the Lamb, and they didn't. And Paul says that really happened. There are not only 79 references to Moses in the New Testament, as you might as well just, if you don't want to read the Old Testament, just the new, you've got 79 references to Moses, just Moses alone. You've also got 70 references to Abraham. Bearing witness the truth that Abraham, the Old Testament character, he really existed. Christ says before Abraham was, I am, John 8 and 58. Abraham offered up Isaac upon the altar, James 2 in verse 21. Paul writes in Romans 4 18, Abraham becoming the father, when he was about a hundred years old, and of the deadness of Sarah's womb, she wasn't far behind his hundred years of age. He said, but that God already did that. The New Testament confirms additional Old Testament miracles. Noah prepared an ark, Hebrews 11, 7. Christ spoke of Genesis 7. Christ says Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. Luke 17. Christ said that Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed the local community. That's not what he says. He said he destroyed them all. Destroyed them all. I can't believe that God would kill everybody but eight people Well, if you don't believe that, when God comes back from the judgment day, I guess you don't believe he's going to kill millions and maybe billions of people again, do you? See, if you don't believe the Old Testament, it's really hard to believe the New Testament. You say, well, the Old Testament is a fierce God, and the New Testament is a loving God, and Jesus is so wishy-gushy, warm, and fuzzy. He's coming back to judge Jesus Christ is saying yesterday, today, and tomorrow. And God did judge, and the Lord Jesus Christ said He did. He came in and he destroyed them all. Peter writes, God spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person. Only eight were saved. A preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. And also, he says This is in 2 Peter 2, 5 and 6, turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes. An example unto those that should live ungodly. People want to deny that God was irritated with Sodom. For their sodomite lifestyle, turn them into ashes that we might learn and not live on God's lives. Christ, uh that of course is Peter, so you want to maybe get rid of Peter and it's it's Old Testament stuff. And we only believe in the New Testament. But the old the New Testament talks about all the Old Testament stuff Christ said the day Lot went out of Sodom, so it's Christ talking about it too, not just Peter, it rained fire and burns them from heaven and destroyed them all. And then Christ punctuates that with, remember Lot's wife. These people already existed. These historical things already happened. You can't say, well, I'm not an Old Testament person. I can't buy the Old Testament. I'm just a New Testament Christian. Boy, have you got a problem. Because the Old Testament is is just knit all through the scriptures. There's not a I like this word. I didn't know what it meant until I looked it up, but I hear people use it, somebody uses it. There's not a scintilla of evidence. That means a speck. You see those little those little specks that float in the air when the sun's coming through your window, they're little specks. There's not a scintilla or a speck of evidence that Christ ever disputed One jot or one tittle of the scriptures. There's not one speck of evidence. He questioned one jot or one tittle. Well, there's a scribal error here. Well, that's a mistake in that copy there. No, we can't we can't always believe everything is in the scriptures. Not a speck of evidence that Christ ever disputed. One jot or one tail. Matthew 5. 18, he says that And then Christ says, I have told you of earthly things. What were the earthly things he talked about? Well, Christ talked about, as in the days of Jonah, so shall I be three days in the ground. Jonah was an earthly thing. It really happened. Christ said he talks about the Passover. Christ talks about Sodom and Gomorrah. Christ talks about what what happened in the days of Lot He he talks about all these things, the Passover, Christ talks about all these these uh these judgment times and so forth, and then the days of Noah. Those are earthly things. See, I've told you about earthly things. If you don't believe them, then you're not gonna believe the spiritual things. If you believe not the writings of Moses, you're not going to believe Christ said what I have to tell you. And that's just the way it is today as well. It's the same thing. People laugh at the burning bush that didn't burn. Talked about it. Those who question the Spirit of God moving upon the face of the waters in Genesis 1-2, you know what else they question? If the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, I got the Creation you know, the first day of creation, the Spirit of God is moving across the face of the water. I don't believe that. Well how about Christ moving across the water of the Sea of Galilee, walking on it? No, I don't believe that. That's right If you don't believe the Spirit of God moved across the waters on Creation Week, why would you believe that Christ moved across the waters walking on the Sea of Galilee? They won't Some of you think we've you if you don't think this way, some of you you know people do they think we evolved from a single cell like amoeba Or if we're zello. You ever people say that? Floating around in some uh prehistoric uh percolating soup of some kind, you know. Just we're just all little amoebas, a little eyes sticking out there in the center of somewhere, you know, or flagellum, uh uh bacteria-like that's this is what they believe. Amoeba or flagellum. But Christ said from the beginning of the creation of earth, God made them male and female, not amoeba and flagellum Male and female, which are you gonna believe? From the very beginning, we were already male and female. We weren't amoeba and flagellum Those question that God breathed life, Genesis 2, 7, into a motionless pile of dust He breathes away into a motionless pile of dust. And that's the Old Testament. I don't believe that God created Adam out of a motionless pile of dust by just breathing into him. Well, if you don't believe that, then you don't also believe. That Christ stood just outside a motionless, dead, decaying body, and said, Lazarus, come forth, and he came. And I could tell you where Eve came from, but boy, I know you're not gonna believe that one. You know. I mean, you've got to believe the Old Testament, because if you don't, it's only the New Testament Oh, I don't buy the Old Testament stuff. Well the truth is you don't buy any of it Those who say life evolved. I know we've all run into people like that. And some of us, you know, in our own families, they believe that life evolved. Think about this. If life evolved Earth, planets, stars. If life evolved over twenty billion years, as some people believe, let me tell you this, if they really believe that it took twenty billion years to do all this, they have even less reason to believe That an angelic heaven has evolved also. I mean, if they believe all this evolved, it took twenty billion years. You know something? They must be waiting for heaven to evolve too. And I bet you that's going to take a lot longer. Probably not even there yet. It's kind of sad, isn't it? If you believe this all evolved in 20 billion years. In fact, what are the chances of the earthly things evolving, what is the chances of the heavenly, spiritual, angelic, seraph and chairman world evolving also? Pretty poor. It had to be created. It had to be made. Those according to the writings of Moses. Listen to this verse, Psalm 119. We read it in the responsive reading this morning. 152. Thy testimonies Thou hast founded them forever. Always gonna be around folks. Courts can outlaw them, schools can shove them out, colleges can make fun of them, professors can stamp on them and rip them up. Oh, they wouldn't do that to the Quran, of course. You can do all you want, but you want to know something? These are going to be around forever. God says we've hid these words in our heart and they're on the tombstones and cemeteries all across the world. They say you can take all those verses from the tombstones. And you could recreate the entire Bible if you had to. Those who questioned the writings of Moses, that was a concern of The Lord Jesus Christ and his days are concerned too. Those who question the writings of Moses, they have diminished and disregarded and discarded the durability. of the scriptures disregarded the durability, the availability, the reliability, and the infallibility Of the Old and New Testament scriptures, written for our learning and for our salvation and for our good. Don't partake of those today. They're undermining the Ten Commandments, sin's origin, damnation, redemption, and the authority of Scripture, and Christ's gospel. You stay away from people like that. Let's pray. Father, we looked at you this morning and we're so grateful. That you are a God that can preserve souls, that you are a God that preserved your scriptures, that we might read them and find hope and comfort in them, and that might preserve our souls in the reading of them. We thank you, Lord, for the durability of the scriptures. We thank you for the reliability of the scriptures. We thank you for the authority of the scriptures. Oh Lord, may it touch the hearts of everyone here today if they have not considered it. That these scriptures are so unique. unparalleled to anything else that's out there. We ask you to bless every heart here this morning In the name of our Savior and Redeemer, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the valley, the rose of Sheridan, the lily of the valley, the great shepherd of the flock. In his name we pray, Jesus Christ. Amen.