With me this morning please again to the book of first John. We're actually getting two Sundays in a row in our first John study. And then next week we'll step out of 1 John again as we celebrate Mother's Day. Appreciate your prayers for me in the coming week as I'm working in a passage the Lord has laid on my heart. working towards a message for Mother's Day for next Sunday. But this morning we're going to focus our attention on 1 John chapter 4 and verse 4. But let me read the first six verses again as we read last week to get the flow of the thought and the context before we go in to one specific verse 1 John 4, verse 1. Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they be of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus is come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is the spirit of Antichrist. Whereof ye have heard that it should come, and even even now already it is in the world. Ye are of God, little children. and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. They are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us, and he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Let us pray. Gracious Father, again as we approach this holy book, we thank you that it is the Word of God and not the Word of Man. It is divinely inspired and has been preserved to your people. Father, we thank you that it has authority. There is nothing that man says that has authority except for what man says, which is in agreement with this book. And so, Lord, as we consider your word today, we pray that our thoughts and our considerations would be in agreement with the book, that we would always be founded upon the Word of God. Lord, we pray that you would now open your word to us that we might receive it. For Lord, we find in Scripture that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they're spiritually discerned. And so, Lord, give us your people, who are no longer natural men, but are regenerated by thy spirit, give us spiritual discernment that we might see thy truth. Father, we pray for any here today that are still natural men, that are still unconverted, unchanged by grace. Father, even today, may your Spirit open their hearts. May the Spirit of God call them from the dead as surely as Christ said, Lazarus, come forth. And Father, may they come forth unto eternal life. Lord, we pray for our children. Oh, how blessed we are as a congregation to have these little children running around. To hear their laughing voices following our service. Lord, you have blessed us by putting them in our midst. Give us grace to train them up in the way that they should go. And Lord, we pray today that you would open their ears and their hearts. For Lord, having believing parents is not enough. They too must call upon Christ. And so, Father, we pray for our children. Save them, everyone. And Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is He that is in you. Than he that is in the world. Ye are of God, little children. What an amazing statement What an amazing declaration. What a glorious truth. Ye are of God Just let that sink in. I think sometimes we get so used to it that we fail to glory in it. We get so used to the fact that I am a child of God. That I am his own elect. That he has redeemed me. We just sang he brought me up also out of a horrible pit. That psalm just thrills your heart. He set my feet upon a rock. He established all my ways. Why? Because I'm of him. And we find these passages those that are not of him. We find the false prophets. We find those that are not of God, and they don't hear us. And it's not us they should be hearing, it is the word of God through us. Why do they not hear? Because they're of Antichrist. They're the antithesis to Christ, they're the opposite of Christ. They listen to any other voice but Christ. They heap themselves teachers having itching ears, but when the truth of God is proclaimed, they don't want that. They don't want to hear it. But yeah of God. Little children. What an amazing truth is encapsulated in those four simple words, ye are of God. This is a declaration of our faith. That we are of God is a declaration that we have shunned the word of Antichrist. If you look there at the second verse of this chapter, it says, They are the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. Look at the pronouns there. They, they, them. We don't talk about ourselves as they. Where we. They're they. We don't refer to ourselves as them. It is me and them. It is we and them. And we mentioned last week that there's a dichotomy here. There's a division here. There is those on the there are those on the right hand and those on the left hand. There are sheep and there are goats. There are wheat and there are tares. And there's a line that is drawn throughout all humanity. And some people have said that that line is the shadow of the cross, and I understand what they're saying because there's a lot of truth to that. There are the saved and there are the unsaved. This is the declaration of our faith, year of God I'm not of the devil. I'm not of Satan. I'm not of this world. I'm not of the princes of this world. I am of God. And if you look down to verse 5, it says, Therefore, sorry, they are the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. You ever at work been among a bunch of coworkers and they were talking and you said, you know, I have nothing in this conversation. They're talking about the the drunken party Friday night, or they're talking of you know some foul language or some immorality or some worldly entertainment and you say yeah. You just walk away because you have nothing in that conversation. You don't fit in that conversation. And quite frankly, if if you're if you have a testimony, the conversation kind of dies down when you come along. Because they know, well, he's not gonna like this. We better watch our language because he's a church guy But look at verse 6. Yes, verse 6. We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. Isn't it blessed that we come in here? I mentioned the morning fellowship downstairs. I mentioned the work day. You know, get your hands dirty and have some fun. Isn't it a blessing that when the children of God get together, we had that fellowship, but even more so when we're talking about the Word of God. Sunday school this morning was wonderful because we're Great conversations, and each one bringing in their insights and different verses and passages. We get around this word and we hear one another because we're fellowshipping in the Word of God That we are of God is a declaration of our faith. We're not trusting in ourselves. We're not trusting in our works. We're not trusting in our merits. But rather we have heard the word of God. And faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by that word. And we are us and not them. Because we find fellowship and kinship in the body of Jesus Christ. We are one in Him. But also the year of God is a declaration of our origin. Where did we come from? Well, I I know that our responsive reading this morning was Psalm 100, which probably most of us could quote, and it's a short psalm, only five verses, and usually we had more than five verses. For our responsive reading, but I chose Psalm 100 specifically because of verse 3 Know ye that the Lord, and that's all capitals, know ye that Jehovah, he is God. It is He that has made us and not we ourselves. That year of God is a declaration of your Creator. I didn't come from a monkey I didn't come from a grand explosion. I didn't come from a collection of molecules. I came into being. because God breathed life into Adam, who he had made from the dust of the earth. And Adam became a living soul. And God created a help meet for Adam out of a rib, and her name was Eve, and I am a descendant of them, and so are you. It's God that made all this. I was losing some of this, but it's God that made it. But there's far more in that third verse of Psalm 100. You see, God created my physical being. But God created my soul. It is God that has made me his child And so when the psalmist says, it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves, it is a declaration that he has made me a human being, yes, but he has made me something else as well. He has made me his child. And you see, when we read this declaration, ye are of God, little children, it is a declaration that God has made me something more than just a human being. He's maybe special. He has chosen me in Christ before the foundation of the world He has made me his own child. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nations. I didn't have anything to do with it I could not save myself. No merit of thine own, thine anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus' righteousness. He made me his child. And you see, if I made anything, I would make a mess. If God did not make me his child, there is no limit to the iniquity and the sin which I would be involved in this very morning. But what a glorious truth. Ye are of God, little children He's been chosen out. You've been selected for his own. You are his. Ye are of God little children. And we looked several weeks ago there at first John chapter three in verse one, which is probably right across your page. in most of our Bibles. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. We've been made something different. And so to say that we are ye are of God is a declaration of our origin. Turn over to Romans chapter 8 with me. Romans chapter 8, and I'd like us to look at verses 29 and 30. Again, verses probably that most of us could could uh quote. Romans chapter 8, verses 29 and 30. And I'm going to emphasize the pronouns here. Romans 8. 29, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate them He also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. What did I do in that verse? I didn't do anything. He did it all. You see, if you're not of God You've got a lot of work to do. And you will never finish that work, for there is none righteous, no, not one. All of our righteousness is as filthy But notice also in those verses, it begins with for know, then goes to predestinate. Then it goes to called. Then it goes to justified. Then it goes to glorified. I won't ask how many of you start something and don't finish it. And don't ask my wife about starting things and not finishing them, because I've always got a lot of things that I've started and not finished. God finishes what he does. Those verses lay out there all the way from predestination before the foundation of the world through heaven in the world. He completes it all. But also, that we are of God is a declaration of our identity. Who are we? Ye are of God. Remember what Christ said to the Pharisees and to the unbelieving Jews? Ye are of your father the devil. Remember, remember Christ saying to the Jews If the Son shall set you free, ye shall be free indeed. And they said, We were never in bondage. Abraham is our father. Christ said, I can make of these stones, children of Abraham. You see The children of Abraham and Mass rejected their Messiah. But when Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost, he wasn't just talking about Israel, the seed of Abraham. For he came unto his own, and his own received him not, but to them that received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. even to them that believe on his name. We've been talking in in our Bible study on Wednesday about the the animosity that existed between Jew and Gentile and the Old Testament Jews calling the Gentiles dogs And how in Christ He has made of plain one new man. This is our identity. Who are we? We're of God. We are Christians. Christians. We're different. We have a particular family, and that family is the family of God. Galatians 3, 26, ye are of God little children by faith in Jesus Christ. And Romans 8, verse 16, the Spirit also beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. 1 John 3, verse 2, across your page again. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. We are disciples of the Most High God. We are identified with Him. This is our identity. Who are you? Are you a plumber? Are you a truck driver? Are you a mechanic? No. You, if you're a child of God or a believer who happens to drive a truck. A believer who happens to work on plumbing. A believer who happens to do electric. And if I named your possession, if I named your employment, I'm not throwing rocks at you. I'm just throwing things out off the top of my head. But you understand what we're saying? This is our identity. We're of God. And yes, we have to do all these things because by the sweat of our brow, we find from Adam we're to live. And yet, in this world, we're to be identified as the children of God. We're to be a lamp, we're to be a testimony That's our identity. Ye are of God, little children. We are disciples of the Most High God. And in Mark 9, verse 41, we read: For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name Because ye belong to Christ. Verily I say unto you, he shall not lose this reward. We're disciples. We belong to Christ. That is our identity But also, when we make this declaration, year of God, little children, it is a declaration of the authority that God has over us. Year of God, little children. We considered this morning in Sunday school uh the the the parable of the talents and the one who received five, the one who received ten, the one who who received one and the one who received one hit his talent in the ground and he was condemned for it. Why? Because he had an obligation to the master You see, when we declare that we are of God, it is a declaration that He has authority over me, that He directs me, that He orders my path. What? Know ye not that you're not your own? For your bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are his. It's a declaration that God is in authority over me. Children, obey your parents, for this is right. Ye are of God, little children. You see, we owe God that reverence In Hebrews 12, verse 9, furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? We know what it is to obey a parent, and we know what it is to disobey a parent. How often men of this earth give fathers of this earth far more reverence Than they ever give to a holy father. You see, the demons were possessed of a spirit. They were possessed of the evil spirits. Did Christ ever say to a demon, Come out, and the demon did not come out? No. In fact, the demons asked and fled: don't send us into nothingness, send us into the swine. The demon spirits obeyed Christ. And we read here that there is a spirit of Antichrist, and the world hears that spirit of Antichrist, the world hears the voices of this world, there is a spirit in us as well. It is the Spirit of God. And it is that Spirit of God which whispers in your ear, that's not right. Don't do that. This will not be edifying to your soul. This will not increase your testimony. This will not bring glory to God. There's a spirit in us. What is the origin of the term spirits in relationship to alcohol? Well, it is that which is taken into the body and it takes control. It takes possession of the body. The mind is Is blurred and people will say and do things they would never do if they were sober. They're controlled by a spirit. That's where the term spirits in relation to alcohol comes from. And isn't it beautiful that the Word of God speaks to that? Be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Be filled, not with a spirit which causes you to mumble and babble and stagger and do silly things. But rather be controlled by the Spirit of God. That Spirit indwelling me directs my steps, for the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Just as the drunken man is controlled by his spirit and he does not do what he should do, so the Spirit of God controls the believer that I might do what I should do. And so when we declare that ye are of God's little children, it is a declaration that God has authority over me. I am bound to obey his commandments. But then, my friends, when we read this declaration, ye are of God, little children, it's a declaration of royalty. Ye are of God, little children. We're children of the king We're children of the God of heaven. Did you ever talk to one of your friends and the subject of some great building come up and yeah, my dad built that? My my grandmother, honestly, my grandmother helped to build Conawingo Dam there between Harford and Cecil County. She was 16 years old, and she was working in the cafeteria feeding the 3,000 men that that were out there pouring cement. She helped to build that dam, and I love to tell people that Why? Well, because I have a family connection to it. Did you ever visit the Rockies? My father built that. Did you ever go to the Grand Canyon? My father built that too! Did you ever see a cardinal? We have some beautiful cardinals here on the property. They come up outside my office window. And I've had the windows open the last few days, and I love to hear them, hear them chirping. My father made those two. He made them all. This is my father's world, and I am royalty. Because I've been adopted into his family. You're of God, little children. Don't live in this world like paupers. And I'm not talking about money in your pocket. I'm talking about the riches of heaven. I'm talking about the joy of the Lord. I'm talking about the inner blessing in the inner man. I've learned whatever state I'm in therewith to be content. You see, the joy of the Lord and the blessing of God has nothing to do with with where we live, what we drive, what clothes we wear, or any of those circumstances, but rather it is the inner joy of the child of God. I'm royalty Because I'm of God. In the Hall of Fame of Faith in Hebrews chapter 11, we read in verses 37 and 38. They were stoned. They were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the world was not worthy were royalty. The folks spoken thereof were not honored in the world. They had sheepskins and goatskins. They didn't wear silk and scarlet. They didn't have a permanent home. They wandered, but the world wasn't worthy of their presence. Ye are of God, little children. Now that doesn't mean we walk through the world suity and condemning everyone. But remember who your father is. Remember your heritage. Remember who you were. That passage goes on, they wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves. And that brings us to a bit of transition in this verse, for we've been considering it year of God little children, but the next phrase is, and have overcome them. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 12, Yea, and all that shall live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. It doesn't say all that live godly in Christ Jesus are going to have a rose garden of a life. It says they'll suffer persecution. Christ said to his disciples in John 16, verse 33, These things have I spoken unto you that ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And then in Psalm 34, verse 19, many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth him out of them all. Ye are of God, little children, and we we not spend a lot of time on little children, but but remember that little children are usually kind of timid. And fearful, and naive, and scared of the dark. There's an awful lot we can say about little children, but remember who your father is. But let's move forward You've overcome them. Notice first of all in the next four words, and have overcome them. It doesn't say you're going to overcome them. That word have overcome there is a present reality. In the original, it's what we refer to as a perfect active indicative. And that's a big term that means it's a Greek word, which means something that is already accomplished and doesn't need to be done again. When Christ was on the cross and he said it is finished, that is also an example of a perfect active indicative. In our Greek. It's something that was done once and it doesn't need to be done again because it's accomplished. And the initial effects continue on. Okay, it's not like brushing your teeth. You've got to do that over and over again. This is something you do once, and that once is sufficient for all future. It's a perfect active indicative. It's finished. Now, ye have overcome them. I fight battles every day. And I know you do too. Satan, the roaring lion, still has teeth and claws. But here is a declaration, just as certain as the declaration that is finished on the cross, ye have overcome them. The foe is defeated. All the battle is still going on. But they are overcome. This victory is a present reality. But we have to be very careful with this verse, because this verse has been misused quite a bit, to say the least. The them there, ye have overcome them, is a reference back to the false prophets, to the Antichrist there. It's a reference to the evil voice of this world. We have overcome them. We've overcome the Antichrist. Now, how is it that I have overcome them? Well, by grace I haven't listened. I've been given a different set of ears. I read God's word, and it is glorious. It thrills my soul. That verse I read there a few moments ago in Psalm 34, many of the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. I was preparing this message this week and I That verse came to mind and my heart just rejoiced. What truth is found there? But the unbeliever reads that verse and it really means nothing to him. It really, there's no victory for him there. Why? Well, because in verse 6 we read that we are of God, and he that heareth God heareth us. There is that hearing of truth. There is that understanding of the truth of God. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. We've overcome. Now the general application is usually made of this verse, and there's a multitude of songs that When I was a teenager we used to sing, and I'm not condemning the songs, but they would take this idea that we've overcome because greater is He that is in you than He is in the world, and they apply it to every circumstance and situation of life Oh yeah, I can do this because I've overcome. Well, that is true. Faith is the victory that overcomes the world. And our faith does overcome our sickness, it does overcome our sorrow, it does overcome our trials, it overcomes everything. But we need to stick to the context with this verse. Would you have ever believed in Jesus Christ on your own? No. No. He's despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrow is not acquainted with Greek. We hid as it were our faces from him. I don't want to look at that. I don't want to see him But the glorious light of the gospel has shone into my heart. And I am of God. I am his little child. And I have overcome the lies of Satan, yet not I, but Christ that liveth. In me. And that is exactly what the verse says, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You see, I have overcome all the false prophets, all the family members that would say, you don't want to be a Christian. All the friends that would say, why do you go to church all the time? All the voices of Satan that would say, you're not really saved. All the roaring of the lion, which would try to draw me away into the things of this world, why do I continue as a Christian? Because I'm strong? No, because no man shall pluck me out of the Father's hand. And why is that? Because greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world. Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have thee that he may sift thee as wheat. But I have prayed for you. And the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much, and Jesus Christ is the only righteous man. And he pleads before me, before the throne of his father, and more than that, he dwells within me. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You talking about walking around this world is royalty? The Spirit of God dwells within the believer. And yes, Christ is greater than our sin, Christ is greater than our guilt, He's greater than our trials, He's greater than our sickness, He's greater than our sorrows, and greater than But why is that? Because surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken. Smitten of death God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgression. He was bruised for our iniquities. And the chastisement of our peace was upon him. And we With your stripes we are healed. And what is that word in there? The chastisement of our peace. And there it is. Ye are of God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. What happens when the enemies overcome? You have peace. And you see, Satan comes with all of his temptations and all of his trials and all of this whispering in your ear, and it gets you agitated, and it gets you upset, and you begin to have doubts and fears, but remember You've already overcome. Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Get thee behind me, Satan. Trust in God, because greater is he that is in you. Flip over to chapter five of First John Chapter five and verses four and five. We'll come to these verses again in coming weeks, Lord willing. But first John chapter five, verse four and five. For whosoever is born of God, what's it say, overcometh the world. Whosoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. Remember last week When we were dealing with the false prophets, and the false prophets deny that Jesus has come in the flesh, and one of the implications we had of Jesus coming in the flesh is what? He's the Son of God. We have heard the truth, and therefore we're saved. And then turn to one more passage with me, please. Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. And again, this is a chapter that probably many of you can quote. I know a lot of you memorize Scripture avidly. And we all should do that. Romans chapter 8, and I'll read from verse 33 to 38, a little bit longer passage, but I'd like to emphasize what it's saying. Romans 8, verse 33: Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. What is Satan? He's the accuser of the brother. He comes and he lays charge to God's elect. But we've overcome him. We've overcome the false prophets. We've overcome the evil spirits because greater is he that is in you than he is in the world. Verse 34. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again. Who is going to condemn me? My family? My co-workers? The world? Satan? No. Those are overcome foes Who is even risen again, or who is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God the Father, who also maketh intercession for us. Remember, I just quoted from Christ's words to Peter. Peter or Simon Simon, Satan has desired to have thee. They may sit thee as we have prayed for thee. Our overcomer makes intercession for us. Verse 35: Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Do you ever feel like you're forsaken of God? There's only been one who was ever forsaken of God, and that was the Son of God on the cross. So tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword And you can put in there any other problem you may be having. We have overcome through Christ. As it is written, For thy sake are we killed all the day long, we are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors. And how is it that we're more than conquerors? Through him that loved us. It's all about Jesus. Christ. And so he goes on to say I'm persuaded, neither death nor life, nor angels, etc. Shall separate us from the love of God. Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And so we are of God little children. Because greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. I don't know if it's a good way to illustrate it, but you ever hear the old phrase it's not the size of the fight of the dog? It's the size of the fight in the dog. Or not not it's not not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog. Greater is he that is in us. We have in us the same God who said, let there be light, and there was light. We have in us the same God who said, get behind me, me, Satan, and he got behind. We have in us the same God who said, Come out. And the demons came out. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world, and therefore we have overcome But let us consider the greatness of this God. And I realize this as usual our time is getting away from us. But in Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 13, you don't need to turn there, but I'll read it for you. We find a testimony to the greatness of God. In Hebrews 6. 13, it says, For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself. When God was making the Abrahamic covenant, when he was making a covenant to Abraham, There needed to be some assurance of the covenant. There needed to be some testimony, yes, this was true, and because God could find none greater than himself, he swore by him. And what is the context of that testimony? Well, the context of God giving that covenant is Abraham on the mountain sacrificing his One of the greatest acts of faith that a that any man has ever done. It was by faith. And what was it that was so significant about Abraham offering Isaac on the mountain? It was a picture of the Father offering his son. And what is the great difference between the offering of God the Father of his son and the offering of Abraham and his son? Abraham got a substitute. God the Father's Son was the substitute. He gave his life for us. So my friend, I know a lot of you have trials. I know a lot of you struggle with faith. I know a lot of you have temptations. I know a lot of you have sicknesses and all kinds of problems in this world. I know there are some that that are growing in grace and others that are by your own admission stagnant in grace. But ye are of God, little children. That's your origin. That's your identity. It's your heritage. It's your family. And in Christ, you have already overcome them. It's a present reality. And the reason is: greater is He that is in you than anything this world has to offer. Do you know that God? Are you of God? Do you know Jesus Christ is your Savior, my friend? Have you truly repented of your sins and been saved? I know you know about God. I know you attend church, but do you know the great God of heaven? And does he live in your heart? Let us stand for prayer. Father, bless your word and your truth to us this morning. Father, help us to live as overcomers. Help us to live in light of the fact that we are the royalty of God, that we are of you. You have made us, as we read there in Psalm 100, verse 3. You've made us your children. Bless your word to our hearts. Father, we continue to pray for many of our congregation that are not with us today because of sickness. Bless them and raise them up. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.