Chapter 5. Perhaps you have noticed this morning that there is a theme running through our responsive reading which mentions Zion, uh the city of Zion twice in it. And the song we just sang, Glorious Things of the Earth Spoken, Zion City on the Hill. And this morning as we turn to 2 Samuel chapter 5, verses 1 through 12, we find the mention of Zion for the first time in Scripture. be seen many, many more times after. I wish there was time to tell you all the things I've learned about Zion, but um Maybe we'll we'll touch on some of them lightly. We'll see how the time goes this morning. Uh there's even a good verse that we just sang on page ninety-three. Uh after the reading we'll reflect on that a little bit as well. But beginning in chapter five of uh 2 Samuel this morning. Remember that Ishbisaph, the king of northern Israel, is dead. They are without a king. David is still down in the little tribe of Judah. uh king of Judah, but he is not king of the eleven northern tribes. So then came all the tribes of Israel to David onto Hebron And they spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. We're an Israelite, you're an Israelite. Also in time past, when Saul was king over us Thou wast he that led us out and brought us in Israel, and all the military exploits are referring to here. And the Lord said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be captain over Israel. And so all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron. And the king David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord. And they anointed David king over Israel. Now he's king over both Judah, and he's also king over the eleven northern tribes, or in other words, he's king over all of Israel. And David was 30 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 40 years. So David dies at the age of 70. Wow. That used to sound so old. Verse 5. In Habron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah. And the king and his men, verse 6, went to Jerusalem unto the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. The Jebusites were a tribe of the Canaanites. And they spake unto David, saying, Except thou take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither. Thinking David could not come in hither. Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, first mention of Zion in Scripture. The same is the city of David. And David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up the gutter and smiteth the Jebusites and the lame and the blind that are hated of David's soul, he shall be chief and captain. Wherefore they said, The blind of the lame shall not come into the house. So David dwelt in the fort, and he called it the city of David. And David built roundabout Milo, that was one of the towers or statehouses along the walls of Jerusalem and inward. And David went on and grew great, and the Lord God of hosts was with him. And Hiram, king of Taira sent messengers to David and cedar trees and carpenters and masons and they built David a house. And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel And then he had exalted his kingdom for all his people, Israel's sake. The song we sang this morning, especially that that first verse, uh gives you a real picture. It says, Glorious things. Of thee are spoken, Zion, city of our God. And Zion is still there. It still sits on the hill. It's called Jerusalem by many, but scripture often refers to Zion. His word cannot be broken, we're going to find out that God's word had prophesied that Israel would Take Jerusalem and keep it. His word cannot be broken. Form for his own abode, God's house as well. On the rock of ages founded, what can shake thy sure repose With salvation, walls surrounded. Now David may smile at all his foes. He was inside the walls of Jerusalem. I just love the hymns. They just take and build upon scripture upon scripture upon scripture and prophecy. Uh so different from uh many of the things that are are uh uh passed off as as Christian music day and uh the especially in the rock Christian environment and so forth. Love it, love it. So here we are with Zion, first mentioned and we want to look at this this morning And in verses one through two, then came the tribes of Israel, the eleven tribes and northern tribes, unto David and Hebron. And they said, Behold, we are bone of thy flesh, and Saul was king over us, but thou wast the one That led us out to battle and brought us back into Israel. And also the Lord said, Thou shalt be captain over Israel, thou shalt be our king. Here we see the eleven tribes. Long opposed to David, fighting against David, seeking his life, wanting to kill him, much like the Apostle Paul wanting to kill Christ. And now we see them seeking a relationship with David. It's like the eleven northern tribes have been converted. It's like a conversion experience. And they say so here. They say that uh behold, we're bone of your bone and flesh of your flesh. As Christ was born of our bone and flesh of our flesh of the tribe of Judah. And Saul was king over us, but you're the one that fought the battles. You're the one that beat Goliath. You're the one that led us in and out And so they're really praising him. Their eyes have been opened. They see that he's bone under bone, flesh under flesh. He has always been their leader. He's always been the one that took on the Goliath of their life. As Christ took on the Satan of our life. And now it says the Lord said, You should be captain over Israel. You should command us. You should be our king. They've had an epiphany. When there's no one else left, but nevertheless they've had an epiphany. And so the three things, David, you're our brothers Second thing, you've always been our leader. Third thing, the Lord said you should be over Israel in 1 Samuel 16, 11 through 13 is a section where Samuel came and anointed David and that he would be king, and that word got out. So here they came, seeking a relationship with the king of Judah. It's an important time in the history of Israel. To seek a relationship. It was an important time for David. It was an important time for the eleven tribes to bring them back together as twelve tribes united Israel. Seeking a relationship with the king of Judah is what it took. Wow. Pilgrim, pilgrim, pilgrim, have you ever sought a relationship with the king of Judah? Maybe you've got some relationships that aren't going so well, and those within that relationship need to seek the King of Judah. To make things right. Christianity, you know, everybody talks, well, Christianity is just another religion. Christianity is not just another religion. Christianity is about a relationship with the King of Judah, the Lord Jesus Christ. All the other religions are about religion. Christianity is about a relationship with God, a relationship with Christ, our Savior, our Redeemer. It's all so, so different. People who are Buddhists aren't seeking relationship with Buddha. Those who follow Confucianism aren't seeking relationship with Confucian? They haven't died for anybody We seek a relationship with the King of Judah who sacrificed for us and died on a cross for us. We, if we are really saved, have sought and now have a personal relationship with the king of Judah. Judah. And there's a number of ways you'll know that. It's wonderful to have a relationship with Christ because you know if you have a relationship with Christ, you will never be alone He says that he will never leave us or forsake us. And for those who are lonely, to have Christ in your life, you will never be alone if you sought that relationship with Christ. You'll never be alone. The two things you'll note about a Christian, if he's really a Christian, if he's really sought the relationship with Christ at the King of Judah, he'll never be alone and he immediately wants to share him with somebody else. Usually if you got somebody, you don't want to share him with anybody. But a Christian is so different. We're never going to be alone with Christ, but we're willing to share immediately with everybody else. And the other thing you notice about those who have a relationship with the King of Judah, the Lord Jesus Christ, we find it exciting to see people Who also finally appreciates the exploits of our King Jesus, the exploits of the King of Kings, the exploits of Christ, his saving others, healing others, walking on water, his resurrection We get excited about seeing others who finally seek out a relationship with Christ. If that doesn't excite you, question your own salvation. How can you not be excited about the Apostle Paul and the road of Damascus Seeking a relationship with the Christ. How can you not be excited about the harlots and the publicans in the New Testament? Seeking a relationship with Christ? How can you not be excited about the thief on the cross Seeking a relationship with Christ. And when it happens in your own community, in your own family, if it doesn't excite you, oh dear friend, question your relationship. Is it a heartfelt relationship? Is it a relationship of one who's been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, by the king of Judah? These elders, these eleven tribes, a picture of conversion as they're coming to the one born in Bethlehem, king of the Jews? It sounds like Christ, doesn't it? So much that David foreshadows Christ. They want a relationship with the one born in Bethlehem who has fought their most dreaded enemy. Who is king? And the elders of Israel came to King David, and they made a league in Hebron before the Lord. Hebron was down in the tribe of Judah. And when you look at this, this this this conflict between them, uh the major part of the conflict took place uh for seven and a half years. David had been king of Judah, but not king of the northern tribes. And so we had this civil war going on, tit for tat and you know, things going on, uh uh some uh little skirmishes and so forth. And this went on for seven and a half years. This it was a civil war, the Northern Kingdom against the Southern Kingdom. And the civil war went on for seven and a half years, and yet we find it ends in a most gracious and charitable manner you could ever, ever expect a civil war to end. It didn't end that way between North Korea and South Korea. I tell you, it never ended that way. North Vietnam South, it didn't end that way. North America or the North, the Yankees of the North and the Confederates of the South. It didn't end disgraciously. It just didn't. But here it does. In fact, it says that after seven and a half years they came together and it ended in such a charitable manner that if we go to 1 Chronicles 12, 23, 39, and 40. And uh it it also tells you the story of them coming to David, wanting to be their king in 1 Chronicles. We find that not only did they come together and make it legal for one another, but they celebrated with festivities for three days. Now, friend That is a terrible conclusion to a civil war. That didn't happen with Robert E. Lee down in Virginia. That didn't happen that Between North and South Korea, three days of festivity and the civil war is over. In Vietnam it didn't happen that way either. This is an unusual ending. Why such a charitable and gracious ending do we find From this civil war. And by the way, when we've had troubles in a marriage, troubles with one or another of our of your children or your parents Can it not end as civilly? Breaking bread, over meal, graciousness, after a long Long families dispute and so forth, it ought to end as this one has here. But why did this one so so different from the other civil wars that we could uh reckon and observe in in history. Why was this one so charitable and so gracious? Because it says David made a league with them before the Lord. Verse three. He made a league with them before the Lord. And how was that so that he made this league with them before the Lord? Because it was made in the city of Hebron And if you go back to Joshua twenty-one and thirteen, Hebron was not only the city of refuge, but Hebron was also the home of the children of Aaron, or it was the home of the Levites This was a city filled with Levites, filled with with the ceremonies and festivities and the and the uh the the theology and the love For the scriptures, it was a community just second to none. Hebron. No one could not be affected by that city, by the presence of God. And it says here that David made a league with them before the Lord in Hebron. David and the elders, they could not help but be conscious of God's presence with all the Levites and the priests walking to the city praying. Chanting, quoting Scripture. There was no doubt that there was a presence of God here. There was a consciousness of the presence of God. And so they had a charitable conclusion. Because they did it before the Lord. Christ has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So everything we do is done before the Lord, isn't it? Wow. Think about that. Because Christ will never leave you or forsake you. Everything you do. Oh no, not that. I did that before the Lord. Oh man. Yeah. Christ should never leave you or forsake you. So you do everything before the Lord. As David felt the consciousness and the presence of God there in Hebron, we do everything before the Lord as well. If he will never leave us or forsake us, have he ever made a yours, has he ever made you conscious, Christ, the King of the Jews? Has he ever made you conscious of his presence in your heart I mean uh you can say you know about Jesus and you you know you know his names of his brothers and his sisters, his mother and his father, and where he was born and where he died and how he died and and these coming you can believe all of that, but are you Consciously aware of Christ's presence in your heart. I mean, your presence of people in the room, your presence of somebody might be uh behind you and you're backing up your car. Sometimes even present is somebody out there waiting for you in the dark behind the bushes, but are you aware? Are you conscious of the presence that Christ He's always there, and does he reign on your heart? Not just there, but rules over you. That was the consciousness that David had that God was there. God was present. And these elders came down, it seems as though there's been a conversion in their life as well, and so conscious are they of God's presence And what they've done to one another for seven and a half years, there's like there's like a repentance here and there's a gracious acceptance here and what a festivity Three days long. If you are truly conscious of Christ's presence in your heart Three days of festivities, would that be enough to tell him thank you for the rest of your life? I suspect that giving him every Sunday for the rest of your life would not accomplish that either, would it? That's the way we ought to feel about Christ if He's in our heart. He's really saying this, that there isn't enough Sundays left in our life to thank him and praise him and read his word for what he has done for us. That's what an actual conscious presence of Christ in your heart feels like. You'll never get the thank you's done. These elders here, they were grateful. Three days of festivities, they were so grateful. It says in verse 4 that it says they they anointed David king over Israel. David was finally the king of Israel. As God had promised in 1 Samuel 16. He was finally the king over Israel. He had endured years of persecution from Saul. And from the northern tribes and from the Philistines. He had endured slander from Saul and those of the northern tribes. He'd endured the loss of loved ones, like Jonathan and Samuel and others. He endured all of that and displays an unmatchable theological of patience, doesn't he? I'm supposed to be king. Why am I putting up with this guy's soul like this? I'm supposed to be king. Why is he had to put up with these 11 northern tribes? I've got a strong tribe now here, Judah. We can clean them. We can clean them out. Why should I put up with all this? I've lost my best friend. They've taken my wife from me. I've got Samuel's going. I don't have to put up with this anymore. Patience. was was a fruit of David's life. Patience is a virtue we read. Well patience. I might ask this morning Are you, pilgrim, a patient soul, like David Talk about patience. Christ waited 30 years to start his ministry. Can you imagine? He's laying in that crib with a baby. And he's he's just wanting to jump out and start healing people and preaching. He could have done it I mean if baby my my granddaughter was talking I think it was a year and a half or something, full sentences, and telling me how frustrating it was when she couldn't talk. I mean Christ could have talked right from the crib He's gonna preach from the crib. He's gonna preach from the manger. And he waits 30 years. Talk about patience. So pilgrim, are you a patient person? Some people say, oh, I wish I had patience. Oh, I wish I had patience. Do you want patience? Let me tell you something about patience The path of patience is not a path well traveled. Most people don't want it. Most people don't have it. And many realize what it takes to get it So the path to patience is not a path well-traveled. If you travel it, if you really want it, expect it to be covered in thorns and thistles, because it's not a well-traveled path. Not many Christians even want patience. It's a path strewn with thorns and thistles and tribulations in your journey. And David had plenty of all that. Now, tribulation worketh patience, Romans 5:3. That's what Paul tells us. So if you want patience, you're going to have tribulation first. But David writes later on: there's a reward for those who have patience. He says in Psalm 41, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he heard my cry. People, if you are people with patience, God hears the cries of patience. Patient people. In fact, because God hears the cries of patient people, why do so many Christians have crying out to Savior Cry out to every sinner they can meet and every front everyone they know and tell them of their problems and just carry on. If if we talk to God as much, if we talk to our Savior as much about our problems as we do to everybody else we know If we waited patiently on the Lord, he would hear us. David says he heard him And David's cry was heard, we know, because in verse 5 it says, David then began to reign forty years. He must have cried out to God, I'm supposed to be I'm not going to complain to the eleven tribes. I'm not going to complain to my own forces. But oh Lord, I'm supposed to be the king. Samuel anointed me. When's this going to happen? And so in verse five His crying out was heard, and David reigned forty years in Hebron, and in Judah seven uh years and six months. And in Jerusalem, it says thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah But there's a problem here. He is now the king over all twelve tribes. But where is he going to reign from? He's reigning in Hebron, down in the little tribe of Judah. If he stays down at Hebron, the eleven tribes are gonna be agitated by that. Hey, we've come down, we've brought this all together, and I mean you've got eleven tribes here, you're down there with that one little tribe you've been with for seven years, and you know we're kind of niffed by that. I mean Can't you find uh uh one of the tribes, one of the cities up north we could reign? Makes sense, doesn't it? And then of course, if he does go up there and find one of the cities up in 11 Judah, I mean he is of the tribe of Judah specifically, although he's an Israelite. He's representing all that. But if he goes up north into one of the eleven tribes, Judah says, hey, we stuck by you for seven and a half years We're of your we're your kin. This is where you were born in Bethlehem. Come on, what's going on? You deserve us for the for the bigger piece of cake or something, or the bigger piece of pie? For the eleven tribes? And they would have been miffed as well. What what do you do? David must have prayed a lot, thought a lot, asked for guidance, uh probably went for the Levites and Um we don't know. But what I like about David is he he seeks an answer that will make everybody happy Sometimes we we need to do that. Sometimes we need to sit back and say, okay, what will work for everybody? You know, you go to both sides. Would you be happy with this? We try a Christian wants to work with everybody. A Christian wants to, if he can, get along, at least among the brethren, right? I mean if we can't get along with one another, how are we going to get along with the people out there in the world? Or why do the people out in the world want to follow us and be like us if we can't get along with family, friends, kins, Christians, saved? Can't we even get along with that? The professing to be saved? I mean that the really and David does that here. David does that. And that's just one of the things that we have to admire about him. He uh is not a respecter of persons. God is not a respecter of persons, Acts 10 and 34. And David is not a respecter of oh well I want to be the tribe of Benjamin. They're the strongest in the military. Oh, I will be the tr I will have a place in Judah because that's where my family comes from. He is not a respecter of persons. He thinks that all twelve tribes have an equal voice in where he should rule from. You know, sometimes people and I have people say to me, they they think that they're second class Christians You know, they think there's the there's the one class that was born in the church, their father was a pastor, their grandfather was a pastor, no, no, no, and there's somebody special and their mother plays the piano and the and the orator, father's a Sunday school teacher or elder, and they're the they're the one class And then there's the other class. You know, the guy that comes in with the long hair and the tattoos and the big earring. But he gets saved. Oh, he's great. But he came out of the world. Man, he was a s he was a stinking sinner. And I'm glad he's saved, but he's a second class Christian, you know. He's not the first class. That's not the way David looked at it. That's not the way we should look at it I don't find anywhere in the Bible that the pastor is the CEO, you know. I'm not the CEO. I don't find anywhere in the Bible, well I'm the commander-in-chief, you know. Someone said to me, oh wow, you're the big Hansel, you're the boss here. I said, no, I'm not Ask Tim and and Dan. I'm not the boss. I'm not the CEO. I'm the servant. I'm the servant in this church. I've never asked anybody to do something I wouldn't do. Not that I'm aware of. Servant. David writing in the 18th Psalm, the introduction in the 18th Psalm, David is now king of Israel. king of whole whole kitten caboodles. I mean he is the king. And in the first in in if you turn to your uh 18th Psalm and you look at his introduction to it and he writes As a servant of the Lord. He doesn't say as a king of Israel. He said it's a servant of the Lord. That's the highest title we can get There are no second-class Christians in this church. There's no hierarchy here. Deacons serve. You look it up, you read the script. Deacons, their job is to serve. We're all equal, friend. Do you know I don't even get to vote in this church? The members vote. I'm not even I I don't even get a vote. I can break a tie No second class Christians in the Lord's house. Don't ever feel that way. Rahab the Horat, would you make her a second class Christian? Bathsheba after adultery with David, would you make her a second class Christian Christian? Paul the blasphemier and the murder of Christians? Would you make him a second-class Christian? There's nobody here as a second-class Christian My goodness, David, I'm up to I think 14 wives right now in my studies with David. That's abominable. That's horrendous. But God tells me, but I'm glad he tapped it on. He was a man after God's own heart. Or I think I've finally found myself in scripture a second class Christian. But David's not. So God heard his cry, and David's looking For something that would make all the tribes agreeable. And he finds a city called Jerusalem. Now, Jerusalem sits on the border of the northern tribes in the tribe of Benjamin, but it's also on the northern border of Judah. It's right in between the northern and the southern tribes. Wow, that seems like a pretty good choice. People in Benjamin can't say it's a southern tribe city, and the people in the north can't call it a northern tribe city, because Jerusalem sits right on the border, although Just inside Benjamin. Alright? But in the 800 years since the prophecies and since God gave Israel this land Benjamin has never conquered Jerusalem. Benjamin has never conquered Jerusalem, and Jerusalem is an independent piece of property. never owned by them, never conquered by them, never held by them. It's been held by the Jebusites for 800 years. So it belongs to nobody and never has The only problem is we gotta take it. We gotta take the city of Jerusalem. And boy, oh boy, if you look at the city of Jerusalem, it's surrounded by ravines, steep, solid rock walls. One's called the Kidron Valley. For any of you who've ever been over there. You know what that's like. You want to charge to the Kidron Valley, you go way down, looks like about a mile deep, and then back up. And it's straight and it's steep and it I don't think anyone's ever been over there has ever walked at. That that's a horrible, you know, that's a tremendous defense around Jerusalem. And then the other one is Gehenna You will hear about that, that's the word for hell, Dehenna, where they it was a garbage up, and that's another steep ravine. And those two ravines cover about two-thirds around the city of Jerusalem. It's a Jerusalem is a Foridable place to attack. In fact, Jerusalem has been attacked again and again and again through the scriptures, and for 800 years it has never been taken from the Jebusites But what's David's dilemma? I need a city that will make everybody happy. I need a city that is so formal. I need a city that sits on a hill. I need a city that's impressable to be the capital of Israel. Jerusalem would be impressive And it would be formidable. And it doesn't it's not owned by anybody, north or southern tribes. We'll just take Jerusalem. Oh yeah. Wow And so in verse 6 and 7, the king of his men they went up to Jerusalem unto the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. And they spake unto David, saying, Huh, you're going to take Jerusalem? Many have tried. I'll tell you what, if you can't except I'll take away the blind and the lame, they'll never come in here. He said, this place is so formidable, look along our walls. We got the blind soldiers, the wounded soldiers, the lame soldiers. We can defend this place with the lame and the blind and you'll never take it. And the Jebusites were Pretty much accurate. That was quite a boast to make, but it it had held for 800 years that they didn't have to put the best soldiers on the walls. Nobody could take Jerusalem. What pride They had 800 years. Probably grows in 800 years. What a boast to make. But what an ignorance of the scriptures when they said that It's like saying God Himself couldn't sink the Titanic. Boy, was that an ignorant thing to say, wasn't it? And here he's saying, you couldn't take this. Our blind and our lame can protect us from you taking Jerusalem And they were so ignorant of the scriptures, and I wish there was time to share it all with you. But there are nine times in Scripture where it says the Jebusites will not keep Jerusalem. They will not keep the land in Israel. Nine times. Genesis 15, 18 through 21. Exodus 3, verse 8, Deuteronomy 7, verse 1, Joshua 3, verse 10 And there are more, I'm not going to quote all nine, but here were the Jebusites, basically they were saying, nine times in scripture, ha, hath God said. We're going to keep it. You're not going to take it from us Maybe because the scriptures said nine times. You know, there's a whole list of the Canaanites, Jebusites, Hittites, Amorites, all these people that God said, go in the land and take them all out. And the last one on the list is the Jebusites. And the Jebusites can look back and say, wow, Canaanites fell, the Hittites fail, the Anmites fail. We're on the list, the Parasites fail. Where are we on the over the last ones on that list? Well, it's not going to happen to us Well it did. They're the last one to fall. God took them all out, left the Jebisites. Isn't that amazing on the list? We look at Genesis and Deuteronomy, Exodus, and Joshua. The Jebisites are always listed last And they didn't believe they'd they just thought they'd always last. But they didn't There are people that think that with the passing of time scripture gets weaker and weaker, it begins to dissolve, begins to dissipate the That the longer God has given a promise or prophecy, the longer it takes for it to happen, the less likely it's going to happen, like the coming of Christ. Christ is coming again. That's been almost 2,000 years Talk about a prophecy that is dissipating. Talk about one that's dissolving. Does the passing of time make some question the words of an eternal God? There is no time with an eternal God But there are people who think that the older the Bible gets, the less reliable it is, the less trustworthy it is, the less those things are going to happen. But Christ said, not one jot and not one tittle, Matthew 5. 18. Not one promise. Not one prophecy of this book, not one word of Christ will dissipate or dissolve. It's all going to stand. And I'm here to tell you this morning, pilgrim, don't panic The missing links will always be missing. I've been hearing about the missing links for 60 years, since I was in the first and second grade. They'd find it and they'd discover, oh, it wasn't. We thought it was. And ten years, oh we got the missing link now. And they'd say, Oh we well it wasn't. But but we'll find it. Darwin said within eighty years we'd have the missing link That's been 150 years ago. Darwin's word doesn't stand, but God's does. The missing link, don't panic It will always be missing. The Israelites will eventually be wiped out. They will never be wiped out. Scripture tells us only the book of Revelation, the very last book, that they're still standing. They're still there And the only errors in the Bible, and yes, don't walk out to hear the whole sentence. I have found some errors in the Bible. They were made by Pharaoh, Jezebel, Judas, Caiaphas. Those are the only heirs. Oh, the scribes made heirs. No, they didn't. The only errors you'll find in your Bible were made by some of the most ungodly sinners you can imagine. Don't panic that God's word is getting old and no longer trustworthy. And so we note in verse 7, verse 6, you can't take this, the blind, the lame can keep it. Verse 7, and David took it. Wow, that didn't take long, did it? Man, how much time between verse 6 and verse 7? And David took the stronghold of Zion. Wow, that was really quick. In verse 8, David said, Whosoever getteth up the gutter and smite the Jebusites that are hated of David's soul, he shall be chief and captain. These Jebusites, they must have said something really nasty that's not recorded. Maybe so nasty it couldn't be recorded. I mean, what have you ever heard that David hated their souls? Wow, that is a strong verse. David, he hated the souls of these men. What did the Jebisites do besides the lame and the blind can hold the soul? They must have said, you know, and David had stood before an ungodly, uncircumcised Philistine named Goliath, who was cursing and blaspheming Israel And even David and say, I hate your soul. But the Jebusites, I hate their soul. We don't have any idea what else might have transpired here. But it must have been worse than the cursings and swearings of Goliath because he hates their soul. And therefore, right quickly he got at it, didn't he? Verses 9 and 10, he dwelt in the fort. He dwelt in the fort. The twelve tribes assaulted, took, captured, held, and occupied Zion. It was a dangerous mission, the attempt to capture Jerusalem. No one had done it in 800 years. And yet it was prophesied. That somebody would someday, and these men had to know that. I suspect that David he hated their souls and he maybe read the verses to them from Joshua And Deuteronomy and Genesis and Exodus, and said, Look, God said they'd be the last to fall. Well, their last day has come. We're going. We're going to be the ones to fulfill this prophecy. And they did. Now you just can't, here's twelve tribes that haven't been together for seven and a half years, and they go on a dangerous mission, depending on one another in this mission to die and bleed together and they go up and they take the city and unite it in the glow of a glorious fulfillment of prophecy. It united those twelve tribes like they've never been united before. Boy. Do you ever feel a special bond with other believers who've conquered some of the same sins that you have? You run to someone who at the beginning of your testimony says, Yeah, that's a problem I had too. Oh man, God gave me the victory, but it was hard It took me a long time, sir. You ever feel steal a special bond when you've been victorious over the same enemies of sin? That's what's happening here. These twelve tribes, and not have they been they've been victorious over the same enemy together, but they have fulfilled prophecy in doing it. Fulfilling prophecy. If you're saved this morning, you fulfilled prophecy because Christ said he came If you're saved, you fulfilled that prophecy. If you admit you were a sinner, you fulfilled a prophecy Verse 10 he says the Lord God was with David. The Lord God was with David. That's how I took the say the Lord God was with David. Jonathan wasn't with him. Samuel wasn't with him. Abner wasn't with him. But God was with him. And there's coming a day when someone that you love dearly won't be with you anymore But God, if God is with you, you'll be all right. That's what my wife tells me. All the time. If Christ be with us, we'll never be alone. We want to share him with others To be a part of prophecy. If you're saved, you're a part of prophecy. God came to sinners and saved sinners and and you are one and if you're saved, you have fulfilled one of the prophecies. Mary and Joseph, they fulfilled prophecy, didn't he? A virgin shall give birth. Simeon and Anna, they told Simeon that he would not die before he saw the Christ. He fulfilled prophecy, he saw the Christ How about the men in the upper room? They saw the resurrected Christ. They were part of declaring the fulfillment of prophecy. They saw it with their own eyes. And so here David, he knew that the Lord was with them. In verse 1112, David perceived that the Lord had established him king for his people, Israel's sake. Why has he become king? So that he can just bask in the glory and so he can just sit back and have people feed him grapes and and just just uh indulge himself? No, God made him king It says, David perceived the Lord had established him king for his people's sake. David is not the Lord over God's people, nor is a pastor to the Lord over God's people. But rather, he said, look for opportunities to be a blessing for God's people. That was David. God, I put you there, David, so you can look for opportunities to be a blessing for my people, Israel. In fact, Deuteronomy 17, 18 through 20 reads this of the king of Israel. The king, when he sitteth on the throne, he shall write a copy of this book. And he shall read therein all the days of his life. That's what King's supposed to do. I wonder if any of our presidents have sat down and wrote a copy of this book. That's what they're supposed to do. Leaders are supposed to do that. And then they're supposed to read it. So you'll read it there in all the days of your life that you may learn to fear the Lord God I want someone in the office of the White House who reads this book every day and fears God more than he does the polls or the Democrats or the Republicans or the Conservatives or the Tea Party. I want a God-fearing man in the White House. Who reads his Bible every day. And that's what the king was supposed to do. And that he keeps my words, that his heart be lifted. That's why we're supposed to read the book. If thou keep you humble, friend To keep reminding you that you're a sinner, just like the guy in front of you or behind you or across the aisle from you, he's a sinner too. He blew it yesterday and you're maybe you're harder, but you blew it last week or last month This book will keep you humble. Read it every day Does Christ save you this morning? Can you say that he has? Then you are a servant of the Lord. And you are to serve the Lord Jesus Christ, and you are to look for opportunities to be a blessing to the people of Christ. Can you do that? Not just during Christmas. Every day. Be a blessing to the people of Jesus Christ, his flock. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the story of David. It just foreshadows so much the life of Christ. And he such an example to us in so many ways of the direction we should take with our life. He's a good example also of when he didn't take the right direction. He paid dearly. But Lord may we may we learn young and may we keep the faith Under the trying and most persecuting of circumstances. And while we're going through all our trials, maybe look for someone to bless, as Job did in his trials. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.