Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me to Exodus chapter thirty-seven, Exodus thirty-seven. We look this morning at Exodus 37, verses 1 through 9. Let's hear now the reading of God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood. Two cubits and a half was its strength, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a molding of gold around it. And he cast for it four rings of gold for its four feet. two rings on its one side, and two rings on its other side, and he made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold, and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, to carry the ark. And he made a mercy seat of pure gold. Two cubits and a half was its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth And he made two cherubim of gold, he made them of hammered work on the two ends of the mercy seat, one cherub on the one end, and one cherub on the other end. Of one piece with the mercy seat he made the cherubim on its two ends. The cherubim spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces one to another Toward the mercy seat were the faces of the cherubim. This is God's holy word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for your word, your holy word from your holy, holy revelation to us. Which you have spoken, which you through the prophets have allowed to be inscribed and written down for our edification, our sanctification. Lord, we pray that you would impress it now, the truths of this word, upon our hearts, so that we might with reverence receive it, and also in response give faith and honor and worship to you, our Saviour. Or try you in God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Closeness to God and the concept of purity are intimately linked in the biblical vision of reality. Closeness to God. And the concept of purity are intimately linked in the biblical vision of reality. God Himself is, of course. Pure purity. There never has been and never will be an impurity in the light and glory of his infinite being. And of course, nothing impure can come close into his presence. We've seen that theme pronounced throughout the book of Exodus in a number of ways. How can impure Israel come close? To God and allow God to come close to them and in their midst. Well, Exodus gives us one answer through this system of priests and sacrifices. Or take the tabernacle, for example. The closer one comes to the center of the tabernacle, the more precious, or we could say the more pure the metal and the fabric becomes Bronze in the outer court giving way to silver. And then as you come nearer to the Holy of Holies, the tabernacle is constructed in gold. And then in the very center In the holy of holies, where God Himself is present, everything is made of or covered in pure and refined gold. Why? Because if that's where God's covenantal presence will dwell, then everything there near to him must be pure, for he is a pure God. And Jesus, of course, gets at this in his Sermon on the Mount, when he says, What? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. You can't just be pure on the outside, ornamented with the gilded gold of respectable religion. No, pure in heart. The implication, of course, the exact opposite of this, is that those who are impure, marred by sin and unholiness and deceit Well, they won't see God. No. They'll be cast out away from God into the outer and eternal darkness of hell. This explains, I think, this explains why so many people hide from God. They know deep down inside Well, they know that they are impure. That the very idea of coming near to such a holy and pure God not only would spell doom and judgment for them, but that in one sense they hate the purity of God. They so love the life they live, the sins they pursue, that truly drawing near to God in any safe way would mean that they have to change and they don't want to change. As the Puritan William Gurnal puts it, we read this Saturday morning in our reading of Gurnal, they're more afraid of the cure for their sin than they are of the judgment for their sin. In the last chapter, God has done something entirely remarkable. He has invited us, us, sinners as we are, into his very home. The tabernacle that is built as a dwelling for his present pure glory, as he lives amongst us with his people, an impure people. We saw last week how the tent was made, the care and the divinely crafted details God designed into and spiritually helped the people of Israel to make for his tabernacle? And now this morning we come into that central room, the Holy of Holies, the private quarters. Of God's very home. Specifically, this chapter will look at the furniture that goes into this room. And this morning we are especially looking at that most important of furniture pieces, the Ark of the Covenant. Why is this arc so incredibly important? Well, because it's here Where everything else becomes doable. It was the only piece of furniture that went into the Holy of Holies. And and it's because of the Ark and what happens on the Ark that impure Israel can even have the tabernacle at all and enjoy God's holy presence without his justice and judgment breaking out against them. I think Phil Riken is right when he says that, quote, one sign of the ark's importance is that it was made by Bezalel himself. Bezalel, the Leonardo da Vinci of the Hebrews. As Israel's artistic director, Bezalel supervised the construction of the entire tabernacle, but when it came time to make the Ark of the Covenant, It's clear that he did the work himself no one else would do. Look at verse 1. Bezalel made the ark. Of acacia wood two, cubits and a half was its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a moulding of gold around it, and he cast for it four rings of gold for its four feet. Two rings on its one side, two rings on its other side, and he made poles of acacia wood, and overlaid them with gold, and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark. And we get some very important features here. Specifically, these four rings of gold that had poles covered in gold, carrying poles That would have gone through the ring so that the Israelites could carry and move the ark, as the Israelites traveled with this moving tabernacle. They could have carried it without touching the ark. Why carry the ark this way? Well it's more than just utilitarian practicality. No, no, remember the ark itself is holy, and therefore it's not to be sullied by the unholiness of man's touch. So serious was this distinction that later in the book of 2 Samuel we see that under the instruction of King David the ark is to be moved, but David foolishly doesn't move the ark in the way that God instructed. You see, in Numbers chapter 4, God specifically says that the Levites, specifically the Levitical Kohathites, were to be the ones who carried and moved the ark by these poles. They could carry it with the acacia poles, but he's very clear they cannot touch the ark. Well, in 2 Samuel 6, David has the ark moved, but he does so by placing the cart pulled by oxen. So listen to what 2 Samuel 6 says. David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baal Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts. who sits enthroned on the cherubim. That's really important, by the way. In other words, they understood that the Lord's presence, as it were, sat upon the ark where the cherubim were. And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abidadab, which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were helping to drive the new cart with the ark of God. And David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the Lord with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals. And when they came to the threshing floor of Nakan, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him down there because of his error, and he died. There beside the Ark of God. What happened? Why did God kill a man who simply put his hand out to make sure the ark didn't fall to the ground? Uzzah did what presumably any devout Jew would do. He reflexively reached out to steady the ark. But here's the truth of what's going on in that passage. Who are we to believe that our hands, attached to our bodies and thus attached to our wayward hearts, which rebel against God time and time again? Who are we to believe that our hands are holier than the God-created ground which never disobeys God? R. C. Sproull, in his great book, The Holiness of God, writes these striking words. Uzzah assumed his hand was less polluted than the dirt But it wasn't the ground or the dirt that would have polluted the ark. It was the touch of man. There was nothing about the dirt that would desecrate the throne of God The dirt was lying there on the ground, doing what God has called dirt to do, being dirt, turning to dust when it's dry, and turning to mud when it's mixed with water. It obeys the laws of God day in and day out. doing exactly what dirt is supposed to do. There's nothing defiling about the earth. It was the hand of man that God said, I don't want on this throne. Do you see, dear friends? In one real sense, the ark was a reminder that that great chasm between the holiness and the purity of God Versus the sinfulness and the impurity of man. That chasm is still there. Yes, God is coming nearer than before. The ark is the place where the presence of God dwells and dwells amongst mankind, but even still don't touch it. Only the Levites could carry it. And no one except one Levitical high priest once a year could come and engage with God upon this throne, upon that ark. Here's the problem that the Ark of God highlights. This golden box of purity highlights by its very existence our inescapable impurity And impurity, of course, in and of itself cannot become pure. You cannot Turn, you cannot make sin become virtue. And sinful man cannot by himself become righteous. And therefore, we cannot truly approach God nor see God. Children. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning asks this: Can we, as sinners, come near to God in and of ourselves? Can we as sinners come near to God in and of ourselves? And when we ask it that way, that is, do we have the ability? The innate purity, the status in and of ourselves to come safely near to God, and the answer, biblically speaking, must be no. God's holiness is our biggest threat. It's our biggest problem. God's holiness is our biggest problem. And one day the holiness of God will totally break out against and judge all sin. He will vanquish all impurity. That's our big problem. In one sense, if you're here this morning as an unbeliever, you're still stuck Under the status of being an impure sinner. In one sense, here's just one quick real-world application. Praise God, that he has not yet come to judge all sin. But you still have breath to be here and listen to this. So what can we do? Well, with man this problem is impossible. But with God all things are possible. The ark, though it is a symbol of God's pure holiness, it is also a symbol of his mercy and grace. Why? First, because of what went into the ark. There were three sacred things God wanted to lie inside this golden ark. And although these items are not mentioned in Exodus 37, they are described elsewhere in the Old Testament. The first thing that went into the ark was the manna. Remember the miracle bread that God provided for the Israelites during their forty years of wandering in the wilderness? God had said, Let an omer of manna be kept throughout your generations. So that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt. So Aaron, the brother of Moses and the high priest of Israel, put a golden jar of manna in the ark as a permanent sign of God's providential care for his people. In other words, though they were an impure people and deserving of God's pure judgment, the manna reminded them that God gave them sustenance and showed them mercy through feeding them. Rather than judgment and letting them starve and die. The bread reminded the Israelites that God would satisfy all their needs, and that He was a most faithful, merciful provider The second thing that went into the ark was Aaron's staff. Later in number 17, at the time of the rebellion, a time when the people challenged Moses' authority. God told Moses to gather the twelve leaders of each tribe with their staff. The staff, by the way that they carried. It represented their authority over their tribe. And so when they came together, God miraculously caused Aaron staff to sprout buds and blossoms. Signifying his spiritual authority and showing that he, Aaron, would be Israel's rightful high priest. And so afterwards, his staff was placed within the ark as a permanent reminder of God's authority over Israel, as the true ruler over their lives and over their souls. The third item, arguably the most important item, was the covenant written in stone that God made with Israel This covenant, or this testimony, set the terms for God's relationship with his people. It was a covenant that promised that he would be their God. And that he would give them every blessing of temporal salvation if they obeyed and kept the covenant. In other words, the covenant was a reminder of God's saving mercy. And that he had given them a law to live by, which, if obeyed, would bring life and bring blessing. So three things were in the ark. Daily bread, a sign of fruitful authority, and a life-giving word of promise. And all three of these things testify to the people that their holy God was also a very merciful God. But perhaps the most visible reminder of God's mercy wasn't what went inside the ark, but what was built on top of the ark. And we see this in verses 6 through 9. He made a mercy seat of pure gold. Two cubits and a half was its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. And he made two cherubim of gold. He made them of hammered work on the two ends of the mercy seat, one cherub on the one end and one cherub on the other end. Of one piece with the mercy seat he made the cherubim on its two ends. The cherubim spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces one to another, toward the mercy seat were the faces Of the cherubim. First, what is this mercy seat? Well, the first thing it is, it's the earthly location of God's heavenly throne room. That's why there's the angels, these two cherubim of gold. They were hammered into the mercy seat. Yahweh is known throughout the scripture as the Lord of hosts, that is, the Lord, even over the angels. Hosts and hosts of untold multitudes of angels surround God's throne room in eternal praise and ever obedience to his every command. In Psalm 80, verse 1, God is referred to as, quote, the one who sits enthroned upon the cherubim. And so here, upon this mercy seat where God's presence would descend, here upon these golden angels, heaven and earth would meet. God would be there, the ruler over heaven and earth. Think about that. No wonder the Ark always led Israel into battle. You know, whether it was crossing the Jordan for the first time into these contentious land of the promised land where God through the ark split the river in two leading his people behind Or think about Jericho, as the Israelites followed the ark seven times around the city before its fall, the ark showed the people that the God of mighty heavenly angels fights with and fights for his people. What mercy. I think that the most profound expression of mercy though, the reason it was really the mercy seat. Is what would happen there once a year on the great Day of Atonement. Now follow me here. The Day of Atonement was the central and most solemn religious day of worship for the people of Israel Why? Because they knew they were sinners. They knew they were unholy. And yet, God provided for them one day where the high priest would come to the tabernacle and slaughter a goat as a sin offering. This is what God says in Leviticus 16, verse 30. For on this day shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord. What is atonement? Atonement happens when a substitute takes the punishment, in this instance death. Takes the punishment on behalf of an offending party so that the offended party, in this instance God, will have his justice satisfied In other words, at the heart of an atoning sacrifice is a penal substitute Here, the substitute was a slain goat offered up by a high priest on behalf of all of Israel, so that for that year God's justice and his holiness would not fall on sinful Israel. It already fell upon the goat. The English medieval theologian Saint Anselm wonderfully puts the issue this way, that, quote, it is not fitting for God to merely forgive sin without satisfaction For thus the sinner would be in a better position than the obedient. In other words, God's justice against sin and his justice against sinners must be satisfied. God cannot and will not simply stuff his good justice down. He would cease to be good and he would cease to be God. But because God is also merciful, He has provided a way for sinners who deserve the judgment of God To in fact become recipients of the mercy and the forgiveness of God. How? Through a substitute And so here again the high priest would bring the goat as substitute, and as he laid his hands upon the goat's head, he was symbolically laying all the sins of all the people upon that substitute, and then He would slaughter the goat. The death of the goat was a stand-in for the death of the people and the death that they deserved And when the goat had bled out, the high priest would then take the blood, and he would enter into the doorway of heaven itself, the holy of holies, and there sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant. Blood crimson dripping down the beauty of this pure golden arc The blood covering the law of the covenant, which sat inside that ark and spoke judgment against all who disobeyed. And so in this way, atonement was made for the people, atonement for that year, until the next year, atonement would have to be made again Year after year after year, goat after goat after goat. The mercy of God was shown to the people. Yes. But God's holiness, God's purity The wrath and justice of God against the impurity of the people, it was always lingering right there to still, maybe at the end of the year, strike out again and destroy sinful Israel. In other words, this atonement wasn't a sure and lasting atonement. In one sense, yes, it provided a propitiation, but only a temporary propitiation. It appeased God's wrath for the time being. But here's what's interesting. That feature, it wasn't a flaw. That feature taught the people of God to look forward, to cast the eyes of hope far into the future when a better and everlasting sacrifice would ultimately be made. So, children, your second question this morning asks this: How does God's mercy to sinners Not contradict God's justice and holiness against sinners? How does his mercy not contradict his justice and holiness? And the answer is this. God provides a substitute. The answer isn't we provide the substitute Whatever substitute we provide will just be like fig leaves, covering up the impurity of our nakedness. No, no, no, no. God provides the substitute For Israel, that substitute came in the form of a goat. But a goat cannot ultimately pay the full price required for the sins of man, much less the sins of an entire nation or even the whole world. No, ultimately, the Day of Atonement, the slaughtered substitute, the high priest, even the mercy seat itself, all of it pointed forward to something, someone far better. Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus not only is the ultimate and perfect and everlasting high priest And Jesus is not only the ultimate and perfect sacrifice, which through his death is our true substitute, true substitute because he is both God and man, a perfect, sinless man. Here's where our text this morning becomes so rich. He also provides for us in his death with a better and more glorious mercy seat. After he was slaughtered and his blood dripped down his face and body, he wasn't taken into the Holy of Holies. Now that that room was finished with. The veil was torn too. There was and is no more need for a tabernacle. Jesus is the true tabernacle. No, his slaughtered body was taken to a borrowed tomb. Not gilded in gold, but a dark, musty cave with a rudimentary place for Jesus' body to lay. But of course his body would not remain there because death could not hold his pure soul. Perfect and divine as our Savior is. And so three days later he arose, bursting forth into resurrected life, never to die again, because satisfaction was already perfectly made. Did you notice the parallel in the Gospel of John earlier when Eddie read for us from John chapter 20, and what Mary saw when she ran into that empty tomb? The place where Jesus' body was supposed to be, she saw. Well, what did she see instead? Two angels. Two cherubim One at the head and one at the feet, two cherubim, just like the two golden cherubim hammered into the mercy seat, except this new mercy seat was not like the mercy seat of the Mosaic Covenant One which, yes, provided temporary mercy, but still could not fully satisfy the infinite holiness of a holy God. No, this mercy seat was far better. Mercy established now on a new covenant. An everlasting covenant that needed no other sacrifice. The blood spilt there was enough. The substitute had accomplished what no other substitute could ever do. He not only paid for all of your sins for all of time, but for all the sins of all the people who now come to him by faith. By faith in Jesus. Just like when the high priest laid all the sins of the people on the head of the goat. Well, now simply by faith in Jesus, your hand of faith lays claim to the body and life of Jesus. And as you reach out to him in belief, you touch the Christ who took to himself all of your sins. All of them. His one death has paid them all. It's very interesting. After Adam and Eve sin, and God removes them from the Garden of Eden, he blocks their way back into the purity of Eden by placing cherubim on guard. They stand guard as angels to make sure nothing impure can come back in. There the angels look out. They stand guard with their flaming swords On the mercy seat, both the mercy seat of the Ark and the mercy seat of Christ's tomb, the cherubim look inward. They don't block and stand guard against outside impurity coming in. No, that way has been opened for all the impure to now come in. Now they almost stand amazed and look in wonder at the mercy that God has provided for sinful humanity on that seat. And no wonder. There were angels who disobeyed God. Satan and a third of the heavenly host. And what happened to them? Instant judgment, exiled from heaven, and no promise of reconciliation at all In other words, God never made a covenant with the fallen angels. God never and has never shown any mercy to fallen angels God never sent his only begotten son to take the form of an angel and give his spiritual life as a ransom for them, if he could. And this fact isn't unfair. It's just. It's right. It's what holiness demands, and therefore it's good. God deals with and judges wickedness, and we praise God for that. And so again, no wonder the angels look in at the mercy seat with absolute amazement. What is this that God has done with fallen humanity? Men made a little lower than the angels themselves, weaker in our composition than the spiritual angels, more polluted are we than the dirt of the earth. And yet God sent his son to take to himself forevermore our weak nature, to live forevermore as a man, a man who died for us. Shed his blood for us as a sacrificial substitute, and now lives forevermore in the purity of heaven at the right hand of the Father, where he intercedes on our behalf. Longing for the day when we are finally in his presence, one with him for eternity more Impure humanity made pure through the humanity of the divine Son and his death for us. What kind of mercy is this? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Children Question number three this morning asks: Why do angels marvel at Jesus Christ Answer Jesus has purified the impure Jesus has purified the impure. Honestly, it's staggering that God can even love us who are impure And yet love us he does with an unchangeable divine love. 1 John chapter 4 verse 10. In this Is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So what do we do with all this? Well, first, if you're someone who hasn't yet truly believed in and given your life to Jesus Christ, Well, I hope you are amazed at the love and mercy of our holy and pure God, which He's provided for you in Jesus This isn't the cheap mercy of our modern world where people just forgive because they're afraid of conflict and therefore they avoid the real consequences of what sin does. This is mercy grounded in justice. God can still be and maintain his purity. And still have his hatred of impurity while at the same time showing love and mercy to the impure. How? Why? Because of Jesus Christ as your substitute He paid the price you deserve so that you can receive what you don't deserve. And so if that's true, oh dear friend, I pray you are moved by that truth. And that it draws you even now to believe in and put your trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior, as your substitute. Secondly, if you're here this morning and you are a Christian, well, Hebrews chapter 9 and Hebrews chapter 10. Which honestly is just a a perfect inspired exposition on our text this morning. I could have just read Hebrews 9 and 10 and it might have been a bit better sermon. Here's how Hebrews chapter 9 applies this passage to believers. First, the author of Hebrews writes. Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, and of course not because he's already dealt with our sin. But to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. Weary saints, weak and wounded Christians. Impure as we still are, in some degree. Don't give up hope With eagerness, keep on waiting for your Savior to finish what he's already begun within you. In his first coming, in his life and death and resurrection, he canceled Both the power of sin and the penalty for sin. In Christ, you are free. From sin's persuasive power, and you are free from the guilt of its penalty. God will not punish you for what He's already punished in His Son. And yet, there is still the presence of sin. Sin still lingers. It still has a modicum of persuasion as it whispers day and night for you to forsake God and jump back again into the enslaving comfort of your old impurity. Don't eagerly wait and hope in the second coming of our Savior who will rescue us finally from the presence of sin. And what a glorious day that will be. This is why Hebrews 10 says, Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works Not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. And all the more as you see that day drawing near. Do you want to know what the application is for you? Come back next Lord's Day and let's do this again as we wait for the coming of our Christ. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
As we pray, I want to give just perhaps a few moments for each one of us to pray in silent meditation upon the word of the Lord that we just heard. What a wonderful Wonderful word that the Lord has given us this morning. So let's take a few moments, pray in silent meditation yourself, and then I'll lead us in corporate prayer together. O merciful Father, our hearts are left in awe and wonder this morning. We've been reminded of the depth of our sin. The soil and the dirt that dwells within taints each and every part of our being. Left to ourselves, Father, we are not only unclean, but we are in fact rebels, haters of you, the living God, the creator of all things. From the moment Adam and Eve ate of the fruits and disobedience and self-pride. Father, we have been in our natural state now, cast out, away from your presence, away from the glory and the goodness and the love that you have. But Father, in your mercy, oh, in your mercy, you have seen fit to provide an access back to you. An access which is provided first in in the shed blood of a lamb Father, as Adam and Eve were atoned, their sin atoned for in the garden, outside of the garden, a covering was provided. And again and again throughout the Old Testament, Father, we've seen the covering that you provide. And yet a covering that which casts forward to the person of Jesus Christ. And so, Father, we come, we come this morning thankful for the mercy of Christ. We come thankful for his shed blood on our behalf. We come thankful that he did not stay dead. That the mercy seat of the tomb was empty. Angels declaring that Christ was risen. The death and the penalty thereof has been paid. Father, we rejoice. And we come to you asking that you would draw our hearts and our minds each and every day to this truth. That you would remind us of your mercy and your love towards us in Christ Remind us that we come now, even this prayer comes in the name of Jesus Christ. It is only in and through Christ that we can now have access. But Father, we come boldly because of the blood of Christ. Help us to do just that, to come to you, to pray to you. To rest in you, to wait in you, knowing that you are still at work, drawing sinners to yourself, providing Grace upon grace through the death of Jesus Christ and his resurrection. Father, we give you thanks and praise this morning. And it is in his name. Amen.

