Speaker 1
Well, good morning. Turn with me, if you will, to Exodus chapter 35. Exodus 35, and we continue our study and exposition through this grand narrative. We're looking this morning at Exodus 35, starting in verse 30. Exodus 35, 30, and we'll read all the way through to 36, verse 38. 3530 to chapter 3638. Here now the reading of God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. Then Moses said to the people of Israel, See, the Lord has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Ur of the tribe of Judah. And he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with skill, with intelligence, with knowledge, and with all craftsmanship. To devise artistic designs, to work in gold and silver and bronze, and cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, for work in every skilled craft And he has inspired him to teach both him and Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan. He has filled them with skill to do every sort of work done by an engraver or by a designer or by an embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, or by a weaver, by any sort of workman or skilled designer Bezalel and Oholiab, and every craftsman in whom the Lord has put skill and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary, shall work in accordance with all that the Lord has commanded. And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab, and every craftsman in whose mind the Lord had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work. And they received from Moses all the contribution that the people of Israel had brought for doing the work on the sanctuary. They still kept bringing him free will offerings every morning. so that all the craftsmen who were doing every sort of task on the sanctuary came, each from the task that he was doing, and said to Moses, The people bring much more than enough for doing the work that the Lord has commanded us to do So Moses gave command, and word was proclaimed throughout the camp, let no man or woman do anything more for the contribution for the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing for the material they had was sufficient to do all the work and more. And all the craftsmen among the workmen made the tabernacle with ten curtains They were made of fine twined linen in blue and purple and scarlet yarns, with cherubim skilfully worked. The length of each curtain was twenty eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits all the curtains were the same size. He coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled to one another. He made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain of the first set. Likewise he made them on the edge of the outermost curtain of the second set. He made fifty loops on the one curtain and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set. The loops were opposite one another. And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to the other with clasps, so the tabernacle was a single hole. He also made curtains of goat's hair for a tent over the tabernacle. He made eleven curtains. The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. The eleven curtains were the same size. He coupled five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain of the one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the other connecting curtain. And he made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together, that it might be a single hole. And he made for the tent a covering of tanned ramskins and goatskins Then he made the upright frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood. Ten cubits was the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half of the breadth of each frame. Each frame had two tenons for fitting together. He did this for all the frames of the tabernacle. The frames for the tabernacle he made thus twenty frames for the south side, and he made forty bases of silver under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under the next frame for its two tenons. For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty frames, and there forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame, and two bases under the next frame. For the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six frames. He made two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear, and they were separate beneath, but joined at the top, at the first ring. He made two of them this way for the two corners. There were eight frames with their bases of silver, sixteen bases, under each frame two bases. He made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames of the one side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tab Tabernacle at the rear westward. And he made the middle bar to run from end to end, halfway up the frames. And he overlaid the frames with gold, and made their rings of gold for holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold. He made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twine linen, with cherubim, skilfully worked into it he made it, and for it he made four pillars of acacia, and overlaid them with gold Their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four bases of silver. He also made a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarns, and fine twine linen, embroidered with needlework And its five pillars with their hooks he overlaid with their capitals, and their fillets were of gold, but their five bases were of bronze. Well, this is indeed God's holy and inerrant and living and active word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for this moment where we can now not only come together in your presence, but now come before you and hear your word to us. Here you speak to us as it were and give us a tour of this wonderful tabernacle. Father, we pray that By your Spirit, you would help apply your word to our hearts so that we, your people, might give you all glory and honor and praise. Exalt your Son and our Savior Jesus Christ now in our midst we pray And it is in his name we pray. Amen. Well, it's good to remember that this would not have been the first major building project the Israelites would have been engaged in. They would have known how to build, but up to this point they were only building temples and towers for Egyptian gods and pharaohs who saw themselves as gods. There they built of slaves. But now they were freed men and women Now they would build not just a building that honored God, but a building where God would come and dwell with them. There. Oh all the way out in in the wilderness. Of their own treasures and resources and sacrifice they would freely and beautifully and worshipfully construct a tabernacle for the creator of the universe. It's a staggering thought and a huge moment in the history of redemption. The God Who created the stars and the sun and the moon and the earth, the mountains and the seas, and the rocks, and the and the very people themselves. He would now condescend to live amongst them. This tabernacle designed by God, yes. But built by weak and frail and most surprisingly sinful people. A holy God with an unholy people, and they building his tabernacle What would they need? Would any old construction and design be suitable or would they need to craft something that was so special that truly reflected the supernatural God that they worshipped and who would now dwell in their midst. I think it's these questions that our text this morning helps us to make sense of And to be sure, there is much here that is applicable to us today. The same God who called and equipped the Israelites to build this tabernacle. Is the same God who still today calls and equips us to build an even better tabernacle. So let's see what we can glean from God's word this morning. First, we see that God cares deeply about how they craft and construct this tabernacle So much so that he gives, well look at it there, he gives divine help through and by his Holy Spirit. Look at chapter 35, verse 30 and following. And then Moses said to the people of Israel, See, the Lord is called by name Bezalel, the son of Ori, the son of Hur, the tribe of Judah, and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with skill. with intelligence, with knowledge, and with all craftsmanship. This skill, he says, verse 32, to devise artistic designs, to work in gold and silver and bronze In cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood for every work and every skilled craft. He's even inspired in verse 34 to teach Both him and Aholiab, the son of Ahismach of the tribe of Dan, he has filled them with skill to do every sort of work done by an engraver or by A designer, an embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twine linen, or by a weaver, by any sort of workman or skill designer, and then chapter twenty six verse one Bezalel and Aholiab, and every craftsman in whom the Lord has put skill and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary shall work in accordance with all that the Lord has commanded. What is perhaps most striking about this passage is that this is, other than when God breathed his breath into the dust of that first man and made him a living being. This is the first time in the Bible that someone is said to be filled with the Holy Spirit. There's a lot we can take away from that. But I think at the very least, it shows us how important the tabernacle was to God. He didn't leave the craftsmen and the construction workers to do ordinary work. He equips them. He fills them with divinity himself to do extraordinary work. It's a remarkable feature. The triune God of the universe, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit Who created the entire cosmos in six days, now works in and with fallen humanity in a work of recreation. He now works through these men in this tabernacle as stage one in God's new creation. And if we today are living in stage two of God making a new creation, that is, believers being a new creation in Christ, as Paul puts it, well then Well, I think there's a lot to think through when it comes to our being filled with the Holy Spirit. Then select men, Oholiaab and Bezalel, they were uniquely chosen to be spirit filled for a unique work. But now, in this new stage of redemption, now every believer, all of God's people are filled with and equipped by the Holy Spirit And since the body of Christ, as Matt prayed for us wonderfully earlier this morning, since the body of Christ, the church is the new and better tabernacle of God's dwelling. Well, it's no surprise that the Spirit still gives gifts to build up this tabernacle. It's not craftsmanship and design. It's teaching, preaching, discernment, evangelism, hospitality, stewardship, service, acts of love Now the Spirit equips the saints for the work of building up Christ's church, for loving and strengthening fellow believers. Each one of you stones now in the new temple of God's dwelling place. And it's no less important that the tabernacle we see in our passage this morning, in fact, I say, It's more important today. And God is even more concerned that we live in such a way that we don't spurn, we don't stifle the Holy Spirit within us. But that we're walking in the Spirit, exercising to the fullest of our abilities the gifts that God, through the Spirit, has given us. Here, the gifting provided by the Spirit is no less impressive. Look at verse 31. He has filled him with the Spirit of God, with skill, with intelligence, with knowledge. And with all craftsmanship. Verse 32, to devise artistic designs to work in gold and silver and bronze, cutting stones, carving wood, every skilled craft. Maybe I can put it this way, this is nothing less than artistic genius. What a profound passage. God loves beautiful things. And of course he would, being himself the preeminent definition of beauty God takes care when he creates to have whatever it is he creates, have a beauty and a form that reflects him. And to do that takes skill. No cutting corners in this construction. No tricks of the eye with make-up on paint. The beauty being fashioned is fashioned according to truth. And to do that, to have beauty and truth match, that takes skill. It takes spirit-inspired skill. He has filled him with the Spirit of God, with skill, with intelligence, and with knowledge. Well notice too how the Bible assumes that there are objective standards for artistic excellence. By giving Bezalel and Aholiab special skill for making artistic designs, God was acknowledging that some artists do better work than others. The only people who were qualified to design and build his house were supremely talented artists. In other words, God would not settle for bad art And I think I'd like to add here, neither should we. For far too long, I think Christians in America especially have been hoodwinked into either creating or consuming subpar kitschy trash that often goes by the name of Christian art. As if putting the adjective Christian before the word art somehow makes it special and worthy of our support. It doesn't As one great theologian puts it, Christianity is the greatest of all nouns, but it's the lamest of all adjectives. The Dutch art critic Hans Ruckmacher addresses this issue well, and he he begins by asking if the answer is in the Bible to our conundrum. This is what he writes. If we are seeking as Christians to understand the structures and norms for art, good art, should we not go to the Bible for them? Well certainly, but we will not expect to see them explained in detail there. God did not give specific laws concerning the arts, nor for any other cultural element. These things belong to human possibilities, he says God created them and made and structured man in such a way that he could discover these possibilities. And gave man the freedom and the task to realize and then fulfill those possibilities. What's he saying? He's saying that beauty is something objective. There are standards for beauty, and God has not only set those standards. But he is the standard, and the glory of his creation, being the greatest work of art ever, shows us that standard In other words, in a biblical view of the universe, it is because God cares about beauty and declares things beautiful Remember what he said after he created each of those creation days. It is good. It is good. It is good. That's more likely than not an aesthetic declaration. He deems what is beautiful even when we cannot. He was the only one there to say it is good. Beauty is not merely in the eye of the beholder. But in the eye of the beholder. And so from this perspective, we now enter the world not merely to impose our ever-changing constructs of beauty on some aesthetic void, as if we get to define beauty. Beauty is already here. Look around. And it will impose itself upon us and refashion our aesthetic tastes into something more noble, I think more heavenly. And certainly something more true. Here's how I think we can think about this. The difference between good art and bad art is not something that we learn from the Bible primarily, but from the world that God has made. His created beauty pressing in and reforming us to behold it and respond in likewise fashion. Beautiful worship, perhaps beautiful art created as an artist yourself. The Dutch theologian Abraham Kuyper asks, How could all this beauty exist except created by one who preconceived the beautiful in his own being and produced it from his own divine perfection? And of all the things that God created, perhaps arguably we could say this, nothing is more beautiful than the people he made in his own image. Not even the ugliness of our sin can disguise the beauty of his creation. Friends, I think at the end of the day, the existence of beauty. And our ability to be possessed and overawed by real beauty is one of the most striking proofs for the existence of God. How else could we explain the beautiful world that we live in? Something to be enjoyed, something to worship God for. Now returning to Oholia Ab and Bezala. We mustn't think of this scene as God filling these men with his spirit, and then, you know, like robots with no autonomy, they get to work underneath the dictatorial rule of God. In other words, we shouldn't see God here like Pharaoh back in Egypt, enslaving his people to work against their will. No, the Spirit works within a man and gives that man new desires and leads him into the freedom of serving God now with a joyful demeanor. Look at verse 2. And Moses called Bezalel and Aholiah, and every craftsman in whose mind the Lord had put skill, every one whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work. Do you see? There was a willingness, a joyful happiness to get after the work at hand, and and this is all the Lord's doing. Maybe we can apply this truth this way. Do you desire to serve the church in the ways in which God has gifted you? Like, do you love doing those things which the Spirit of God has worked into your heart? Or is serving church, serving in the church, serving the body of Christ? drudgery and a drag to you. Preaching is hard work for me, but if I'm being honest. I could not imagine not preaching and teaching. Once I get into it, I love it. I love that God has called me and gifted me to build up the congregation with opening up the Word of God. And the very practice of it thrills me. It gives me life. Yes, there are often times when I am beat up. I need a break. I feel dull and unmotivated. But every time I get up and get after it, when I step into a pulpit and begin to expound God's word, the Spirit works life and renewal into me. And I wonder: do you have that experience with whatever it is God has gifted you. I was speaking over the phone with one dear saint yesterday morning who serves this church in such a profound way. By daily praying for each and every one of you. If your name is in our directory, you are being prayed for weekly by this dear saint. Serious time alone before God, lifting up your burdens, your struggles, your needs. And this wonderful sister said to me on the phone. It doesn't matter how long it takes me. I love to pray for our church. That's our gift Another dear saint, even though I know it must take serious effort and can be really exhausting, they love to show hospitality and and and to make guests feel warm and welcomed and to enjoy good food and good fellowship. It takes a lot of skill and work to pull it all off, but but they love the effort. They love serving the church in that way. Friends, in what ways has the Spirit gifted you to serve this body? What ways do you contribute to the work of building up the church? and expanding the kingdom of God in a beautiful, beautiful way. If you can't answer that question. Well, at least pray about it. Ask God to help you discern how it is He's gifted you. But if the answer that you come back to is finally this, well, none of this really is on my radar. Like, I don't really care about serving and working and using, what do you call it, gifts for the betterment of the church? Well, dear friend, if that's you, you may not be filled with the Holy Spirit then. Which means you have not yet truly given your life to Jesus Christ. And so I pray you might consider then the well the perilous state of your soul, your precious soul right now. Don't leave here this morning without truly considering you putting your faith in Jesus, giving your life to him, and being filled with his spirit So you too can work in beautiful ways for his ongoing project of redeeming the world. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning is this. When I believe in Jesus and I'm then filled with his Holy Spirit, what will that look like in my life? And here's the answer. I will have a new desire to serve the body of Christ. I will have a new desire to serve the body of Christ Were there other ways in which people who perhaps weren't skilled artists, as many of us are not? Are there ways that they could serve? Well, yeah, absolutely. They could give, and give they did. The whole nation was invited to contribute to the tabernacle, and almost everyone had something valuable to give. Remember, we looked at this last week, these donations were entirely voluntary. There was no tax for the tabernacle. Moses Moses didn't even give the people a hard cell. He simply said, Look, God wants us to make him a large tent. Here's what we need to complete the project, and if you have a heart for this, then bring whatever you'd like to give. Look at verse 3 and following. And they received from Moses all the contribution that the people of Israel had brought for doing the work of the sanctuary They still kept bringing him free will offerings every morning. Notice the emphasis there, free will offerings. So that all the craftsmen who were doing every sort of task on the sanctuary came, each from the task that he was doing, and said to Moses The people bring much more than enough for doing the work that the Lord has commanded us to do. So Moses gave the command, and a word was proclaimed throughout the camp. Let no man or woman do anything more for the contribution for the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing, for the material they had was sufficient to do all the work and more. Guys, what a great testimony to the willful and cheerful giving of these God-saved people. When Aaron made the golden calf a few chapters before, he told the people exactly what they must give. Here, Moses simply says, give what you can. And they gave so much that Moses actually had to say, whoa, guys, okay, that's great, but we're good. Please, no more. This is what it looks like when a people are overcome with the grace of God in their lives When their hearts are melted by what God has given for us, so that we are more than willing to give for His work. And let's be clear. We, we've been given far more than what they were given. We are the recipients of Christ The Son of God given for us his life spent for us, willingly going to die the heaviest death any man can die, and all for us. And what does he ask from us in return? Give what you can. Children, your second question this morning asks this: What does God ask of me when I become a Christian? What does God ask of me when I become a Christian? And your answer this morning is: my life. My life. When we become Christians, we no longer belong to ourselves. We belong to our King, our Lord, Jesus Christ, and therefore everything we are. Everything we have, everything belongs to Him. And so when we can give what we can, that doesn't mean a bare minimum. It means all of me. All of my heart, my mind, my devotion, my treasure, my gifts, and even sometimes my very life But here's the great thing about it all. He always supplies us what he asks us for. He always gives so that we can give. Where did the Israelites get all this treasure and material to give to the construction of the temple? Do you remember? God gave it to them almost supernaturally so when they left Egypt and remember all the Egyptians who hated the Jews All the Egyptians gave them gold and silver and fabric and all kinds of treasures as they began to walk out into the wilderness. Don't miss the truth here. God always supplies what he asks for. Well, after all the giving, now there was nothing left to do but to get to building. Verse 8. And all the craftsmen among the workmen made the tabernacle. I think the rest of this chapter and and really much of the rest of this book are filled with details on how the building is constructed. what materials went into building it, what happened inside, and and how it was crafted. In fact, some fifty chapters of the Bible are dedicated to nothing else but describing the building of God's dwelling place. Why? Well, because it's God's dwelling place. Right? Like it is, it was the most important building ever made. Better and more significant than the White House. Better and more significant than the Capitol building More significant than the Pantheon, the Haggia Sophia, Westminster Abbey, Notre Dame, the Palace at Versailles, St. Peter's Basilica, or even greater than Pharaoh's Great Pyramids. Designed by God, dwelled in by God, and the only place on earth until the coming of Christ where men could meet their Creator. What did David pray in Psalm 27? One thing have I asked of the Lord? That will I seek after that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. We ought not come to these sections of Scripture with yawns and daydreams. This is God's house Let him give us a tour, and may we enjoy what he's showing us. All the craftsmen among the workmen made the tabernacle with ten curtains. They were made of fine twine linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet yarns, with cherubim angels skilfully woven in. Verse nine The length of each curtain was twenty eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits All the curtains were the same size. He he coupled five curtains to one another. And the other five curtains he coupled to one another. He made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain of the first set. Is your mind grasping the brilliance and the color and the and the depth of the richness of all the metals and hues here? Likewise he made on the edge of the outermost curtain of the second set. He made fifty loops on the one curtain, fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set. The loops were opposite one another. And he made fifty clasps of gold and coupled the curtains one to the other with clasps so that the tabernacle was a single hole. These curtains, all made of fine, richly colored linen and joined with golden clasps, formed three walls of the tent that stood at the heart of the tabernacle complex. And inside these curtains went the golden pieces of sacred furniture. So you'd find there the Ark of the Covenant, you'd get the altar of incense, the lampstand of life, the table of showbread. Because these curtains surrounded the innermost parts of the tabernacle, they were the closest to God's presence And thus they were the most ornate, and and they were adorned with cherubim, the holy angels of God who in heaven guard God's heavenly throne room. I think the effect of this The effect of this made the tabernacle, well, a little bit like heaven. Heaven on earth. Imagine the priest walking in by the flickering light of the lampstand. The glory of the holy smoke from the incense filling all of that central region. And the priests who served inside the tabernacle could look now at the sky blue curtains and they would see the wings of hovering angels and they would have known I'm stepping into heaven here. This is the place where God dwells. And all of the details here. It's interesting. They're they're verbatim, what we saw all the way back in chapter 26. Perhaps you had deja vu when we read through this section. Chapter 26, where God was dictating to Moses how he wanted it all built, detail by detail, which means they're building it here, detail by detail, which means they're being faithful. They built it exactly as God had designed it, with care and skill woven into every detail. If we could put it this way. They are exercising what the Puritans called the regulative principle of worship. Don't do less than what God commanded, and don't add to what God commanded. Just do it exactly as God said, because what he says, how he instructs us, is perfect and sufficient. He didn't leave anything out. We don't need to make it better than what he designed. One old Puritan preacher, Richard Rogers, was once confronted by a man in his town. He visited the church a few times, but never really stuck around. And so we had a few thoughts on Puritan worship. And so we went up to the old preacher and he said, Sir, I like you very well, but you and your company are too precise. Rogers replied, Oh sir, I serve a precise God. It's the right answer Whatever God tells us to do, it should be done and done precisely, even down to the last loop on a curtain, for even the curtain loops had divinely intended meaning. In other words, the tabernacle's meaning was communicated in part, I think, by the materials used in its constructed. They would have said something to everyone who looked at it. Bible scholars have different, sometimes even conflicting opinions about the symbolism of the different materials used, but I think one thing is clear. The closer one came into the center of the tabernacle, the more precious the materials became. And this was no doubt to show that God was at the center of it all. Tremper Longman in his commentary explains it this way. There was a transition from less precious to more precious materials as one moved from the outside parameter into the Holy of Holies. Bronze was used for the posts of the outermost curtain, but bronze gave way to silver, and then to gold, and ultimately at the center of it all was fine gold, used predominantly for the funer furniture of the Holy of Holies When linen was used on the outer curtain, this eventually gave way to the fine cloth that was the innermost curtain of the tabernacle Now, while this served a practical purpose, the less expensive and more utilitarian material on the outside, protecting the precious material on the inside It also reinforced the central symbolic truth of the tabernacle, namely that at the center, this was the place where God was The Bible refers to this place with about five different names. The tabernacle. Here we get that a lot in Exodus, which again gets at the idea that God is dwelling there, tabernacling with them. It's also called the sanctuary. It's a sanctified place. It's holy. It's set apart from the world, distinct and pure. It's called a tent to communicate the idea that it was portable, that God would go with his people. But it was also called the tent of meeting. Not only did God dwell there, but you could meet with him there. And then finally. It's called the tabernacle of the testimony. That is, you heard from God there. God spoke to you. You would receive his instructions, his laws, his life-giving word. Here at last, after Adam and Eve and therefore all of humanity have been exiled from God's presence in Eden. exiled from walking with God in the garden and hearing his good words spoken to them. Now finally God was restoring what had been broken. He's entered into this fallen world. He saved the peculiar people from out of the idolatrous and demonic nature of Egypt. And now he's condescended from out of heaven to literally in this tent walk with his people again. No wonder this place was filled with so much beauty. It was reclaiming Eden. It's like a new Eden bursting out of the wilderness. It was reclaiming the beauty of the original world the Lord had first made before the ugliness of sin entered in and like a cancer marred all and scarred all. Love after the fall corroded into hatred. Truth after the fall decayed into lies. And beauty after the fall became veiled under a burqa of ugliness. Until now. Now God has come to dwell, and now God has come to deliver his fallen world, to beautify it again. And of course, as I mentioned earlier in the sermon, this was only stage one. The tabernacle, and then later the temple, this was never the ultimate goal. It was never the full plan of God for what he intended in dwelling with his people. For instance, Look at verse 35. He made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine-twined linen with cherubim skillfully worked into it, he made it. This was the veil that separated the Holy of Holies, the place where God's presence dwelled, from the rest of the tabernacle and the rest of the people. This veil, in other words, blocked the people from God and God from the people. Only once a year, with a sacrifice of atonement, could one high priest enter in and make satisfaction for the sins of the people because If he didn't, God's holiness would break out in judgment and destroy the people. They were still sinners. This veil was the last check, the last barrier keeping an unholy people from a holy God. And so this was only stage one. When God Himself, the Son of God, came and took to Himself our human nature, Jesus Christ. And he alone, as a man, lived an entirely holy life, never deserving death, nor God the Father's judgment. He was perfect And he was God with us. The divine son, tabernacled with fallen humanity. Sinful men could not only see God in Jesus Christ, they could walk with him. They could eat with him, be healed by him. Indeed, he could even find life in him. That's stage two. Interestingly, the way in which God brought an end to stage two, the death of Christ, was precisely the same way he brought an end to stage one By Jesus willing to be sent by the Father to die upon the cross. It was precisely in his death Where that blue veil, remember verse 35, that veil was torn in two, the veil ripped, an entrance into the Holy of Holy was finally opened up. But why? What was going on in that moment? Two things. Jesus, as the true high priest, paid the ultimate sacrifice, not of a lamb. But the sacrifice of his own life, shedding his own blood for us. And so this now allowed access to God through Jesus by faith in Jesus His death was our punishment. His holiness is now our righteousness. Why? Because on the cross, in his death, all of our sin, all of our guilt, all of our wrongdoing, all of our lies and all of our ugliness was placed upon him. Any man, any woman could be right with God and come into the holy presence of God because of Jesus's life, death, and resurrection. But the second thing is that God was no longer in the temple. He no longer dwelled in one particular sanctuary with one particular people, the Jews. But now, because of Christ, he is accessible to all the world. Even right here, right now in Greenbelt, Maryland. God is here. And in so far as you have come to Christ and believed in and given your life to him, well then, well here's stage three. By the Holy Spirit, God now dwells in you. Christ takes rule in and sits upon the throne. throne of your heart and and as believers gather Lord's day after Lord's Day where where two or three are gathered together in his name, there he is in our midst. We are living stones built up together in communion and unity and togetherness to be that dwelling place where God spiritually but literally dwells. In our midst. Children, your third and final question asks, how do I have Jesus to live in my heart? How can I have Jesus live in my heart? Answer. By trusting him as my Savior By trusting him as my Savior. And if you have done that And Christ is yours and you belong to Christ. And the Spirit of Christ now vivifies and lives within you, giving you eternal life. Well then we get to look forward to the hope of stage four, where we will indeed see Christ face to face. And walk with him in the new heavens and a new earth. An Eden so perfected that sin and death will never again enter in And we will never again be disbarred from the presence of our beautiful, beautiful God. The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul, he leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk now through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall One day, forever and ever, dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Okay.

Speaker 2
So the word that we just heard preached. Father, we do thank and praise you this morning for your goodness and your grace towards us. Lord, we ask, as we have heard your word preached this morning by Pastor Unthink, And that by your Spirit you would give us wisdom and understanding. That your word would be continually conforming our minds and our hearts to the image of our Savior Jesus Christ. And Lord, we thank you this morning for the gifts that you have given to us. And Lord, we ask that you would pour out to us by your Spirit blessings to equip us. For the works that you've set before us. Lord, would you prepare in us teachers? Father, those who serve, those who encourage and pray for one another And Lord, would you truly make us into one body here at Greenbelt Baptist Church? Those who are arms and hands and ears and eyes. As you've promised us in your word. And Lord, would you make it known to us the gifts that you've given to us? Would you give us godly brothers and sisters to lift us up and pray for us and encourage us in the gifts that you've given to us? Would we point them out to one another? Would we ask one another to serve in those ways that you've gifted? And Lord, would we be a blessing to our church and to your kingdom by those things that you've given to us? Lord, we ask that you would teach us what true goodness and true beauty and truth is. Not a distorted vision of beauty that comes from the world, but that we would learn to love and to see what you call beautiful, what you call truthful, what you call good. Father, your glory is surely shown through the beauty that we see from the tabernacle. But Lord, would it please you to show now your glory through the beauty of your church? Would you, Father, be pleased to set us apart, your church, from the world for your own glory? Lord, would you make us truly beautiful in your sight? And not by anything we've done, but by your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. Who makes us a new creation in Him? Lord, dwell in us by our Savior Jesus Christ. Cause us, Father, to turn from our sinfulness. And Lord, that we would have a true desire to dwell with you eternally, to see the true beauty of who you are. That we would turn from these things of the world and turn to the things of God, the things that you call good and true and beautiful. Father, would you make these things true in our hearts and in our minds? Would you sustain our faith in our Savior Jesus Christ? We do pray all these things in His name. Amen.

