Speaker 1
Good morning. We have been pilgrims wandering slowly through the book of Exodus. And uh this morning we have finally made it to our destination. Exodus chapter 40, the end of Exodus. Exodus 40. I'll read this morning all of Exodus chapter forty. Hear now God's living and active word. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, On the first day of the first month you shall erect the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and you shall put it In the ark of the testimony, and you shall screen the ark with the veil, and you shall bring in the table and arrange it, and you shall bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps. And you shall put the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and set up the screen for the door of the tabernacle. You shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. And place the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. And you shall set up the court all around, and hang up the screen for the gate of the court. Then you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and consecrate it and all its furniture so that it may become holy. He shall also anoint the altar of burnt offering, and all its utensils, and consecrate the altar, so that the altar may become most holy You shall also anoint the basin, and it stand and consecrate it. Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and shall wash them with water, and put on Aaron the holy garments, and you shall anoint him and consecrate him, that he may serve me as a priest. You shall bring his sons also, and put coats on them, and anoint them as you anointed their father, that they may serve me as priests, and their anointing shall admit them to a perpetual priesthood throughout their generations. This Moses did, according to all that the Lord commanded him. So he did. In the first month of the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was erected Moses erected the tabernacle, he laid its bases, and set up its frames, and put in its poles, and raised up its pillars, and he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent over it, as the Lord had commanded Moses. He took the testimony and put it into the ark, and put the poles on the ark, and set the mercy seat above on the ark. And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil on the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony, as the Lord had commanded Moses. He put the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the vale, and arranged the bread on it before the Lord as the Lord had commanded Moses. He put the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle, and set up the lamps before the Lord as the Lord had commanded Moses. He put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil, and burned fragrant incense on it, as the Lord had commanded Moses. He put in place the screen for the door of the tabernacle, and he set the altar of burnt offering at the entrance of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and Offered on it the burnt offering and the grain offering, as the Lord had commanded Moses. He set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar. Put water in it for washing, with which Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet when they went into the tent of meeting, and when they approached the altar, they washed as the Lord commanded Moses. And he erected the court around the tabernacle and the altar and set up the screen on the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting. Because the cloud settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out, but if the cloud was not taken up, Then they did not set out till the day that it was taken up, for the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys. This is indeed God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you that it is a living word, a holy word, and by it. By the power of your spirit working through it, you make us to be living and holy as well. Draw us nearer to Christ our Savior, we pray Bless the preaching of your word, and Lord, may all truth from your word be communicated to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, again, we arrived this morning at our final sermon through what has been well over a year of study through this magnificent book. The book of Exodus. We began on January 5th, 2025, and now, 59 weeks later, we arrive at the climax and culmination of this book. Fifty-nine weeks of slowly expositing a book of the Bible. Uh This isn't the kind of philosophy of ministry that's typically pursued to grow a church, though by God's grace I think our church has grown. Why would a church's pastors be committed to this kind of verse by verse, passage by passage exposition? This slow preaching through whole books of the Bible, as opposed to say preaching sermons on themes that either the pastor or the people are interested in at the moment. It's what gets the people going. Preach about that. Well, for one, I think that's just it. Let's be honest, in our hyper informational algorithmic age where everything is catered to what I'm interested in in the moment. Here's a place. On the Lord's Day, where my interests don't set the standard, God does. His word. Given to us as he's revealed himself. That sets the course for what we hear and what we're to think about. The Bible's own divine algorithm. if you will, forces us to wrestle with what God wants us to hear and to think about it in His way. In other words, we're committed to this kind of preaching because we're committed to hearing what God has said in the way he has said it. Verse by verse, passage by passage, book by book. This forces me, the preacher, to make sure that whatever I'm preaching, I'm doing so responsibly and within the context that God has said it I'm not cherry-picking verses and lifting them out of their context to kind of force the passage into some disconnected theme or idea that I have. but to give the way to the passage in the context of its own themes and the passage's own ideas that God has put there. Which also means this way of preaching serves you, the church. It serves you far better in the long run, I'm convinced. It it trains us on how to read and understand the Bible. It trains us to see the landscape and the terrain of God's Word so that wherever we are in the Bible, we can properly place it in the broader context of what's going on and understand it rightly. Ultimately, though, if I'm being honest, the number one reason why I'm so committed to this kind of preaching is that I'm under constraint. I am constrained by God, as a preacher of God's word, to deliver to you nothing but the fullness of God's word. Explaining it so that Sunday after Sunday after Sunday you will have heard from this pulpit, not me, and my ideas and my hobby horses and my cute little stories that might make you laugh. No, but you will have heard God. I'm constrained to bring you near to God through and by his word. A lot like when you go before court. Before a judge and before the jury, you have to swear to say nothing but the truth and the whole truth. Well, so too here is a preacher, before the judge of all creation, and before the jury of the congregation. To preach to you nothing but the truth and the whole truth, so help me God. And in a real sense, that's been the whole storyline of Exodus, hasn't it? God bringing a people near to him so that they can have his word and enjoy his presence? The book opened up with the Jewish people enslaved in Egypt. Think back to the very opening of the book, Exodus chapter 1, there in chapter 1, verses 6 through 11. We see in those verses that it opens with the people in slavery. It says they're in bondage. They're building cities for a pagan king under their pagan gods. That's where it opens Slavery, bondage, and a building program to exalt the kingdoms of this world. And how does the book end? Well take a look back at the very close of the book here in chapter 40. Look at verses 34, and you'll see just how far this book travels Because at the end of the book, we find a people in a very different situation. Verse 34, then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. By the end of the book, those who began in the spiritual darkness of Egypt, enslaved under Pharaoh, are now in service to the King of Kings as the light of his glory descends into their presence. Those who at the beginning of the book were building cities for Pharaoh have now built the tabernacle for the living God. And interestingly, the word used in Exodus for hard service back in chapter 1, verse 14, this word hard service, Avad. Is identical to the word used later in chapter 3, where God says to Moses, When you get to the mountain, there you will Avad, you will serve me. So, what the book lays out in its movement is that God, for his own glory, is going to redeem a people for himself, and where they once were living in worship or hard service to Pharaoh. They will now be living in worship, the NIV translated, in service to the living God. That's the great thread of the book of Exodus. And how did this movement occur? Well, the first third of the book, and you can see this, hopefully it's in your bulletin insert, the first third of the book is all about how God has saved. He saved a people for himself. Then, after saving them, the second third of the book, we get God speaking. He speaks to his saved people. He gives them his word. He communicates with and makes a covenant with these people who will now serve him. And then, and here we are now finally. How does the book end? God settles. He saves, he speaks, and then he settles. Here is the final climactic moment of the whole book that. We've been moving toward the God who saved his people and the God who spoke to his people is now the God who finally descends and settles with them. Here's what's really neat. We are exactly one year, in the text that is, one year since God's miraculous rescue of the Israelite people. We see that in our passage. Verse 1. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, On the first day of the first month, you shall erect the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. The first day of the first month. The first day of what? The new year. The Jewish calendar began with God's rescue, and now one year later, the work of the tabernacle is almost complete. The people are in absolute anticipation a new era is about to begin. No longer slaves to foreign gods and Egyptian pharaohs. Now the God of creation, the true king, will reign with and go with his people It's New Year's Day. And rather than the ball dropping, the Lord's glory will now descend into their presence. So what do we see? Well, we get in verse 1. Verses 1 through 15, God's final words to Moses in this book. One last assignment. Look at verse 1 again. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying. Just right at the outset here, pause and observe here that behind everything going on in the construction of this tabernacle, behind the whole project and objective of having God come and dwell with and live amongst these people. Behind it all is God's word. Not only is this whole thing God's idea, which is gracious of God to begin with. But all of it has been communicated. His saving them from Egypt, God spoke to Moses and told him why and what it all meant. His leading them through the wilderness, God spoke to Moses and spoke to the people about what it all meant. Guys, the the simple but profoundly important truth here is that God is actually revealed himself, spoken to, and communicated with man. Right? Like how else could it be? Unless the Lord speaks, sure we may have the intention to worship God. Every culture does. But it will always be worship that stems from our own fallen and sinful imaginations and not according to God's design. And that kind of worship, which is essentially what every other religion is, that kind of worship is not only wrong worship. God Himself says it is, in and of itself, adding sin upon sin. This is why, by the way. The Lord strikes down Nadab and Abihu because they sought to worship God. They sought to worship the true God, not just an idol, not just a false God. They sought to worship Yahweh in a way that God had not commanded. They were judged for thinking up new ways to worship God. They didn't stick to God's word. I make this point only to say this. Unless the Lord reveal himself to us, we will forever be lost in the darkness of our own vain ideas about what God wants. Which by themselves will not draw us nearer to God, nor God nearer to us, but according to the Bible, will only incite God's anger and wrath What amazing grace that God has actually spoken to and given instructions on how Israel was supposed to worship him. This is why our passage this morning highlights that not only did God speak, but just as importantly, Moses listened to that word and he obeyed it. Verse 16. This Moses did according to all that the Lord commanded him, so he did. Look at the end of verse 19. Just as the Lord had commanded Moses. Verse 21: Moses brings the ark in, as the Lord had commanded Moses. Verse 23, as the Lord had commanded Moses. Look at verse 25. As the Lord had commanded Moses. Look at verse 27, as the Lord had commanded Moses. Look at verse 29, as the Lord had commanded Moses. And number seven, look at verse 32. As the Lord had commanded Moses. Friends, if I could put it this way, there is no salvation. Outside of God speaking. And when He speaks, we must listen and we have to obey. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning asks this: what must we have to draw near to God? And the answer is this: we must have God's word to us. We must have God's word to us. God must tell us how we can be right with him, and unless he does that, we'll forever be lost. Well, what is it that God wants to say here in his last speech of Exodus? There are really two main objectives here. The first thing he wants Moses to do in verses 2 through 8. Put things in place, Moses. Erect the tabernacle. In other words, set things up. Set them up. Set up the ark, verse 3. Set up the table and lampstand, verse 4. Set up the golden altar of incense and the screen door, verse five. Set up the bronze altar, verse six. Set up the bronze basin and fill it with water, verse seven. Set up the outer court, verse eight. Not only did God tell Moses to set it all up, he also told him to set it all apart. Set it apart. Anoint it. Sanctify it so that it's set apart for holy use. Verses 9 through 15 Take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and everything in it and consecrate it and all its furniture so that it may become holy or set apart. Here again, seven times the word anointed is used here. Everything must be perfectly set apart for anything from anything common, from anything vulgar. The tabernacle, the furniture, the priests, all of it set apart. Why? Well, this is where heaven and earth will meet. This is the Garden of Eden 2. 0. God will walk here, He'll dwell here, and therefore God's dwelling place must be, it has to be holy. Of course, in the previous weeks I've tried as a preacher to handle what this word has said about these items in the tabernacle. the connection between this tabernacle and all of its furniture as being God's intended means of meeting with his people, and then that of Jesus of Nazareth, who comes way later who will actually reference these things in regards to his own body. And then he leaves behind him a small band of writing apostles who will Co-opt all this material in Exodus and make the inspired connection for us. All of the tabernacle, all of the furniture, all of the priests, it all pointed forward to Jesus. Jesus, the true Word of God incarnate. Jesus, the true tabernacle. Jesus, the true mercy seat. The true light of the world, the bread from heaven, Jesus who washes away our sin, Jesus the true high priest, Jesus the true sacrifice, and ultimately Jesus who alone is Truly holy and set apart so that through him sinful man can finally and fully come to meet with God. God has given here his last word on the tabernacle. And so what does he do? He gets to work. Verses 16 through 33. And again, as already mentioned here, it's it's it's good work. It's thorough. It's complete work. Verse 16, this Moses did. according to all that the Lord had commanded him, so he did. But as you read through verses sixteen through thirty-three, there arises almost this tension, this anticipation. Is he going to actually do it all rightly? Completely? It has to be done just right, because even one little skewed detail could ruin the whole thing. My family on the uh the put furniture together guy or put bookcases together guy or Put whatever together, guy. Marisol will buy the furniture and then with big doe eyes asks smilingly, can you put this together, please? And whether it's from IKEA and how I loathe IKEA. Or some furniture from somewhere else. You know, it usually comes with instructions. And I uh I always go to the back page first. I want to gauge how long is this going to take? How many steps are there in this project? So I can mentally prepare myself. And on some occasions, right, you've you've followed the instructions so carefully, or so you thought And you finally get near to the end, but it's it's not working. It's not coming together like it looks in the manual and on the picture in the front, and you you kind of feel I feel my anger begin to rise. And you look back over each step, over each section of the instructions, and you realize I've got to now undo 13 steps of work because I missed this one crucial step all the way back here. One detail. And now the whole thing doesn't work. That's the tension I think lingering over these verses. And of course the test, the proof to see if Moses in fact did it all right. What is the proof in the pudding? It's it's this, the Lord in his glory. Coming down. And so verse 18, Moses erects the tabernacle. He he laid its bases and set up its frames and put in its poles and raised up its pillars and and then he spreads the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent over it just just as the Lord had commanded but but still God's glory did not yet come down. And so next verse 20, Moses takes the testimony and he puts it into the ark. And he put the poles on the ark and set the mercy seat above the ark and he brought the ark into the tabernacle. He sets up the veil of the screen and the screens of the ark of the testimony just as the Lord had commanded him But still, God's glory did not come down. So next he put the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil, verse 23. He arranged the bread on it just right just as the Lord had commanded Moses, and yet still God's glory did not come down. So then Moses put the lampstand in the tent of the meeting. And And he set up the lamps before the Lord. And he put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil. And verse 17, he burnt fragrant incense on it. He put in place the screen for the door, and he set the altar of burnt offering at the entrance of the tabernacle and offered on it the burnt offering and the grain offering exactly as the Lord had commanded him. He sets the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and he puts water in it for washing. And then verse 31, he and Aaron and Aaron's sons, they all washed their hands and they they washed their feet. They washed verse 32 just as the Lord commanded, and still God's glory did not yet come down. So lastly, Moses erected the courts around the tabernacle on the altar. He sets up the screen of the gate of the court. There's only one way in now And Moses finally finished all the work. Every detail was checked. Every detail was double-checked. This was now the moment of truth. Would God in his covenantal presence now finally descend and settle in the tabernacle with his people? All Moses could do now was wait. This wasn't something Moses could bring about. He couldn't call God down. It wasn't even something Moses could demand, God, I built the tabernacle. No, the moment of truth still ultimately rested on God's condescending grace. Right? Like like we can't say that this is a math equation. If you build and have a temple, then God must be there. No, he doesn't have to. He doesn't have to at all. And we know that because God will later on in Old Testament history depart from the temple His glory will leave the people to fend for themselves, even though there is a temple. At the end of the day, even if everything is done rightly, from an outwardly religious perspective, God's presence with his people is still and always will be a prerogative of his absolute grace. Apply that to us this morning. No wonder we put such a premium on the church gathering to do nothing but pray every Sunday evening. To beseech the Lord, be with us. There is nothing in our automatic coming here on Sunday mornings and putting on our Sunday best that makes God to be in our presence. Children, the second question in your bulletin this morning asks this. What else must we have to draw near to God? What else must we have? And the answer is this. God graciously allowing us to draw near to him. God graciously allowing us to draw near to him Well, the text doesn't leave us much room for waiting too long. Immediately in verse 34, what do we see? Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. I mean, every square inch of it was thick with the presence of God's glory. The cloud of God's glory was a theophany. It was a visible manifestation of our invisible God. God's glory being the weightiness of his divine essence, the infinite perfection of his true triune deity. We could say it this way. Glory is the whole godness of God. And here that weightiness descended on the tabernacle, filling it with light the the form of the verb that the Bible uses here for the word filling, male, is significant because it reflects, as one commentator puts it, a dynamic, ongoing situation. This commentator puts it this way, the tabernacle was pulsing with radiation F. B. Meyer says that, quote, this brilliant light of surpassing glory here spoken of as the glory of the Lord, which was undoubtedly the divine Shekinah. Shone from within the tabernacle itself, so much so that the very curtains were transfigured by its glow, and the whole place was transfigured and rendered resplendent with glory. Allow your sanctified imagination to wander a few thousand years into the future. In other words, what Christ did on top of the mountain of his transfiguration, here God does with the tabernacle. It was a spectacular display of God's present radiance. The God of the Exodus. The God of power who made the heavens and the earth. The God of justice who plagued the Egyptians. The God of love who kept his covenant with Israel The God of providence who led his people through the wilderness. The God of truth who gave them his law. The God of holiness who set them apart for service. This infinite and transcendent eternal God, his presence and glory was now there. And it's right here at what is arguably the climax and highest point of the book of Exodus, where we also get what seems to me to be like the biggest surprise of Exodus. Verse 35. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting, because the clouds settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. I mean, wow. Moses, the man God used to rescue the people out of Egypt, the one man through whom God spoke to the people. The mediator who time and again ascended the mountain of the Lord and interceded on Israel's behalf and the Lord listened to him The one man who when asked of God, can I see your glory? And God's glory passes by him as he's hidden in the cleft of the rock, And when Moses came down the mountain, Moses himself shone with the with the reflected resplendence of God's glory. And here, now after everything we've been through, it's all completed, we're told even Moses can't get in. So, of course, we're led to ask why. One part of the answer has to be that we're confronted here with the absolute holiness of God. And in the end, when it comes to God, everyone falls short of his glory. In other words, Romans. 3. 23 is still Romans 3. 23, no matter who you are or when you lived. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Moses is a sinner. And therefore, even Moses fell short of the glory of God. Paul says in Romans 3, whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. Moses was a man under the law of God's standard of righteousness, and even Moses was found wanting. My dear friends, if you're here this morning as someone who's come to church under the false illusion that you have some kind of righteousness in and of yourself that you can offer to God, To be right with him and to come near to him in heaven? Let this passage pop that bubble. Every mouth is stopped before the holy standard of God's holy presence. So even though the glory of God as an act of divine grace descended down into the tabernacle, the truth of the matter is that now no one, not even Moses, could enter into this tabernacle. I hope you see what's being communicated here. The tabernacle was not the answer to the problem of man's sin. The tabernacle was not the problem, or not the answer to the problem of man's sin. It was a step in the right direction toward answering the problem of man's sin. The truth is, Exodus doesn't really end at chapter 40, does it? If you remember all the way back when we first started this book, we noted how the book of Exodus starts. In English translations, it actually begins with the word and. In the Hebrew, it's what's known as the conve consecutive vav. The word and. In other words, Exodus opens by offering itself as a continuation of Genesis. Exodus is not so much then the second book of the Bible as it is appealing to itself to be the second chapter of a much larger book, which I believe finds its crescendo all the way later in the person and work of Jesus Christ. And so if Exodus is only the second chapter in this much larger story, that means that Exodus is intending to set up for us. For chapter 3, the next chapter, the next book in this Bible, which is what? The book of Leviticus. And what's the main theme and what's the main point of the book of Leviticus? Here it is. More blood. More blood needed. The tabernacle simply by itself, God counts it worthy enough to dwell in, but the tabernacle, also in this passage known as the tent of meeting. was never meant to be the place where God simply dwells. It was designed to be the place where God meets with men. And as it stands now, without the sacrifice of atoning blood, men cannot meet with God Lambs, rams, and bulls need to be sacrificed. Priests need to be covered in that blood. Atonement needs to be made. Blood needs to be shed. If I could maybe put it this way for us. As glorious as Exodus is, and it is. It is not the fullness of the glory of God present with man. A greater glory still awaits them. Why? Because a greater sacrifice, a perfect shedding of blood is still needed. The blood of goats and lambs is not and never has been sufficient. That's why they need so much of it. That's why even later, when the nation has made the sacrifices of goats and the sacrifices of lambs a practical industry. Priests day and night slaughtering, sacrificing, splattering the blood upon the mercy seat, all the while their hearts are far from God. And even King David, at his lowest and most rebellious point, can cry out to God and say, You will not delight in sacrifice, or else I would have given that. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. No, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. So when the glory of the Lord finally ends up leaving the temple, because the people Even though they're offering blood and are doing so with with unending regularity, they're doing so without repentance. And so at that point, the people of Moses, they're made acutely aware, as the glory leaves the temple, not only do we need a better sacrifice. We actually need a change of heart. We need something better out there, a perfect atonement for us. And we need something better in here. A new heart. A broken and contrite heart. It's not for nothing that in four weeks' time we will begin our study of the Gospel of John, a book that will show us with absolute clarity how Jesus Christ is that answer for us. John chapter 1, verse 14, quote, The word became flesh and tabernacled among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory is of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John chapter 1, verse 16. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. John 1 verse 29. As Jesus came toward John, John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And John chapter 3, verse 3, truly, truly I say to you, this is Jesus speaking. Truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Unless he is given a new heart, he will not come near to God There it is. A better sacrifice, which only Jesus can give in Himself, and a better heart, which only God can grant from above That's what Moses needed ultimately. That's what we all still need today. Children, your last question this morning. What must we ultimately have to draw near to God? Answer. Twofold answer. The blood of Jesus shed for me. And a new heart given to me. Look at how Exodus forty ends and with this. I'll begin to move toward my seat. Exodus 40, verse 36. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out to the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys. It's a wonderful ending. God will not only go with his people, but ultimately he will lead his people. They will follow the glory cloud. Which means if if they wanted to follow God, they needed to keep their eyes on that glory cloud. You can imagine anxious souls waking up early. Did it move? Is it moving? Moms, I need more time to prep for packing up. When's it gonna go? Friends, if you believe in Jesus, that is, if God has given you a new heart To believe in and trust in Jesus alone, his shed blood as the atoning sacrifice for your sins. Here's the great truth: the glory of Christ now indwells you. When you rise up and when you sit down, Christ, the fullness of God in Christ is with you and in you. Does this mean that Christ is not leading you? No. No, he is. He leads from within You still have to keep your eyes on Jesus. How do we do that? Through his word. Just how we started this morning The gracious word communicated to us. We follow Jesus, and Jesus never leaves us. He always leads us by and through his inspired word to us. The story isn't over though. As we walk this pilgrim way following Jesus as we listen to his word. We're waiting for an even greater glory to be revealed. The glory of Jesus Christ at the end of the ages. The Bible promises that one day Jesus will come again. Keith read for us this morning those passages. That when he comes, he will come, Matthew 24, on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. There will be no need for any tabernacle, then, because Jesus will take us up into the very presence of God and all of his glory. No sun, no moon, no stars, but just the light of Christ. As Paul puts it in Colossians 3, when Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Let's keep our eyes fixed on Christ. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let us pray together. Father, we Thank you that though we wandered away from you, you did not leave us in the darkness. To grope about and seek to find our way back. For Lord, we know that if left to ourselves, we never would have returned to you. But just as you spoke light into creation, your word brought light to our eyes. That we who once were in darkness saw a great light. After the darkness there was light And your word came into our hearts. And you opened our eyes that we could turn and repent and believe in you. That you have indeed given us your commandments, that you have told us how we ought to pursue you. That you have not left us or abandoned us to seek and try and figure out what is pleasing to you. Lord, we pray that we would not be tempted by the many di By those who would tell us to invent new ways to worship you, to find ways that seem more pleasing to man or to the eye But that we would cling fiercely and loyally to what you have revealed to us. That we would not abandon your church or the Administration of the means of grace, but that we would cling to them, cling to your promises that you would indeed feed us. Lord, we praise you that you not only spoke your word through the prophets, but that you condescended. That you came down into the tabernacle, but even more than that, that you came down in the flesh and tabernacled amongst us. We praise you that you send Christ to do this for us. Lord, we praise you as well. That we do not need to come bringing the blood of sheep and goats as the Israelites did. But that we can come before you now by the blood of Jesus Christ, who gave himself up for our sake. Lord I pray uh in in his name now, Amen

