Speaker 1
Exodus 39. This is uh this is our second to last study, second to last sermon uh in the book of Exodus. We've had a long, glorious journey through this wonderful book. And Lord willing, next week, looking at chapter 40, we will end our study in the book of Exodus. But this morning we Look and give our attention to Exodus chapter 39. And I'll read all the way through to the end, verse 43. Here now is God's word. From the blue and purple and scarlet yarns, they made finely woven garments for ministering in the holy place. They made the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord had commanded Moses. He made the ephod of gold, blue and purple, and scarlet yarns, and fine-twined linen, and they hammered out gold leaf. And he cut it into threads to work into the blue and purple and the scarlet yarns, and into the fine twined linen in skilled design. They made for the ephod attaching shoulder pieces joined to it at two at its two edges, and the skilfully woven band on it was of one piece with it, and made like it of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet yarns, and fine twine linen, as the Lord had commanded Moses They made the onyx stones, enclosed in settings of gold filigree, and engraved like the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the sons of Israel And he set them on the shoulder pieces of the Ephod to be stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel, as the Lord had commanded Moses. They made the breast piece, and skilled work, and the style of the ephod, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen. It was square. They made the breast piece double to span its length, and to span its breadth when doubled. And they set it in four rows of stones, a row of Sardius, Topaz, Carbuncle was the first row, and the second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. and the third row adjacent an agate and an amethyst, and the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in settings of gold filigree There were twelve stones with their names according to the names of the sons of Israel. They were like signets, each engraved with its name for the twelve tribes. And they made on the breast piece twisted chains like cords of pure gold, and they made two settings of gold filigree and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two edges of the breast piece And they put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the edges of the breastpiece. They attached the two ends of the two cords to the two settings of filigree, thus they attached it in front to the shoulder pieces of the ephod. Then they made two rings of gold and put them at the two ends of the breast piece on its inside edge next to the ephod. And they made two rings of gold and attached them in front to the lower part of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod. And they bound the breast piece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that it should lie on the skillfully woven band of the ephod. And that the breast piece should not come loose from the ephod as the Lord had commanded Moses. He also made the robe of the ephod woven of all blue. And the opening of the robe, and it was like the opening in a garment, with a binding around the opening, so that it might not tear. On the hem of the robe they made pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twine linen They also made bells of pure gold and put the bells between the pomegranates, all around the hem of the row, between the pomegranate. A bell and a pomegranate. A bell and a pomegranate around the hem of the robe for ministering as the Lord had commanded Moses. They also made the coats woven of fine linen for Aaron and his sons, and the turban of fine linen, and the caps of fine linen, and the linen undergarments of fine-twine linen, and the sash of fine-twine linen and of blue and purple and scarlet yarns embroidered with needlework, as the Lord had commanded Moses. They made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote on it an inscription like the engraving of a signet holy to the Lord And they tied to it a cord of blue to fasten it on the turban above, as the Lord had commanded Moses. Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting was finished, and the people of Israel did. According to all that the Lord had commanded Moses. So they did. Then they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent, and all its utensils, its hooks, its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases the covering of tanned ramskins and goatskins, the veil of the screen, the ark of the testimony with its poles and the mercy seat, the table with all of its utensils, the bread of the presence, the lampstand of pure gold and its lamps with the lamps set, and all its utensils, and the oil for the light, the golden altar, the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the entrance of the tent the bronze altar and its grading of bronze, its poles and all its utensils, the basin and its stand, the hangings of the court, its pillars and its bases. the screen for the gate of the court, its cords and its pegs, and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle for the tent of meeting, the finely worked garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron, the priest the garments of his sons for their service as priests. According to all that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the people of Israel had done all the work. And Moses saw all the work, and behold, they had done it, as the Lord had commanded. So they had done it. Then Moses blessed them. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this time and your goodness. How good it is that you have spoken to us in this inspired word, which is everlasting and ever true. And Father, we pray now that by it Because your word is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. Father, by it would you use it to bring us to Christ? So that by faith we might behold him and put our faith in him, and Lord, be clothed and robed in his glory. We pray this, Lord, because we confess we've all come here this morning robed in something far less. Be it the robes and clothes of our own sin or the robes and clothes of our own pretended religion, Father, we pray to be robed in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. We've been examining the crafting and the designing of the temple. Designed by God, the instructions given to Moses, the material provided for its building from the people. And the actual making of it by particularly chosen and gifted people, gifted artisans amongst the Jewish nation. But of course, the temple itself, the very place where God will dwell, the very place where the people's sin will be atoned for, the very place where heaven and earth literally meet. Well, none of it will work without the priests who are called by God and granted authority by God to do the work required in the temple. That's the work of offering sacrifices. Offering up prayers and interceding on behalf of the people to Yahweh. And so our chapter this morning gives us now the final details for the instructions to this tabernacle slash temple, the crafting of the robes for the priests who were to enter into this most holy space Where heaven itself is condescended and sinful men will be brought near to the presence of God. It will be these priests who as mediators go in and out of this temple. This Jacob's ladder of sorts. In and out, in and out, up and down, and appease God's holy wrath as he once again begins to walk in his garden with his people. That's what he's doing here. I'm alluding back to the Garden of Eden where God walked with Adam in the cool of the day. And we've seen throughout Exodus how this tabernacle is meant to be a kind of reconstructed Eden where God can dwell again with man, which means that these Priests, in some sense, will carry in their duty as priests a kind of Adam-like function. Just as Adam represented all of humanity, his righteousness would be their righteousness, his failure is now our failure, well so too the priests will represent all of Israel. Just as Adam could approach God and in so doing he reflected God's glory. He was clothed in glory Not yet sullied by the nakedness of shame and sin, well so too will these priests approach God and in a lesser sense they will reflect God's glory. This is exactly why there is so much detail given here on the beauty, the the glittering effulgence of colors and and and and precious stones and vibrant gold reflecting off the robes of the priests. It's a callback to the glory Adam once had. But of course, it's also a foreshadow of the greater glory Jesus Christ, our true and final high priest, will ultimately have. So, what are we to make then of these verses? How are we to understand them and apply them to us today? I'm not wearing a robe, if you've noticed. Have I messed up? Well, first, let's just call it how we see it. There's beauty throughout this whole passage. The robes are beautiful, the clothing is ornate. Is that the sense that you got when we read through the passage? I don't know the last time you've read this passage out loud or perhaps even heard it preached. Exodus 39 quite literally takes its time to display the glories of the clothing, the garment. In other words, the text helps us to begin to understand whatever role the high priest had in Israel, it was no casual role. What he wore mattered. God cared. And it was ornate. I mean this this this these were some serious threads that he put on The one who stood as the mediator between God and his people played so important in role that every detail Every piece of the garment here, it all signifies this kind of elaborate important splendor. This is not a pullover. Aaron wasn't supposed to go into the temple with a hoodie that he hasn't washed in a couple of weeks. This isn't even a two-button sport coat. It's not even a three-piece suit. This is nothing less than a six-fold work of created splendor designed by God, made to wear by one man, the high priest, and especially on this one most important holy day, the Day of Atonement. For 31 verses, we get this careful and complete account, which almost mirrors, I think, the creation account in Genesis 1. For instance, we see six objects described here, just like the six days of creation. And though this is not a story of the creation of the world, it is, I think, but a beautiful account of the details of what the priest would wear, who would bring the world back into relationship with its Maker. A recreation of sorts. Six objects. We see the ephod Followed by the onyx. Your English Bibles probably breaks this apart in terms of paragraph breakings. The ephod, the onyx. stones, then the third breast piece, fourth the robe, fifth, the coats and the caps, and then sixth, the crowning glory, the turban and crown, in verse thirty and thirty-one. Six objects, like six days of God's work and re-establishing his relationship with his creation. Think about it, creation has been rent asunder by sin, but here finally again, heaven and earth coming back together, God dwelling again with mankind. And here the priest, this gloriously robed mediator, will be the go-between between a holy God and the glories of heaven versus an unholy people and the horrors of our fallen world. So first the ephod verses two through five. Think of it almost as an apron between the knees and the waist. With suspenders that kind of like go over the shoulders and clasp around the back. The emphasis though is on these beautiful shoulder pieces which have a sense of beauty. There's There's gold, there's blue, there's purple, and scarlet. In just four verses, the repetition of the colors comes no fewer than three times. The writer is wanting you not to miss the point. This is a garment of striking beauty. Hammered out gold leaf, actually stitched into the garment itself. That's the ephod. Next we see the onyx stones. Back in chapter 35 and verse 27, we learn that it was the leaders who actually brought these stones. We also learn in Exodus that they did it because the Lord had commanded them to do it, namely that there were two large stones on either shoulder. And engraved in each stone were the names of the six tribes of the sons of Israel, twelve total. Now think of it like this. The weight of the people are on the shoulders of the priest as he goes about his duty in the tabernacle. The names of the tribes of the people are pointed skyward, heavenward, as though God Himself, when looking down upon the priest, reads every name of the people from whom all his mediation is taking place. In verses 8 to 21, we get the breast piece. Imagine right across the chest four rows of stones, three stones each. all precious, all beautiful stones shining out as they reflect the light coming off of the seven branches of that of that lampstand, the candlesticks. Almost kind of like a tree of life planted right there in the tabernacle as the candle gives off flame and it reflects upon the breast piece, and and and there's a kind of glowing glory coming off of the priest as he comes in. Back in chapter 29, we saw that this breast piece was called the breast piece of judgment. It uses that word twice, judgment. In other words, it's this idea that the judgment that was rightly to fall upon all the people Was actually going to be mediated through the priest and his work, and it would fall upon him and his sacrifice instead of on all the people. God's wrath Being mediated now through the one who offered the sacrifice. Verses 22 through 26, we get the robe that the priest would wear. At the bottom of the robe, what do we see? These pomegranates and then bells, pomegranates and then bells, pomegranates and then bells, these bells, literally golden balls that fell just above the floor, so that as the priest would walk, the waving motion would produce the sound of tinkling bells throughout the tabernacle. It indicated that when the priest would enter into the holy place or or into the holy of holies, here was this safeguard, this divinely given sound that everyone could hear. Sure, yes, of course, God would hear it, he sees and hears all, but that the priest himself could hear, and it would indicate I'm safe. I'm safe and I'm walking in because everyone hears this. I won't die, indicating, God, I'm coming. It's me, the high priest, prepare to look away. I know you can hear me, but you cannot look on me and me get out of this alive. Look away as I come to mediate on behalf of the people. Then we get the coats and the caps. I love this in verses 27 through 29. Back in chapter 28. We were told that, quote, you shall make them, talking about the coats and the caps that the priests would wear, you shall make them for glory and for beauty. Do you remember that? In other words, there's nothing utilitarian about these coats and about these caps They're made simply for glory and for beauty. For God to look upon them and say, huh Well that's really beautiful. No function other than that God enjoys the beauty of it. Think about that. I often think about this kind of principle, especially when it comes to something like the architecture of a church or even aspects of your own home. Sometimes the effort, and let's just say it, the money expended to build something that has no other function other than its sheer aesthetic beauty. Its design and form. This is something that not only we should enjoy and pursue, but here it's clear to me, God enjoys and pursues Now, of course, there will always be those folks who in their very spiritual concern over how we use the Lord's money will want to do away with anyway, certainly something being Merely beautiful isn't worthy enough to spend money on. What function does it have? Friends, isn't that the exact same argument Judas Iscariot made when the poor woman poured her beautifully smelling perfume On the feet of Jesus. We could have sold that ointment for money and given the money to the poor, was Judas' argument. Make the coat. Make the caps. Well, what are they for, God? They're for glory. They're for beauty. Enjoy it. And then the crown, verses 30 and 31. Don't you love how it ends here? A crowning feature, pure gold, a turban with engraved across it, right across the forehead of the one who would wear it as the high priest. Holy to the Lord. And it was indicated earlier in Exodus that it was there to bear any guilt of those who came with offerings. In other words If you came to the high priest, sure, you would said your prayers, but had you prayed well enough, isn't there still a little bit of guilt that perhaps you haven't repented of enough? God requires blood for your sins. And so you bring the priest your offering and here this priest with the words holy to the Lord across his turban crown, indicating to the God on high that the offerings of his people were actually acceptable as the priest wore all of this in his presence You could never know whether you've repented enough, could you? Honestly, that was the reality that drove Martin Luther to discover the gospel. He would spend hours as an Augustinian monk, 1500s Germany, deep in medieval Roman Catholicism. Confessing sins to the abbot of the convent that he was a part of. The guy would say, Brother Martin. You've confessed their all is to confess, go home, go to sleep, go back to your room. And he'd go back and he'd worry and say, I I I'm not sure I have. And so he'd sleep out in the snow that night, just to atone for any lingering sin. He'd whip his back that night, just to atone for any lingering sin, that he he wasn't quite sure if he'd repented of it or not. And here, the priest, holy to the Lord, says, give me your offering. Whatever you have will be holy to the Lord. If you take all of these verses together, chapter 39, verses 1 to 31, probably a text you've you've never heard preached from before All of this certainly indicates a splendid and elaborate garment that identifies the crucial role of this high priest. Someone who was the official mediator between man and God, and it was a beautiful role because he has beautiful garments. But what do we do with all of this now? Well, from the vantage point of being a Christian, from the vantage point of the greater revelation we now have in the face of Jesus Christ, we certainly need to think through this chapter. First, the real irony in Exodus is that Aaron is the high priest. Have you considered that? I mean you put these threads on Aaron as they're going to do in the next chapter, and you're left. I think the people who are watching this all play out would have felt this, you were left with a strong impression of a kind of disconnect Between the role that Aaron plays and the person that Aaron is. The function that he fulfilled among the people of God was awesome, but this is Aaron. Let me put it to you this way: this is the guy who led the people to make a golden calf. This is the guy who led the people to cheat on God, as it were. In other words, the holy garments may identify Aaron's task, but they couldn't possibly be an expression of Aaron's identity. It's interesting, isn't it? Both Adam and Jesus were clothed in glory. They had a kind of inherent glory. Derivative, yes, their glory was a reflection of God's eternal glory. But both Adam and the man Jesus had a righteousness which allowed there to be this reflected glory. Adam had it before the fall, and Jesus attained it after his resurrection. But here, the priest, here this guy named Aaron, who served as the high priest, he had no glory of his own. He was, spiritually speaking, naked and ashamed. Do you see? He had to be clothed in these robes. His nakedness had to be covered, which means that all of this was like a cosplay outfit. He's play-acting He was covered in a fake glory. Do you remember the offhand comment that I think we read at the end of chapter 32? Right on the heels of the golden calf incident, the narrator wants to give you the identity of Aaron. And Moses writes there, verse 35, quote, Then the Lord sent a plague on the people because they made the calf, and then he adds these words. The one that Aaron made. Let's not forget that the blood The blood of the sacrifices offered to God first needed to be applied to the priests themselves, on their person and on their garments. In other words, by the time he went in to actually begin the work of mediation, all of the beauty that he was wearing, every part of his robe would have already been stained with blood. All of it ruined. Why? Because Aaron was just as much a sinner as everyone else. That's the first thing we need to remember. The second thing I think we need to identify here, we need to think through, is how the New Testament views this chapter. And the irony is that there's a real absence of Aaron in the New Testament. Think about that. The New Testament makes very little use of Aaron. From what I could see, it mentions maybe four times. And each time is just about as negative as it could be. Luke chapter 1, Aaron is mentioned, but it's not recalling Aaron or his sons. It actually turns away from Aaron and his sons to highlight a woman who came from his line. that will outdistance her whole heritage because of her faith in the Messiah. It's a negative expression Acts chapter 7, Aaron comes into play, but it's in reference to his role with the golden calf, again, negative. Hebrews chapter 8, Aaron comes into play, but it's in reference to his repeated services as being something that's going to end. His duties as a priest, as the ironic priesthood, were never meant to be the full and final way people come close to God. Negative. And then finally, perhaps the only positive mention you could maybe find is Hebrews chapter 5. But even there, it wasn't a reference regarding the identity of Aaron. It was a reference about God that God graciously called Aaron at all. That's it in the New Testament. There's an irony here in Exodus that He's wearing these things given what we know of who the man is, and there's an absence of him in the New Testament, despite how central his role was. Let me put it as clearly as I can here. When we look at Aaron the high priest and the beauty of everything he has to wear, the New Testament doesn't approach Aaron by way of comparing him to Jesus. Aaron good, but Jesus better. Now it seems to me that the New Testament actually looks back at Aaron by way of contrast. Think about it. Where Aaron had his ephod, Jesus has only a loincloth. Where Aaron's shoulders carries the stones, Jesus carries a cross. Where Aaron gets a beautiful breast piece and covering Jesus is uncovered, whipped, and his ribcage laid bare. Where Aaron walks out under that splendid robe and the soldiers put one now on Jesus that was only intended to mock him. Aaron had his turban. Jesus wore a crown of thorns. As the apostles who wrote the New Testament, the gospel writers themselves, they have all seemingly gone out of the way to tell you this: Jesus is not like Aaron. At least by way of comparison, but he is there maybe by way of contrast. So what do we do with this passage in Exodus 39? I think we can say it this way. Holy garments were needed for Aaron, because Aaron was decidedly not holy. Jesus, the ultimate high priest, not just for the Jewish people, but a high priest sent by God from heaven to mediate for the whole world, Jesus never came dressed up. There was nothing externally pleasant about him. What does Isaiah 53 tell us about our Savior? He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. I think this makes the scenes of Jesus when at the end of his ministry and he's he's actually standing before Annas and Caiaphas, the high priests of Israel in his day. Here are the men who are role-playing. They're wearing all the things. Caiaphas has the robe on, the breast piece, the turban, the jewels, and they're questioning this Nearly naked, itinerant, impoverished preacher who standing there silent as a lamb, they even hit him in the mouth when he doesn't answer how they want him to. Jesus, surrounded by all the beauty of this old covenant priesthood, is actually the one robed in true holiness and true glory. They can't see his glory. Not yet, but it's there. His heart is beautifully glorious And soon, after he finishes the work of his priesthood, offering up himself as the full and final sacrifice, then in his resurrection will his glory truly be seen? But there it won't be the robes of fake glory, knitted together with scarlet yarn. It will be the unextinguishable heavenly glory, the full splendor and inherent glory of His holiness. Which, by the way, is why we don't see garments like these given to the New Testament church. Christ, in establishing the new covenant church, has clothed us now with his righteousness. Paul says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ He alone is our high priest. We need no other priest. He is our mediator, the one mediator between God and man. Maybe we could apply it this way. This trend today, if you're at all got your ear to the ground of of Not only evangelicalism, but young men in America in general. This trend of young men in America going to the Roman Catholic Church Going to Eastern Orthodoxy or to the Anglican Church. This trend of younger men and women going back to the old religiosity of outward robes and old temple kind of worship Whether it's in the Roman Catholic Church or the Anglican Church or even some denominations like the African Methodist Episcopal Church. This need for robes and vestments It's all just a desire to return to the outward glory of Aaron and to negate the better beauty of Christ's righteousness for us. The Reformation Protestants, the Puritans, more than anyone else, made this case thoroughly. Why return to the Old Testament temple worship when Christ has fulfilled it, when the better has already been given to us? Jesus, given in his word, preached and believed upon. I am no mediator. Therefore, I need no robe. Dressing up in religious garbs, I'm afraid, would only misplace your vision of him who matters most. You do not need a church that recreates the external visible manifestations of the Iranic priesthood. You need Jesus. Jesus alone. Someone along the lines of Apol said, I knew nothing among you but Christ and Him crucified. The elders will pray every Sunday morning before the service, and one of the prayers that's that's repeated is Lord, would Christ be exalted and whoever is preaching fade to the background. Get out of the way. How does the chapter end? Wonderfully, on another Puritan emphasis: worship according to everything and only what God said. Look at the way the chapter ends. Interestingly, verses 32 to the end moves from the holy garments to the completed work. Did you catch that? The repetition of the phrase throughout the whole chapter ten times. Completeness. Ten times over as the Lord had commanded Moses. As the Lord had commanded Moses. Everything was done as it had been commanded to be done. No more, no less. It was completed. It was all done just as it was supposed to be done. Nothing was amiss when it was done. Down to the smallest detail, it was all done, and none of the people that brought themselves to the work did anything for themselves in the work And nor did they bring anything from themselves into the work other than what God wanted done for the work. This is what we know as the regulative principle of worship. Not only did they not do what God commanded them not to do. Don't do that, okay, I won't do it. But more importantly, they didn't add anything to what God had said to do. They stayed right on the line of God's word. No less they didn't break God's word, and no more they didn't add to it. It's nobody playing jazz to get the congregation ready for worship. There's no improvising, no added light shows or cool features that got the people excited It was straightforward. God drew it, He wrote it down, we made it. They kept it. Boom. Clean, simple. Notice not only is there a literary repetition in the whole chapter of this completeness, but there's an inclusio in that last section. Look at verse 32. Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting was finished, and the people of Israel did according to all that the Lord had commanded Moses, so they did Finished, did, so they did. And then look at the very end, verses 42 and 43. According to all that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the people of Israel had done all the work. And Moses saw all the work, and behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded. So they had done it. Then Moses blesses them. Done, done, so they had done it. That's what's holding this last section together. It's all finished. To tell a sty. That's what the writer wants you to know. In other words. God allows us to come close to his glory when the work is done. And it's exactly what Jesus said upon the cross. Before his final breath and the rendering of soul from body, Jesus utters his final words to telesti it is finished Friends, you can't get any closer to God than faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. You don't need to do anything. You don't need to dress up with religious garbs to get you closer. Notice how it all ends. Moses himself, the very last verse, he then blesses the people. I mean, how beautiful is that? It's done, it's finished, blessing. Isn't this like reading Genesis chapter 1 and 2? Six days of work of creation, and then at the end, blessing Jesus, when he finishes his work, and the very last word upon the cross is, it is finished. And then upon his resurrection and the glory, he brings his disciples as far out as Bethany, and he blesses them. It's done. You're blessed. Think about that. Some of us might be here this morning thinking, how do I get that blessing? How do I get close to God? How do I approach yet again the God who has said he will save me, and yet I feel in my sin so unsavable? Well, here's the point of Exodus 39. Stop trying to dress it up. Not just in physical clothing. Even in in thinking that just being here this morning is somehow bringing you closer to God. Lay it all aside. Nothing in my hands I bring, but simply to Christ alone I cling Jesus paid it all. Jesus paid it all. I'll end here. And here's the good news. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, the New Testament is clear and Revelation is very clear. We are all a priesthood of believers. That is, because you are one with Christ, and he is the high priest, we are now priests in him, mediating between our risen Savior and the rest of a fallen world. evangelists inviting the rest of the world to come near to him. And the great good news is on that day when heaven and earth literally do become one, as Revelation says And Christ will reign as the high priest and prince of peace forever. He will do so in glory, clothed and robed in his own inherent holiness and glory, because there will be no sun and no moon, and just the light of Christ. And we all, shining like stars in the heavens, will reflect that glory beautifully and forevermore unchangeably so. Dressed literally in his holiness. Dear friends, that's good news. You look at yourself now and think Boy, do I feel like I'm roathed and clothed in absolute rottenness, tattered, dirtied, sinful unholy and yet full of holes. Praise God for Jesus Christ, who is beginning to clothe you now from the inside out in his righteousness. And one day we will all see it and say, wow. For glory and for beauty. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let us pray together. Father, we praise you for what it is that the priesthood of Aaron shows us. We praise you as we see it pointing back to the Garden of Eden and to the glory from which we fell, from the glory of your creation. And the role that you gave to your image bearers. We praise you as it reminds us Of the gravity and the seriousness of your worship, and the sense of holiness that we ought always to hold before us. That to worship you is not something for our own amusement or something to be played with, but is of the utmost importance Something that we ought to think and understand carefully. And we praise you most of all. for it pointing forward to Christ, who is our great high priest, one who was not clothed in beautiful robes. But in perfect righteousness that none of us could obtain. One who did not carry around in his shoulders the names of the tribes of Israel. But had our names engraved upon his hands, and our sins upon his body, who endured the full wrath of God for our sake. One who did not bring the blood of a lamb, but offered on the cross his own blood, which speaks for us a better word than the blood of Abel. One who did not die and was replaced by another, but who was raised up on the third day, and even now stands before you, mediating on our behalf. And it is because of his mediation, because of his righteousness, because of his work on our behalf that we now can gather together and bring our requests before you.

Speaker 3
And so it is in his mighty and powerful name that we pray these things before you now. Amen.

