Speaker 1
Good morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Exodus chapter 35. We are Returning back to our exposition through the book of Exodus. We took a short break during Advent season to look at Isaiah. And now we return and we pick back up in Exodus. Chapter 35, and I'll be reading this morning from verses one through twenty-nine. Thank you, Matt. Exodus chapter thirty-five, starting in verse one Moses assembled all the congregation of the people of Israel and said to them, These are the things that the Lord has commanded you to do. Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death. You shall kindle no fire in all your dwelling places on the Sabbath day. Moses said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, This is the thing that the Lord has commanded. Take from among you a contribution to the Lord. Whoever is of a generous heart, let him bring the Lord's contribution gold, silver, and bronze, blue and purple, and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen, goat's hair Tanned ram's skins and goat skins, acacia wood, oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense, and onyx stones, and stones for setting, for the ephod, and for the breast piece. Let every skilful craftsman among you come and make all that the Lord has commanded the tabernacle, its tent, and its covering, its hooks, and its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases The ark with its poles, the mercy seat, and the veil of the screen, the table with its poles and all its utensils, and the bread of the presence. The lamp stand also for the light, with its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light, and the altar of incense with its poles, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the door at the door of the tabernacle The altar of burnt offering with its grating of bronze, its poles and all its utensils, the basin and its stand, the hangings of the court, its pillars and its bases. And the screen for the gate of the court, the pegs of the tabernacle, and the pegs of the court, and their cords, the finely worked garments for ministering in the holy place. the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for their service as priests. Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses And they came. Everyone whose heart stirred him, and everyone whose spirit moved him, and brought the Lord's contribution to be used for the tent of meeting, and for all its service, and for the holy garments And so they came, both men and women, all who were of a willing heart, brought brooches and earrings, and signet rings, and armlets, all sorts of gold objects, every man dedicating an offering of gold to the Lord. And every one who possessed blue or purple or scarlet yarns or fine linen or goat's hair or tanned ramskins or goatskins brought them Everyone who can make a contribution of silver or bronze brought it as the Lord's contribution. And everyone who possessed acacia wood of any use in the work brought it. And every skilful woman spun with her hands, and they all brought what they had spun in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen. All the women whose hearts stirred them to use their skill spun the goat's hair And the leaders brought onic stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breast piece, and spices and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense. All the men and women, the people of Israel, whose heart moved them to bring anything for the work that the Lord had commanded by Moses to be done, brought it as a free will offering to the Lord This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you. Your word to us is life and light. And Lord, we are in need now of the power and help of your Holy Spirit. For without your spirit, Lord, your word will fall flat upon dull and dead hearts. So give us by your Spirit, through your word, to us your people, life and light, so that we might behold our Savior Christ and exalt and glorify him. And we pray this in Jesus' name Amen. To give us some context and to remind us of where we've been, we've taken a little break from Exodus. You'll remember that the book of Exodus is broadly showing us God's work with his people Israel. The first section, the most dramatic and well-known of God's saving work of bringing Israel out of Egypt and defying the Egyptian gods and the Egyptian Pharaoh and doing what no other God could do and saving a people. And then in that middle section, then after God saves, God then begins to speak. And there's a long section of God speaking and giving his laws and giving his words to the people. And now in chapter 35, we begin to move into this last section of Exodus where God will begin to settle. The entirety of Exodus, God saving, God speaking, and then finally God settling and dwelling with his people. But right before this new section, you'll remember that even though God had already saved Israel from out of Egypt, and even though God has condescended to speak a word to Israel, to give them his words and his laws, words of promise that he would dwell in their midst and be their God. Laws meant to protect them, to keep them holy, so that the presence of the Holy God would not consume them like God had consumed Egypt. Even though all of that You'll remember Israel fell. They sinned. Do you remember a couple months back? They cheated on God. How? By making for themselves a golden calf, an idol to worship while Moses is up on the mountain speaking to God. A sin so grievous that God was ready to wipe out the people of Israel off the earth right then and right there. And yet through Moses' intercession Through his mediation, God was pleased to show mercy. And if anything, this whole second half of the book of Exodus, of them wandering through the wilderness, it's all about the mercy of God. How is it that a holy God can dwell with a sin-drenched, adulterous-hearted people? And so here in chapter 35, after the that whole golden calf debacle Instead of getting what they deserve, God's wrath, God's judgment, we've seen that God can and He does pour out judgment and wrath. He's done it on Egypt and He's even done it upon Israel already. Instead of all of that, what we get here is mercy. A chance to start over. Exodus 35 gives us a redo. But, and this is a big but, that only comes about after realizing I've messed up. In other words, you can't start over with God without first being honest with God and owning your own failures and your own mistakes and your own sins. And that's what we saw at the end of chapter 34. Sure, Moses, remember, destroyed the two tablets of the Ten Commandments. Even Moses, meek, meek Moses, was angry. But at the end of chapter 34, verse 11 and following, what do we see? God still commits to making a covenant with his people He will show them mercy. He will still be their God. And he emphasizes in that section that when they come into the land that the Lord is giving to them, they must be extra vigilant. To topple idols? To smash the asherim idols? To cut down all the false altars and pillars? Why? Realize that you are a people addicted to idolatry. Confess that to me. Show me that that sin is a sin that you're willing to give up. And so God is willing to do a redo. This chapter acknowledges that God in his grace has it within his plan and promise to give grace and still allow a sinful people, his people. To begin again. Friends, welcome back to the book of Exodus, where we see God who allows second chances. What does it look like when God's people recommit themselves? They're given a second chance to now yet again follow after and rehonor the one true God. This is what we see in this chapter. I think the first thing that we need to see is that the people pick up at the very place where they left off. The Sabbath. Before the whole calf catastrophe, while Moses was up on the mountain, God was instructing Moses on that all-important essence of worship: keep the Sabbath. Ironically, it was the Sabbath day while Moses was up on the mountain. And what was Israel doing? Well, they weren't honoring and worshiping the Lord. They were frolicking in the corruption of idol worship. And so, what's the first thing God wants Moses to preach to these penitent people that he comes down the mountain? Verses 1 through 3. Moses assembled all the congregation of the people of Israel. And he said to them, These are the things that the Lord has commanded you to do. Six days work shall be done But on the seventh day, you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death. You shall kindle no fire in all your dwelling places on the Sabbath day. Here's the first thing that matters according to this text. Here's the first thing that matters when a people become recommitted to God and are given a second chance. Worship. Sabbath worship begins this chapter. It's setting the stage for us, reminding us that the whole point of what's going on here, the whole point of God settling in the last part of this book is worship. The question that would have arisen after the golden calf, the all-important question was: will God continue with and dwell amongst these hard-hearted people? And obviously the answer is yes, he will, but but the first thing he wants them to do is to not go and get after the building of the tabernacle. It's not to go and do, it's it's not back to business as usual. No, according to verses 1, 2, and 3, it's to sit. Do you see? I'm ready to go now, God. What do you want me to get done? What job, what what duty can I do? I'm one of the deacons, let me get after it. No, it's not going. It's not getting things done. It's not working. The first thing that this text reminds us is that he wants them to sit down under the Word of God and listen. Hearing the word that they had clearly failed to apply in life, and letting that word now in worship do its work in their heart. To get on with God, to be a people who take that second chance and recommit to their Savior is to go back to the very place where they first departed from God and to sit down and listen to the Word of God. If I could just apply this simple truth of verses one through three, I think it'd be this. If you want to enjoy the grace. And the newness of beginning again, of enjoying God again. If you're tired of the dead end, lifeless fruit of disobeying God If you're cognizant that your wandering away from God has hardened your conscience and is deadening your soul, well the first thing you should do and can do is enjoy the Sabbath. Come to church. Sit down and sit underneath the preaching of God's word week after week after week. Work six days and then on that first day of the week come and rest and enjoy your God He speaks here. It's here on the Lord's day with the Lord's gathered people where he speaks to you. Come and worship and enjoy the God who in Christ is always ready to give you a do-over, a second chance. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning asks this: When I wander away from God, as happens to almost everybody. Where can I go to help me stop wandering? And the very simple answer is church. On the Lord's day, gather with the Lord's people to hear and be nourished by the Lord's word and and in the Lord's presence, therefore grow in the Lord's way. It's so Ordinary. And yet the work that God does through that is extraordinary. Perhaps you're here this morning after a long hiatus from the things of God. Amen. Welcome back. If I could just encourage you, don't stop. Don't let this be a one-off. Keep coming back. God is here and He's here for you. And he desires your heart and your life. And this is the place where his grace, by the presence of Christ, where two or three are gathered in his name, he loves to work within even the deadest heart. Dads. This is your calling as a father, isn't it? To lead your family into the fruitful and broad pasture lands of spiritual life? And if you're failing to inculcate into your family the divinely given rhythm of six days work and then on Sunday we rest. On Sunday as a family we go to church. Well then don't be surprised when you don't see any fruit. Perhaps this is most pernicious on vacations. Right? I've been tempted here, I know this. But by and large, I count it personally not only my great responsibility, but honestly a great joy when we when our family goes on vacation to first Look up where can I take my ch my family to church on Sunday morning? What new church can I visit and see The body of Christ, a different body than this local body, but the same body of Christ in a different location, and join with them and worship the same God. There's no vacation from worship. Worship is where spiritual life blooms and the Sabbath doesn't become null and void when we're on vacation. And I I found that when we go and and we visit another church, no matter where we are, there's There's always the blessing of that Lord's Day worship. The vibe might be different. Perhaps the music is a a little bit more modern than we might sing here. The people unfamiliar. But if it's a healthy, biblical, gospel-preaching church, well, the word will be preached rightly and you will have fed yourself and you will have fed your family, Dad. On yet another Sabbath Lord's Day. There's nothing better. There's nothing more essential. Let me get off that hobby horse here, but I can only tell you that in this text, this is the truth that we see here When the Israelites restarted with God, they had to apply the word of God. They should have heard, but but they didn't because They were off, you know, philandering around with this golden calf, and and they should have been sitting on that Sabbath, waiting for the preacher Moses to come down off the mountain and to deliver them something from God. They didn't then, and it cost them dearly. And so Moses calls them to do it now. Don't give up the Sabbath. Well, that's not all there is in this passage. Take a look at the next part of the chapter. There's other things that happen when a church recommits with God Not only do they sit back down at the place where they left him, but we also see in verses 4 to 9, God invites Israel to take up a donation. And that he calls his, a donation to the Lord. Notice verses 10 through 19. There, they're to make a dwelling place for the Lord. Those are the verbs. Verse 9: Take, take from among yourselves a contribution to the Lord. Take a donation to the Lord. And then verse 10, make, make all that the Lord has commanded. Take and make. When they restarted with God, they were to take a contribution to the Lord and they were to make a domicile for the Lord. In other words, they were being invited by God. You want to begin again? Then give something to me and build something for me. Contribute and then create. Donate and design. I notice it's to the Lord. It's not for Moses. It's not for the leaders within the camp. To the Lord. And notice the construction project here is also for the Lord. It's not something they're doing for themselves. It's it's for the Lord. Let me paraphrase it like this. All of what takes place there in the details of verses 4 through 19. And they were invited by God to have a personal role that would put him, God, back at the center of life. The tabernacle that they were to make for them, all that they took up as a donation, it was a dwelling place for God at the center of their lives. They were to sacrifice to God so that God would be at the center. So, for example, when you get to the book of Numbers, chapter 2, there we actually see them building this tabernacle. And And it's not for nothing that the twelve tribes of Israel will all pitch their tents around that tabernacle like a like a spherical form, spokes on a wheel, and they will all be facing What's built right in the middle, the tabernacle. In other words, if we could put it like this Restarting with God means making efforts, sacrificial efforts, take and then make, to make sure God is back at the center of your life and your communal life. The irony is, of course, when we wander away from God, we usually begin to take from others and make off with it for ourselves. Don't miss the evocative aspect of this text. I think this is surprising here. This is an invitation from God to Israel where they can join themselves to God's work. He's asking for them to join him. I want you to want to make me the center of your lives. What I'm not gonna do is I'm not going to manipulate this text and turn it into a sermon that will require you and your giving for the construction of a new building or a new wing as we fill out this current space right now. I don't think it's necessarily wrong to go that route in application, and it certainly should be something God's people think through. We will need to think through that in the next couple of years. But what I want to highlight here, what ought to strike us from this passage, what what Exodus 35 is preeminently revealing to us here, is a God that is not only willing to restart with us But that he is eager to allow us the privilege of contributing to his work. That he's eager to allow us the grace to walk alongside him. Do you see? God is bringing his people into the work of contributing, into the work of glorifying God. And does it take sacrifice? Absolutely it does, but it's a sacrifice that I think, designed by God, realigns the people back toward God, which is amazing. Think about that. God is willing to receive things from Israel. This is the same Israel that danced around the calf. They gave of their own gold to form this idol of a calf, who broke the Sabbath to throw a wild party around the calf. And now, let me put it this way. They have something that God is pleased to receive from them. Think about that. A man cheats on his wife, buys some other woman necklaces and earrings and bracelets. He repents and the cheated wife, cheated on wife says, I'm pleased with the necklaces and earrings. You will now buy me. I'll just tell you as somebody who's counseled marriages, you're not going to hear that. But you do hear it here. It's a surprising restitution. The surprising point of this passage is that in spite of their past God invites them still to collaborate with him in making him known throughout the world. And that kind of grace that. That sort of kindness of God in this respect, I think, ought to move us, ought to melt our hearts. I think that's what the passage is intending to do. Are you, the reader, moved at how God is still willing to bring a wayward, adulterous people near to Him to love and to enjoy Him and to have Him forever as your God? It's quick and easy to judge the golden calf. But I dare say, dear friends, take an honest look with inside your own heart. And I guarantee you, you will find many golden calves. What grace it is, Sunday after Sunday, to have the Lord offer us his bread and his cup and to say, you're forgiven. I'm willing to get on with you Well, let me put it this way for us this morning. The ability to give and contribute from our own resources, to sacrifice our treasures in the service of God. I think I want to say it this way. That kind of ability only comes about when we first realize the grace given to us by God to understand that God will accept anything from us at all. God doesn't need this stuff. He's God, right? The grace here is that he's willing to bring these people into his great work of glorifying his name And he does so with delight and love. Give me what you've got. I'll use it. I don't need it. But I'm delighted to use it. I'll take it. And we can together go about showing the world who I am. You will show the world who I am to you, surprising as that is. so that they can see who I can be to them, surprising as that is. I think that's the staggering grace of this Text. Children, your second question this morning in your children's bulletin asks this: What evidence shows that I have God's saving grace in my life? What evidence is there that shows that I have God's saving grace in my life? And here's the answer. I'm willing and wanting to sacrifice to God I'm willing and wanting to sacrifice to God. Whether it's your time or your talents or even your treasures. All of it now comes underneath the sovereign lordship of the God who has saved you. And because you have become the recipient of that saving grace, that profound mercy, Well, the grace that invites you into his presence and to be a part of his plan despite your sin. Well, now you're excited to give. And you'll give it all. You'll give your entire life to that God. You're excited to sacrifice things to God and for God, and you you want to magnify this God and make Him known, and whatever it is that you have, it's now to that end. So what does it mean to begin again with God? One, you come and sit under his word. You enjoy the Sabbath. Two, give of what you have to God. Your life is now a life in service unto the Lord. And that's exactly what we see happen in the rest of the passage, don't we? The next nine verses dictate to us, in fact, the people of God, after sitting underneath the preaching of the Word of God, and then they're instructed to give to God. Well, lastly, they do in fact just that. Look at verse 20 and 21. Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses, and they came, everyone whose heart stirred him, and everyone whose spirit moved him. And brought the Lord's contribution to be used for the tent of meeting and for all its service and for the holy garments. These last nine verses, it's really the emphasis, I think, of this whole chapter. Eight times the word brought is used in verses 20 through 29. They brought their treasures to God. In fact, they didn't just bring to God. This was the heart response of the people. That's what I want you to see here. It was an internal response. Look at verse 21. And they came, everyone whose heart stirred him. The word heart here is going to appear about six times in this text. In fact, it already came about at the beginning of the text back in verse 5. Whoever is of a generous heart, says verse 5, let him bring to the Lord. In other words, restarting with God is an e internal response It's something that bubbles up from with inside you, and therefore it's not this external rule-keeping. It's an internal desire to be in a relationship, and it's from the heart. Now the the heart in in in the Hebrew scriptures can at times refer to the actual physical organ that beats within your chest, but it it doesn't refer to the heart in that way here. Here it's used in this kind of literary, metaphorical way, so that the scriptures speak in some sense of the heart as an internal conviction of the soul In other words, the heart is the very seed of power in your life. Your heart is the animating center of your being. It's what moves you to action or not. The heart reveals your pursuits. Your heart then, I think we could say it like this at the end, is the governor of your life, the engine behind what you choose and want and desire. This is why Jesus will later say, won't he? Show me where your treasure is, and I'll show you where your heart is. I'll show you the very center of your being. And in some respect, then all you have to do to know what really matters to you, to ask where your heart is oriented. is to ask yourself, what do you pursue in your mind all the time? What are the desires of your heart? And in particular, as evidenced by your actions? Because that will reveal the true state of your soul. So here in the text, about five or six times over, we we we hear what's happening within the heart of the people. Verse 21. Every one whose heart stirred him, whose spirit moved him, they brought to the Lord. Verse 22. All who were of a willing heart brought their treasures. Look at verse 26. All the women whose hearts stirred them served the Lord. What we're getting a glimpse of is their souls, the desire of their will. And so at this point it seems to me, according to these texts, well the people are of one heart. They are dead set. on settling for nothing less than seeing God have a rightful place in the world, in their community, in their congregation. It was their heart So what do we do with this? What are we getting on after? Well, I think it's this. I think we're we're seeing here the grace of God working in the heart of the people of God. To reanimate their desires so that God would yet again be back at the center of it all. God as the animating center of their thinking, our thinking. Our living, our doing, and all of our reflections and desires. The text is holding up a mirror To us, and it's asking us, the reader, is God what my mind moves toward? Is it God who is the object of my desires, my speech? Is God the energizing force of my actions? I think really for the first time since the Garden of Eden, what we begin to see in this text is the heart of a people who are once again, even if imperfectly. being reoriented to how life was supposed to be. If I could put it this way. What we see in seed form here, and we know this, this heart posture will be absolutely and universally true of everyone in the new heavens and the new earth. Which is really how our mind should think about this. Am I living in such a way, continually being conformed to what will be categorically true of me in heaven? And of course, when we judge our lives now, compared to what we will be by God's glorifying grace When we judge our lives now, of course we'll see inconsistencies. We'll we'll see aspects of our lives that That are out of place, but but I think it's just there, right there, where the man or woman of God who knows the grace and mercy of God, knows the trajectory of what your salvation is all about, the glory of a heart perfectly centered on God. It's right there where that man or woman repents. They repent, they reorient their hearts back to God and they pray and they say to God, Lord, forgive me. My heart has been elsewhere. My heart has been more in love with the things of this world than with you. My life does not match what you are making me to be. It matches more and more what you saved me out of. Forgive me, Lord. Change me, Lord. Take my heart and redirect my love back toward you. Children. Question three asks this What is it? That God wants me to sacrifice and give to Him more than anything else. Answer? My heart. My heart. This has always been God's design for us. Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23. Keep your heart with all vigilance. Why? For from it flow the springs of life. Oh, how I fear that we treasure our heart too little. We are so unaware of how precious our hearts are, which is why we so easily give our hearts to corrupting desires and sinful lusts. But praise God that he is more concerned for our hearts, so concerned that he sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. A man whose heart was only and always fixated upon enjoying his father in heaven, and yet, in obedience to the Father, willingly died underneath the curse and wrath of his father so as to reclaim your heart back to the Father. That's the beautiful picture of this passage. It's not the earrings, it's not the amulets, it's not the gold trinkets and silver, it's not the purple and blue fabrics, it's not the spices and doils and fragrances. All of those things are good and and beauty. Beautiful and worthy to give to God. We ought to give those kinds of things to God. We want to give precious things to God But all of that is only the fruit of a deeper root. And what seems to me to be the most precious thing given, repeated throughout this text, is that they came and gave of their own heart's desire. Did you notice the totality, the wholeness of the entire congregation desiring to bring to the Lord? The text is is very clear, I think, to talk about men and uh and then women and and then men and women and and then even the leaders. It's it's all inclusive. The role of women is especially noted. So they came, verse 22, both men and women, all who were of a willing heart Take a look at verse 25. And every skillful woman spun with their hands, and they they all brought what they had spun in purple, blue, and scarlet yarns and fine-twine linen. Verse 26, all the women whose hearts stirred them. Verse 27, all the leaders. Verse 29, all the men and the woman and the people of Israel. Go back to verse 20 and 21. Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses, and they came, everyone whose heart stirred him, and everyone whose spirit moved him. What's going on here? Well, the last time we saw this kind of all-inclusive language used in Exodus. Words like everyone and all? The last time Moses wrote like this was during the plagues, when God was cursing all the Egyptians, every one of them. But here, God is not pouring out plague upon his people. Here, God is pouring out blessing. He is pouring out the reviving grace of a new heart, new desires, a a new love to listen to and offer their lives unto God. Do you see This wasn't one of those Sunday mornings when after church maybe one or two dear saints came up to the pastor and they say, Oh, that was an encouraging word this morning. Thank you. We'll see you next Sunday. Now here the whole congregation, the entirety of the people were affected and moved by God and moved toward God. I dare say this seems to me to be one of those rare occasions in both scripture and history where we see something of a revival, something of what it looks like when God moves and everyone is struck in their heart. To return to God. Like the people had just committed spiritual adultery against God with that calf. They were stiff-necked, they were hard-hearted, and yet now every one of them with one heart and one mind are returning back to the Lord Dear friends, outside of the sovereign reviving grace of God, this kind of thing doesn't happen. We know this is the case because the next time we see this kind of language, and I think Luke has Exodus 35 in mind. It is one in Acts chapter 2, as Jeremy read for us earlier, where the early church, filled as they are by the Spirit of God, and there's literally a revival, 3,000 plus people come to faith that day. What is it that they do? Well, just like our text here, first they come and sit underneath the preached word. And then they give. All of them give of what they have, so that Luke writes that they had all things in common with one mind and one heart It is a beautiful picture of what it looks like when God brings a people to himself away from sin and all of them with one heart are devoted to the Lord. A divinely stamped unity that can only reflect the glory of heaven. I'll only end here Do you pray for this, friends? I do. I think it's something every Christian should desire. The work and the movement of the Spirit of God, uniting the entirety of the people of God, to be so devoted and sacrificially giving. And the unending worship of God. That will be heaven. Oh Lord, may your spirit do that same work in us today. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Would you join me this morning in a prayer of response? Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning for the grace and the mercy that it is towards us to allow us to gather together and to worship you. Father, we thank you for your word that you have not left us in the dark, but that you speak to us even today through the word. Through the preaching of Pastor Unthank this morning, we thank you for his faithfulness in once again bringing your word to bear upon our hearts. And Father, we do pray by your Spirit that you would use it, that you would be continually transforming our hearts and our minds into the image of our Savior. Father, we thank you for this Lord's day. Father, we thank you for the blessing that it is to gather and to worship by the ordinary means of grace Father, we thank you for the rest that we have from our work in Christ each and every Sunday morning as we gather We thank you for the fellowship that we have with brothers and sisters in Christ and the blessing that they are each to each other. Father, we thank you for being fed spiritually by your word. Lord, would you make us a people who delight in Lord's Day worship? Would you make us a people who commit ourselves to worshiping you and you alone? Father, would we love and find joy and peace in gathering together with your people? Lord, would you also make us a people who live sacrificially? You have blessed us so richly. Cause us in obedience, Lord, and with joy to give of we what we have for the kingdom of God. Will we give our time to fellowship, to serve, to love brothers and sisters in Christ, our neighbors, our children? Help us, Father, to set aside time to serve others and not just our own desires. And Lord, we also give of our treasures Remind us that all that we have is yours. Cause us, Father, and give us a desire to use all that you have given to us for your glory alone. And keep us from using anything we have to worship others. Lord, keep us from idolatry. Keep us from giving our time, our money, our talents to the things that creep up in our lives, the sins that creep up in our lives that we desire. And we would desire, would we desire you and you alone? And Father, ultimately we pray that you would conform our hearts this morning, that we would find joy and satisfaction in you and you alone. Lord, would you make us a people who delight in your law and in your word? Father, would you have the things of this earth, the other things that we put our time and our attention towards, to fall dim in our eyes. And will we desire the things that you call good, the things that you have made holy? And we would not find any satisfaction in this world, but in our Savior Jesus Christ and Him alone. And we pray all these things in his great name. Amen.

