Speaker 1
Starting in verse 10. We'll read this morning from Exodus 37, starting in verse 10, and reading all the way through to chapter 38, verse 31. Here now is God's word. He also made the table of acacia wood, two cubits was its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height, and he overlaid it with pure gold, and made a moulding of gold around it, and he made a rim around it uh a handbreadth wide, and made a moulding of gold around the rim. He cast for it full rings of gold and fastened the rings to the four corners at its four legs Close to the frame were the rings as holders for the poles to carry the table. He made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table, and overlaid them with gold, and he made the vessels of pure gold that were to be on the tab uh on the table, its plates and dishes for incense, and its bowls and flagons for which to pour drink offering. He also made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered work, its base, its stem, its cups, its calyxes, and its flowers were of one piece with with it. And there were six branches going out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of one side of it, and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it, three cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flower. On one branch the three cups cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flour, and uh on the other branch, so for the six branches going out of the lampstand. And on the lampstand itself were four cups made like almond blossoms. with their calyxes and flowers, and a calyx of one piece with it under each pair of the six branches going out of it. Their calixes and their branches were of one piece with it. The whole of it was a single piece of hammered work of pure gold. And he made its seven lamps, and its tongs, and its trays of pure gold. He made it and all its utensils out of a talent of pure gold. He made the altar of incense of acacia wood. Its length was a cubit, and its breadth was a cubit. It was square, and two cubits was its height. Its horns were of one piece with it. He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, and around its sides, and its horns, and he made a moulding of gold around it, and made two rings of gold on it under its moulding, on two opposite sides of it his holders for the poles with which to carry it. And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold. He made the holy anointing oil also, and the pure fragrant incense blended as by the He made the altar of burnt offering of acacia wood. Five cubits was its length, and five cubits its breadth. It was square, and three cubits was its height. He made horns for it on its four corners. Its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze, and he made all the utensils of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the five p firepans. He made all its utensils of bronze, and he made for the altar a grating, a network of bronze under its ledge, extending halfway down. He cast four rings on the four corners of the bronze grating as holders for the poles. He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze. And he put the poles through the rings on the sides of the altar to carry it with him. He made it hollow with board He made the basin of bronze and its stand of bronze with the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered in the entrance of the tent of meeting And he made the court. For the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twine linen, a hundred cubits their uh their twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, and the hooks of the pillars and of their fillets were of silver And for the north side there were hangings of a hundred cubits, their twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze. But the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. And for the west side were hanging of fifty cubits, their ten pillars and their ten bases, the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. And for the front to the east, fifty cubits. The hangings for one side of the gate were fifteen cubits with their three pillars and three bases, and so for the other side. On both sides of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits with their three pillars. And their three bases. All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen, and the bases for the pillars were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. The overlaying of their capitals was also of silver And all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver, and the screen for the gay to the court was embroidered with needlework in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twine linen, it was twenty cubits long and five cubits high in its breadth, corresponding to the hangings of the court And their pillars were four in number, their four bases were of bronze, their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their fillets of silver. And all the pegs for the tabernacle and for the court all around were of bronze These are the records of the tabernacle. The tabernacle of the testimony as they were recorded at the commandment of Moses. The responsibility of the Levites under the direction of Ithamar, the son of Aaron. of the priest. Bezalel, the son of Uri, son of Hur, the tribe of Judah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses, and with him was Aholiah, the son of Ahisamak, the tribe of Dan, an engraver And designer and embroider and blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine-twine linen. All the gold that was used for the work, and all the construction of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels. By the shekel of the sanctuary. Silver from those of the congregation who were recorded was 100 talents and 1,775 shekels. By the shekel of the sanctuary, a Becca, a head, that is half a shekel by the shekel of the sanctuary. For everyone who was listed in the records, from 20 years old and upward, For six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty men, a hundred talents of silver were for casting the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the veil, a hundred bases for the hundred talents, a talent And of the 1,775 shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their capitals, and made fillets for them. The bronze that was offered was seventy talents And two thousand four hundred shekels. With it he made the bases for the entrance of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar, the bronze grating for it, and all the utensils of the altar, the bases around the court, and the bases of the gate of the court, all the This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers. The flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for this time. We thank you for your word to us. And Lord, we admit that we are oftentimes dull of hearing. We are not always used to working through the details of your inspired word, and yet inspired it is for our good. And so, Father, we pray by your Spirit you would apply its truths now to our lives, to this congregation, so that we would be a godly people that you are well pleased in. That we would be a people who behold and magnify and put our rest and faith in Jesus Christ alone. It is in his name we pray. Amen. It feels like a month ago, but it was only two weeks ago that we met, where we saw the very heart of the tabernacle. The Holy of Holies, where the Ark of the Covenant sat with its golden mercy seat The angelic throne upon which God's covenant presence descended to dwell amongst his people We also saw how that mercy seat itself pointed forward to the better mercy seat of Christ's death. And his subsequent enthronement in heaven amongst the angelic host. In other words. The very center and heart of the tabernacle was intentionally designed by God to point forward to the coming Son of God. As one commentator put it, in the tabernacle two things were true with regard to Christ. He was there already, and he still had yet to come. Christ was there in the very fabric and design of the tabernacle, the rituals, the The sacrifices and even the furniture, they all signified, pointed forward to a greater spiritual reality which was and is in Jesus Christ. If I could put it this way. Salvation with God has always been in and through Jesus Christ alone. Jesus Christ has always been the way, the truth, and the life. No one. Whether in the New Testament era or the Old Testament era, no one comes to the Father except through him. But in the Old Testament Mosaic era, Christ was seen, as it were, through the mosaic structures and systems. Through the tabernacle and everything in it, through the priests and the prophets, the sacrifices and symbols and all of it preached Jesus to the Jewish people. That's what we see this morning as well. Our passage breaks down into three simple sections. The first section deals with the furniture within the tabernacle. The second section deals with the courtyard around the tabernacle. And the third section deals with the furniture and architecture of that courtyard. Around the tabernacle. So let's step out this morning outside of the Holy of Holies and first step into that room just outside of it, known as the Holy Place. And let's see what we have there. The first piece of furniture we find is this table for bread. Verses ten through sixteen, he made the table of acacia wood. Two cubits was its length, a cubit its breadth, a cubit and a half its height. He overlaid it with pure gold, and made a moulding of gold around it, made a rim around it, hand breadth wide, and made a moulding of gold around the rim. He cast for it four rings of gold, and fastened the rings to the four corners of its four legs. Close to the frame were the rings, as holders for the poles to carry the table, He made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table. He made the vessels of pure gold that were to be on the table, its plates and dishes for incense, and its bowls and flagons for which to pour drink offerings. So what's what's going on here? Well we know from Leviticus 24 That once a week, every week, the priests would bake 12 loaves of bread Twelve loaves representing the twelve tribes of Israel. And on the Sabbath day they would set the fresh loaves of bread on the table in the presence of God. And then toward the end of the week they would eat the bread Why? Well, in one sense, the bread was teaching the people that God was their provider. In other words, it was God who gave the Israelites grain and provided good weather for bountiful harvests, and therefore it was God who allowed his people to eat and be sustained by the goodness. of bread. And so the bread was offered up to God as a thanksgiving. But then, because God provides the bread for them to eat, God isn't a God who actually gets hungry, I hope we remember. He's God. Therefore the priests would eat, and they would enjoy the goodness of the bread in the presence of the Lord Interesting, Leviticus 24 describes the bread as signifying God's covenant people forever, or his covenant with his people forever. In other words, the bread, when eaten, signified the fellowship and the communion the people had with God in a special way. God would always be their people and they would always belong to God. It was a meal which reminded the people that they were saved by God, to be in covenant communion with God. And of course, this table. Just like the ark points ultimately to Jesus Christ. It's not for nothing. John 6, verse 35. Jesus couldn't be clearer. I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never hunger. In other words, how does God provide for us now? How does he communicate again this covenant to his people forever? He does so ultimately through Christ, who is the bread of life. And now, by faith in him and through our union in him, we all partake of a greater communion and fellowship with God. Revelation chapter 3, verse 20, Jesus is speaking to every true church when he says this: if anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him, and he with me. We have communion with God now in Christ. Of course, that's what we do every Lord's Day. We sit and we eat together the Lord's Supper. We're not only being reminded that we are sons of God through the meal. We're actually being sustained in our faith by the meal. Why? Because we're sustained by Jesus, who is our true bread. From heaven, signs signifying the greater reality by which we are made one with God forever. Well, the next piece of furniture we see is the uh lampstand. You can see it there in verses 17 through 22. And you'll notice that the lampstand, though it's designed to produce light, that's what lampstands do, it's also designed to look like a tree, a tree of light. He also made the lampstand of pure gold, he made the lampstand of hamward work, its base, its stem, its cups, its calyxes, and its flowers were of one piece with it, and there were six branches going out of its sides. Three branches out of one side, three branches on the other. And the cups were made like almond blossoms with calyx and flower on one branch and almond blossoms and flowers throughout. Remember the whole tabernacle was covered in curtains, thick curtains, and therefore it would have been pitch black once you walked inside of it. And so here God, he plants a tree of light designed out of pure gold, which within the darkness of God's presence would have produced a glowing light. A light that in fact never went out. And again, just like the ark and just like with the table of bread, so too with the lampstand, this effulgent tree of life and light, we are meant to see the true light of the world. Which is Jesus Christ. And so in John chapter 1, verses 4 and 9, we get this: In him that is in Jesus Christ was life, and the life was the light of men. The true light, which gives life to everyone, was coming into the world. Or how about John 8 verse 12? I am the light. And the light of the world, and whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. The third piece of furniture we see in this holy place is the altar of incense Verses twenty-five through twenty-nine. He made the altar of incense of acacia wood. Its length was a cubit, its breadth was a cubit, it was a square, and two cubits was was its height, its horns were of one piece with it. He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, and around its sides and its horns, and he made a molding of gold around it. So on and so on. Verse 29, they made the holy anointing oil, also the pure fragrant incense, blended as by the perfumer. Here is where the priest would offer up incense to the Lord as the smoke filled the temple, giving it a kind of heavenly Feel and ethos. Why? Well, the incense represented the prayers of the people. This becomes more clear as we read the Psalms. King David in Psalm 141 said, O Lord, I call upon you, I pray to you. Hasten to me, give ear to my voice when I call to you. Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice This is confirmed in the New Testament as well, where in Revelation chapter 8 we see that incense represent, quote, the prayers of all the saints. So the altar of incense was Israel's sweet altar of prayer. There the priest Praised God for His holiness. He lifted up prayers of thanksgiving for His mercy, and He presented Israel's petitions before the throne of heaven as he lit the incense, and the smoke and perfume went up to heaven. And of course, like the ark, and like the table of bread, and like the lampstand, so too with the altar of incense, we are meant to cast our eyes forward to Jesus Christ, Jesus, who is our true altar. Of incense. Why? Well, because he prays for us. Non-stop, he prays for us before the Father And his prayers rise like incense before God's throne, day in and day out. The Bible says, Hebrews 7:25 that Jesus is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him since. Why? Because he always lives to make intercession for them. What is Jesus doing now? Filling heaven with the incense and aroma of his perfectly sweet prayers for you. Consider with me then who this God truly is. He is the God who provides bread and sustaining life. He is the God who gives true light even in our darkest moments. And he is the God who not only hears and answers our prayers, but in the person of the Son of God actually prays for us day in and day out nonstop. Guys, Jesus Christ is everything we could ever need. Phil Riken says it this way in his commentary. He is the blood sacrifice for all our sins. He is the living bread for all our hunger He is the friend at the table for all our loneliness. He is the lampstand of life in all our darkness. He is the prayer of intercession in our desperate troubles. I agree. Do you know and have you given your life to this Jesus Christ? He's our Savior. He is our King. He is our bridegroom, our perfect elder brother, our resurrection and eternal destiny. He is the source. of true joy and everlasting peace and unending security. Jesus will never lose his sheep. He will never cast away those whom he's died for. And even now he is preparing a place for you in glory If you are a Christian, Jesus has you on his mind. And in his preparation And in his praying and in his persevering grace over your soul, dear brother or sister, I pray that Jesus would be more and more on your mind and on your heart. Forgive us, Lord, for being so easily distracted with the stupidity of our sins. Pray, Lord, you would give us Jesus Christ. We need, we want Jesus to be the all-captivating, all-consuming thought and desire of our hearts and minds. Well, we move now from the holy place and we step out into the sunlight of this courtyard surrounded on its perimeter by a linen fabric fence described in chapter 38. You can see the details there in verses 9 through 17. This was a beautiful fence with costly adornment, which begs the question, we've asked this question before, where did these slaves get all of this bronze and silver and gold? And we know the answer. By God's grace, they were able to plunder the Egyptians as they left. The the Egyptians themselves giving to the Israelites all these precious and expensive materials, and then the Israelites in turn freely offering it all back up to God, the God who rescued them. 1 Corinthians 4, 7. Paul's point there is so applicable here. What do you have that you did not receive? If you did receive it, why do you boast of you as if you did not receive it? Or in this instance, why do you hoard it as if you did not receive it first from God? In other words, it's not wrong to see here a great example of giving, truly sacrificial giving in service to God and to the help and support of the ministry of the worship. Of God. Perhaps the most beautiful note of this is found in verse 8, where it tells us what went into the building of the bronze basin. We'll look at that a little bit more. a bit. But in verse 8, there's this this curious little note. He made the basin of bronze and it's a stand of bronze. From the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered in the entrance of the tent of meeting. First, notice that there were women ministering at the entrance to the tabernacle Greeters, perhaps. Or perhaps they're offering up prayers. We don't know. The priesthood was reserved for particular men, but that doesn't mean there was nothing for the women to do They ministered near the entrance. But secondly, what are we to make of these mirrors that they had? That went into the building of the Bronze Basin. Well, it's probably this. These mirrors that they owned almost certainly came from Egypt. John Currid, in his excellent commentary, says Egypt was well known in antiquity for making cosmetic objects, in particular these mirrors. Egyptian mirrors consisted of either cast or hammered metal discs, almost always in an elliptical shape, made mostly of either copper or bronze. And they were polished into a radiant sheen that could reflect your image. Then they were inserted into a handle made of wood or ivory or some stone. I think to understand what happens next, imagine place yourself, living your whole life in the degradation of slavery. Imagine never having anything to call your own, never possessing anything of beauty, never owning anything nice in comparison to those blue-blood Egyptian mistress. With all their finery and cosmetics. Imagine what it would have been like if you were an Israelite slave to an Egyptian aristocrat lady. Having to help make another woman beautiful day after day without ever so much as owning a mirror to see your own face. You've never seen your own reflection. Now imagine how the women of Israel felt that night they left Egypt. When the Egyptians put all kinds of treasures into their hands, including those beautiful mirrors. Imagine the buzz of excitement as the women showed one another what their mistresses had given them. Finally they could see how they looked. And with these mirrors, they could give attention and and perhaps a little bit more care to how they looked. But then came the day when Moses invited the Israelites to bring their gifts for the tabernacle. We need gold, we need silver, we need bronze. The people went home to see what they had to offer. And somewhere in Israel, there was a woman who looked around her tent and realized that her mirror was made of bronze. And in an instant, her mind was made up She would offer it to the Lord. Maybe she had some second thoughts, but in her heart she knew that was what God wanted her to give. She talked it over with one or two of her closest friends. Soon there was a community of women who together decided to give up their mirrors for God. For some, it must have been a painful sacrifice. No doubt many women were tempted to keep their mirrors. Some of them probably did. After all, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look beautiful. But to the praise of God. Some women were willing to make the sacrifice. Presumably, these women, they cared how they looked. Most people do. Why else would they have mirrors? But they were not mastered. By the vanity of their own outward appearance. In other words, if we could put it this way, they had caught a glimpse of a beauty that was infinitely more desirable than their own. Rather than idolizing their own appearance and exalting their own glory, they wanted to see God glorified. They wanted him to be seen in all of his beauty and not make them so. the center of attention. In other words, I think there was truly some beautiful sacrifice involved in the kind of giving. we see here. This wasn't like tithing through PayPal. This cost them something. And honestly, that's the kind of giving the Lord usually draws out from us. Especially since Christ. Giving which reflects the kind of given shown by our Lord, giving himself entirely in service to God and God's people and not making much of ourselves. Now, of course, this would be the point in the sermon where I, your pastor, turn on the heat and begin to encourage you to be that kind of giving people, so on and so forth. Honestly, I feel like this church already is, and I'm incredibly grateful for it. But I want to make a different kind of application here. One I think the text actually forces us to make. And it's this Exodus 38 ends with an inventory of all the treasures that the people brought. We see an exact accounting of the gold. That was given. Look in verse 21 through 24. Verse 24 reads: All the gold that was used for the work and all the construction of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering, was 29 talents and 730 shekels by the shekel of the sanctuary. And then in verses 25 through 28, we see an exact accounting of all the silver that was given to the tabernacle The silver from those of the congregation who were recorded was a hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels by the shekel of the sanctuary. And then in verses 29 through 31 we get an exact accounting of all the bronze that was given. 70 talents, 2,400 shekels. This was a lot of treasure given. More than a ton of gold, more than three tons of silver, and two tons of bronze And yes, the Bible records this for us to make sure we know how lavish and beautiful God's tabernacle really was. But we should not apply this passage to us to remind us about that. I think we should do it to remind us how careful God's people should be when keeping track of God's money and what God's people give. And offer to the Lord. The end of this chapter honestly reads like a financial statement: an accounting of how much was given, how it was used, where it came from, where it went in the tabernacle. In other words, the application we want to make here is not so much that God calls us to give, we know that, but that God also calls us to be very precise and very good stewards over all of God's. Resources. We don't play fast and loose with money. Especially money entrusted to Christ's church. Every penny given to God's work here at Greenboat Baptist Church must be accounted for. Open for all eyes to be able to see and say, what's that? Why did it go there? Records kept, open and available, access to every penny and an ever-growing trust that what you give in support of your ministry here at GBC is stewarded well and glory. So what's the application? Here's one very simple one. Pray for the treasurer. Pray for the elders. Pray for the deacon of benevolence. Pray for the secretary. Pray for the deacons who count money on Sunday afternoons. Money is, history tells us this, a big temptation for a lot of people. Pray for all these folks that there is no temptation, that they don't care at all, and all they care about is honoring God, that they fear God more than anything else. Well, we began with three pieces of furniture, the table of bread, the lampstand, the altar of Incense and now I want to end with three more pieces. Two pieces of furniture and one piece of architecture. You'll see in the courtyard in verse one through eight, two pieces of furniture. There's a bronze altar and And then in verse 8, that bronze basin. If you were walking into the tabernacle courtyard from the outside in. You would first see the altar, and then as you move closer to the tabernacle, then you would see that basin. I think that order is intentional. Why? Well, first, the altar greeted you as soon as you walked into the courtyard as an instant reminder that you are entering holy ground. You, an unholy wretch, leaving your unholy world out there, and now entering the first level of God's holy heaven on earth And the first thing required of you is sacrifice. But here's the thing Because the people were continuously sinful, the altar was continuously burning to make continuous sacrifice We read in Leviticus 6 that the fire on the altar should never go out, so as to make continual peace offerings to the Lord And so the people, all the people, would bring lambs and calves and rams, and give them to the priests, and the priests would then slaughter those animals and and sprinkle the blood, and then offer the fat of the animal for that family up to the Lord, week after week. Month after month, year after year, generation after generation, the altar was always ablaze. The altar then was God's way of reminding the people that though their sin was odious to God, and therefore demanded judgment on them by God, nonetheless God provided a way for them. Substitutionary atonement. The soul and life of a beast for the soul and life of the transgressor. God would accept even for just a moment. moment, the life of the substitute in place, in place of the life of a sinner. Sin demands death. And apparently, God will accept a sacrifice, this substitutionary sacrifice. And again, just like the ark, and and just like the table of bread, and just like the lampstand and the altar of sin incense, so too is this altar. The bronze altar ultimately pointed past itself to something more permanent, someone more perfect, Jesus Christ. whose atoning sacrifice, himself the substitute, would forever and permanently deal with our sin. Children, finally, question number one this morning. Asks this, who is the perfect sacrifice to save me from my sins? Answer? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Here the bronze altar reminds us, just as it would have reminded the Israelites, we are not good enough in and of ourselves to approach and come near to our God. We don't have it. We're bad. We're all sinners, and the debt owed for our sin is death. But praise God that he gave his perfect son to die that death for you. But perhaps you might be tempted to think, well look. Pastor, I know I'm a sinner. I'm okay with that. I don't necessarily want to draw near to God. I have no desire to come near to God. Dear friend, please don't be so naive. You cannot ultimately hide from your creator. Death will find us. It will find us all. And death will bring us to our Creator and our Judge. Death is not the ultimate break from reality. Death is not our final escape from the prison of this world. And death is not the beginning of non-existence. We are created in God's image. And as such we are created with immortal souls, each soul accountable to our immortal creator, stamped as we are with his immortal image. Death is not our final break from God, it is our final reckoning. Death will make you deal with God. And unless you have dealt with Jesus Christ, unless you have given your life to him Been covered by him and his death for you. Well, God will deal with you. You must judge sin, and you will do so eternally and unendingly. Perhaps you're here and you're thinking, Pastor, I do believe in Jesus. I'm grateful for the altar of his death upon the cross for me. But I've got to be honest. Sin still sticks to me like you couldn't imagine. I believe, I do, but oh, my life still stinks with the odious reek of my sin and waywardness. What do you notice the other piece of furniture in the courtyard? Verse 8. He made the basin of bronze and its stand of bronze from the mirrors of the ministering women who ministered in the entrance of the tent meeting Here was where the priests, after all the bloody work of offering up sacrifices for sin, Would go and wash off. Interesting, isn't it? Made as it was from bronze mirrors, as they peered in, and they would see their bloody mess figures back in the reflection and then washed away. And there, there the image of God began to shine again as they cleansed the themselves. They needed to be washed by water. Interestingly, isn't this how the Exodus unfolded in the first place? Remember? The sin of Israel atoned for with the Passover Lamb, and then almost immediately after, Israel led through the cleansing waters of the Red Sea. Do you see? First atonement and then cleansing. And that's the order of the two furniture pieces. First the bronze altar and then the bronze basin. If I could put it this way, first is your need for justification before you begin to deal with your sanctification. But if you are justified, that is, you are counted just and right before God because of Jesus' death for you, then know this: God will sanctify you. He will begin to cleanse you from your sin. He must. For who can come into his holy presence while still filthy in his own sin? In other words, friends, I think we ought to find encouragement in this rather than guilt. A lot of us, when we talk about this, a lot of us find guilt in this Because we're so aware of how sinful and wretched we really are. In other words, we want to hear things like, oh, don't worry, you'll always deal with your sin. We're never totally cleansed until glory. Sanctification is a slow process, not an instant cleansing. We've all got a lot of scrubbing to do. And sure, yes, while all of that is true It shouldn't be the attitude by which we approach this great truth. We ought to come to this biblical truth with deep gratitude and an understanding that if I come to Jesus, he will cleanse me. He will wash me clean so that I can enter into heaven, into his presence, and not face the eternal judgment of my soul in hell, because objectively standing though I am counted righteous, I am right now still. A sinner. Praise God for Jesus. Jesus cleanses sin. Just as sure as Jesus' death on the cross is a perfect and all-sufficient sacrifice for your sin, in Jesus you will be justified. So too it must be that in Jesus you will be sanctified. He cannot but cleanse everyone for whom he died Children, the second question in your bulletin this morning asks this. How do I get rid of my sin? How do I get rid of my sin? And here the answer is just the same. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. There is cleansing as soon as we believe in Jesus. Titus chapter 3, verse 5. He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness. You can't cleanse yourself. but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit This is part of the symbolism of baptism, isn't it, where the water signifies the washing and cleansing we have only in Jesus? Being buried into his death with him and resurrected with new cleansed life. Jesus said to Peter, we read this earlier today in John 13, 8, if I do not wash you, you have no share with me. But even after our first cleansing, yes, we all have more sin to be cleansed of. All of us, even now, like the Old Testament priests, life was messy and blurry. Bloody. Praise God, that bronze basin was always there and ever filled with fresh water, and so it is for us We return to Jesus day after day and night after night. We we we we lay our heads on our pillows and we think back over the day we've just had and yes we're we're grateful for some of what God has done for us, but inevitably we begin to remember The sins that we've committed. Some of those sins just happened out of nowhere. Some of those sins we dove right into. We chose it. And so what do we do? We confess. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And 1 John 1:9. to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Jesus is always there, always ready to accept your sin-stained hands and to better than a bronze basin. His washing, his cleansing isn't only skin deep, his cleansing goes to the heart. As we close, two pieces of furniture, now the altar in the basin, now one last piece of architecture. Look at verses 18 19 and 20. There's a screen there. The entire fence is white linen, but this this screen is different. Blues and purples and reds. It's the entranceway into the courtyard. And therefore the entranceway into the whole tabernacle. This this screen was the doorway into God's house. In other words, there was only one way to enter. No back door. No side entrance You couldn't climb over the fence. If people wanted to meet with God, they had to go through this one entrance. Well, like the ark, and like the bread table, and like the lampstand, and the altar of incense, and the bronze bowl altar and the bronze basin, so too does this point This is why Jesus warns everyone, doesn't he? Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy, that leads to destruction. Those who enter by it are many, but the gate is narrow. And the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. There's no other way to God. This is why Jesus tells us, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved This is why Jesus tells us, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except by me. Children, your last question this morning asks this. If Jesus is the sacrifice for my sin. And if Jesus is the cleansing for my sin, how do I find Jesus And the answer here is the same as all the other answers. Jesus Christ. I know that sounds a bit odd, but I think It's the right biblical answer. Here's the good news. Jesus is God, and you can always pray to God. Whenever. And so when you pray to God, you are praying to Jesus, who is the Son of God. And so the answer to the question, how do I find Jesus? Is go to Jesus. Pray, and he will answer you. Pray to him, and you will have found him. This is exactly why Jesus teaches in his Sermon on the Mount. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, it will be opened. If the holy of holies is being in the presence of God, And here, Jesus is the entrance into that holy of holies. Oh, may we go to Jesus. with everything we have and ask him plead with him to bring us in to know his sacrifice for us on the altar To know the cleansing that he gives us in the basin of his hands. To step in and see the light and the life and the sustenance he gives us. And there. And the holy of holies of heaven. Be in his presence forevermore. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let us pray together. Father, we praise you that though in types and shadows we can see Christ shining through to us. In every corner of the Old Testament. And that the New Testament simply clarifies what was already there. We praise you that your plans have never changed. You have made no mistakes. You have not needed to adjust Uh for our failures or for your own. But Lord, your planning is perfect. And always brings about what you desire. Lord, we praise you that we can see the gift of Christ through the bread. That it stood as a reminder to the people of Israel that you indeed provide for them. That it still stands as a reminder to us that you provide for all of our needs. But Lord, we praise you that it reminds us that you not only provide for our physical needs, but for our spiritual needs. As we feed on Christ, we praise you that you put the lampstand to point to the light that would come into the world And yet, Lord, we praise you that while we once sat in darkness, your light came to us. That Christ has shown forth upon us and has raised us up. Lord, we think of the altar of incense The prayers that they poured out before you. And we praise you that just as you heard their prayers We have confidence that you will indeed hear our prayers. We praise you that we do not need to bring bulls and goats As sacrifices and wash ourselves in the basin as the children of Israel. But because of the blood of Christ, we have already been washed clean That we can come before you with boldness and lay our requests before you. And that we have Christ as our high priest. Who is blameless, sinless, who lays before you night and day requests, pleading on our behalf Lord, we praise you that He not only acts as our priest by Praying on our behalf, but also because he is our sacrifice who washed us clean. And we praise you for all these things in his name.

