Speaker 1
Seven Isaiah Seven Just coming off a week of Thanksgiving, remembering our Puritan forefathers who committed an entire week of worship and feast and fellowship and thanksgiving to our Lord. And uh just reminded this morning how very Puritan we are. Uh it's a bit cold We're singing a cappella, singing the Psalms. Friends, we are worshiping like we did 200, 300 years ago. Isaiah 7 I'm going to read this morning the entirety of chapter 7 and chapter 8. So Isaiah 7. 1 to chapter 8, verse 22. We are Setting up what will be a more detailed look at the coming of Christ's prophecy in Isaiah 9. But this morning we look at Isaiah 7 and 8. Here now the reading of God's word. In the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah. Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pikah the son of Ramaliah, the king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it When the house of David was told, Syria is in league with Ephraim, the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. And the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shia Jashub, your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field, and say to him, Be careful. Be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smouldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Romalia Because Syria with Ephraim and the son of Ramaliah has devised evil against you, saying, Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabiel as king in the midst of it. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is resin. And within sixty-five years Ephraim will be shattered from being a people, and the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Ramaliah, if you are not firm in faith. You will not be firm at all. Again, the Lord spoke to Ahaz: Ask a sign of the Lord your God. Let it be as deep as Sheol or high as heaven. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test. And he said, Hear then, O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted The Lord will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, the king of Assyria. In that day, the Lord will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines and in the clefts of the rocks and on the thorn bushes and on all the pastures. In that day the Lord will shave with a razor. That is hired behind uh beyond the river, that with the king of Assyria, the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also. In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep, and because of the abundance of milk that they give he will eat curds, for every one who is left in the land will eat curds and honey. In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines with a thousand shekels of silver will become briars and thorns. With bow and arrows a man will come here. for all the land will be briars and thorns. And as for all the hills that used to be hoed with a hoe, you will not come there for fear of briars and thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose, and where sheep tread. Then the Lord said to me, Take a large tablet and write on it common characters belonging to Maher Shalal Hashbaz. And I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of uh uh Jerobiah that to attest for me. And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived, and bore a son. And the Lord said to me, Call his name Maher Shalal Hashbaz For before the boy knows how to cry, my mother or my father, or my mother, the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria The Lord spoke to me again, because this people has refused the waters of Shilua that flow gently, and rejoice over resin and the son of Ramalia. Therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the river, mighty and many, the king of Assyria in all his glory, and it will rise over all its channels, and go over all its banks, and it will sweep on into Judah. It will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck, and its outspread wings will fly the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel. Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered. Give ear all you far countries, strap on your armor and be shattered, strap on your armor and be shattered. Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is with us. For the Lord spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warn me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy, and do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread But the Lord of hosts, him you shall honor as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread, and he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel A trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and many shall stumble on it, they shall fall and be broken, they shall be snared and taken Bind up the testimony. Seal the teaching among my disciples. I will wait for the Lord who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portance in Israel from the Lord of hosts who dwells on Mount Zion And when they say to you, inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter, should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living? To the teaching and to the testimony. If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. They will pass through the land, greatly distressed. and hungry, and when they are hungry they will be enraged, and will speak contemptuously against their king and their God, and turn their faces upward, and they will look to the earth, but behold, distress And darkness, the gloom of anguish, and they will be thrust into thick darkness. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers The flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do thank you this morning for your word to us. And Lord, we pray that you would help us now to bind up this testimony and seal this teaching amongst us, your disciples. May Christ be seen. May Christ be beheld. May Christ be honored and worshipped. Because of this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We have entered into what has been traditionally known as the Advent Season. A time where Christians look with particular joy at the first coming of our Savior, the word advent, the Latin adventus, literally meaning arrival or coming. The great truth of Christianity is that God has not left us to our dire condition of sinful decay and death. But he has entered into our world. God sent his son, who became a man, born of a virgin, the man we know to history as Jesus Christ. And in his first arrival, he came to live and to die so that we might through his death be freed from the judgment we deserve. And then, again, known to history, he resurrected from the grave, defeating death and inaugurating new life in all those who believe in him. Ending within us the decay of sin that has plagued our world since the fall of Adam. Of course, Jesus' first arrival was not his last. There will be a second Advent where he will come again. This next time not as a babe in an obscure manger uh uh on a dark cold night But he will come as the living king of kings returning from the glory of heaven and shining brighter than a thousand suns. This morning, and for the next month, as we turn our attention to that first Advent, we are leaving the events of the book of Exodus and jumping forward roughly 700 years Later to a prophecy written by Isaiah. This is a time when Israel has decayed into abject moral failure. The country is split into two countries now. Judah in the south, whose kings were the descendants of David. And then Israel in the north, made up of the ten tribes in the north. So Israel is in the north. It's also known by the nickname of Ephraim. You've seen that name Ephraim in this text. That's Israel in the north. And then in southern Judah, there's still this descendant of David on the throne. That's King Ahaz that we read about And so this morning we pick up with that story, Ahaz's story, and God's message to him through the prophet Isaiah. Now just some quick context here. Ahaz is a king preoccupied with keeping his political power. That's what he loves Israel in the north under King Pekka has just made an alliance with Syria and their king. So Israel now joined with Syria and their king, King Rezin. And they're pressuring Ahaz to join their alliance, but Ahaz refuses. So what do Israel and Syria in the north decide to do? They decide to invade. If you won't join us, then we'll conquer you. We'll put our own puppet king in your place, a guy that we read about known as the son of Tabiel. And the result of all this? Well, Ahaz feels absolutely frightened. Fear has set in. And let's be frank, his fear isn't wrongly placed. The issue, of course. Which is true of all of us. The issue is not so much the presence of fear, the issue is what we do with that fear. Where do we turn? What is our response in a fallen world where opposing forces seem to overwhelm us? Well, it should be no surprise that Ahaz, up to this point, has not shown himself to be the kind of man, the kind of king that would respond to fear in a godly way. Despite being the descendant of King David, who by and large did respond to fear rightly, and just read the Psalms if you want evidence of that. Ahaz was a man whose heart had been devoted to everything and anything but God. He promoted idolatry. He closed the temple worship. He introduced pagan altars. And we're even told in 2 Kings 16 that he sacrificed his own son as a child sacrifice, a burnt offering. To the false God, the demon Molech. This was not a king after God's own heart His plan, in light of the threat from Israel and Syria pressing down now from the north, was to turn to a further nation. More powerful than all of them combined, he would send an emissary to the foreign nation of Assyria. So there's close Syria, but he sends an emissary to Assyria And uh he gives them treasure from out of the very temple and he asks for their protection. In other words. Rather than turning to God, Ahaz will turn to a power that's more immediate, something more practical in his mind. Rather than trusting in the Lord, he will trust in politics. He will trust in military might and in the things that he can see here and now. This is the context that Isaiah the prophet steps into. Our passage this morning breaks down into roughly three sections. First chapter 7, verses 1 through 12. Where we are faced with a decision of either fear or faith Secondly, chapter 7, verses 13, through to chapter 8, verse 10, where we are confronted with divine judgment. And then third, in chapter 8, verses 11 through 22, we are offered, if ever so dimly, the prospect of deliverance. So there's our passage, a decision, and then divine judgment, and finally a deliverance I want you to catch the flow of these two chapters. Think about the storyline. In light of the coming dark clouds of conquest and political turmoil. The word of God will be preached to both King Ahaz and to his people, and they must make a decision. Making the wrong decision will bring divine judgment. Still, a remnant of faithful believers will find deliverance. They will cling by faith and with hope. Upon a coming light, a child sent by God who will also be a strong rock, the ultimate deliverer of those who have faith. I think once we get these two chapters, then we can properly focus in on the coming weeks, upon the first seven verses of chapter 9, and Lord willing, behold the light and the glory of the coming of the Son of God. So first, this decision that Ahaz is faced with, chapter 17, verses 1 and 2. In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezan the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Ramalia, the king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it. But they could not yet mount an attack. When the house of David was told, Syria is in league with Ephraim, the heart of Ahaz. And the heart of his people shook as trees of the forest shake before the wind. Now again. Just to be fair, this is a frightening prospect. Ahazosphere isn't entirely misplaced, is it Just imagine if there were forces, significant forces, placed around our borders with the intent to attack and undermine and take control of our nation, we would be rightly afraid And so as the news spread and the major news channels broadcast the looming threat of invasion, all the people within Jerusalem began to shake in fear. Listen, friends. Fear itself is no sin. Fear arises as a God-designed response to real threats. Dad's putting up Christmas lights this season as they climb to the top of the ladder rightly feel fear at the height. And say, hey, kids, wife, please hold the ladder so I don't fall. That's a right response. Get some sturdiness underneath the ladder. The issue always is when fear arises, where do you turn? In whom do you trust when fear bubbles up? Or to put it another way, where does your ultimate fear reside? In God? Or in other things? Fear, much like love, can be either rightly ordered or entirely disordered. Just like it is with love, you can also fear some things, or fear people, or fear events that exalt that thing or that person or event higher than it should be. Ahaz and the people belong uh and the people who belong to God uh they do belong to God, and so they must be preeminently loving God, but also pre-eminently fearing. God. But the question is, will they? That's their decision. Oftentimes the way in which we act on our fears shows where our love ultimately lies, doesn't it? A father might rightly fear death because he loves his life, but because he loves his family and fears their harm, Fears losing them, he will rightly and courageously face the fear of death in order to protect his greater love of his family. A father who does not courageously stand up in the face of death to protect his family shows that he has a disordered love and disordered fears. Here Isaiah brings this truth to bear on Ahaz. Look at verse 3. And the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Sher, Jeshub, your son. At the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field, there's two items to note here in this verse. First, Isaiah is to go meet Ahaz with his son. Shir Jeshu, a name which means a remnant will return. That's always been God's promise to his people. He will always keep a faithful remnant. A people who, in being faithful, who ultimately fear God over anything else, will be kept by God. Think about that. The promise of God's word is here, in a sense, made flesh, incarnate, in the person of Isaiah's son. An incarnate reminder of God's promise. God will keep a remnant. Fear him. The second item to note is where Isaiah and Shear Jeshub are to meet Ahaz. And they're to meet at the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field. This was the only water supply into Jerusalem. uh an overground aqueduct, which, because it was exposed and came into the city from outside the walls, was therefore, from a military point of view, a huge vulnerability to the people inside Jerusalem. Enemy forces could easily get control of it from the outside and stop water from coming into the people, thus cutting off their life support. But again. Jerusalem was God's city. He picked it and he put his people there. He knew the vulnerabilities already. In fact, it could be that he allowed this particular vulnerability just so the people themselves would have to trust in God, relying on Him for their protection. I think all of this would have been, should have been, a stark reminder to Ahaz Don't fear Israel and Syria. Fear God. He's allowed you to be in this position. He knows all the elements and all the details. Put your faith in the God who will protect you, his remnant. Verse 4 and following. Say to him, be careful, be quiet, do not fear. And do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands and the fierce anger of Rezin and Siri and the son of Romalia. Because Syria with Ephraim and the son of Ramaliah have devised evil against you, saying, Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabial as king in the midst of it. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand. And it shall not come to pass. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is resin, and within 65 years Ephraim will be shattered from being a people. And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Romalia. But here it is, here's the point of application, here's the decision. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all. There it is. There's God's word to Ahaz and to the people, the decision they need to make. Will they respond to their fear with faith? Specifically faith in God and in his promises, or will they take matters into their own hands? And let's be clear about this This is always the decision God's people must make. How often are we tempted to be practical and rely on our so-called common sense? As opposed and over and against being faithful and in the face of real danger, turn instead to the Lord. Do we turn to fix the solution before we pray? Or do we go and pray before we work on fixing the solution? Practical people, so they would claim. We have to live in a real world where political astuteness and economic shrewdness or military muscle is what ultimately counts Practical people don't have much time for what seems to them to be religious fairy tales. The call to faithfulness, the The call to ground yourself more in the Word of God sounds to them like burying your head in the sand and blindly hoping through some weird, foolish optimism, that everything will work out in the end. But again, the facts matter. Is God God? Has he spoken? Has he shown himself faithful in the past? If he has, well then it's the practical person who is denying reality and not living in the real world. A world guided entirely by the sovereign hand of our ever-present Creator. This is what Isaiah is reminding Ahaz of. If you're not firm in faith, Ahaz, you will not be firm at all. There's a strong rhyme here in the original Hebrew that makes the decision even more stark. If your trust won't abide, you'll be thrust aside. This is one fun way I like to translate it. If you can't believe, you'll be deceived. Children, the first question in your bulletin asks this morning, who is the most faithful person I can trust? Who is the most faithful person I can trust? And the answer is God. And I pray you know him. I know you know about God. I know you've heard about God and you've been taught about God, but I do pray that you know Him and know His faithfulness. And that he be that source of comfort and trust that you go to in prayer the rest of your lives. There's no one more faithful than God. There is no more solid place our trust and reliance can be than upon God And not only because he is omnipotent in his power and he has an ability to do all things, but also because he is truth itself. There is no deception in God. All truth coheres in God. Everything that he says is true, and therefore everything that he promises is sure. For God to not follow through on what He has promised would be for God to cease to be God, and therefore all of reality and existence would unravel. It's impossible. And therefore, God is the most faithful being in whom we can have absolute trust. Here, God offers to Ahaz. A taste of his solid faithfulness. Verse 10 and 11. The Lord spoke to Ahaz. Ask a sign of the Lord your God, let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven. Ahaz, I want you to trust me. Ask me for a sign. Anything And no matter how wild a sign it is, something higher than the heavens or deeper than Sheol itself, I can do it. I'm God. I want you to taste and believe. I want you to know my faithfulness. How does Ahaz respond? This is a wild response. He responds with religious unbelief. Verse 12. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test. This was the moment of decision. The moment to trust in God. And what does he do? He does exactly what the devil does. He quotes the Bible to further fuel his unbelief. And just by and by, it is possible to use church. It is possible To use the Bible and to use religious things to your own demise and remain stubbornly unfaithful. That's Ahaz here. He's made his decision. In the face of fear, he will not act in faith upon God, but will turn instead to the ways of the world. And so now God utters a devastating decree of coming destruction. Here, the next section in our passage, divine judgment, verses 13 and following. And he said, Here then, O house of David. Is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted The Lord will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as has not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, the king of Assyria. Friends, are you surprised to find this famous passage? A passage we know so well and quote almost every Christmas season. Right here, smack dab in the middle of God's divine judgment upon Ahaz. That's what this passage is. It's a sign, yes, but it is a sign of judgment. Whoever this Emmanuel is, verse 16 says that before he's even had time to grow up, that is, it'll happen quickly, the countries of Israel and Syria, the the two invading nations that Ahaz is so fearful of. They'll both be desolated. In other words, a prophetic sign is first here a sign that's pointing forward to Ahaz's immediate future. And that future is bleak, not only for Israel and Syria, but also for Ahaz and the people of Judah. First, First, for the people of Israel and Syria, look at verses 18 and 19. We'll just go through this quickly. God will use there in verses 18 and 19 that foreign power of Assyria to come and literally, like a swarm of bees and locusts. Come and cover the entirety of their land. There will be no square inch where the Assyrians are not. Verse 20. God will use Assyria to make the people naked and ashamed, even their beards and all their hair will be shaved away. And for Middle Eastern men, there's nothing more sacrilegious than that. Verse 21 and 22. Though it sounds positive, ooh, the people will all be eating curds and honey because of all the milk from all the cows. That's good. It's actually very dark. The coming Assyrians will so depopulate the people from the land that there will be more cows than people, and therefore an abundance of milk, so they can eat curds and honey. Hold on to that thought here. I want you to keep verse 20 and 21 in your heads because we're going to come back to it. Moving on to verses 23 through 24 and the continued judgment, even the ground and the land that they live on will fight back and make life unlivable. In that day, every place where there used to be a thousand vines with a thousand shekels of silver will become briars and thorns. Okay? The idea here is total judgment. And you might be tempted to think at this point, Ahaz is thinking, oh, this is great. My plan, my very practical and common sense plan to help get help from Assyria, it's gonna work. Assyria will come and they'll annihilate Israel and Syria in the north And here, almost egging Ahaz on in this ignorance and unbelief, the Lord repeats this prophetic sign of a coming child. The Lord said to me, Take a large tablet, chapter 8, verse 1. Take a large tablet and write on it common characters belonging to Mahesh Shal Hashbaz. The name means speed, spoil, haste, booty. The idea that the coming judgment will be quick and the invading army will take away all the riches Verse 2, I will get reliable witnesses, Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jerobekiah, to attest for me. And I went to the prophetess. And she conceived and bore a son. This is likely his wife, Isaiah's wife. Then the Lord said to me, Call his name Maher Shallah Hashbaz For before the boy knows how to cry, my father or my mother, the wealth of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria. In other words, if this second name is just another name to describe the first child, Get the math with me here. If the second name is just another name to describe the first child, so that what we're reading here is that the child who will be born to a virgin has two names. The first name, Emmanuel, and the second name, Maher Shalah Hashbaz. Then the implication is this: God will come, Emmanuel. God with us. God will be with you. He will come, but he will be with you in judgment. And when he comes to be with you, he will bring and use Assyria to totally wipe you out. You too, Ahaz. Not just Israel and Syria, but you and Judah as well. Look at verses 5 through 10. The Lord spoke to me again. Because this people, that is the people of Ahaz and the people of Judah, because this people has refused the waters of Shiloh that flow gently. and rejoice you should read there are triggered by or are animated by Rezin and the son of Romalia. Therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the river. That is The Euphrates River where Assyria is coming from. The waters will be mighty and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory, and it will rise over all of its channels and go over all of its banks, and it will s Sweep into Judah, it will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck and the breadth of your land. In other words, God will use Assyria. Much like he used the flood in Noah's day, much like he used the Red Sea to drown the Egyptians, here he will flood Judah with Assyrians. Therefore, judgment. Verse 9: Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered. Give ear all you far countries. Strap on your armor and be shattered. Strap on your armor and be shattered. Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is With us, Emmanuel. This is a devastating blow to Ahaz's faithless plan. The very nation he takes counsel with, Assyria, the very power Ahaz put his trust in to protect him, it will all backfire horribly Assyria will come and they will destroy Ahaz's enemies. Great, amen. But they will also shatter and destroy Ahaz and all the people of Judah too. And again, why Look at the very last words of verse 10. In the Hebrew, literally, Emmanuel. God with us. God will be with them, and it won't be good. Dear friends, have you ever considered that outside of God's grace, the very presence of God in your midst might not be a presence of blessing? But rather the presence of wrath. That's the major thrust of this middle section here. Ahaz didn't trust in God. He didn't trust in the promises of God, in the grace offered to him by God, and as such, God gave him a sign. A child in this lifetime would be born, a child named Emmanuel, God with us. And the birth of that child would declare that God's patience with Ahaz and with Judah had ran out. The time is up. Divine judgment would fall. And just so I'm clear, just so we're all clear. That possibility is still true today. Now it's spanded not just to Ahaz and Judah, but to all the people in all nations. Outside the grace of God, and you by faith trusting in His promises, specifically the promises of His Son Jesus Christ. God will come again. And when he does, all we can expect is divine judgment outside of faith in God. Why do I say that this prophetic sign is of a child born to a virgin? Why do I say that this will be fulfilled in Ahaz's own lifetime? Two reasons. The first, the word used here translated as virgin, doesn't always mean a literal virgin. Hebrew has a word used for a literal virgin, and that's not the word used here. It could also be understood as a young woman of a marriageable age who, upon getting married and consummating that marriage, can give birth. So that's one way to understand this word. The second reason Is that we've already seen the judgment that's coming will be so destructive that the people will be eating what? Do you remember verses 20 and 21? They'll be eating curds and honey. Look at verses 14 and 15 again. What will this child born to the virgin eat when judgment comes? Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. He shall eat curds. And honey, when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. In other words, Isaiah is not necessarily looking forward a few hundred years to the coming of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. He's looking immediately forward to the next 20 to 30 years to a child whose birth will mark the coming judgment of Assyria. Nonetheless, this is Christmas, there is a seed of hope in this sign. Let me paint a broad picture so you can see what I mean. You go back to Genesis 3, where Satan inaugurates the fall of Adam and Eve that results in sin and brings about the usurpation of God's creation. The man and the woman were told, in the day that you eat of the tree, you will surely die. And so after they eat the fruit, and and then they hear the sound of God walking in the garden, they hide themselves because they think God's about to kill them. But to their surprise, the Lord comes and he says to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. Not only do they not die, but God actually promises more life. It's almost as if God speaks the promise of the sea. Coming descendant of the woman into the face of sin and death, this this decay that Satan has brought into the world. And God's response to the serpent and his rebellion is this: okay, watch this A baby is going to be born. And as you continue through Genesis, we see the Lord make this promise to Abraham. And this is what he says to Abraham. Here's how I'm going to retake the world. To your seed, I will give this land. Genesis 12, verse 7. But at this time Abraham is old. He he can't have children anymore. Neither he nor his wife. She's barren. But then by God's grace, they do. And Isaac gets born. And the story continues, and Isaac gets married to Rebekah, and just like Sarah, Rebekah is barren And the birth of the sons of Isaac, Jacob, and Esau, we see another promise. Life is continuing. God's promises keep on happening. And then Jacob marries Rachel, and Rachel is barren. So you keep having these births of these children in the face of the fall and in the face of barrenness. And it all keeps signaling that the Lord is with his people to deliver them. I'm going to give you a baby. I'm going to give you a baby. I'm going to give you a baby. And then eventually you come to the Exodus with the birth of Moses and and you get another installment of this. And in that context, it's not barrenness that's the obstacle, but But the threat, quite literally, the threat of the serpent through Pharaoh trying to kill all the children of those who are faithful on the earth. And you keep going. And eventually you get to Samson, born from his barren mother, another remarkable birth that signifies that God is with his people. And then you get Samuel born from Baron Hannah. And so what we begin to see develop is the significant series across the Old Testament, these remarkable births. That show us God is going to save his world. And he's doing it through baby and then a baby and then a baby. He's with his people to deliver them. And these burrs show that it is ultimately God who is sovereign over life and death. Sovereign in such a way that he is, well, think about it this way: he is reversing the barrenness of all these faithful women in a way he's showing a kind of precursor to the resurrection. He's bringing life out of death. And so when we finally come to Isaiah 7 verse 14, what we have here is yet another installment In a typological pattern, a pattern that again involves God's people being threatened, and God's answer to that threat yet again. Here's a baby, the birth of a baby, the seed of promise. And so when we read verse 14, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign, behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel. We read this verse first in its context. It will be a child born in Ahaz's day, and the birth of that child will, in context, spell utter doom for Israel and Judah. More likely than not, this is the child born to Isaiah and his prophet's wife. But because the birth of the child also fits in within this larger biblical theological trajectory of all those other gracious births that God has brought about. The birth of Seth. The birth of Isaac, the birth of Jacob, the birth of Moses, the birth of Samson, the birth of Samuel, and here the birth of Emmanuel Here, the child also offers a faint glimmer of light in what has otherwise been a dark, dark chapter. And it's there, in the darkness of the world, that Israel found herself hundreds of years later. Without a king, the Davidic dynasty is lost, Roman tyranny crushing the people. It's there where Matthew looks at Jesus, one who is literally born of an actual virgin, one who is literally God with us, Emmanuel, and one who in his birth would be the light of the world. And here's the wild thing. I think Isaiah knew this. I think Isaiah knew that there would come a future Emmanuel. through whom God would finally cast away all the darkness of this world. Isaiah is gonna go along to speak of that coming Messiah in great detail in chapter 9, and we'll spend the next Four weeks or so looking at those first seven verses in detail. But we also see in this this last part of our passage this morning. I think Isaiah's faith and this coming deliverer, Emmanuel. Look at chapter 8, verses 11 through to the end, where we get the hope of deliverance. Here the Lord turns his attention to Isaiah and those who are the disciples of Isaiah. Look what he says now to these faithful believers. Verse 11. Ver The Lord spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, Do not call conspiracy all that this people calls conspiracy. And do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread. If ever there was a verse for Christians in 2025. I think, in other words, Isaiah and all you who believe in God, all you who trust in God, like Isaiah does, don't respond to fear like Ahaz and the wider establishment has. You don't need to repost on Instagram and Facebook and X all the conspiracies that you think are gonna undermine our livelihoods. No, instead, verse 13. The Lord of hosts, him you shall honor as holy Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. And he will become a sanctuary. and a stone of offense, and a rock of stumbling, to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and many shall stumble on it, they shall fall and be broken, they shall be snared and taken. Here's what God is saying. Look, I am keeping to myself a remnant of faithful ones. Who are they? They are those who do not go along with the conspiratorial fears of the wider society. There are those who don't walk with the world but rather hide in the faithfulness of God. Why? Because they fear God And because they fear God supremely, they also hide in the faithfulness of God. He is to them, verse 14, a sanctuary and a rock. But here Isaiah uses a future tense to intimate that this rock of God will also be a stumbling stone to Israel and Jerusalem In other words, I think Isaiah sees here that God will be with us, Emmanuel. To those who are faithful, this Emmanuel will be a shelter of protection. And to those who are not faithful, he will be a rock and a stone of stumbling, and they'll be broken on it. And the dividing line, the thing that marks out the difference is that one decision, the way this whole passage began. Do you trust in God? Do you believe in this future Emmanuel, fearing him above all else? Or not? Children, question two in your bulletin this morning asks this: Who alone can protect me from the judgment of God? Who alone can protect me from the judgment of God? It's fascinating, isn't it? This isn't your answer, kids. Just hold on. Let me preach It's fascinating that the name Emmanuel first in the context means God's coming judgment, but then later in history for us means God's coming protection and shelter. If God's judgment is the thing that we ought to fear the most, then what is it that allows us to abate that fear? Where can we hide from God? And the only answer is in God. And so the question again: who alone can protect me from the judgment of God? The answer is Jesus, the rock. Jesus, the rock. It's not for nothing that the Apostle Peter also takes this passage, and in 1 Peter 2, he says this concerning Jesus Christ 1 Peter 2, as you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So, says Peter, the honors for you who believe. But for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. Peter reads Isaiah here and applies this to Jesus Christ. They stumble, says Peter, because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. But you. If you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. Dear brothers and sisters. Insofar as you have come to believe in Jesus, and by believing in Jesus, you are now growing in your fear of God and in your love of God Well, here's the great promise for you. You have come to be hidden in the rock of Christ An immovable rock. A sturdy and sure and faithful rock. You have come to inherit as your Savior, Jesus Emmanuel. And you have been transferred from out of darkness, the spiritual darkness of decay and death and sin, and now you are an inheritor of eternal light and life. Here then is your decision this morning. Will you believe in this gospel word? Will you believe in this testimony from God through Isaiah and now preached by me and given to you right now? If you will not believe, if you will leave here saying, oh, that was an interesting sermon, but I don't know. Just not for me. Look at Isaiah eight, verses twenty-one and twenty-two You will pass through the land, greatly distressed and hungry. And when you are hungry, you will be enraged and will speak contemptuously against your king and your God and turn your face upward. And you will look to the earth, but behold distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and you will be thrust into thick darkness. That is all that awaits those who do not turn to Jesus Christ and find rest in the rock of Emmanuel. But if you do believe in him, if you turn to trust and listen to this gospel testimony offered to you right now, look at verses 16 through 20. Bind up the testimony. Seal the teaching among my disciples. I will wait for the Lord, who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob But I will hope in him. Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts who dwells on Mount Zion. And when they say to you, Inquire of the mediums and the necromancers who chirp and mutter. Should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living? To the teaching and to the testimony? This Christmas Advent season, let us be a people who bind up the testimony of the gospel of Emmanuel. Let us be a people who increasingly inquire of the Lord. We pray not to dead saints. We use not dead means, but we go to the living Christ. And let us be a people who wait with hope for that day when Jesus, who is alive now. We pray to a living God. He will come back once more and finally consummate his kingdom of light, wherein we will enter and live with him forevermore. Praise be God. Let's pray

Speaker 2
O Lord, we know that just as the people of Judah feared the enemies and threats that surrounded them. We are so often surrounded by fears. Lord, we look at uh the politics of our world, of our country, and so often it feels like the world is falling apart around us. Or we look closer to home and we fear, how are we going to afford to live in this world? How will we pay for all the things? That we need, who will provide for us. Or perhaps just in our relationships. We know how those who we were once so close to have drifted away, or we have come out and fought with them. Oh Lord, we so often feel that we are afflicted in every way. Not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down but not destroyed. Lord, we pray that you would give us faith to believe these things. Faith that you will indeed protect us. Let us not trust in men who so often fail us. But Lord, let us trust in your providence and in your promises. What your word tells us that you will never leave us nor forsake us. Let us not trust in our own Frugality, our savings, our skills, our own wit. But Lord, let us run to your law and to your testimonies. Cling to those promises. Lord, we ask that you would make us firm in faith. For as we heard, if we are not firm in faith, we are not firm at all. Lord, we know that so often we, like Ahaz, put you to the test. We rebel against your commands. We doubt your word. We turn our backs to your statutes. O Lord, we know that like Ahaz, we are deserving of your wrath Of your declaration of judgment against us, that we too deserve judgment And yet, Lord, we ask that your presence would not be a sign of judgment against us, but rather a sign of your mercy. Not because of anything we have done, or that we deserve any of your mercy, but because of Christ, our high priest. Who shed his own blood for our sins, and who even now stands at your right hand pleading on our behalf. He is the one who fulfilled the law, not us. He is the one who died for our sins, so that we do not have to die for them. He is the one who has covered us in his righteousness so that we can be justified in your sight. He is the one who crushed the serpent's head, just as you promised. And so for his sake we ask that you not come to us in judgment, but that you come to us in mercy. Adopting us as your sons, and declaring us righteous in your sight.

Speaker 3
And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.

