Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me, if you will, to Isaiah chapter 9. We look this morning in Isaiah chapter 9, and I will read verses 1 and 2. Isaiah 9, verse 1 and 2. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. Well, this is God's good and inerrant and inspired word. As always, we are reminded the grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you this morning that you have given us the light of your word. Though perhaps we come fatigued And beaten up and scared by the darkness of this world, Lord, even the darkness of our own hearts. Father, we pray that you would vanquish that darkness through the light of the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We pray this in his precious name. Amen. There is something about the interplay between light and dark, especially when it comes to the Christmas season, I think. There's a beautiful enchantment there, a kind of magic of light out of darkness. The days are shorter, the nights are longer, the air is colder. For many, there's maybe even an emotional darkness that sets in, a kind of seasonal melancholy, which only adds to the darkness of winter. And yet, during Christmas, we almost everywhere gather around the warmth of light. Maybe it's a fire in your fireplace. A Christmas tree glowing with the warmth of Christmas lights? Or maybe as many New England families have done since the sixteen hundreds, placing candles in your windowsills to Tell those wandering out in the cold dark that your home is an open refuge for hospitality and warmth. Light contrasts with and breaks through the darkness. And gives visual encouragement and comfort. But of course, for Christians, this theme is ultimately grounded in the spiritual reality of Christ, who is the light of the world. The Gospel of John especially picks up on this motif. John chapter 8, verse 12. Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. John 9, verse 5. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. John chapter 1, verses 4 and 5. In him was life. And the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. John 3, 19 through 21. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world. And people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light. And then, of course, John chapter 1, verses 8 to 9. John the Baptist was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. Here we see that Scripture itself uses this contrast of darkness and light, and it applies it in its realist sense of spiritual darkness. A spiritual blindness and inability to see and properly make sense of the world around you, God's world. And then the light that brings not only clarity and sight and understanding, but a light that brings life A light that cannot be overcome by darkness, but a light that in fact floods and and defeats and overcomes itself the darkness. And that light is the light of Jesus Christ. That's the theme we see this morning in Isaiah 9, verses 1 and 2. A light that we hope by God's grace to behold and to believe in and have shine upon us with all the warmth of the light of heaven where Christ now dwells. I want to unpack our passage this morning in two ways. First, I want to unpack the original context of these verses in light of what we saw last week in Isaiah 7 and 8. And then secondly, I'll turn and I'll want us to apply these verses and kind of pull out from them all the spiritual truths we're meant to hold on to in light of the coming of Christ. You'll remember if you were here last week that Isaiah has already introduced, or or rather reintroduced, this broad biblical theme. Of God bringing hope and light in the midst of death and darkness, but through a child A child will be born. Remember, Genesis 3, after the curse of the fall and the death brought upon mankind through Satan's temptation of Adam and Eve. What does God do to reconquer the world and vanquish death? I will give you a child. A seed will be born And then again with Abraham, even though he and his wife were very old and on the verge of death, God promises a seed. A baby will be born And again, the same with Isaac and Jacob. Both are married to barren woman, and yet God will bring through them life, a child. And even Baron Hannah is promised a child through whom God will reverse the darkness and death Israel has found herself in And last week Isaiah did the same thing. And even though the child to be born that he talked about in Isaiah chapter 7 was a baby in Isaiah's own day, a sign of Ahaz's coming destruction from God, coming judgment. Still, that child was typological of a future baby, a child who had reversed the entire fallen structure of this now cursed and dark world. And so now in Isaiah chapter 9, we turn our attention to that soon-to-come child. Coming out of chapter 8. And I I feel like we felt this last week. The atmosphere there in those two chapters is dark. Judgment will fall on both Judah and Israel. Chapter 8, verse 22. They will look to the earth, but behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and they will be thrust into thick darkness. This language is describing the time of the soon-to-come exile. And it's also picking up on the language that we've already seen earlier in chapter 8, where they were ironically looking for light They're looking for spiritual insight, but they weren't looking for light from God's Word. And they weren't listening with faith from the light of the prophets. No, they were looking, chapter 8, verse 18, they were looking to mediums and necromancers, from dead spirits, demons, and fortune-tellers. They were looking in the dark for light and only found more dark. And so Isaiah chapter 9 picks up on this gloom and darkness and anguish. Chapter 9, verse 1. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. Now Who is the her in this verse? Contextually, it's Judah and Israel, the people of God. And I want you to notice the historical markers here She will be in anguish when judgment comes, but it won't last forever. There will be no gloom after she goes through her anguish This is language evocative of a mother in birth pains and and after the pain and after the anguish, then the end of gloom. I think the idea is clear here. The Lord is going to reverse this dark fortune, and the Lord is going to, at some point, deliver Israel out of its anguish and therefore out of exile, out of judgment. In other words, verse 1 is giving us a glimmer of light. But how? Look again at verse 1. In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Nephtali. But in the latter time, he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. What does he mean here? Well, here's what's wild to me. We know later from 2 Kings chapter 15, verse 29. That quote in the days of Pikah king of Israel, th that that's the the current king now down in Israel underneath Ahaz In those days, the king of Assyria came and captured Galilee and all the land of Naphtali, and he carried the people away captive to Assyria. In other words, Assyria does finally come, as God promised. And as God promised, they conquer Israel. But he does so first. by coming at and taking the people of Zebulun and Naphtali who dwelled in Galilee. That's his first strike. In other words, the first place Israel experiences the coming darkness and the coming anguish and the coming destruction of God's judgment is there in the north, in the land of Zebulun, and in the land of Naphtali. That's what 2 Kings 15. 29 tells us. And here Isaiah is not only prophesying this, but he's also prophesying a future light at the end of that darkness. Salvation that will come in and through that judgment. In the latter time he is made glorious by the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. It's good to note here, the land of Galilee, after the Assyrian conquering and destruction, it became a place populated not with Jews anymore, but with Gentiles. Assyria conquers, removes the people, and then repopulates Galilee with Gentiles. And so there's always this kind of mixed Jew-Gentile community within that realm of Galilee. But In the latter day, these places are going to be made glorious. These places are going to be restored and redeemed. And so this is this is the language that gets picked up on in Matthew chapter 4, which Edward read for us earlier. Matthew 4, verse 12. And when he heard that John had been arrested, Jesus withdrew into Galilee, leaving Nazareth. He went and lived in Capernaum by the sea. In the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan Valley of the Gentiles The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and those dwelling in the region of the shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. Do you see? The Lord is orchestrating redemptive history in such a way so that the first area of the land on which the covenant curses came. Which Isaiah is prophesying about. The first group of God's people who are conquered and taken into exile, that's the very place from which Jesus begins his public ministry. Where the covenant curses first fall, where the darkness of judgment first spread, that's where the blessings of the new covenant first come in. Jesus doesn't start his ministry in the kind of pure center of Jerusalem. Rather, it's in this place of outcasts, this mixed community, Galilee of the Gentiles And so the idea, I think, is this that this is this is the reconquest of the land. Isaiah is prophesying, and Matthew is showing us Jesus. A kind of new Joshua entering back into the land, retaking the land, those places that were first conquered. Well, the first to go is the first to come back in. We have here in chapter nine the beginning of Isaiah's description of Jesus Christ is showing and pointing us to the time when Christ the light will come and reverse the curses that Isaiah chapter 8 prophesied. And what does Isaiah first want us to know about this Jesus? When he comes, he will be a great light. Verse 2. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. Now, again, historically, the people do go into exile. They're cast into the darkness of of both Assyria and Babylon. But here we need to be absolutely clear. Even though they will return to the land after the exile, nevertheless, the prophecies they were looking for, the The glory of the kingdom they were expecting, the light they expected to shine through, none of it happened. So for instance At the beginning of the book of Zechariah, which chronologically is like the very last books written, the people have already come back into the land. And Zechariah is prophesying and writing and now trying to encourage the people to rebuild the temple. And if you know Zechariah. How does Zechariah begin that book? Well, ordinarily, when you read a book like 1 or 2 Samuel, or you read the book of the Kings, The way that the prophets, even here in Isaiah, the way that they designate time is always according to the reign of the seed of David. So Isaiah does that here in Isaiah chapter 6. In the year that King Uzziah died, time is always marked by who's on the throne by the seed of David. In Zechariah, after they're back in exile, he designates time according to the reign of the Persian king It's a subtle but clear move on the part of Zechariah so as to say, look, we may be back in the land, but we're still in the shadow of exile. The fact that these things that we've been looking at in Isaiah didn't happen in the way that's described here, like in Isaiah 9, and this kind of new creation language, light out of darkness. It's meant to hint at the fact that whatever happened in the early 6th century BC when the Israelites returned back to the land, none of it was really a fulfillment of what the prophets are talking about here. It's typological. It's still pointing forward, but it's pointing forward, and the people will still be waiting for an ultimate deliverance from exile that still needs to take place. That's why when you turn to the Gospels, for instance, Matthew, so much of Matthew is describing the passages that he appeals to are about return from exile. That's the language Matthew picks up on Jesus' ministry. Because for Matthew, the real return from exile wasn't the return out of Babylon into the land. No, the real return is getting out of the land of death and into light and life. Back into the Garden of Eden. It's escaping the darkness of sin and judgment and finding light and eternal life in Jesus Christ. So there's the historical original context of what these verses are saying. But to preach a sermon that only talks about the historical context of the passage, well, that's not a sermon, is it? That's a commentary, and uh it may be interesting, but it's not life-giving. So, what truths do we see from these verses, which are declaring the coming advent of the Messiah? This This light who will vanquish the darkness. What truths do we see here about that? Let's start with the first word of verse 1. But coming out of the anguish and darkness of judgment declared in chapter eight. Here we come to one of those glorious words which announces to us a reversal, a divinely stamped time limit on God's curse upon his people. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought in to contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But there it is again. But in the latter time, he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. This word connotes the idea of nevertheless, something bad, nevertheless, God will bring good. God brought darkness and anguish and contempt. Nevertheless, after it's all said and done, then he will bring light and glory. Friends, do you not know that in the worst of times God's people have always had a nevertheless given by God to comfort them? No matter how dark a season gets, no matter how dark this world may get, there is still always the neverthelesses of God's sure promises. Promises meant to be light. Even perhaps if it's a dim and distant light, but nevertheless a light to hold on to through the darkness. God's people may be persecuted, but nevertheless, says Paul, they're not forsaken. God's people may be sorrowful, nevertheless, we still rejoice. These promises are meant by God to give us hope. To give us a light that we can hold on to, not by sight, of course, a light that we we hold on to by faith. By faith, we cling to the promises of God like Frodo and Sam in the mountains of Sirithungal. And when their journey became absolutely dark and seemingly without hope, when the vicious spider Shelob had Frodo caught and seemingly dead, Do you remember the movie? The file of Galadriel, this vial of light, the light of Arundel's Star that alone was capable of getting the young sojourners through their hour of darkness. Friends. You have that light in all the passages of God's promises given to you. Do you know them? Do you savor them and use them and bring the light of God's promises to you to bear upon your dark situation? John 6, Jesus promises that all that the Father has given to him, he will never cast away, and he will raise you up on the last day. What a promise! John 10, Jesus promises that no one is able to snatch you out of the Father's hand. Philippians 1. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. What a good promise. 2 Timothy 1, he is able to guard what has been entrusted to us until that final day Jude 24, God is able to keep you from stumbling and he will present you blameless with great joy. John 16. Even though in the world we have great tribulation, Jesus has overcome the world. Romans eight, nothing will be able to separate us from the love of God Hebrews 2. He is able and will help those who are being tempted. Luke 12. Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. What promises we have. These promises of light are given to us as God's children to behold and to believe in, and especially in our hour of need. And just as Isaiah 9, verses 1 and 2 is a glimmer of light to the Israelites, that a Messiah, a child of light, will come and end the darkness of exile. Well, so too can we hold this promise for Christ's second coming. His second coming that when He comes in that second Advent, He will bring a final eternal light that will never again suffer any darkness at all. Oh dear saints, do you believe that? Do you hold it as a vial of light against your heart? What is this light that came into the world? Who is this light? Well, again, it is none other than the child made mention of in verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. In the darkness of night, and in an obscure town away from the lights of the city, there in a manger a child was born who was and still is the eternal and unchangeable light of God. The glory of God incarnate Jesus Christ. Notice verse two The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. As it stands now, we are still walking in a dark world. Our lives I don't think I need to prove to us this truth, our lives are choked with darkness. We walk in it, breathing in its air, darkness polluting our lungs and hearts. But if by faith, in hearing about Jesus Christ, and by faith believing in that Jesus Christ, by faith you have seen and you hold within you a great light. A glorious light. And notice as well that this is no stationary light. This light, the light that is the Son of God become man. Notice there at the end of verse 2, he is a searching and finding light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. The picture here is of a people who are lost. And they're dwelling in a land where they can't see, they can't of themselves find light. But oh, the grace of God, He has sent a light to shine upon them. Do you see? Left to yourselves, you will never be able to find your own way out of the darkness that you live in. The darkness that you dwell in is a total darkness, from head to toe, heart to will, emotions, totally depraved by the darkness of sin. You live there, you're imprisoned there. The spiritual darkness of your unbelief will not let you go. And because you only know your darkness, not only do you not know how to escape. Well here's the sad truth of it. You don't even necessarily want to escape. Like a cockroach that runs from the light, you find shade and cover in the cool darkness of the of the night. Well that is, until Christ comes to shine upon your heart. Until Christ begins to say to you individually Open your eyes. See me. Believe in me. And behold now, for the first time in your darkened life, behold my light. Feel the warmth of the light of the gospel and let that light, let me fill your hearts and cast out all the darkness you've been used to. Friends, if you're here this morning and you are for the first time really wrestling with the gospel, that is, you're you're thinking through: is this Jesus really the Son of God sent for me? Is he really the light of the world? Can I believe in him? Friends, if you're asking those questions, that very well may be the light of Christ shining upon you now. A light that is for the first time melting away the coldness and the darkness of your unbelief. And if that's happening now, oh dear friend, Well, here's my call. Here's God's command to you. Believe in your Savior Come and behold the light. And this Christmas you can celebrate the truth that light has indeed come into the world and he has come for you. He's come for me. His light has shone upon me. Oh, I pray that that would be everyone this morning. It is ironic that when the light of God came into the world as a baby, and as his ministry grew, And he preached to the Gentiles of Galilee and the land of Zebulun and of Tali. And he made his way in and around Judah and Israel and centered there in Jerusalem. The irony is that He was marching, that light was marching, towards the darkest moment the world has ever witnessed. The deepest dark. That the world has ever fallen under was the moment when the Son of God Himself was murdered upon a cross. The Son of God was slain. And yet in that moment, it was simultaneously the brightest moment in all history. History, in fact, changed right then. A new creation emerged as that slain son re-emerged out of the grave in glorious light, the glory of the sun shining. And now all who put their faith in him enter into that light which will never be vanquished. Again, if you're a believer here this morning, you are the first fruits of that new creation. You are yourself, a participant in that light. And nothing will snatch it out of God's hand. He'll keep that light. He'll keep you until the day when he comes back again. And all is made light. And we will dwell in the new heavens and the new earth, where there's no need for sun or moon, but just the glorious light of our Savior. in whom he has saved us to enjoy him forever and ever. Amen. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. A great God and Heavenly Father, it is truly the nature of light to drive out darkness. And Father, we've been reminded this morning that it is the goodness of your will to send your son into this dark world as light to drive out the spiritual darkness that is eating away at your good creation. Father, we thank you for the promise. That you gave to the children of Israel, that they would one day have a light shine on them. That the darkest recesses of the land of Israel would experience the good light of Jesus Christ as he came and preached in Galilee. Because one day he will return to set free the people who have been enslaved by sin and darkness. Father, we thank you for the promise of your word to us. That Christ will return one day as well to gather each and every one of us who have placed our faith in Jesus Christ. To yourself for eternity, dwelling in eternal light, an everlasting glorious light in the presence of you. Father, we thank you for this truth. And yet, as we live here and now in a dark world, it becomes easy for us to cast our eyes to the darkness. Perhaps even to take pleasure in that darkness at times. Oh Lord, we ask that by the power of your Spirit within us, you would cause us to turn away from the darkness and to cast our eyes upon Jesus Christ. Would you cause us to, in those moments of hardship, of trial and temptation, perhaps even when when we fear for our very lives? When life and the crushing pressures of it seem far too heavy for us to lift. Would you cause us to look to the light of Jesus Christ? Who has dealt the death blow to our greatest burden, the burden of sin and guilt Lord, we ask that you would encourage us and comfort us this morning through the light of Jesus Christ. We ask that perhaps even this morning. One or two who are present and yet have not bowed the knee to Jesus Christ, to his kingship in our lives, O Lord, would you perhaps even this morning see fit? To open eyes to the light of Jesus Christ, the glorious truths of the gospel. Lord, we ask that you would do it, that you would build your kingdom of light. Perhaps even here in Greenbelt this morning, in the coming Advent season, Lord, would the truth of Jesus Christ resound forth in this city? That perhaps even the smallest light from Greenville Baptist Church would be used by your Spirit to bring a lost and dying world to saving faith in Jesus Christ. We ask that you do it for your honor and for your glory. And it's in Jesus' name we do pray. Amen

