Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter nine. Isaiah chapter nine. And we look this morning at verses six and seven. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father. Prince of peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Well, this is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers. The flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We thank you for your inspired word. We thank you for the clarity and the prophetic nature in which not one word falls flat, but Lord, it falls upon ears and gives life. And Lord, we pray for that this morning May life be had here. May your word by your spirit exalt your son amongst us, your people, all for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. These past four weeks, we have been examining the great prophetic promise given through Isaiah of this coming Messiah. A Savior who will in his coming and in his person be a light that casts away all darkness. It will be a deep well of joy to undo all anguish. And he will be a mighty warrior redeemer who will break all oppression and bring universal peace And now this morning, we're finally introduced to who this amazing Savior is. Isaiah in verses 6 and 7 paints for us a picture of Jesus. A picture which, I'll be honest, if we had the time, we could take another four weeks just to unpack these two verses. This morning, though, I want us to look at this picture painted for us with the inspired words of the Holy Spirit through Isaiah. A picture which I think holds up for us a level of depth. Ideas and descriptions layered one atop the other that show us a Savior, this Godchild Jesus Christ. First, I want us to see the condescension of the king. The condescension of the king. Look at verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. Well, here is a most profound mystery. A mystery that God, the Son of God, enters into our world, and he did so as a baby, a child. That is a mystery that even angels can't help but wonder about. We'll think about that. But notice the emphasis here of verse 6: the twice-repeated for us. To us. Is that not the deeper mystery? That the Son of God came and partook to himself the fullness of our humanity, and he did so for us. Angels fell in sin and he did not take the form of an angel. He came for us. What an unimaginably deep love this must be. That the eternal and limitless and infinite Son of God decided to enter into our humanity. He became a human, a human babe. A human child who grew to become a human man and he remains a human being forevermore. So that even now and for the rest of eternity, when we see the divine son, we will see him in glory just as we are. Amen. For all men, for you and and for me, and for all who would come to put their faith in this God-man. That's certainly the first part of verse 6, for to us a child is born. Isn't that a wild thought? God entered into human history not from above but from below. A real birth of a weak babe who depended upon swaddling cloths to keep his infant body warm. who depended upon his nursing mother to keep his infant belly full, to us a child is born. Doesn't this encapsulate the deep doctrine of the incarnation? The real humanity of Jesus Christ, all in seven simple words. Ponder. Ponder the reality of it. There in the manger, the infinite, sleepless God slept as a finite, needy child. Why? For us The son who is eternally begotten of the Father, there was never a time when he was not. He has always been laid in a manger, only a few days old. Why? For us. To us a son is given. Here the verse intimates the gracious gift that Jesus was and still is. He, the Son of His Heavenly Father, was given for hell-bound men like you and I. And though he was, being the Son of God Himself, one who had all the rights of a ruler and king, he came as a child. Ruled over by his earthly mother and father, one who honored and obeyed and kept the fifth commandment of his father and mother the entirety of his childhood. Notice too the language of the Son being given. Given is a gift. God, the Father, the giver of this gift. And so what does this mean for us? It means this. Here's the point of all Christmas. A gift has been given. The greatest gift ever bestowed to humanity, the one gift through whom our salvation is secured. Which again means. We are not saved by our efforts to reach upward into heaven, but we're saved simply by receiving this gift. To us, a son is given Difference, I wonder, have you received and opened up your heart to the gift of Jesus Christ? Put away all your feeble efforts. Put away all your religious works, your faulty attempts at self-righteousness. Put it all away and simply come to what God has given you. His son, your savior, a gift he will never take back, and a gift you can never lose Children, your first question this morning in your children's bulletin asks this: How should I respond to the gift of Jesus Christ? How should I respond to the gift of Jesus Christ? Well, not like many children do during Christmas when they open up one gift, flash a smile, and then run quickly to the next one. Losing that first gift within the first week of Christmas. No, no, no. Here's your answer. You can write this down. Receive him. Receive him. Receive him as your savior. Accept the gift given for you and believe in him Believe the promise that God, who so loved the world, gave his only begotten Son, so that if you believe in him and accept and receive him, you will not perish but enjoy eternal life. Why? Because he is an eternal gift. Children, do you believe that? God the Father has gifted you, God the Son, so that in receiving that gift of the Son of God, you can become sons of God. By sending the King of Kings, wrapped in the weakness of infant flesh, and receiving him we too might become co-regents. The Bible tells us ruling even over the angels and inheriting the earth itself. So there's our first point. Seeing here the condescension of the king. But that leads us to the second point, and it's it's just that, that we see Jesus as the true King. We see Jesus as the true King. The entire passage is laced through with this language of rulership and government and kingly thrones and princes. And all of it is about Jesus Christ. The child is no mere baby boy. He's King of kings. He's Lord of Lords. And unlike King Ahaz, remember King Ahaz in the context of Isaiah, who's leading horribly now in Judah? This king that Isaiah speaks of, this child given by God, he will not and cannot collapse under the weight of his rule and government Look at verse 6 again. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. It's a stunning, almost comic image, isn't it? A mere child, an infant, holding up the weight of the government, the full weight of a kingdom, that as verse seven puts it, only increases in size and sovereign reign Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. Well, here's the question that emerges. What child is this? What kind of child who needs to be held and swaddled by his mother is also simultaneously holding up and swaddling the entirety of a kingdom and rule that will cover the entire globe? This is no mere human king. No, here is one altogether different. A king who stands out uniquely amongst all other failed rulers and governments. This one verse stands as a polemic against the long history of men who could not bear the weight of rule. Maybe because their shoulders were too weak morally, they were too narrow intellectually, or perhaps too swollen with pride. Consider King Saul Who, though he began humbly, his rule ended in paranoia, disobedient defeat. The throne became an idol to King Saul, and therefore a burden too heavy to stand under. Or what about King David? Certainly a worthy ruler, except of course for his moral failing. Sin with Bathsheba. His moral collapse led the nation into civil war and untold bloodshed. Next, we can think about King Solomon. Certainly a very wise ruler, perhaps the wisest of them all. Still, he crumbled under the weight of moral degeneracy, adding to his harem multiple wives and therefore multiple idols. Then there's Nebuchadnezzar, the greatest king of mighty Babylon. And yet here was a man who was driven mad through the sin of pride Remember his great boastful statement, is not this the great Babylon which I have built? Alexander the Great certainly was great. He conquered the world by age 30. But he also died at age 32, probably due to some sickness, and and instantly his empire fractured and crumbled. The world too big for one mere man to govern, taken out by a mere germ. Napoleon Bonaparte. I love reading about Napoleon. He was an absolute military genius, the one man every nation on earth feared, and yet his pride was his downfall He went from emperor to exile, dying, mad in a prison, crushed under the weight of trying to hold all Europe together under his name. History repeats with the same clanging note of failure wherever you find men. Who are mere men, whether it be through sin, through ignorance, through fear, or frailty or pride, all human shoulders fail, all human shoulders break under the weight of rule, but this child, the Christ The government shall be upon his shoulder. Stable and sure and solid and forever safe. With Christ there will be no abdication. With Christ, there is no revolution. With Christ, there is no moral decay. With Christ there are no backroom deals. With Christ, there is no learning curve. There's no limits of the increase of his government and of peace. There will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. So I ask again, what child is this? Verse 6. Here he is. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, dear church, behold your king. Behold this child Behold your God. I want to look at each one of these titles in turn. Wonderful counselor. It's not wonderful and counselor, but a counselor whose counsel is wonderful, full of wonder and wisdom But there's more to this name. We read the word counselor and we're disposed to think of a knowledgeable professional sitting across from us in a nice leather chair Pen and paper in hand, ready to lend a listening ear for a mere $150,000 a year, helping us sort through our emotions and hard decisions. Now, this is not what Isaiah has in mind here. What is a counselor in the mind of Isaiah? Well, counsel is a key theme throughout this book, and it usually carries political connotations, kingly counselors. A counselor is not a therapist, rather, he was one usually served in a technical way as an advisor to a government official, an advisor to the king. A counselor to the king would be like a member of our president's cabinet today. It's clear from the immediate context that royal advisor is another good idea for counselor. Isaiah has in mind throughout chapter 9 of this idea. Remember back in chapter 8, the people were looking to mediums and to necromancers for wisdom on what to do, probably even King Ahaz. Following King Saul, who went to uh the the witch of Endor to find out what would happen to his kingdom. They weren't looking to God's word. They were looking everywhere and anywhere else. Their rulers, specifically King Ahaz, had failed to consult God's law and God's word, and so he failed to lead the people according to God's wisdom. But then we get to Isaiah 9. And as we've seen, God is bringing to this darkened people a great light in verse 2. A new ruler is coming who will deliver them from oppression and danger in verses 3 and 4. Who put an end to all conflicts and oppressions, verse 5. And the government will be upon his shoulder, and he will bear the rulership well. Better than all the other failed kings and judges before him. And so he is called a wonderful counselor and a mighty God. These names suggest that the son is someone known in the heavenly courts He is an advisor not just in human courts, but a child who has been given counsel already in the heavenly courts. The son who's been given by God is given from a place of where he's given counsel. This picks up a thread of tension within the book of Isaiah. Isaiah is very clear. God takes counsel with no one. Nor does he share his glory. Isaiah chapter 40, verses 13 and 14. Who has measured the spirit of the Lord? Or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did God consult and who made him understand? Who taught God the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? These are rhetorical questions to say no one. God has it all of himself. And yet, Isaiah is also clear that God does have a heavenly court. Which by definition means he has members within his court who ostensibly offer counsel. So how can this be? Who is so wonderful that he can be a counselor to God? And the answer, of course, is God the Son incarnate, whose name is Jesus Christ. In other words, who is this wonderful counselor? He is the eternally begotten wisdom of God, spoken of in Proverbs 8. I love Proverbs 8. Wisdom is personified. And as you read it, you hear the Son of God Himself speaking to us in the face of wisdom. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old. Eternities ago I was set up at the first, before the beginning of the earth. When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water, before the mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth, even before he had made the earth with its field, or the first of the dust of the world. When he established the heavens, I was there. I was beside him, like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always rejoicing in his inhabited world and delighting in the children of men. Do you see The wisdom of God is described here as the Son of God, who is both distinct from the Father, but also one with God, with him from eternity past. Which explains, I think, why the very next title Isaiah gives after wonderful counselor is this title, Mighty God. This child, this son, is both the wisdom of God as a mighty counselor, but he is also God himself. The Hebrew here is El Gabor, used only here and in the next chapter in Isaiah 10 verse 12. In other words, not only will this child have divine wisdom, but being God Himself will also have all the capabilities of divine power. He is mighty God. Again, ponder this truth in light of what we celebrate during Christmas. God incarnate, the fullness of deity, Yahweh Himself. Given as a baby, a mere child. Maybe we could put it this way. If our salvation rests upon receiving Jesus We must receive the whole gift. We must receive the whole Jesus. Jesus as both child and God. Jesus as both sacrifice for us in his humanity and our mighty King in His divinity. In other words. Christmas, which usually in our modern context reduces Jesus to just a baby in a manger, is mere sentimentalism. We must see and we must receive Jesus as mighty God, the one who is sovereign over all and will rule over every square inch of this universe. We cannot have Christ unless we have Christ as true King. What are we to make of this next title, Everlasting Father? We're talking about a son given by the Father, so how could this child, this son, also be called the everlasting father? I think we have two things going on here. First, in the context of this child being a sovereign ruler with the government upon his shoulders. We're to see this child king as one who will rule over his subjects, not as a tyrant, not as somebody aloof and distant from his subjects. No, but we're supposed to see him as a father. That is a loving protector whose every decision is for the good and growth of his children A king to whom his subjects can draw near and love as well as fear and obey. But I think, secondly, we should see here the truth of the Trinity. That is, if you see the Son, well then you see the Father. Not that the Son is the Father, no, there's no confusion of persons here. But they are so one in their Godhead that by beholding the Son you see the Father. Listen to Jesus in John chapter 10, verse 30. I and the Father are one. Or again in John chapter 12, verse 45, whoever sees me, sees him who sent me. Or even what Jesus says in John 14: I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. But from now on you do know him and have seen him. Philip then said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it's enough for us. And Jesus replies to Philip, have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. In other words, here is a child who is identified as the wise counselor of God, who is identical with the mighty power of God. And in whom one can know the tender fatherhood of God. And then lastly, we have the culminating title, Prince of Peace. This isn't a king who can merely broker some kind of peace deal. This is one who is a prince of peace. Peace reigns in his reign. This is comprehensive shalom Not just no more wars, but a kind of rule wherein the entirety of his domain is marked by rest and peace. Peace between subjects, peace within families, peace between races. Peace between social classes, peace between the land and man that lives on that land, and of course ultimately peace between God and man. And all of it is secured through none other than this child, the son given for us. Peace between sinful men and a righteous God. That kind of peace only comes about through the death of Jesus Christ, which means, think about that, this child given is given so that he can grow and live and then die. His death being the sacrifice, the substitutionary atonement needed to reconcile sinners back to God, which begs the question: how could this child be a prince of peace if he ends up dying? And of course, the answer is that he does not stay dead. In his resurrection, he ascends out of the grave no longer as a sacrificial lamb, but as a conquering lion. As a king who will establish a kingdom of peace. Children, the second question in your bulletin this morning asks this. In receiving Jesus as my Savior, how else should I respond to Him? And the answer is this: submit to Him. Submit to Him You both receive him and you submit to him. I think that's all that's being described in that old American hymn, Trust and Obey. Do you remember it? When we walk with the Lord in the light of his word, what a glory he sheds on our way. While we do his good will, he abides with us still and with all who will trust and obey. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. And look, here's the good news of it all. This Jesus will first work in our hearts. Establishing his rule of peace within us individually so that we can trust and obey, so that we can receive him and then submit to him. Think about that. How does Jesus establish worldwide peace? By first establishing a dominion of peace within the hearts of every individual believer. So that when you come to truly believe in Jesus, think about it. He becomes to you a wonderful counselor. All his wisdom now becomes the guidestone by which you live your life. And you acknowledge him as mighty God, and so he is mighty God to you, working out all things for your good and sanctification, bringing peace to your inner life. And since he and the Father are one, it is now through Jesus that you have this unassailable access to God the Father, praying to the Father in the name of Jesus Christ. And God will be to you through Jesus and everlasting Father. And as you grow in your Christian faith, you will find that Jesus reigns more and more within you as your Prince of Peace. Read verse six and seven again. But let's read it from the perspective of Christ's rule over you individually. For to you a child is born. To you a son is given And the government of your heart, your will, your passions and wants shall be upon his shoulder. And his name, the name that you will call him, will be Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and his peace within you, there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this for you. It is this reality within us individually, as we come to receive and submit to Jesus Christ. That then begins to ripple out and brings about a wider reality of peace socially, universally. You see it within families So the father becomes a Christian, and then the family follows the father and begins to love and follow after Christ as well. What used to be chaos and turmoil within that family is now a family just soaked in the peace of Christ. And you see it within churches. We're now individuals and families that gather together who out in the world used to hate one another. Now we come together and we sing songs and happy tears of of of grateful unity. Why? Because the Prince of Peace reigns here. And you see it as it extrapolates out into societies that live for Christ more and more. So we've seen now the condescension of the king. We've seen Jesus as true king. And so now our last point this morning, the consummation of his kingdom. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. Christ's kingdom. Inaugurated at his first coming as a child, there the baby king Jesus lay. It was established as his resurrection. Raised to glory as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, all authority in heaven and earth is given to Christ the King, and now he delegates. He delegates his church to go what? Into every nation and to make disciples, calling all people to submit to that King, Jesus It will be an ever extend expanding government until his final consummation at Christ's second return. The kingdom of Christ will advance unstoppably so. It won't advance by sword. But by spirit and truth. And even the gates of hell will not overcome it. It is a sure bet That Christ is Lord, and that even though we don't see it now with just our physical eyes, it is a sure bet that Christ will win. He will conquer it all. Every knee will bow. Every evil revolution against the reign of Christ will be put down and stopped. Every conversion is therefore the growth of this kingdom, a kingdom victory. Every act of obedience of an individual submitting to Christ is now a further extent of Christ's reign. Which I think, if we take this seriously and we believe this truth. It transforms how we think about Christian missions. It transforms how we think about the discipleship of our own children. It transforms how we think about our relationships with our coworkers and neighbors. Children, your third question this morning asks this. Should other people respond to Jesus? Should other people respond to Jesus? The answer is yes. The answer is yes. There are some here who might be thinking right now. Don't push Jesus. I don't want to respond to your idea of Jesus But dear friends, who are we if we don't believe this truth? And if we as Christians believe this truth, Then it would be the most hateful thing I could ever do to not tell you about the sure reign of the coming Jesus Christ. Dear friend, there will be a day. When perhaps out of quiet fear, your unbelieving friend looks to you and says, why didn't you tell me before Christ came back? Should other people respond to Jesus? The answer is yes, but that means that they need to be told about Jesus. Our king reigns, and yet it's not yet consummated. And until that day of consummation When the entirety of the cosmos will submit to King Jesus. It is our responsibility now, as citizens within this ever-expanding government of peace. To help establish it as we communicate and preach boldly and evangelize the good news of Jesus Christ. It is an established throne. The throne of David and over his kingdom. To establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness. Nothing can shake the foundation of it Dear Christian, what courage that should give to you. The worst that could happen to you is that you die. But here's the great truth. You serve a king who's defeated death. And where he is, you will be also. It is an established, eternal, guaranteed truth. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Our confidence doesn't rest in our effort. Now I think our confidence comes from an acceptance of the reality that God's jealous love for his glory will be unstoppable, and he's invited us and brought us into that project. What great news that this Christmas gift reminds us of. And may we never, ever lose that same passion. and zeal as Christ's kingdom comes to its final close any day now. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Would you join me now in a prayer response? Heavenly Father, we do come before you now And we come with thankful hearts, Lord. We're thankful for your word. We thank you for Pastor Unthank and his faithfulness. As we come now with a prayer of response together, our prayer this morning is a prayer of adoration. Father, we do praise you for our Savior Jesus Christ. Even from the garden you promised a Savior because of your great love. Our Savior Christ condescending himself, coming In human flesh and humility as helpless babe. Christ Jesus, our perfect King. Who all kings will bow down before, who will and does reign with perfect justice Whose kingdom will never fail or be overthrown. Lord, He is our wonderful counselor. Who in and of himself is true wisdom. And he has in his word imparted to us true wisdom. Father, praise you. He is Emmanuel. He is God with us. He who existed for all eternity with the Father and the Spirit And he has created all things, never ceasing to be God, even when taking on human flesh. Lord, we do praise you this morning. And we gather this morning to worship you, God, Father, Son, and Spirit. We ask, Lord, that you will be continuously strengthening our faith That you will be growing us in our trusting of our Savior. And that we will make, that you will make us a people who never cease to proclaim the truth of Christ. He is the light of the world. And no one comes to the Father but through Christ Jesus our Savior. Father, we do pray for those among us this morning who have not come to an understanding of this truth in Christ Jesus. Lord, that by your Spirit you will open our eyes, that you will soften our hearts, that you will turn us from our sin and turn us to our Savior Jesus Christ. Who comes in our place to take on our penalty for those who have put their faith and trust in him. We do pray these things this morning in Christ's name. Amen.

