Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me, if you will, to Isaiah chapter nine. And we read this morning Isaiah chapter nine verses four and five. For the yoke of his burden and the staff To his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as on the day of Midian. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the joyous opportunity to gather yet again on this Lord's Day and to come now before your living and active word. And Father, we pray that this word of truth would cast out from our hearts all lies in darkness. That light would dawn within us as we by faith behold Christ our Savior, our Prince of Peace Our victorious Lord and King. Father, exalt his name now. May we hear your word well, and we pray this for our good and your glory. Amen. One of the more classic Christmas texts, one which you can inevitably find on almost any Christmas card. Comes from Luke 2, where we're told there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest And on earth, peace among those with whom he is pleased. Peace on earth Too good to even believe, perhaps. It's that vision of world peace that makes most people love that verse. And see it as a wonderful passage to use for Christmas. And yet the promise here is a peace only to those with whom God is well pleased. That's what the passage says. It's a total peace, but in a limited way. This is the language of an inaugurated peace, but for the final culmination of total world peace. One day, when Christ returns, there will be total peace. But before that great day, the peace that now emerges is the peace known to Christians. That is peace between reconciled sinners and their God. This is the peace with whom God is well pleased that we get to enjoy. Still, the evidence is not on the peace, great as that is, it's more on the one through whom the peace comes. Jesus, the child born to the Virgin Mary. It's Jesus who is known throughout scriptures as the Prince of Peace, through whom the enemies of God are finally subdued and the enemies of God are finally conquered. And it's this vision which I think our text this morning speaks to. And yet it paints a picture of a surprising piece. Oppression is ended, the tools of warfare are finally destroyed, and yet how Not through expected means, no, but through something surprising, perhaps we could say something completely unexpected. The big idea of our text this morning in Isaiah 9, verse 4 and 5, I think it'll be summarized like this. At Christmas, God does not enter the world with armies or coercion, but with a child. Yet this child decisively breaks oppression, decisively defeats the enemy, and guarantees in his life, death, and resurrection, the end of all wars. I should add here an important caveat. God does not yet enter the world with armies or coercion. At Christmas, we celebrate peace breaking into this world through the child Christ, Christ who lived and died on our behalf, Christ who disarmed the strong man, Satan himself. Christ, who made peace between sinful man and a righteous God, still it wasn't at his first coming total and universal cosmic peace It was only an inaugurated peace given to those who will submit to and believe in Jesus. But there will come a day when Christ will finish this project and bring about once and for all complete, total peace. And on that day, he will invade the world. Literally, as a mighty warrior, with armies of angels, and finally and coercively subduing all his enemies, every knee will bow. There will be total cosmic peace. But until that day comes, we participate in that peace now through a kind of spiritual peace A peace that comes by faith in Christ, and a peace that exists now between Christians and God, who is our Father. The context here in Isaiah 9, if you remember, chapter 7, 8, and 9, is Isaiah the prophet addressing the people of Judah, a people who through judgment will be walking in darkness Remember chapter 9, verses 1 and 2. Because of the coming conquest of Assyria, a conquest which God has brought upon them as judgment for their unbelief and unrepentant sin, they will become an oppressed people. Because they trusted in Assyria more than in God, then they will come under the yoke of Assyria. A fearful and weary and dark existence. But in the midst of that darkness, God offers a glimmer of hope, of a future prophecy of coming light. Chapter 9, verse 1 and 2. Of coming joy, which we saw last week in verse 3, and coming redemption. And so here in verses 4 and 5, we now get the explanation of how that light and how that joy will finally come about. You can kind of see the explanatory nature of what's being described here when you look at verses two through seven in their entirety, and you see that verse four. Verse five and verse six all begin with the word for. Coming light, coming joy. Why? Well, because for The yoke of their burden, for every boot of the trampling warrior will be burned. And verse 6, for to us a child is born. We first look at that crushing burden. For the yoke of his burden, the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor you have broken, as on the day of Midian. There are three images here that the prophet Isaiah piles up. The yoke of this burden, which communicates the idea of forced servitude Oppressive slavery. A yoke was what went over the shoulders of an ox so that the farmer could drive him to furrow the ground. Yet here the yoke is placed upon God's people. And then there's the staff for his shoulder, which again gets at this idea of ongoing pressure, a continued beating down. The staff was meant to be a tool for beating. The same for the rod of his oppressor. Here a picture of violent domination. Oppressive servitude. They're all communicating the same idea. This is not merely an inconvenience. No, this is totalizing oppression. I think this is more than just political oppression. I think this is more than just slavery. This is total in the sense that there's probably even a spiritual aspect to it. Physical and spiritual subjugation. We should just take a moment to recognize that the biblical worldview, the scriptures themselves, take oppression seriously. And not just political oppression, but even more so the oppressive domination that comes about spiritually, sin, Satan. Guilt. Death. All of these are cruel taskmasters which have since the fall enslaved and held down every human being since Adam. Paul in Romans 6, verse 16, makes this point clear. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death? Or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. There are all kinds of slaveries in the world, but the most oppressive, the deepest kind of root of all other slaveries is that of enslavement to sin. Paul's point is that every human being who has not yet come to Christ, who has not yet come to find true freedom in Christ, well, they are slaves to sin. You always do what you want, and what you want to do is sinful. They're enslaved to their wayward passions And they are servants under Satan. Listen here to Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood. He himself, likewise, speaking of Christ, partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. That is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Until Christ comes and frees us, frees us individually, until that moment We are slaves, lifelong slaves to the influencing power of Satan. I was just thinking as we walked up this morning into the cold, cold waters of the baptismal. That Satan hates moments like this. That man or woman re-emerges out of the water. They re-emerge as someone that Satan can no longer say, mine. As now somebody of whom Christ can say, mine and mine forever. But until that moment Sin. Well that is ultimately the deepest oppression the Bible tells us we're all under. In other words, what's being described here in verse 4 is not merely Israel's story. This is an apt description of humanity's condition after the fall. So it is precisely because of this that when this child is born, and again the angels declare to Mary, fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all people. For unto you was born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. He's not just come to redeem a particular people under a particular political enslavement. He's come for the entirety of the whole world. What is the nature of Christ's birth? Well, he comes born under a yoke. The yoke of oppression under Rome, yes. But even under the yoke of a fallen world. He's born poor, though he was rich, yet for our sake he became poor. He was born under the law. Paul in Galatians, when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under, born under the yoke of the law. He was even born under the yoke of satanic oppression. Immediately after his baptism, he is driven into the wilderness to feel the full weight of all of Satan's temptations. Indeed, perhaps the most surprising irony of all is that he even bore the yoke of our sin and our guilt. Of course, not the sin of his own, no. No, I would say the even heavier yoke of the sin of the entirety of the world For our sake, says Paul, he made him to be sin, who knew no sin. Here then is the great truth that begins to emerge in this passage, a truth which becomes a reality with the birth of Christ, and it's this Christmas is not God standing at a distance aloof and removed from the oppression of the world. No, God enters Himself into our oppression. takes the yoke upon himself and an entire life from the womb to the tomb of bearing under our yoke being struck himself with the staff and the rod, and then dying under the heaviest yoke of all, the father's wrath and good hate No wonder he prayed that the cup might pass before him as he sweat drops of blood in the Garden of Gethsemane. But it's just there. At that weak, beaten down moment, it's just there, isn't it And what seemed like his weakest moment of all, when it seemed like the oppressive weight of Satan's onslaught actually won, and he actually snuffed out that child born to Mary. He had attempted to kill him at his birth through the decree of King Herod. He had attempted to ensnare him in sin in the wilderness. And it seemed now finally he'd done it. He'd snuff out the light of Jesus on the cross. But right at that point, in that dire moment of seeming loss, That's where God through Christ actually wins the battle. That's the next point Isaiah highlights at the end of verse 4. For the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder and the rod of his oppressor you have broken as on the day of Midian. If the first point was the weight of the crushing burden imposed upon the world, well then this second point is that the Christ child has come to break it. Burden than breaking. And the text is clear enough. You have broken. God has done it. But again the question emerges, what has been broken? Well, the yoke, the staff, the rod Here, Isaiah highlights not just that the coming child will break this burden, but the surprising way in which he does so, the unexpected means by which the power of oppression will be broken, you have broken it As on the day of Midian. Here, reference is made to the book of Judges Judges chapter 6, 7, where Gideon exacts a crushing defeat over their oppressors, the Midianites. But he does so, if you remember, by whittling down his forces down from 32,000 soldiers to just a mere 300. God instructed Gideon to do this, of course, to make the point plain. The victory won't be won through the expected means of military might and force. No, everything will be won by the hand of God. And to be clear, the mission really was seemingly a suicide mission. The Midianite forces they were up against numbered around 135,000 soldiers. Right. You you can't beat that many men with three hundred. But that's the point, isn't it? You can't, but God can. And God did. He took what looked like a death sentence and turned it into liberation, into life and freedom for Israel And all to the praise of the might of Almighty God. The point of Gideon's 300 was that when God brings about salvation, he does so through weakness. And so it will be with the coming of Christ. What will look like weakness and even sure defeat, especially in his death. Well, all of that will turn out to be the actual way wherein God brings about the greatest victory the world will have ever witnessed. Satan will be bound. Men and women all over the world will find true freedom through this Savior, and the spiritual oppression, which once crushingly ruled over the nations, will be broken. All authority in heaven and earth, says Jesus. All spiritual authority, all physical and political authority, all authority will be given to Christ and delegated to his believers to go. And make disciples of all the nations. Those nations which under the yoke of Satan had worshipped Zeus and Athena. Those nations under the yoke of Satan and his demons who worship Baal and worship Vishnu and worship dead spirits and trees and the sun and the moon. Those nations who under the yoke of Satan sacrificed fellow human beings in religious worship. Now the breaking of that power would ensue as Christ and his church go forth declaring freedom. declaring Christ, declaring his death and his resurrection. Isaiah himself develops this theme throughout his So if you turn over just to the next chapter, Isaiah chapter 10, verse 20 and following, Isaiah will write this. In that day, the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no more lean on him who struck them, but will lean on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel in truth. A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob to the mighty God. For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness. For the Lord God of hosts will make a full end, as decreed in the midst of all the earth. And then down in verse 26. And the Lord of hosts will wield against them a whip, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb, and his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt. Here bringing up what Gideon did to the Midianites and what he did through Moses in Egypt. In one sense, this will have a typological fulfillment when God brings Israel back from out of Assyria, but even there As we've already seen in past studies, it won't be a full fulfillment. It will quickly come under the rule of other hostile foreign enemies, Rome being the last and perhaps most oppressive But when Christ does come, well, when he comes, that's that's the beginning of the end. That's the start of the end. And the point Isaiah is drawing out here is again, God has always been about the work of delivering his people in surprisingly weak, weak ways. That is what from man's perspective looks ridiculous and looks absolutely impossible. That is what God will use to deliver. And in this context The weakness through whom God will deliver his people is through this child of verse 6. A baby born will be the one who breaks the power of oppression. It's a wild and and wonderfully fitting way for how God magnifies himself. And and and think about it, as this child grows. He doesn't grow up into a Caesar or some great general or political leader. He grows up obscure. Quite literally, he grows up weak and unassuming. There's that wonderful poem by James Allen Francis entitled One Solitary Life. Have you heard it? He was born in an obscure village, the child of a peasant woman. He grew up in still another village, where he worked in a carpenter shop until he was 30 Then for three years he was an itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an office. He never had a family or owned a house He didn't go to college. He never visited a big city. He never traveled 200 miles from the place where he was born. He did none of the things one usually associates with greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He was only thirty-three when the tide of public opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. He was turned over to his enemies and went through the mockery of a trial. He was mailed to a cross between two thieves While he was dying, his executioners gambled for his clothing, the only property he had on earth. When he was dead, he was laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend Twenty centuries have come and gone, and today he is the central figure of the human race and the leader of mankind's progress. All the armies that have ever marched, all the navies that have ever sailed, all the Parliament that have ever sat, all the kings that ever reigned put together have not affected the life of man on earth as much as that one. solitary life. That one life, the life of Jesus Christ If you have united your soul to him, if you have through faith linked your life to his life, then you now have all the benefits of his saving work. His solitary life is now your life. And in the context of our passage this morning, you have full liberty. All the oppressive powers of sin and guilt and Satan, they've all been broken. Why? Well, because the day of Christ was the true day of Midian. His was the victory through his defeat. I hope you see that. The yoke of his crucifixion was the breaking of the yoke of burden. God didn't just help his people win. Through his death, he won for his people. He's the Savior. And through his salvation, well, what does Paul tell us in Romans 8 verse 37? In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Of course, we can only claim the promise of being more than conquerors precisely because Jesus himself was and still is the ultimate conqueror. The ultimate victorious king. The Bible makes no qualms about it. Jesus has won. Satan has lost And though there are still skirmishes happening, the end is in view. We know how history concludes. And it is this victory, a a total victory, which verse 5 highlights. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult And every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. The imagery is clear enough. These are the leftover accoutrement, leftover articles of ancient battlefield fighting, boots Blood-soaked cloaks. And the thing that we need to see here is that they aren't recovered and therefore recycled and reused for more fighting to happen. No, they're totally destroyed. Every boot and every garment will be burned as fuel for the fire. So what does this mean? This is not just victory in war. This is the end and abolition of all warfare itself. In other words, God is not improving the machinery of violence, taking what was left over and again recycling it for another battle in another war. I'm sure we're tired of seeing on the news another peace treaty, and yet we all know, we all know, give it a year, maybe three years at most, but it won't last. Not true here. He ends it all. This is a massive theme developed throughout the book of Isaiah. Isaiah 2, verses 2 through 4. They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. This is cosmic language. A new era in history where warfare ceases to be a thing. And again, not through some peace treaty, not through diplomatic positioning, but through total victory by the victor. Every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned. He will burn it as fuel for the fire. And when that day comes, Isaiah writes this about the state of the world in Isaiah 14, verse 7. The whole earth is at rest and quiet, shalom and silence, and they will break forth into singing. Isaiah 52, verse 7. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, he who proclaims peace. Here with the sight of prophecy, looking forward to Christ Himself. Isaiah 54, verse 13: All your children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. Friends, just stop and marvel here at the sure and absolute, utterly conclusive language of Christ's victory and triumph Think about it. When through Satan's temptation and mankind's fall, the entire cosmic order was thrust into chaos. The land now against man, beasts and animals against man, and perhaps most devastating of all, man against man. Even the spiritual warfare of God against man, rebels as we now are Cain killed Abel. Lamech's murderous tyranny. The violence of warfare now making up the moral fabric of the life of men on earth And yet here, here is one, one known to Isaiah as the Prince of Peace, who alone will not only restore order. But will do so in such a way that the entirety of God's world will forever enjoy rest and shalom. Peace. From Isaiah's perspective, Christ will not merely manage evil, he will completely eradicate it From the perspective of Isaiah, every blood-soaked garment now has an expiration date Again, the question that emerges is how? How will this happen? Well, in one sense, it is a two-staged victory. We are right now living in the now and not yet. There will, when from our perspective today, when Christ comes back again from heaven. He will consummate what he first inaugurated at his first coming. That is, at his second coming, all evil and all violence and all warfare will be burned away. Think about that in light of the blessings of the Sermon on the Mount, the Beatitudes. Blessed indeed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Which means conversely, cursed will be those violent men who continue to rebel against our coming Prince of Peace. Decide right now which side of the line you stand on. Are you a son of God? Who by Christ in you, working through his Spirit, is making you to be a peacemaker. One whose words are words of gospel, peace, and grace? Or are you still living Under the oppressive rule of Satan, and as one of his soldiers spewing forth violence and hatred, curses and bitterness, anger and mockery. From Isaiah's perspective, how will this peace come about? Well again. In that day of Midian, peace will be established, not through powerful kings and generals, not with an army of force, not with violence meeting violence, but through a child. For Isaiah, the boots and the garments are burned because a child will be born This is where our entire passage in Isaiah 9 is leading us up to chapter 9, verse 6 and 7. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Here is a great reversal. The great reversal of the birth of Christ. Swaddling cloths will be the end of all military boots. His humble procession to the cross Will bring to an end all the marches of soldiers and legions. And indeed, his own bloodshed will be the end of worldwide bloodshed. Is that the Jesus that you believe in? Is this the Jesus that we exalt this Christmas season? I pray. Okay, so let's practice it.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We praise you that we, your people, are numbered among those with whom you are pleased Not because of any good thing that we have done, not because of our own righteousness, but because of the blood of Christ. And therefore, we can have peace with you. That Christ by his death declared peace to those of us. Who are far off, and to those who were near. Lord, we thank you that Christ not only declared peace between us and you But by breaking down the dividing wall with his blood, by breaking down that barrier which separated us from the covenants of promise. That Christ made peace between man and man, that we who for generations, for centuries hated each other, fought and killed each other. Despised everything about each other. Now in the blood of Christ, we are brought together and we are made one. We are made members of one body Being built up by the Holy Spirit, that we all work together for the glory of your name and for the glory of Christ. Lord, we praise you that even though we live in a time where the nations still rage against your rule, Even though the peoples still plot in vain against your goodness, and the kings of the earth still unite themselves against your anointed one You have declared your warning that the kings of the earth are to do homage to the sun For we have received the promise, and you have made the decree that one day Christ will indeed return again. That he will crush all those who do evil, who resist his righteous rule, and that he will one day bring that long for, that final and lasting peace.

Speaker 3
And we praise you for all of this in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

