Speaker 1
Good morning. Would you turn with me if you have your Bible in front of you to Isaiah chapter 9? Isaiah chapter 9 We've been spending the last couple of weeks looking at Isaiah chapter 7, A to 9. And this morning we read Isaiah 9, verse 3. Isaiah nine, verse three Is this one on Quaker? You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you, as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray Father, we thank you for your word to us. We thank you for this opportunity to come as needy people before its life-giving substance. And Lord, we pray for that. That your word this morning, your word preached, would be life to us. And it would be life by the power of your Spirit, and in your Son and our Savior Christ, that He would be made much of, and that by faith we might behold Him, and in beholding Him rejoice. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well every December, as our wider culture approaches Christmas, we all collectively kind of drum up. This Christmas cheer through nostalgic songs that first glimmer of Mariah Carey singing Through the mall hallways, commercials with polar bears, decorations all over, and way too many cookies. Though the days are darker, we do what we can to transform December into a season of joy. And yet, if we're honest, for many people it all comes across as a bit shallow, a bit forced, a bit contrived The season isn't one of a beautiful and rich tradition, but something more manufactured, more synthetic. And the superficiality of it all causes them to drive even deeper into despair and melancholy this Christmas season, especially for those who behind the scenes or perhaps in their private lives are struggling with some family issue, some deep pain. The singing of Christmas carols over the radio just doesn't do it Even if their expectations rise, more often than not, the joy doesn't follow. And we sing about joy. We've been singing about joy this morning. Joy to the world. Have a holly, jolly Christmas, tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, but still we quietly wonder, is this really it? When's the real joy? When's the real satisfaction going to come? Where does real joy come from? And why does my joy, why does my joy seem so fragile and oftentimes so fleeting? Our text this morning, Isaiah 9, especially verse 3, which we've just read, was written to a people who knew darkness. And a darkness far deeper than I think we've ever known. Remember the context of what we've seen so far, a child has been born And when that child is born in King Ahaz's day, it will mark the coming conquest of Assyria to conquer and bring to exile and slavery all of God's people. The singing and the dancing will stop, and Israel and Judah will be no more. And yet, astonishingly, it's here that God promises not merely joy, but look at what the text says: increased joy. Four times our text highlights the place of joy that will come with this coming child. Remember verse six, for to us a child is born into Us a son is given. Isaiah 9 is looking forward to a future child, a coming seed of the woman who will bring light out of darkness. And here in this text Bring increased joy. And four times you have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. And that's the theme of this text. Our first point this morning, point I think the text shows us, is that true joy comes from God. Notice first, joy is something God creates. It's not something they could have manufactured, it's not something we can kind of drum up within ourselves. Note the repeated you. Yahweh himself is the subject there. You have multiplied the nation. You, Lord, have increased its joy. In other words, it isn't the case that Israel found joy. There was no Amazon wish list where they could Amazon prime to themselves some joy that they found on sale for $9. 99. And it isn't the case that Israel drummed up a kind of cultural joy either. Now here the text is clear, God gives it. True joy, true gospel rejoicing is a state of heart that originates from and finds its source in God and his goodness toward us. And because this is a text about the coming child, wrapped in swaddling claws, well. That joy that comes from God is specifically found in the goodness of Christ the child, the Son of God born to us. Which means, friends. We will never be able to find true everlasting joy until we first realize that it comes first from God. We must accept that fact. We'll forever be living lives of unsatisfied searching Chasing happiness here, chasing happiness there, chasing some kind of synthetic happiness everywhere, and yet always having this empty place in our souls Until we accept the truth, dare I say we submit to the truth, that only God in Christ can give me true joy. Lord, you have increased its joy. Here's a test to see if you have found that joy. What is your relationship with particular temptations and sins? We all have them. We give in to temptations and sins precisely because they're so, well, they make us feel good. No one goes after what makes them feel horrible. We enjoy it. There's a happiness behind it. And yet. The nature of the case is this, that it's not true and it's not everlasting. And so here's the test, which sinful joys Have you wrapped around its finger? Which sinful joys do you keep pursuing and running after? And insofar as you do not have an increased distaste for that joy, it may be that you have not yet found true joy in the greatest good, and that is Christ the Son of God. This joy found in Christ, this has always been God's design and plan. It has always been his desire to reverse the darkness and to To cast out the sadness of the fall and to bring us to himself where true joy is ultimately found. Jesus Himself praised this in his high priestly prayer. So if you read John 17, verse 9, and following, Jesus says that as the Father has loved me, I want you to know, so I have loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments, and I abide in his love. And then he says this. I've said this to you so that my joy may be in you and your joy may be full. Jesus sees us. As little children trying to find our satisfaction in all these tiny little imperfect things of this world. As C. S. Lewitz puts it as children trying to make sand castles in the gutter and the and the sludge of the sewer rather than enjoying a beautiful week at the beach. There's fullness of joy in Christ. Children, your first question this morning in your children's bulletin asks this. How can I ever find true, unending, all-satisfying joy? And here's your answer. By accepting what God has given us, Jesus Christ. It's a simple truth, but with profound implications. Believing and submitting to and loving and accepting that Jesus is the greatest. And of course he is, for he is the Son of God. The Son of God, infinite, eternal, without end, in and of himself all beautiful, all satisfying, transcendently glorious And dear friends, I I dare say that when we get to heaven and we see him for who he finally is, there will be in each and every one of us a deep, deep embarrassment that we ever gave our distracted attentions to all these little minor joys. The Apostle Peter in First Peter one puts it this way. It's in this truth that you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith may be found to result in praise and glory. And honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And even though you have not seen him, you love him Though you do not see him now, you believe in him and you rejoice with joy that is inexpressible. A joy filled with glory, says Peter. I love that. We have within us the mystery of this inexpressible, glorious joy. And we we attempt every Lord's Day morning to utter this joy in our praises and in our worship, but but I think Peter's point is this, and he couches it, and you do not yet see him. The day will come when we see him and we'll realize that we have sung far below what he deserves. This is exactly why Paul can command Christians in 1 Thessalonians 4 to rejoice always in the Lord. Again, I will say, rejoice. That is his command. And indeed it is a command that only Christians can obey, for indeed they want to, because they've beheld, if dimly by faith, still a true beholding. of the true enjoyment of our Savior. So again, friends, joy is not something we earn. Joy is not something we force or fake or try and produce within us. Joy, true joy, is found in Christ, in Christ alone. Secondly, it's also found before God. It's centered upon him. The result of this joy is that you rejoice, verse 3, they rejoice before you. In other words, joy is not merely in God's gifts, but it is indeed a joy that not only comes from God, but is found evermore before God. Maybe I could put it this way. Real joy in the presence of God is a relational joy, not transactional, not pharisaical. Oh, work hard at being a good person so that I can get closer to you. No, it is a relational joy. True gladness, says verse 3, is before you. Face to face. Corumdeo. A joy that increasingly wants to be with the Lord closer and closer. And we are like Bride away from her husband. Longing, aren't we? That's the language that Paul uses in Romans 8. With outstretched necks, longing for the coming of our Savior, our bridegroom. So that when he comes, we will forever be with him in an eternal grasp of love and relational joy. They rejoice before you. I think this also means that it is a holy joy. This is a joy that takes seriously the being face to face with our holy God. This is precisely why Jesus in John 17 says that I remain in the love of my Father because I have obeyed His commands, and so you will too, so that your joy may be full Dear friends, Christianity does have a set of commandments and an objective way of living life before God, but here's the great truth of it. It is not commands that we obey so that we get Christ. Now, the gospel is that because we get Christ and we now behold Him for all of His enjoyment, we can't help but obey Him. This is a relational joy that is a holy joy. And it is a joy that again we get because of Christ, who is God with us. That's the nature of Advent, isn't it? That's why we gather on these Sunday mornings on cold Christmas December uh uh wintry months. And we celebrate, we rejoice in the Advent, the coming of Christ, Emmanuel, God with us. And here the great truth is that if you have believed in Jesus, he is God with you and in you. And because he is in you and by his spirit working in you, not only does he increase your joy in Christ, but he increases your ability to now follow after him. Christmas never promises less darkness. I can't do anything about the Mariah Carey songs, but But this text does promise us that if you believe in Christ, He is in you, and you live your life now before Him. And so even though there might be darkness and there might be trials, there might be sadness, the promise of this text is very clear. If Christ is in you, then his joy is in you. The third point this text brings up is that true joy is expansive. It's expansive. The text says, you have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy This phrase is far more than population growth. Isaiah himself actually interprets this phrase the deeper you go into the book of Isaiah. So listen here to what Isaiah says in Isaiah 26. O Lord, you will ordain peace for us, that is the nation, for you have indeed done for us all our works. O Lord our God, other Lords besides you have ruled over us, but but your name alone we bring to remembrance. They are dead. They will not live. They are shades. They will not arise. To that end, you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them. But You have increased the nation, O Lord. You have increased the nation. You are glorified. You have enlarged all the borders of the land. Here Isaiah begins to develop this idea of the nation expanding and increasingly throughout the book, it is tied to the Messiah who will come. So again, a little later in Isaiah 54, sing, O barren one who did not bear. Break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not been in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord. Enlarge the place of your tent. Let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out and do not hold back. Lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes, for you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring Will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities. Here Israel is described as a barren woman, an individual who Who has much to be sad over. And here she's told ironically, I want you to sing, O Baron Israel. Why? Because your offspring will outnumber that of the married woman and spread out to the right and left and include now even the nations around you. For Isaiah, the nation is not merely ethnic Israel. It is now God's people enlarged by divine action Here, God is not promising a replacement of Israel. He's not saying Israel is going to retreat. Here, the truth is that there will be an expansion. The nations themselves will be brought to participate. in the joy being promised. The irony is that the very nations who have historically plundered and attacked Israel, the very nations that are threatening Israel now Well, they're going to be the very ones who God brings in and gives them true Christ-centered joy. Look at the very end of the verse 3. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. Here I think he's alluding to the very nations who will come in and conquer and divide the spoil among God's people. And yet here is the promise that when the child comes, they will rejoice now in that child. If they had joy in conquering, they will have greater joy in being conquered by the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Notice the connection. The multiplication of the people here leads to the multiplication of joy. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. What does that mean? It means this. God's redemptive plan has always been centrifugal, never protective and isolated. This is not a hermit kingdom, but one wherein the news of this joy will spread and cover the world as the waters cover the sea. In other words, God doesn't preserve joy by shrinking his people. He increases joy by increasing his people. This is the exact opposite of a a kind of fundamentalist holy huddleism, right? Us versus them. We protect the gospel in our safe little churches. No, no, no. The logic here: as the kingdom grows outward, so joy grows with it. Look at how this works in the New Testament. I think Luke, when writing the book of Acts, especially in Acts 13, has this passage in mind. In Acts 13, Paul and Barnabas have been preaching the gospel in the synagogues, and wonderfully many Jews have come to believe in Christ. But As often happened, many others didn't. And in fact, they kicked Paul out, and so Paul did what he always did. He went and preached to the Gentiles. And by God's grace, the Gentiles believed. But then Luke writes this in Acts 13, verse 44. The next Sabbath, the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. But since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are now turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us saying, I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began, the text reads, rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region. But the Jews, incited by the devout women of high standing, and the leading men of the city They stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and went to Iconium, and the disciples were filled with joy And with the Holy Spirit. Do you see the pattern? It's unmistakable. Christ is preached, the nations are gathered, and joy multiplies. Dear friends, let us not abandon this God-designed pattern. The church does not lose joy when it widens. We rejoice as the kingdom grows. We rejoice as men and women from all over the globe come to give their lives to Jesus Christ. Churches, we rejoice when other churches are planted in our area that preach the true gospel. And of course we do. Even heaven rejoices over one sinner who repents. And are we not citizens of that same heaven? So there's our second point, our third point. True joy is expansive. Our advent joy is a missional joy. And God is still keeping this promise. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. Children, question two in your children's bulletin asks this. Who is allowed to participate in the joy of Jesus? Here's the answer. Every person of every nation. Which is why we still preach, which is why we still send missionaries. Children, this leads to your third question too. Question three, should I keep this joy to myself? Answer: No, I must tell the world about Jesus. This is exactly the truth that Daniel read for us earlier from the Gospel of Luke. The angels coming to these lowly shepherds. What does the angel say? The angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For all nations, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. This joy is a gift from God. And it's not a gift to be hidden away or tucked away in the comfort of church on Sunday morning. It is a gift to be scattered by us into the ends of the globe. Day after day after day. The nature of this true joy, the nature of it is full and festive. And they rejoice before you, as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. Isaiah gives two images here, one agricultural and then the other military. And together I think they they portray and they give us this picture of the fullness of Christ's joy. It's a joy like harvest. Especially for people who lived in an agrarian culture. The harvest season was a season filled with mirth. Why? Because it was a season filled with satisfaction. Why? Because it was a season filled with life. If there was no harvest, then death would ensue. But yes, praise God, yet again the crops have grown, and we get to celebrate and eat and drink. Waiting, working, trusting through the hard season. Yes, at last, the fullness of the harvest is here. This is the picture of what Christ is doing and bringing all the nations to himself to enjoy him. And it will be consummated when he comes back. And there will be a fullness when every tribe, nation, and tongue and the new heavens and the new earth will sing with tear-filled eyes, Glory, glory to God our Savior. And then Christ individually will wipe away every tear and smile at us as we smile back in him in full rejoicing. But this fullness of joy, this satisfaction of the harvest, it's also communal, isn't it? No one man was meant to enjoy all the crops and all the harvest. This was a time for the entirety of all the people to come together and enjoy together at one table the goodness of God's gift and the harvest. Everyone feasts and they do it together. Singing together, eating and drinking together, fellowshipping together, oneness within a multitude of people. And of course, we know this from the Gospel of Matthew, that Jesus, he is Lord of the harvest, and he is the one that that brings us all together and that and that full harvest congregational joy I was thinking even before our last song, it's striking to me that the f one of the fruits of the spirit is is just that joy. Galatians 6. And it's striking to me that he uses that language of fruits of the Spirit. This harvest metaphor that what Christ accomplished on the cross to now brings to us by his spirit indwelling in us bubbles up within us this harvest fruit of joy together. It's Christ who works within us this deep satisfaction, this this the satisfying of the hunger. Well the second analogy here is that of joy, like dividing the spoil. And here this military picture is that of a soldier's joy after victory. The war has been hard won. The fighting is over. Death is done away with. The enemy is defeated. The kingship is secure, and finally we get to enjoy the fruits of what we fought over. Well dear friends, isn't it the truth that Christ our King has defeated that final enemy? He has bound the strongman. He has defeated death. And insofar as Christ our King has won the war, then we can indeed rejoice over the spoil that He has secured for us. His victory is our victory. And where he is, we will be too on that day when he returns to bring us home. Children, question four. Though my joy oftentimes falters, and though it seems like the war isn't quite over. Will there ever be a time when my joy and rejoicing will never fade, but more and more grow? And the answer is yes. When Christ our King comes back and brings us home. We have gone through D-Day. Jesus has been raised from the grave. He sits now as the Prince of Peace, the King of Kings, at the right hand of his Father, but we have not yet reached V-Day. And that victory day will soon arise when Christ comes back. And when he does, all the darkest enemies, all the All the sorrows that plague us week by week will finally be done away with. Every tear wiped away from every cheek. I'll end here with a bit of an irony. It's striking to me that throughout the Gospels, Jesus It's hardly ever spoken of one who is rejoicing. In fact, Isaiah himself calls him what? A man of sorrows. Grieved over the fallenness of his world. A man who was tempted in every way as we are, yet without sin, and in that temptation, no doubt We see it in him sweating drops of blood, felt deeply the presence of the curse and the darkness of this sad, sad world. He was a man of sorrows, and yet we know that he was one who rejoiced in the spirit. Perhaps no deeper sorrow fell upon Christ than when he hung upon the cross, arguably the darkest day in all of human history, the saddest moment. Especially for the humanity of Christ in his entire life. And yet Hebrews tells us, Hebrews 12, too. That he went to that cross despising the shame precisely because of the joy set before him. His joy was a joy grounded in his father. It came from his father Point one. His joy was a joy that was before his father as he ever looked to his father. Point two His joy was a joy that was expansive because he knew that his death would bring to himself the nations. Point three And his joy was a joy that was full and festive, like a harvest and a king getting the spoil. As he died, he would conquer death in his resurrection. Point four. Difference. If you have Christ, you have all four of that kind of joy. Thou art giving and forgiving, ever blessing, ever blessed Wellspring of the joy of living, ocean depth of happy rest. Thou our Father, Christ our Brother, all who live in love are thine. Teach us how to love each other. Lift us to the joy divine. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let us pray together. Father, we long to be filled with the joy that only comes from you. Lord, we are so tired of the pain and the disappointment that comes from chasing after the things of this world. From chasing after and distracting ourselves by the toys and the trinkets The cakes and the cookies, by this and that promise that this world makes to us, and yet turns out to be so empty. Lord, we we know that even if we were to inherit the entire world It still would not fill us. For we are made for something greater than simply material things and present joys. We are made for something better than what this world has to offer. And we will not be satisfied until we get it. And so, Lord, we pray that you would remind our hearts again and again. That these things are not what bring us true and lasting joy. These are not the things that fulfill us. Even if we had the whole world but we lost our soul, we would lose everything. O Lord, we want the blessing of Christ. We want the working of the Holy Spirit, which is why we come before you now in prayer. Asking for your blessing, because we cling to the promises that you will not reject those who cling to Christ in faith. That you will indeed pour your blessing out upon us, and that your joy will flow out of us, will fill us and flow out It will be like streams of living water overflowing from us onto those around us. Lord, we pray for this joy now. We pray for your blessing.

Speaker 3
We pray that you would indeed give us your Holy Spirit. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.

