Speaker 1
In John chapter 1, and we'll read verses 6 through 9. John 1, verses 6 through 9. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. Well, this is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures. Forever. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you, and we pray, Lord, that you would now, by the light of your word. And by the power of your Spirit, make known to us the truths of this passage. Inscribe them upon our hearts. And Father, we pray that you would help us Work in us, enable us to be better witnesses for our Savior Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. You will remember that the reason John wrote this gospel and he gives us That reason at the end of the gospel in John chapter 20, he wrote this so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that by believing you may have life in his name. This gospel is a witness, it is an evangelistic effort. And something that we need to be reminded of almost every Sunday: an effort to bring us to belief and eternal life in Jesus Christ. And we get now in this prologue almost a parenthesis about one of the first witnesses to Jesus Christ. Perhaps you've noticed as we've been working our way through these first few verses of John's Gospel, I think this is fascinating, that there is something of a historical progression through the verses. So for instance, verses 1 and 2, it begins before history even began. In history, eternity passed. In the beginning was the word. And the Word not only was with God, but the Word was God, the eternal before history began God. Then in verse three, well then comes Christ's role in the work of creation. All things were made through him. History begins. Time and space. Through the power of the created word, creative word, life comes to be. Then next in verse 4, the uprightness of man. Then you get in verse 5. The fall of man and Jesus coming into the world as a light shining now in fallen darkness, there's a kind of historical progression going on here. And then now in verses 6 through 9 we enter into the beginning of the ministry of Jesus with his forerunner, John the Baptist I think at the very least, this reminds us that John's gospel does not merely present to us ideas about God and salvation or a set of ethical principles of of ivory tower out there vague issues to believe in. It grounds us actually in history. Christianity produces great philosophical worldviews by which to make sense of the world. Amen. But unlike every other religion, and John is highlighting this here. It grounds its truth claims in certain facts of history. There was a light who came into the world And there was a man who pointed us to that light, and that light was overcome by darkness, and yet three days later, even though he was dead in the grave, rose again in history, and everything changed. Our gospel is not just a myth and story to encourage us on a Sunday morning. It is something real and historically Grounded. Something wonderful has happened in the coming of Jesus Christ that we want the world to know. And we even, if we follow the example of John the Baptist, We'll go to our deaths pointing to that historical moment 2,000 years ago But a question arises in my mind as we read through this. Why does John bring up and introduce John the Baptist? I mean, we've been doing this deep dive in what is honestly this poetic expose in the eternality of God and his salvation. And then boom, stop. Let me tell you about this guy named John. Why? It seems like an interruption. It seems almost abrupt. You're reading in verse 5, the light shines in the darkness, the darkness has not overcome it. Verse 9, right after this little paragraph, he he returns to Jesus and he writes, the light is shown in the world. Our hearts are impassioned with this beauty. And you wonder, okay, but why did you slow us down and interrupt us to point us to this man named John? Why not finish the introduction? You could read this in a continuous way, couldn't you? From verses 1 through 5, skip over verses 6 through 8 and continue right on with Jesus in verse 9. He could have written it differently. It seems, I think, that he shows us this so as to remind us that not only is the gospel grounded in history, But it plays out in real historical figures like you and I. In other words, it seems that God's way of making the light shine in the dark and spreading the light which cannot be overcome. is by using human means. In other words, could have kept going, you could have gotten the impression. This is all up to Jesus. He'll come. He'll shine. He's God. He'll fill the world with his light. Amen. Then he says, well, hold on There was a man. A mere man. An imperfect man. A great preacher. But a weird man. He ate crickets, he wore camel's hair around his skin, and he lived in the desert. And he had crowds of people that went out to him and all he wanted to do was say, repent and be baptized. This is, let's be frank, this is not ordinary, and it is a bit strange, and yet this is what we're introduced to. Think about it. God could have done it any other way. He could have sent Christ into the world, and Christ. Himself could have brought about believers and set up his kingdom. He could have written in the sky with big letters, Jesus, that's my son. He could have done it in incredible ways, and yet there was a man sent from God whose name was John. There's a principle here. A principle in this first little introduction, this little interruption, as it were. And I think it gains force and power in its generality when you realize that John was sent to bear witness. While the light was there. Isn't that interesting? The light is coming into the world, but hold on, let me tell you about a man whose whole purpose is to point you to the light. We're told that he's not the light. But don't you wonder, doesn't it bubble up in your mind if Jesus is the true light and he's coming into this dark world? What other kind of light can outshine that light? Just point to that light. But here John wants us to look at this man. Who pointed at the light. And I think the whole principle, again, is that we're being reminded here that the gospel is grounded in history and in real flesh and blood people like you and I, who are meant to be witnesses for the gospel. We ought not to fall into the trap, therefore. Of thinking that God's incredible work of bringing men and women to faith in Jesus Christ Is something that's relegated to he and he alone. Or perhaps fall into the trap that thinking that the great work of bringing men and women to Jesus Christ is somehow relegated to The professional preachers of this world, the specially gifted evangelists of this world. Reading this morning and reminded of Acts chapter 1, verse 8, where Jesus tells his apostles, You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be my witnesses. The same word used here in John. You will be my witnesses. In Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and then he says this, and to the end of the earth. I think giving the principle That it will be the church, you, me, no matter who you are, no matter what gifts you have To be witnesses to that light so that more and more people will believe in Jesus Christ. This is something I think we always need to be reminded of, and something that I think this text Helps us to hold on to. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning asks this: What work has God given me to do if I'm a believer in Jesus Christ? What work has God given me to do if I'm a believer in Jesus Christ? Now, no doubt the first and preeminent answer to that would be to glorify God and worship him. And that's what we're doing here this morning as we gather to worship him. But But the answer I want you to write down is this. To tell everyone about Jesus Christ. To talk about him, to be a witness, to live your life in such a way that people know Jesus. That they know their need for Jesus, about their duty to repent and believe in Jesus. A Christian witness is first and foremost about pointing to Christ. We tell people with the early church enshrined in the Apostles' Creed that Jesus is God's only Son, our Lord. that he was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, that in history and in reality he suffered under Pontius Pilate with Crucified. He actually died, was buried, he descended into hell, but on the third day rose to resurrection of life. And that he ascended into the heavens and sits at the right hand of God. God the Father Almighty. And from there, in history, at some point in the future, he will come again to judge the living and the dead. That's our gospel message. And it's something the church has always confessed and believed. And it is the work of the church to always promote that truth. Martin Lloyd-Jones put it this way. He says, we are, quote, meant to talk to people about the Lord Jesus. And to tell them he is the Son of God. And that he has come into this world in order to save men and women. We're meant to tell men exactly why the world is as it is. Why it's dark and why it's fallen. We're meant to tell them about sin in the human heart, and that nobody and nothing can deal with that sin, with that problem, save alone the Son of God. And then Lloyd Jones says this. We're very ready to talk about to talk about doctors and to praise the man who cured us when so many failed We talk about businesses. We talk about new inventions. We talk about everything and anything. Films and plays and actors and actresses and a thousand and one other things. But the church is given the duty of pointing to and talking about Jesus Christ. In some sense, John here is introduced to us I think as a pivot in biblical history as well. We read in Luke, Luke 16, that the law and the prophets were proclaimed until John. In other words, the Gospels present John here as a particular witness, but within a certain dispensation, if you will, that he was the last prophet. Sent by God to point to the coming of the Savior. And before the ministry of that Savior shone light upon the world, John was out there in the darkness of the wilderness. saying, He's coming. He's coming soon. It's almost here. John was the last of the Old Testament prophets, and hence the last of the representatives of the Old Order, and and and this Jesus. That he was preaching about. This Jesus was not only bringing light to darkness, but a kingdom to a fallen and disheveled world. John was the herald of a new world to come. John was pointing and saying, when he's here, everything will change. It's not for nothing that John earned the praise of Jesus Christ. Jesus in Matthew 11 says, This, I tell you the truth. Among those born of women, there is not risen anyone greater than Jesus. John the Baptist. Yet he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. That last line there, I think It probably refers to the fact that those who come after John, those of us who believe in Jesus and would receive the Holy Spirit of Jesus, will go on to do greater work in telling the world. about that light. John called himself a voice crying in the wilderness. It wasn't just the physical wilderness of the desert. I think they're representing in that wilderness was the wider, darker wilderness of this fallen world. A world given over to every false God, a world given over to every idolatry, and a world which was about to have the true Son of God enter in, and John was pointing to him. Him. Flee the wilderness of this spiritually dark world and come to the one true God. In other words, it was John's role and pleasure merely to be the herald of the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world. If you're a believer, is that not the heartbeat of your passion? You've been forgiven by the Lord And now been given a new heart to worship the Lord. And in fact, you've been given a hope and an assurity that you will be with the Lord forever and ever in glory, praising His name and enjoying His presence. And you're jealous that not enough people know what you know. And so, like John, the passion that that that beats through our blood veins. Is that we would decrease and Christ would increase. Paul, who came later, had the same concern, and that was solely to magnify Jesus. And he says. Whether by this life of mine or even by my death, that I will always point to Christ. Now, John is described here as A witness, a title which again I think belongs to all Christians according to Acts 1. 8. And as such, he's also a model for us. He had a sense of personal commission, verse 6, he was sent from God. He had a message which was entirely Christ-centered. He was a witness to the light, verse 8. And his goal was specifically the winning of the hearts of his hearers to put personal faith, irrespective of their condition or attitude, to put their faith. In Jesus Christ. That is, verse 7, so that through him all men might believe. What does it take to be that kind of witness Well, if John's a model, I think one thing that we can highlight was his humility. Here was a man who really did believe that he should decrease and Christ should increase The gifts that he was given by the Spirit to preach and to wander around and call people to Christ was a gift that he never used to highlight himself. And isn't it fascinating that John's life was, in all respects, a tragic life? I think of him in relationship to Moses. He was called of God. appointed by God, he was faithful in in his ministry. He he introduced and and led the Christian movement forward. And then he was struck down dead by a fickle woman's desire and a and a and a king's fear. That he was taking too much fame to himself. He didn't even get to be a part of the new covenant church that Jesus was establishing. He pointed to Christ and didn't even get to enjoy the worship and the fruit of his ministry. And again, Jesus says he was the greatest man who ever lived. John, in spite of that, accepted his role without any resentment Without any grumbling, the man lived over a hundred percent that he might decrease and Jesus might increase. At the very least, doesn't this call us to seek the Lord? Lord in prayer, and ask, Lord, may I think of myself less. And in every thought and in every conversation, and everything I do, may I do it unto the glory of my Savior. Now we'll see a lot more of John as we study through this gospel. But even at this point, we should notice that we have here an outline of what made the witness of John very effective I think this is important because it tells us how we too can be effective as we seek to bear a testimony to be witnesses for our Lord. Again, the outline is stated quite clearly in verses 7 and 8. Three parts, John writes that the Baptist was sent from God. He was not the light, but secondly, he was sent to bear witness to the light, and then three, all in order that men might believe. Through him. I think that this means personally. In the first place, John the Baptist was aware that he was not the light. And if he is to be a proper witness to that true light, he needs to not point to himself. This is important simply because all successful witnessing to Jesus Christ must start with the self-realization That I am not that guy. The gospel, the church, the kingdom of God is not about me It's about Christ. He's the King. And so whenever a Christian layman, whenever a minister, whenever a writer, a teacher, whoever it is, gets to thinking that there is something important about him or Or herself, he or she will always cease to be effective as Christ's witness. As soon as we step into whatever pulpit the Lord has called us to, whether it's a literal pulpit in a church. Or the pulpit of interacting with coworkers at work, the moment we begin to think, I did a pretty good job. The minute we think, Lord, wasn't that impressive? Not only have we lost the plot, but we've lost all effectiveness The testimony will stop. And unfortunately, I think this has been true of many Christians and and even Christian movements. We get hyped up in the thing that's happening. And second, notice that John bore witness to the light. I think this is important because there are always many, how do we put it, shy? Scared, uncertain Christians who feel that they're bearing a witness simply because they're living the Christian faith or refusing to do certain things and perhaps they're doing other things? We fall into the trap, don't we, of thinking that if I just live a morally upright Christian life, that alone will be an effective witness. What was the horrible phrase of the medieval saint who said, preach the gospel often, and if necessary, use words? No. To be a witness is to talk about the light, not merely reflect that light in our lives. It's what Paul Little, the author of this, I think, great little book on how to give away your faith, calls pre-evangelism. Sure, your life must not be a hindrance. It shouldn't be a a stumbling stone to the gospel. If you are living a hypocritical life, no matter what words you speak, it will fall on flat ears. Oh, is that what it means to be a believer in the gospel, to live like you live? And if it's not a godly life, sure, that is bad news for the gospel. But it can't just be living a right life. If we do not live what we profess, and if we don't profess the life that God has worked in us, then it is all for not. Witnessing is speaking to others about Jesus. I think this is implied in the very word itself, witnessing. The word witness is a kind of legal term that points to a verbal testimony rendered in a court of law. You need a witness to ground the truth of what happened. Uh somebody says, no, this is what happened. No, no, no, I saw it. It went this way. Well, are there any witnesses who were there? Can you tell me what happened? And those witnesses speak and they give clarity to the truth and the light of what happened. Witness also must be given with the belief of other persons in Jesus Christ as its object. John, we're told, bore witness to the light, so that through him all might believe. It should be almost unnecessary to talk about this, it's so obvious, yet it's necessary simply because it's possible for a person to become so mechanical in his witness that he can go through all the motions of witnessing. He's read all the books on how to evangelize. And he hits all the points. And yet behind it all is this kind of blank, vapid Desire to get it out. Not a heart of prayerfulness. Not a desire to actually people see people change and be brought to new life in Jesus. Christ. In other words, the whole goal of witnessing isn't just to say, look at me, check the box. I did my evangelism for this week. I gave them a tract. I knocked on some doors. I'm good for the week. The whole desire, the whole end, is so that these people might come to know and believe in Jesus Christ. John Piper famously says, evangelism exists because worship doesn't. And insofar as we desire the worship of our God to be more and more, then that will fuel us and empower us to get after the work of witnessing and evangelizing. Why? Because we want more men and women to know and worship our God. If we could remember this, I think we would find witnessing not only Exciting, doable. We would learn that merely winning the argument, as we often confuse evangelism with apologetics. We would learn that winning the argument becomes far less important than winning the person to the Lord. So again, children, and your children's bulletin the question number two asks this What is the purpose of evangelism? What is the purpose of my evangelism? It is so that they believe. It's so that the hearers believe. I love verse seven. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light. The Lord has established many different witnesses. Evangelism is not the only witness. There's the witness of creation that declares the glory of God. There's the witness of the scriptures that were written down by the apostles. There's the witness of the Holy Spirit who brings conviction to hearts. Later in the Gospel of John, we'll see that Jesus even says, the Father witnesses to me. And then he'll say, I am my own witness, because I am the light. And yet, the ordinary way in which the Lord has funneled all those witnesses to break through the fog and the hardened hearts of this fallen world is through the preaching. Of the gospel. Paul will say later in Romans chapter 10 that faith comes from hearing and hearing the word of Christ. And then he goes on to unpack: how will they hear if no one is sent? How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Dear friends, do you have it resolved within your own hearts and in your life right now if you are a believer in Jesus? Jesus Christ, that the Lord has not brought you to heaven. He has not translated you from this dark and fallen world into the light of glory. And he's he's allowed you to remain here in the suffering and in the hardship of this. of this hard fallen world. Why? So that through you you might give the good news. And through that good news, the Lord might use that gospel to change hearts and bring more men and women to faith. I think the pattern of this little interruption in John, it's simple and yet fascinating. We are called to be a reflection of that greater light. And how we live, in our humility And in our words. And here's the great truth. You do not have to be a professional speaker in order to do it well. John was an odd man living in an odd place and yet the Lord used him. Christ praised him for his efforts. The apostles were fishermen, not trained rhetoricians. Paul came to Corinth not with wise and eloquent words. But stumbling through his gospel message as best he could, other people in Corinth said, we like those guys better. They preach a better gospel, it seems. And yet, the only truth they held on to was, I need To preach Christ and Christ crucified. And through that simple action, the Lord changes the world. The church spreads. And more and more people are brought into the worship of God. And as we are, we reflect that light of Christ. Christ. We are his witnesses. And yet, we're told in verse 8, he was not the light. But came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives life and light to everyone, was coming into the world There is a recognition here, isn't there not? That Jesus is the true light. At once that reminds us that all we're reflecting is the truth of who Jesus is. But it also presupposes that this is entirely a spiritual reality. And this very gospel Witness. It serves to establish the identity of who Jesus is, and his identity is not established merely on the basis of historical facts. Jesus came and the world still hated him. Crucify him. Crucify him. John's witness is wholly bound to the vision and illumination of the Holy Spirit. He was a man who was empowered by the Spirit, and here's the great truth. Acts 1. 8, so have you. By doing the very feeble, seemingly foolish action Of speaking to people about a Savior who came 2,000 years ago, who is alive now. You can't see him, but I assure you, he is sitting at the right hand of God the Father. And our gospel message says that he will come back again on a white horse and he will judge all the living and the dead. To be frank, that is an absurd message to a dark world. And it is no wonder that the world, through that message, not only will not believe it, but cannot believe it until we're reminded that the Holy Spirit takes that message. And uses it like a sharp two-edged sword to pierce into the hardness and darkness of our own hearts and bring about life and light. Dear friends, weak and feeble as we are, tiny Greenbelt Baptist Church, we are a church that is empowered with the third person of God Himself. The Holy Spirit. And so even if your words come about fumbling and stumbling, and mine often do, the Lord uses our weak words. And when he multiplied the fish and he multiplied the bread and he fed the 5,000, so he uses your weak words and multiplies it to do an incredible feeding and nourishing in dead and hungry hearts. I find it fascinating. The spiritual reality is even brought up later in this gospel. The Spirit descended and remained upon Jesus down in John chapter 1, verses 32 and 34. But look at what he says down in verses 31 and 33. John himself admits, when he came I did not recognize him. I did not recognize him. It wasn't until the Holy Spirit descended, and it wasn't until the Holy Spirit worked, that even in John's eyes and mind could he make sense. There's the Savior. If you're here this morning and you've been hearing the gospel, you've been working through this gospel of John with us, and we've been talking about Jesus Christ, and you have yet to believe in him. You can take assessment of your soul right now and you're pretty sure I don't think I'm a believer in Jesus Christ. Dear friend, pray Pray that the Holy Spirit would work in your heart. Ask God to send the Spirit to revive and reawaken and make yourself to be born again so that now with this new spiritual life, this Illumination which comes only from the Spirit, can you now look to Christ and say, oh, now I get it? Jesus is the Savior. I love reading the accounts of old Puritans. This was true of John Bunyan. This was true of Jonathan Edwards. They grew up in a culture where the gospel was preached not only weekly, but But families would go to church almost daily to hear two-hour sermons. They knew the gospel. They knew the Bible inside and out. And yet these men grew up knowing that they had not yet believed in Jesus Christ. They wanted to. They had conviction of sin. And yet there was something internally within them that they knew I have not yet closed with and put my faith in the Savior. I have no assurance that I'm going to heaven. And it's fascinating. You can read this in John Bunyan uh in his uh his little biography, um, Grace Abounding to the chief of sin. Where he says he spent weeks wrestling in prayer with the Lord, asking God the Father to give more of his Holy Spirit, all unto the end, that he might believe. As you hear this gospel, and you leave here week after week saying, Well, that's nice. The sermon was helpful, but I'm not sure I'm a believer in Jesus Christ. Don't run off and rush off to distract yourself with the joy of lunch on a Sunday afternoon. Don't rush home to go watch the game and not think about the gospel anymore. My dear friends, I would urge you, I would commend to you the practice of going home and wrestling in prayer and beseeching and begging the Lord, Lord, give me your spirit. I might know and love Jesus. Jesus is the light that alone can penetrate and conquer the spiritual darkness not only of this fallen world, but of your own fallen fallen heart. We saw that last week in verse 5. The light doesn't originate from within us. Don't look to yourself for faith. Don't wrestle with your own kind of emotional life. Seek the light that comes from God and God alone. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the one God in whom we believe Works in his triune personhood to bring you to life. The Spirit pointing you to Christ, Christ believed upon, and Christ pointing you to worship God the Father This phrase in verse nine, the true light, which gives light to everyone. was coming into the world. This phrase of him coming into the world, it's not used elsewhere in John speaking about the birth of a man. It's used frequently. For the coming into human history of Jesus Christ. So, for instance, at the miracle where he multiplies the loaves and the fishes and feeds the thousands. He says this in John chapter 6, verse 14, surely this is the prophet who has come into the world Or again, Martha told Jesus, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is come into the world. John chapter 11, verse 27. Jesus himself in John chapter 16, verse 28, I came from the Father and entered into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father. Even Pilate's remark, you are a king then. And how did Jesus respond? You were right in saying that I'm a king. In fact, for this reason I was born, and for this reason I came into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone on the side of truth listens to me. The whole point of John's gospel is the incarnation of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, taking to himself our human nature, so that he might live amongst us as light. Die under a cloud of darkness. Resurrect unto glorious light. Also that we might look at him and believe in him and be found in the truth. This is the history that we preach, the history that motivates us, and the historical truth that, Lord willing, will change. The world. Children, your third question this morning: Who is the ultimate source of all goodness, beauty, truth, and light? There it is in verse nine. Jesus is the true light. Jesus is the true light. Friends, there are Countless other witnesses to countless other lights in this world. There is an ever-growing light of Islam, And many are attracted to that light. The rigor, the moral inflexibility of that system. There is the light of our modern human secularism, the light of scientism. The light of any other religion and cult, any other belief system, the light of liberty and and the American dream, of progressive values, that things are always going to be getting better. John is introducing to us right here that there is only one true light. And we are called, weak and feeble as we are, to be witnesses to that true. Light. There is no other answer to the world. And I guarantee you, Satan and his minions are hard at work, sleepless day and night. To promote and to posture countless other witnesses to point to every other light except the light of Jesus Christ. We have work to do. We're not left alone. We have the sword of the word. We have the power of the Holy Spirit. And we actually have a message that points to an actual person in whom his light outshines everything else. What confidence we can have. What courage we can have. And with the Lord's help, what nobility we can have. To point people to that true light. This true light gives light to everyone. This of course isn't saying that everyone will be saved. But this is saying that no matter who you are, no matter where you've come from, no matter what deficiencies and sins and and and and and mistakes you've made, this light is able to To change you. We've already seen how the Gospel of John will talk about this theme of light and and the irony of Jesus in his death. Succumbing to the darkness of the world, even the sun going out in that moment, and and and laying for three days in the darkness of death. How Jesus defeats that in his resurrection. His light is stronger and more victorious over the deepest darkness of death. But here's the great news. For all who believe in Jesus Christ, and we believe in the light, and we're drawn to the light, though the Lord keeps us here to be continued witnesses to that light, There is coming a day where we will enjoy forever and ever the eternal, glorious, physical light of Jesus Christ. I'm always fascinated by the description and revelation that in the new heavens and the new earth there will be no sun, there will be no moon, and all will enjoy and have the light of Christ. shine on them day and night forever. Last week we brought up the lion, the witch in the wardrobe. And And C. S. Lewis and two other books brings this theme of light up again. First is in The Voyage of the Dawn Tritter. As the uh children take their ship to the edge of the world and enter closer and closer to Aslan's glorious kingdom. That kingdom on the other shore. And as they get there, the way in which Lewis describes their approach of glory, as it were. Is a greater and greater light. Unlike the sun, which doesn't beat them down and they need refreshment, but a light that allows them to stay out on top of the ship. And as they get closer, every sense within them is reinvigorated. There's an increased attraction to this light, which if it were the sun, they would want to hide from and cover up. But this light draws them. And they find their conversation more flowing freely. Their attraction to Aslan greater. And as they get to the shores, they don't want to leave at all. Now Aslan, of course, sends them back. Why? Because he wants to tell them, you need to tell the rest of the people about me. But then you get to the last book in the Chronicles of Narnia. And then the new heavens and the new earth come. Narnia is done away with, our world is done away with, and they're brought into glory. And they step into this light, this new world. You all know the words. What do we do? And the instruction given by Aslan is. Farther up, further in, there's more light to explore. My light so shines in this new world. That you will spend eternity exploring it and enjoying it, and you will find that the source of this light is Christ Himself Dear friends, is that not a glorious hope for heaven? But while we remain here in the darkness, oh I pray. And would you pray that the Lord would engage us, enable us to be witnesses to that true light? Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Pray together. Our God and Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning. And we do ask quite simply that you would make us witnesses to the light of Jesus Christ. That you would so stir within our hearts a love for our Savior and a love for a lost and dying world that you would Embolden us, that you would within us by your Spirit urge us and prod us forward to proclaim the goodness and the good news of Jesus Christ. Lord, we do ask simply for this, that you would make us better witnesses to the light of Jesus Christ. That you would grow up within us a desire to know him more and a desire to proclaim him more. Lord, we do ask as well this morning that if there Are any here perhaps this morning? Perhaps some who've come for years and years and yet have never truly grasped hold of that light, Jesus. Jesus Christ, who have never truly wrestled with making Jesus the light of our own life. We do ask that by your Spirit you would work mightily within the hearts of those individuals this morning. We do ask that not a single individual would walk out from these doors this morning. Without wrestling, without coming to Christ, casting our souls upon Him for salvation Lord, we do ask all of these things in the name of Jesus Christ, our beloved Savior. Amen.

