Speaker 1
A long study through this glorious gospel. I'll read this morning from the Gospel of John, chapter one. And I'll read verses one, two, and three. John one, verses one, two, and three. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever and ever. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this time to now come before your living and active word, sharper than any two-edged sword. And Father, we pray that now your word would be light unto us. And from that light, Lord, light from heaven, we pray that you would cause life to grow up in our midst. Life within our hearts, life within this church, life breaking forth as we exalt and spread the name of Jesus Christ, your Son, the eternal word. To all who hear. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, again, we are coming to this brand new Exposition of the study of the Gospel of John, a study that is at once thrilling for me and yet at the very same time daunting and terrifying to me. It's been said that John's gospel, like a pool of water, is shallow enough for a young child to wade in, and yet deep enough for elephants to swim and never reach the bottom. That is, there are truths in this gospel which are just so clear, truths which are so simple. That even a young child should be able to grasp onto these truths and believe them with all their hearts, souls, and mind. And yet there are truths in this gospel. That frankly will take an eternity to truly plumb the depths of and understand fully. James Boyce points out in his commentary that this fourth gospel really does have some of the most well-known and best loved passages in the entirety of Scripture There's of course John 3. 16. God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. There's John 6, 35. I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty. Or how about John 10, verse 11? I am the good shepherd. John 11, verse 25, I am the resurrection and the life. Or John 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. No wonder the Gospel of John has been a source of so much blessing, so much comfort to untold generations of God's people. I don't know this for sure, but I'm willing to bet. I have a hunch. that more people have come to know Jesus Christ as their Savior from this portion of Scripture, the Gospel of John, than anywhere else in the Bible. And in a way, I think that makes sense. That's the whole reason John wrote this gospel. If you have the Gospel of John open, turn quickly to the very end, to John chapter 20. Look at John chapter 20 and verse 30 and 31. What does John write there? He gives us the purpose statement of this book. Now, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written. Oh, why'd you write this gospel, John? I wrote this gospel. Why? So that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. There it is. It's the whole purpose and design for what John wants to accomplish in this gospel that you in reading it In hearing it preached, would come to know and believe in and find eternal life in the person of Jesus Christ. I guess that's the great question, is it? Who is Jesus Christ? Who is he? Traditionally, it was believed that John wrote this gospel in response to a heresy that had arisen within the early church concerning Jesus Christ, who he is. There was a prominent teacher, Cyrinthus, who was going around preaching that Jesus, though a great man, was just that, merely a man. Born just like every other baby is always born from a dad and a mom, Joseph and Mary. And that it was only later that the Holy Spirit came upon Jesus and made him the Messiah, the Savior. But just before his crucifixion, the Spirit departed, and therefore Jesus only died as a mere man. After all, said Cyrinthus, the Old Testament is very clear. There's only one God. The commandment is, you shall have no other gods before me. And so to posit that There's another person who was and is also God? Well, doesn't that make it two gods? No, Jesus is not God, said Cyrinthus. Well, as tradition goes, this news reached John's ears. And inspired by the Holy Spirit in defense of the truth, he wrote this fourth gospel to the end that we might know the true Jesus. Who is no mere man, but is, as our Nicene Creed puts it, we even sang it earlier up on the screen, the Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of the Father before all worlds, light of light. Very God of very God, begotten, not made, consubstantial with the Father, by whom all things were made. Unlike the other three Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, all of which begin with Jesus' birth As a child, John doesn't go there at all. By and large, we only really get his adult ministry in this gospel. But where John starts isn't with the Virgin Mary in Bethlehem. Or even the news of of Mary's miraculous conception in Nazareth, or or even with his human lineage going back to King David. No? John, in his famous prologue, verses 1 through 18, he takes us back further still, not even to the very beginning, but with mind-stretching language to before the very beginning. Hence these famous words which make up verse 1 of John's Gospel. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Now, in our time this morning, I think we will see that John is answering basically four very important questions. One, if Jesus is not a mere man, And question one, where is Jesus from? Two, who is he Three, what is he? What is he? And question four, what is he not? What is he not? Where, who, what, and what is he not? John begins in the beginning, and of course this is a clear allusion to where, a reference to Genesis chapter 1, isn't it? To the very beginning of the Bible. We're there in Genesis 1, chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And God said, God spoke a word. Let there be light, and there was light. It's a brilliant move, actually. John knows that many Jews will not want to believe in Jesus because they know that these Christians are claiming that Jesus is God. Oh, and to believe that Jesus is God is to their minds to go against Moses, to go against what the law of Moses says, that you shall love no other gods before me. Well, if it's Moses you're worried about, says John. Let me quote for you Moses. What did Moses first write? In the beginning. Here John takes us to the limits of where our minds can go, to the very beginning of time, the moment when space and time began. When God created the heavens and the earth, space, that necessitated that that was also the beginning of time. And God, who is both outside and before space and time, God was the creator of space and the creator of time. In other words, if you were to ask what was before the beginning? The only answer that you could give is God. Space and time, which are both something Space exists and time exists. There's a something, somethingness to them, and something cannot come from nothing. There must be someone who can create something, since nothing can only create nothing. And so at the beginning, when something, when space and when time began to be, someone, God, was already there before that something was. We tend to think of God before the creation of the heavens and earth as kind of this being floating in the vast expanse of space And that's a wrong thought. There was no space by which God to float in. There was just God. Well, this is exactly what that little word was in verse one is showing us. In the beginning was In fact, we get that word was three times in verse one, don't we? And each time it's doing some serious theological and philosophical work. Cyril of Alexandria, St. Augustine, they spend pages just unpacking what is this word was doing You can see it there, that verse one is made up of three coordinate clauses, each with the word as the subject. In the beginning was the word And the word was with God. And the word was God. The word was here denotes continuous condition and ongoing status, if you will An ongoing reality. It's derivative of the Greek word ame, which means to be, which of course is a very appropriate verb describing God who is. I am what I am. God has no beginning. He just is. And so when we read that in the beginning was the word The use of the word was here. In the beginning was the word. It's telling us that the word existed before the beginning. The word was something, someone who had existed before the beginning of time. You could paraphrase the first part of verse 1 this way. In the beginning of time, there was a word that already existed before time, whose very existence was eternal, timeless, and everlasting. A word that was outside of time. Which makes this all really, I think, in an astounding way to begin this gospel. We know that this eternal world will take to himself a human nature. The word will enter into time and walk among us. Look down at verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glories of the only Son from the Father. In other words, this timeless, eternal word has revealed himself to us in the person of Jesus Christ. What a stupendous truth! What a concept, honestly, what amazing grace. Look at verse 16. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses, grace and truth. Came through Jesus Christ. I point all of this out just to make the point that when we ask the question, where is Jesus from? If Jesus shows us throughout this gospel that he is not a mere man, for mere men and women all have an origin somewhere here on this earth. We're all limited by time and space. Like all of us began at a particular point, right? When mom and dad conceived you. But when it comes to Jesus, John says. No. Buckle up. Let me show you his origin. He has no beginning. In fact, when there was, properly speaking, the first moment of time, the beginning. He was already there. He had existed for eternity past already. In other words, already in the first six words, in the Greek, it's only five words of that first clause. Already John is declaring, Jesus is God. And of course, he makes that conclusion at the very end of verse one more explicitly, doesn't he? The word was God. But here, in in just the first six words, he's building us up to that. Where is Jesus from? He is the vast endless existence of his own reality. This, of course, raises questions Does this mean that Jesus is the God of the Old Testament? Or later, like in John 17, when Jesus prays to the Father? Is he praying to God? If the Father is God, but but Jesus is God, well then who is Jesus praying to? What's going on here, John? Well, this leads us to the second part of verse 1 and our second question. Who is Jesus? Who is he? And the answer John gives us drives us to one of the most important truths, not only of the Gospel of John, but I would argue one of the most important truths of the Christian religion. Dare I say, one of the most important truths of reality. Whether you believe in Christ or not, this is a truth inspired and given to us in the very very first verse. And it means that it makes sense of everything else. Jesus, who is eternal, is also a distinct person. He is the word of God Or as verse one puts it, the word was with God. John is highlighting a distinction here. This eternal, divine word, who is God, is a word who is also distinct from God. How? Well, here again, Genesis helps us. How was it that God created the world? He did so through speaking. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters, and God made the heavens. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, and God made man. Do you see? God's word was that through which God created all things. And so John is highlighting here this profound distinction between God and God's word. He's drawing us into this profoundly deep mystery that within the Godhead there is this otherness. Someone who is God and yet, as the verse said, is also with God. It's probably good at this point to try and make sense of why John is using this idea of the word, right? here. And again, yes, this this has to do with Genesis 1 and God creating by his speech, by his word, but there's more to it. The Greek word for our English translation word, W-O-R-D, is the Greek logos. And it has within it this idea of logos, a rich spectrum of meaning. Lagos, from which we get our modern word for logic. This idea of reason, understanding, even wisdom. One of the verses Mazdaq read for us earlier was from Proverbs chapter 8, where wisdom is personified there, and wisdom is writing, wisdom is speaking, and we're told, quote. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old. When there were no depths, I was brought forth. When there were no springs abounding with water, before the mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth, before he had made the earth. When he established the heavens, I wisdom was there. And then he says, wisdom says there in Proverbs 8. 30, I was beside him like a master workman, and I was daily his deliverer. Rejoicing before him always for eternity. Do you see? John is reaching back into the eternal existence of what God is, and he sees there from both Genesis 1 and Proverbs 8 this distinction between persons, God, and the Lagos of God. The word and the wisdom of God. And before anything made, there was just God and his wise word, both delighting in and enjoying one another. And so John can can write here, and the word was with God. Chai halagos empros tontheon. That's the Greek. Pros tontheon. We translate that as with God, but a better, more literal translation is, and the word was pros toward God. The word was face to face with God. One of the reasons Saint Augustine has gone down in history as one of the most remarkable theologians for the Christian faith Is that he spent a significant amount of his life thinking through and plumbing the depths of this phrase, which he passes down to us in his great book on the Trinity. And in that book, Augustine helps unpack this idea that within the one God, we've always confessed that we believe in one God, the Bible makes that clear, there is still a plurality of persons. And yet, one of the ways in which John gives us this mystery is through this idea of the Lagos, the Word. Augustine argues it this way. That since man is made in the image of God, we can understand something of God when we understand that we all have within us these internal thoughts. These words within us. Now, granted, yes, many of us speak without thinking, sinful and foolish as we are, but we've been created to think. created in his image to be rational. And there is an internal rationality where we're discussing amongst ourselves or within myself, so to speak. And so before our words become sound, they first exist internally, as thought, as wisdom, if you will. And within God, this has always been perfectly So. God's word then is his perfect knowledge of himself. God's word is not something he merely utters It is something that God is. And this self-knowledge of God, this wisdom that perfectly knows all of God and is of God, is also a wisdom that delights in and enjoys and loves God. God knows and loves himself. And of course he would. He's God. But here's the wild thing about it all God's perfect knowledge of himself is, in a sense, his own intellectual image of himself And this image, this wisdom of God, this lagos is not something that God created. No, it's always been there because God has always perfectly known Himself. The Lagos is and has always been the full and exact self-expression of the Father. To put this in language that John will use later, the Lagos is eternally begotten. The wisdom that is of God and from God, but never began to be at a certain point, because God, who is unchanging, has always known and loved Himself and therefore has always loved His own wisdom. Listen to Proverbs 830 again. I wisdom was beside him like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always. Or in the words of John 1:1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. He was toward God, face to face with God. And therefore a distinct personality within the one Godhead. Consider what we see later on in John 17, where Jesus praised these astounding words to the Father. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. One glory, because there's only one God, and yet two persons sharing in that divine glory. The Father and His Word, His wisdom. Friends, I I know this is deep, deep theology. I mean, we were singing simple hymns of praises, and we've just dove right into the deep end of the theological pool. And that's okay. Here's what you need to be reminded of this morning. This is the central core of the Christian religion. John wanted to start his gospel this way. This is his introduction to us. In other words, we're called simply to believe this even before we fully understand it. These are the truths that Christians hold dear. They're not just ideas that only seminary-trained theologians hold to and think about. John, who was writing to everyone, so that we might all believe. Saw it fit to start his gospel this way. Which means he expects every believer to start here This is the primary truth of your faith in Jesus, whether you've been to seminary or not. Alistair Begg, preaching on this passage, I think puts the issue so perfectly Listen to how he says it. Just so we don't misunderstand this, what orthodox biblical Christianity is conveying is this. That the child in the manger at Bethlehem is none other than the Son of God incarnate. Because remember, it is the Son that is incarnate, not the Father. Not God the Holy Spirit, only the Son is incarnate. But this Son, this child in the manger, was also responsible for putting the very stars in the sky. Including the star that led the wise men from the east to come and worship him. This baby they came to worship as God is the same one who put the star in the sky that they began to follow so they could worship this child. And the reasons our friends and neighbors largely dispense with Christianity is not because they've considered it and found it untru It's because they've regarded it as completely trivial. Trivial. And one of the reasons they regard it as trivial is because we as believers. are bending over backwards to try and accommodate them in their unbelief, trying to make it appear like, oh well, we're not really sure about the hard parts. This stuff about the Trinity, oh, that's that's difficult, I wouldn't worry about that. It's in the hard parts that the good stuff is found. It's in the hard parts that the essence of the message of the gospel is conveyed. And so if the whole starry host was created by the breath of God's word, the breath of his mouth, by the word the heavens were created. Well, John is telling us here in no confusing way, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. Friends, do you believe this? The Church of Jesus Christ has believed this since day one. And because this is what John writes here, the church of Jesus Christ is being called even now to keep on believing this for eternity more. Do you believe this? Children, the first question in your bulletin this morning asks this. Is Jesus eternal and therefore divine? Is he eternal and therefore God? And the answer is yes. Yes. But question two. Question two. We move quickly to question two. Even though Jesus is divine. Is he distinct from the Father? And again, the answer is yes. You'll see that John will go on to describe the Word no longer as the Word, but as the Son. You see that down in verse 14, right? And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we've seen his glory. Glory is of the only Son from the Father Verse 18 does it again. No one has ever seen God. God, the only Son, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. And so the great truth being communicated here is just that: yes, the Father is God. Yes, the Son is God. But the Son is not the Father, and the Father is not the Son. And so our question, who is he? Well, he is the second person of the Godhead. He is the Word of God, the Son of God the Father. Now, this of course will lead many, and sadly has led many, even today, to say, well, if the word that is the Son is distinct from the Father Well then he certainly cannot be God like the Father. You think, oh, well, God the Father, the Son. Does that mean that therefore as the Son, he's a kind of lesser version of the Father? He's a lesser God in some way? Well, here we get to our third question, and John's third clause in verse 1. What was our third question? What is Jesus? And here, John couldn't be more clear, could he? And the word was God. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Here we see that whatever the word is in relation to the Father, there is nothing in the Word, distinct as He is, that is less than the Father. As the Father is God, so too the Word is God. Here we're getting John's explicit confession that though there is a distinction of persons, there is a unity of essence. The divine essence of God. In other words, that which defines God's godness. It is one and unified. In other words, this is the Trinity The tri-unity of God. One God who is in his oneness and goodness and godness, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Which is why John is quick to add, look there in verse 2. He was in the beginning with God. It's kind of like a summary restatement, isn't it? You know, a part of what it means to be divine is that you must have Existed before the creation of time. And looky here. The word of God existed before time. He was in the beginning with God, and therefore the word was God. That really is one of John's main reasons for writing this book. He wants us in following And in believing in Jesus, to follow and believe in him for all that he is. Look again at the very end of the gospel. John chapter 20, again Jesus has died, resurrected. He's been revealing himself to the disciples, showing them that he's defeated death. Here in John chapter 20, Thomas, one of Jesus' disciples, well, he wasn't there in the room when it happened. Jesus showed up, he was off somewhere else, he missed it. And so, John 20, verse 25. The other disciples told him, We've seen the Lord. But he said to them, Well, unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails. And place my finger into the mark of the nails and place my hand into a side I will never believe. Eight days later. His disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. And although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them, and he said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, I can imagine the look on Thomas's face. Put your finger here and see my hands. And put out your hand and place it in my side Do not disbelieve, but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord, and my God Do you see? Thomas confesses what has always been true. Jesus is God. Not only that, because Thomas has submitted himself and loves Jesus. Do you see what he says? He calls Jesus my God. That's the point. That's the place that John wants all of us to get to. Not just a confession that, yeah, okay, Jesus is God. Dear friends, even the demons believe that Jesus is God. No. Is Jesus my God? Is He for me? And do I belong to Him And I love Jesus' response to Thomas in verse 29. He says to him, Have you believed because you've seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen, and yet still also believe. He's talking about us now. That's a reference to us. No one here has seen Jesus, and yet everyone here is blessed if they, if you, like Thomas, believe in Jesus and can call him your. God. Children, the third question this morning in your children's bulletin asks this, and this is perhaps the most important question yet. Jesus is God, whether you believe in him or not. But he has come and died and lives now forevermore as the God man, so that he can be your God. Do you believe in him in such a way that you can call him your God? That really is a question for all of us, isn't it Do I know Jesus? Have I prayed to Jesus? Praying to the Father in the name of Jesus, who is my God, because I am his sheep. I pray if you're here this morning, and that is not yet your reality. You would not leave here unchanged. This is the whole rest of the Gospel of John. This is what the Gospel of John is going to unpack for us. What does it mean to truly believe in Jesus? Well, as we close this morning, let's quickly address our last question: what is Jesus not? And the answer that John gives us is that he is not anything created. He's not anything created. Look at verse 3. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. This is this is all-encompassing language. He's doubling down. He's making sure we really get that the difference between who Jesus is and who we are is so wide and vast that the distinction is between being a creature. That is something created versus the creator himself. Jesus, who is the uncreated one. John is clear here, Jesus in his divine nature, who he is before the incarnation, who he is before verse 14, where John tells us that he became flesh. He is the word of God, the Son of God, and He is not created. Why? Because he's the creator. It was the Word. What does verse 3 say? Who created all things. Anything that began to be, and that's everything except God, anything and everything that began to be, Jesus caused that to happen This is what Paul so clearly states in Colossians 1. Mazak read this earlier as well by him. All things were created in heaven and on earth. visible and invisible, were the thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. This is not just Christianity 101. This is reality 101. Everything is for him. So, as we end, why does John begin here? Why an immediate deep dive into the deep end of the theological swimming pool? Why is he so concerned with making sure that we believe and understand that Jesus is God? Three reasons quickly. The first is that I think John knew that this doctrine of the full divinity and deity of Jesus was something that Satan hates. Satan knows that Jesus is God. And so Satan has been dead set on attacking and undermining that truth from day one. It was so crucial to the gospel that Satan would do everything he could to destroy it. And if he could get people to believe in a different Jesus who is somehow lesser than the Father. Or even if you could say, well, okay, I don't care if they confess that Jesus is God, but just don't get the church to think about it and delight in it. Put it on some top shelf where only the pastor thinks about it on Tuesday afternoon. Well, if I could do that, then I can destroy the essence of the gospel and I can destroy the church. Secondly, without this, there is no way to truly know God, and therefore no way to truly be reconciled to God. This is where John is leading us in this prologue. Verse 18: No one has ever seen God. The only God, God the only Son, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. In other words, only because of Jesus can we truly know God. Only because of Jesus can we truly know God Know God. And when I say no, when John uses he has made him known, he doesn't mean in a mere intellectual way. He means know him as in have a relationship with him. I know God. Hey, do you know so-and-so? Oh, yeah, I know him. He's my God. Jesus will later say in John 10: I and the Father are one. He'll say, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. In other words, if you want to know what God is like, if you want to know God, you need to only learn about and know Jesus If you want to know the love of God, you need to know Jesus. If you want to be an adopted son of God, you need to know Jesus, who is the Son of God. And lastly, the third answer. Why did you start this way, John? It's because he's grounding us in why it is we worship Jesus. If Jesus is not himself God But only a lesser created being, God-like, but not fully God, then we are all idolatrous blasphemers for centering our worship on Jesus Christ, and God should strike us dead right now. If he is not Lord, then we are wrong to call our day of worship the Lord's day. We are wrong to pray in the name of Jesus. We are wrong to sing our songs of worship to Jesus. In the end, I think John is strengthening us. For us, the heartbeat of why we're even called Christians in the first place. We worship Jesus Christ and we will worship Him for eternity more. Why? Because in the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him was not anything made that was made. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Our Father in heaven, we do come to you this morning, and our minds have been stretched by your word. We are looking and meditating upon the deepest mysteries in all of reality. We are spending time considering you, the infinite creator God. Of infinite distance from us, because we are mere creatures, and you are creator. And as such, our minds cannot comprehend you. They cannot wrap themselves around the depths of who you are. And in fact, we will spend eternity. Meditating upon you, and that is not one step closer to plumbing the depths of who you are. And for some of us this morning, Father, that perhaps brings us to a place of despair. When we reach the ends of our mental capacity and our ability to think about something, it is not always a fun place to be. Perhaps we're confused. Perhaps our minds are left pondering things that perhaps even they shouldn't. And so would you, by your spirit this morning, remind us, Father, that as we look into these deep and wonderful truths Remind us first of all that they are good for us. That it is of supreme good for us to want to know you more. To want to learn more about who you are, because you are God and you are the supreme good. And so, Lord, we ask that you would grow within us a hunger and thirst to know you more. Lord, help us to open up the Word, perhaps even this afternoon, and on a daily basis, to read it and to study it that we may know you more. But Lord, we also ask this morning that you would help us to not merely know you, but Lord, help us to hold fast to you as Our God. That we would cast ourselves upon your grace and your mercy. Because as we consider who you are, Lord, we see the depths of our own sin. And the weakness of our own created flesh. And we are reminded of our need for Jesus as our Savior and our God. Just like Thomas. And so, Lord, we ask that by your Spirit you would grow within us faith. That as we learn and know you more, you would engender within us a trust and a love for you. A casting of ourselves upon you, the good and gracious God. Lord, we ask that you would do all of these things. For our own sanctification, our own growing in you. But Lord, we ask that more importantly you would do this for the glory of your Son, Jesus Christ. Who was in the beginning with you. And so we do ask all of these things in his glorious name

