Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me this morning to John chapter 1. We look this morning at John chapter 1, verses 9 through 11. The Gospel of John, chapter one, and I'll read verse nine, ten, and eleven. Here is God's word. The true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. pray. Father, we do thank you for your word and the light that it shines upon us and into our hearts, a light that is sharper than any two-edged sword. A light that is able to implant within us a knowledge and love of Jesus Christ our Savior, and so we pray for that. May your spirit indeed be with us, be with my preaching, be with the hearers, so that they might hear with hearing hearts, that any hardness of heart and any dullness of hearing would be done away with. And Lord, may the evil one be kept away, that we might, with undistracted attention, give the fullness of ourselves now to your word. We pray In Jesus' name. Amen. We've been following John in his prologue as he takes us from the eternal existence of the Son of God. And John's language here, the word. The word who was with God, the word who was God, now into his entrance into this world. This dark, unbelieving world, and he's come into this world as light. These are the images, these are the categories that John wants to use to introduce us to Jesus Christ. And of course, he's not just any kind of light. According to verse 9, he is the true light. Simply this morning, we will see four things. Jesus is the true light and the universal light. But he was also an unrecognizable light and a rejected light. Jesus is the true light, the universal light, but he was also an unrecognizable light And a rejected light. The first thing John tells us about the entrance of the light of Jesus into this world is that he was and is. The true light. We examined this a bit last week, but it's certainly worth rehearsing again. Jesus is the true light, precisely because He is the full revelation of God in this dark world. There were other preachers of light. All the Old Testament prophets were men who brought light, and John the Baptist, as we saw last week, was the greatest of these Old Testament prophets. Who preached about the coming of the Messiah. And so their message was a message of truth. They communicated God's revelation to rebellious and spiritually darkened people. But their message was not the full revelation of God. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 1 gets at this Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us. By his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God. There's the light language And he is the exact imprint of his nature. Jesus, because he is the Son of God, the radiance of the glory of God, Well, he is therefore the true light. He is the fullest and clearest and the brightest light. He is the divine light of God the Father Himself. And of course, this will be a recurring theme for John's gospel. The trueness, the final and fullest expression of what God had been communicating ever since the fall finds its culmination in Jesus Christ. For instance, the manna provided for the Jews by God in the wilderness. It was genuine bread from heaven. But Jesus. now is the true bread, and therefore the ultimate bread sent from God. Or take for instance, Israel was God's chosen vine. And John is happily able to acknowledge that fact throughout the gospel. But now that Jesus arrives, Jesus states that he is the true vine. And everyone who believes in him, whether Jew or Gentile, are branches connected to his true life. And of course, every Jew would have had a concept of heavenly light. There was the Shekinah glory. a kind of literal blinding light of God's presence which filled the tabernacle. And of course they would have known that, well, God's word to them, first through the prophets and then written down in the scriptures that there was true wisdom and light found in that word. Your word is a lamp unto my feet. But here John wraps all of that up into the person of Jesus. Jesus Christ, the true word who came into the world is also the true light, and therefore the fullest and ultimate disclosure of who God is to all people. Which again means that anything separated from Christ Anything claiming to be from God and yet does not acknowledge Jesus as God, that is not the light. It is a false light. A fake light, a deceiving light. I mean i i it ought to be mentioned just as Just it's Paul makes it very clear, and we always need to be reminded of this. Daniel prayed for this. Satan continues, doesn't he? 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Satan continues to disguise himself as an angel of light. And of course, that applies to all other religions and cults and philosophies and worldviews which are explicitly against or even downplaying Jesus. Jesus Christ, but interestingly, when Paul refers to Satan as a disguised angel of light, he does so in the context of so-called preachers of the gospel. False preachers, yes, absolutely, but nonetheless, men who parade around as so-called Christian ministers, but whose preaching is so far removed from From the true light, from pointing to the true light, that Paul goes ahead and he makes the call. No, no, they're connected to the false light of Satan. Have your eyes open, church. Not everyone who preaches in the name of Christ is of and from Christ, and very well may be a false light. Jesus is the true light. And no wonder Paul can confess when he came to Corinth, I came only preaching Christ and Christ crucified. It was the sole substance of his message. Everything about Jesus. I love what J. C. Rile says here about the true light. Quote Christ is to the souls of men what the sun is to the world. He is the center and source of all spiritual light warmth, life, health, growth, beauty, and fertility. Like the sun, he shines fertility for the common benefit of all mankind, for high and low, for rich and for poor, for Jew or for Greek, like the sun, he is Free to all. All may look at him and drink health out of his light. Christ is the true Son and the light of the world. There is no light for sinners except in the Lord Jesus Christ. Here, Ryle is getting at our second point, which is this: that Jesus, who is the true light, is a universal light. He's offered to everyone. That's what John means in verse 9 when he says the true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. At the very outset, notice the purpose behind Jesus coming into the world? To give light to everyone. Now of course this cannot mean that Jesus by coming into the world actually did enlighten all mankind so that you know as many liberal theologians will argue all we have to do now is is kind of look within ourselves to find the light of Christ, be good people, and then we'll change the world. That's not what John is arguing here. We know that because the very next two verses say, well, there it is, the world both didn't recognize him, and that even his own people rejected him. So what does he mean? Well, I think we can see what he means when we wrestle with John's use of the word world. World. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. We've been We've been noticing various theme words, haven't we, employed in John's prologue here? So far, we've considered themes of the word. Life, light, darkness, witness. Here John presents another word, the scheme of the world. The Greek word is the word cosmos. And John's going to use this word about 80 times throughout the gospel. And so I think we need to understand what John means when he uses the word world. When we think of the world, We tend to, we usually think spatially, you know, like like the planet that we're on. This is our world Therefore, when John says in verse 9, the true light was coming into the world, and then in verse 10 he says that the world was made through him, we think, oh, planet Earth. That might be implied, sure, but it's not John's emphasis. Think about it. When in John 3. 16 Jesus says, for God so loved the world, John does not so much have the planet in mind there, but the people. The people who make up this world. He uses the world, the word world in contrast to just the Jewish people. God loved not merely the Jews, but he loved the whole world. He loved all people. This is what the Samaritans meant later in John chapter 4, and they say this of Jesus. We now know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. In other words, Jesus is the Savior not merely for the Jews, but for all people. That's John's point that Jesus came as the light for all the people of all the world. So what does this mean? It means that Jesus came to give you light because he loves you. You've been living in the dark. And you haven't been able to overcome and conquer the dark. No, and in fact, you're comfortably enslaved within the dark if you're an unbeliever. And Jesus loves you too much to leave you alone in the dark. God so loved the world that He gave, He sent His only Son, who is the true light, in order to give light to everyone. So that whosoever believes in him, that is, should leave the darkness and come into his light, well, they will not perish, but have everlasting life. Jesus is offered universally. He's for everyone. It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter where you've come from. It doesn't even matter what you've done thus far in life. I find it a common temptation. But there are people who, at some level, desire Christ. They desire to believe the gospel and yet they're hung up on their past in. Oh, dear friend, there is no sin too deep, no sin too great for which Christ, who is the Son of God, is not able to overcome. Overcome and forgive. The true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world. Children, question number one in your children's bulletin this morning asks this question. Do you have to be a certain age or a certain grade or even a certain kind of person to believe in Jesus And the answer is no. Even I, right now, can believe in Jesus. It's just here though where John introduces to us the problem. If the gospel, that is the good news, is Jesus coming into the world, well, the bad news. Is the world. Verse 10. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. This is our third point this morning. the light was unrecognizable. Here we need to understand another part of what John means when he uses the word world. For John, the world does mean the people that make up this planet. Yes, amen. But it's more than that, especially in the Gospel of John. It's also the whole system that has evolved amongst the world in rebellion against our Creator. For John, just about every use of this word world is negative. The world is wicked The world is an unbelieving world. This is why in English Christians can use the terms worldly and ungodly as practically synonymous. What characterizes the world, as John understands it? Deceit, delusion Defilement. We are, according to John's use of the world, through and through a distorted people and a continually disobedient people. That's the world. Daniel read for us 1 John chapter 2 verses 16 through 17. For all that is in the world, that is the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life. All of that is not from the Father, says John, but from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. The world. All people who cling to this world, who live for this world, they make their decisions not based upon God's will and obedience to him, but based upon their desires that are in track with this world. They will be judged. Judged as not belonging to Christ who has come for them from heaven, but as belonging to this world in opposition to Christ. And therefore John says they will all pass away. But believers in Jesus. Believers who are called out of the world, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. Believers have been saved from the world and are now distinct. They're no longer living worldly ways. We are in the world, says Paul, but not of it. And our eyes are now cast toward heaven, toward God, toward the light of Jesus Christ, with increased hope that one day where he is in the heavens Will come down and merge with this earth so that the new heavens and the new earth will be one and all worldliness will be done away. Believers are those people who now live in light of that reality. I mean this is this has been the grand battle that has been raging since the Garden of Eden, isn't it? Ever since Satan, through the darkness of deceit, through his lie to Adam and Eve, darkness has been at war with light, attempting to push back the light, to overcome it even if it can. Cain smashing Abel. The sons of Cain against the sons and daughters of Seth. At one point in human history, the only light was the The preacher Noah preaching to the world, a world that Genesis 6 says, the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. It was a dark, dark world. After that, the Israelites were called to be a people of light against the darkness of paganism and idolatry, but even there, their light was minuscule. Compared to the darkness of the rest of the world? In every era, spiritual darkness is spread and is hated and pushed back against everyone who claims to worship and follow God. And so, at just the right time, God Himself came into that darkness. The sun became a man, and what was our response to this momentous event? Did spiritually dark people repent and believe and bow down to the light of the Son of God? Did they willingly receive the light? Yes, there it is, finally. Think about it. All through Jesus' life he was unwanted by the world to which he came. Rick Phillips makes this point in his comment. He says, When Mary and Joseph arrived in Bethlehem and needed a place to give birth to Jesus, the innkeeper did not want him. Then the Magi came from the east, telling Herod that the king of the Jews had been born, but Herod did not want him. Indeed, he sought to murder him, along with all the other boys in Bethlehem. On it went through his entire life until the day came when Pontius Pilate wanted to release innocent Jesus, but the crowd called instead for Barnabas, the murderer, to be released, not Jesus. They didn't want Jesus. The world wanted Jesus dead. The question, of course, is why? And the answer is that we are all, since Adam's fall into sin, since Adam's fall into corruption, we have all come into this world with that sinful corruption hardwired into every one of us. Psalm 51 makes this clear. David says, even in my mother's womb I was conceived in sin. This wasn't God's design. No, God designed us good. He designed us upright. This was all Adam's doing. Our first father, following after the dark lies of Satan, twisted us. All of his offspring are now more in love with sin than we are with a savior. And you know that to be true if you've ever tried to quit sin. How difficult it is. How attractive this thing that God hates. We keep wanting to go back after He was in the world and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. In other words, even though God created us to know him and worship him and enjoy him forever. When our Creator came to us through the person of the Son, and and even though he was a bright light in our dark world, the world looked at Jesus and didn't know what to do with him. We didn't get him. recognize them. Have you ever watched those clips of when a dad who's been off to war finally comes back and surprises his kids at school? or somewhere. And instantly the kid recognizes that's dad and he runs and cries and melts into daddy's arms. I love those videos. I cry every time. Because it's good and it's right to see a child recognize and run to and find comfort again in their parent who is the object of that child's greatest love. Can you imagine though? If a dad while away fighting in Afghanistan, maybe for years who every night thought about and prayed for his daughter, whose only motivation while on the other side of the world was just to get back to his baby girl, and then finally the days arrived. The moment's here, he will see and hug his daughter again, and as he approaches her, now a few years older, she doesn't recognize him. In fact, she runs and hides behind mom because she's scared of this man she sees. She sees him as a stranger rather than as her father. I think that's something of the effect of verse 10. And again, the question is why? Why don't we recognize our God? Why don't we recognize Our Creator. He hasn't left us without a witness. The heavens declare the glory of God. Our own consciences within us preach to us that there is Morality, there is right and and there's wrong, and therefore there must be a God who is a moral lawgiver. So why when Jesus came, or even now, when Jesus Jesus is preached. Why do so many of us go and hide behind anything and everything, not recognizing our God who is for us? And again, the answer is that we are sinners. Our capacities to know God, our ability to draw near to God. Even our ability to rightly recognize them, it's all been twisted. If I could provocatively use a kind of political meme, we have what might be called a God derangement syndrome. Our judgment of who Jesus is is wildly distorted. Even when all the evidence is all there. He is the true light after all. We misperceive him. We misinterpret him. If I could put it as clearly as possible, outside of the sovereign saving grace of God working within us and recalibrating our hearts and minds to truth, we will always get Jesus. Wrong. And when we get Jesus wrong, we respond wrong. Listen, nothing is more revealing about this world. Nothing is more revealing about who we are than how we respond to Jesus. The natural world, the waves, the skies, the birds and the trees, the natural world recognized and responded to Jesus. The wind and the waves obeyed him. When Jesus spoke, the storm stopped. The trees and the animals submitted to his word. But us, the very people made in his image, at best we we wrestle and waver on whether we really should believe and follow him. I don't know. We hedge our bets and ask, is it really worth it? enjoying what I'm doing right now in the dark. Ah, maybe later. At worst, we flat out deny him. We call him maybe a nice man, a good teacher, or maybe even a myth, but we don't respond to the light of his truth rightly. Here's the thing, and I'm bound to say this as a preacher of the gospel. Jesus is the Son of God. He really exists He really came to this world as a man. He was really rejected and killed for who he was. He died taking into himself the wrath of God that we deserve for our sin. And then three days later, he arose from the grave bodily and is alive right now at the right hand of the Father. In other words What we think about Jesus doesn't change or impact Jesus. He is. But it does reveal a lot about ourselves Children, question number two in your bulletin this morning. If you don't believe in Jesus, what does that say about you? Answer that I am still stuck in the dark Spiritually, I am living in the dark. I have not come to the light. The light, as we already saw back up in verse 5, the light is unconquerable. But the darkness, though though it will be one day totally conquered, the darkness, man's rebellion, man's unbelief, all that darkness still persists. And if you're not a believer in Jesus, Then you are imprisoned under and still conquered by that darkness. This is. No doubt a great tragedy. A tragedy that Jesus came to remedy. And here's the good news. The rest of the Gospel of John will go on to show us how Jesus Jesus remedies that problem, how he really does free men and women from the prison of darkness. In fact, we'll get our first big answer next week in verses 12 and 13. But before we get to the good news of verse 12 and verse 13, John actually pushes us deeper into the problem, deeper into the tragedy and darkness of unbelief. Not only did the world, verse 10, not recognize the light, but here now is our fourth point. The very people who should have recognized and received and rejoiced in the light of Jesus, the very people who should have known him and worshipped him, instead, they rejected him. Point four. Jesus was a rejected light. Jesus was a rejected light. Look at verse 11. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. He's referring to the peculiar people chosen by God to know God and to await the coming of their Messiah. Think about it this way. The whole Old Testament is basically a long anticipation of the coming Messiah, and the Jews, they were God's treasured people to whom He would send this Messiah. Exodus 19, verse 5. You shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. Now what becomes staggering? Is that when you start reading through all of those Old Testament prophecies concerning the coming of God's future Savior, and you begin to match them with what you see about the life and ministry of Jesus Christ? They match up perfectly. I mean, in an astounding way, they match up perfectly. Think about it. The chance of one person fulfilling just eight specific Old Testament prophecies about the Messiah is one in ten to the seventeenth power. That number is called 100 quadrillion. If 48 prophecies are considered, the probability drops to 1 in 10 to the 157th power. I don't think there's a name for that number. A number so small it implies near impossibility. Here's the thing, just working through the Gospels, it's pretty clear that Jesus has fulfilled somewhere around 300 Old Testament messianic prophecies. That is not random coincidence. That is divine sovereignty. That is an author of history working it just so. It's like covering the entire state of Of Texas in two feet of silver dollars. You mark one silver dollar, throw it into that two-foot heap of Texas-sized silver dollars, mix it all up Put a blindfold on Keith and ask Keith on his first try to find that marked silver dollar. That's the way in which Jesus has fulfilled every one of these Old Testament prophecies. When Jesus came, he matched up perfectly with them all. And right on schedule, he appears as Israel's Savior. He comes as their king. Israel should have known they should have received Jesus as the Messiah, but what do they do? They reject him. I don't think we often think through this like we should. Jesus loved his people. So much so that the Son of God chose those people to be the means of his incarnation. Right? Like think about that. Especially for those who might be toying with anti-Semitism. Which seems to be popular again today. I hate to say it, but your Savior will forevermore be a Jewish man in heaven. Think about that. All the good Jesus did to the Jews while he lived on earth, the countless people he healed, the evil spirits he cast out. The dead that he raised to life, the teaching, the perfect, most wise instruction ever given on earth, he shared all of that for Israel and and all of that out of love. He truly loved his people. And how did they respond with absolute hatred? Shortly before his arrest, Jesus told this parable That explains kind of the reason why Israel did not receive him as God's son. And the answer is basically their spiritual pride And rebellion. Perhaps you know the parable. A master built a vineyard and he placed tenants in that vineyard to work it. And when the harvest came, the master then sent servants to receive his produce. But the tenants took his servants and beat one, they killed another, and then they stoned another. More servants were sent, and the same thing happened. Now at this point, Jesus in the parable, he's talking about the prophets that God sent to Israel, whom God sent had to sustain Secure their obedience, but Israel persecuted and killed all the prophets. Finally, the master of the vineyard sent his only son to them, saying Well, they will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance Do you see? Verse 10, if verse 10 tells us why irreligious people reject Christ. The world, because they're spiritually darkened and morally depraved. Think about it. Now, verse 11 shows us why religious and moral people reject Jesus. They want to keep the glory for themselves. They don't want to trust and worship a messiah. They want to be the messiahs. They want to be applauded for their outstanding moral virtue Instead of humbling themselves before a savior, these moral achievers, these really righteous and religious people, they want to be glorified for their own works. The irreligious love darkness because it provides a cover for their sin. But the religious unbeliever loves the darkness because it makes them seem so much better than everyone else by comparison. His little light outshining all the irreligious. That's why his own people rejected him. Why they rejected his light. His light so outshone their little religious lights that it took the spotlight off of them. And compared to the true light of Jesus, their own light actually looked like darkness. Itself. Jesus exposed the dimness of their life. That even they, God's own chosen people. They still needed to repent. They still needed to put their trust in the Savior. They still needed to, as Tan prayed earlier, give up all of our accomplishments at the foot of the cross. I wonder, is that you this morning? I think most of us, those of us who call ourselves Christian, we all probably struggle with this a little bit. Don't we? When God shows us some grace and works in us some works of virtue into our lives, how often do we, even in a subtle way, begin to think, hey, hey I've got this. I'm not that bad a guy. I'll bet you God's really, really pleased with me. Oh dear friend, repent. of your pride. That's the same attitude that led the Jews in Jesus' day to cry out, crucify him, crucify him. Because they were scandalized at Jesus' message that in Him alone could they be brought into the light. Just as the worldly sinner needs to give up his sinful deeds. needs to find life in Christ, so too does the religious man need to give up his good works to find life in Christ. Question number three this morning. Can my being religious and going to church save me from the dark? And the answer is no. No. Jesus alone. Only Jesus can. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. world. He was in the world. And the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own and and his own people did not receive him. Now at this point, perhaps you're wondering, well, did the world's rejection of Jesus mean that Jesus was a failure? The world didn't recognize him? His own people rejected him? Did Jesus fail in his mission mission to bring light into the world? Children, that's your fourth question. Your fourth and final question this morning. Did the world's rejection of Jesus make Jesus a failure? And the answer again is no. No. Here's the answer. Through their rejection, Jesus established our salvation Through their rejection, Jesus establishes our salvation. In one sense, and again we'll see this next week. Jesus always has the ability to conquer the darkness of our unbelief. In fact, that's the only way we can escape the prison of our own belief. Verse 12, verse 13, we'll look at this now. Next week, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God or children of light, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. It's God's doing. God must cause us to be born again. But even before that happens, Here's where I think our passage points us to. Even before that happens, Christ has to die for us. In other words, if I could put it this way way, he had to let the darkness so overtake him that seemingly failing in his mission, only seemingly, he would conquer the darkness. It was always the plan that he would come to die. The Old Testament promised that the Messiah, when he comes, he will come to die. Why? Because our darkness, our unbelief, it's all sin. It's in rebellion against God. The darkness we're imprisoned in is a prison of our own making, our own unbelief. And though God would be just to let us go and have us continue in our own willful rebellion, punishing us and condemning us into eternal darkness. Even still, he hasn't. He sent his son as the true light into the darkness to die by that very darkness. Why? So as to pay the penalty for our darkness. I hope you see this. The darkness of our unbelief must be punished with the darkness of death. All who sin must die. And this is a punishment, punishment which we all deserve. But that sin could also be paid for by the light. And not just any light. It had to be the true light, an unquenchable heavenly light, so that even in the deepest darkness of death, that light would not go out. It could not be extinguished. And when that unextinguishable true light reemerges three days later, now free from the grave, now that light is able to truly free us from the dark. Both the darkness of our unbelief, because he paid the punishment for us, and the darkness of death, because he defeated death. And so So dear brothers and sisters, this is the good news of John's gospel. He can and he will bring us into the light.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Our God and Heavenly Father, your word is that sword which your spirit uses. And plunges deep down into the depths of our hearts, exposing us to the light. And so we do pray this morning that Your spirit would do a mighty work within us. We pray for those. Who sit here perhaps even this morning, who are yet still in the dark, who Who have yet to repent of sin, to see the depth of our own sin and the depth of our rebellion against you, and to see the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We pray for each and every heart this morning that your Spirit would do a mighty and miraculous work. That not a soul would go out from the doors this morning. Who doesn't know Jesus Christ as Savior? We pray for our children. And we thank you for those who teach them week after week after week, bringing them the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so we pray that your spirit would work in their hearts that as they grow. They would grow in their love of Jesus Christ, in their knowledge of Jesus Christ, that they would desire by your Spirit to step out of the darkness and into the light of the glory of your Son. We pray for the city of Greenbelt, our neighborhoods that are full of darkness. We pray that the light of Jesus Christ would go out into this world. That you would bring sinners to saving faith and trust in Jesus Christ And perhaps even that the city of Greenbelt would be known as a place that is filled with the light of Jesus Christ. And Father, we do pray this morning, perhaps even for the nation of Israel As we've been reminded, they explicitly rejected the Son of God, who was one of them. And so, Lord, we do ask. That you would bring, as you promise in your word, that you would bring them to saving faith in Jesus Christ, that they would recognize Jesus as their Messiah and bow the knee to him. And Lord, we pray that you would do all of this for the glory of your Son, for the growth of his kingdom. For the good of a lost world and a world that has rejected you. And Father, for those of us this morning who have repented of sin, who have trusted Jesus Christ, We pray that you would ground us more and more in Him. That we would desire more and more to know Jesus Christ more deeply in our lives. That we would rid ourselves of those temptations. that would uh tempt us to uh to be self sufficient, to trust in our own works, to trust in our own goodness, things which you provide for us, things which you do in us. And yet too often we trust in those things. Lord, would you forgive us of this and would you cause us to look always and ever to Jesus Christ as our Savior, in whose name we pray this morning.

Speaker 3
Amen.

