Speaker 1
Well, good morning. My prayer right now is as the ground soaks up the life-giving water of rain, so our hearts would soak up the life-giving water of his spirit and his word. Let's turn to the Gospel of John. We've begun our study through this grand and glorious gospel last week, looking at chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. What I want to do this morning, we'll spend our time focusing on verses 4 through 5, but let me just read again, starting in chapter 1, verse 1. I'll read through to verse 5. Here now is God's holy word. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it Well again, this is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. That you have given us the light of your word, that you have spoken to us clearly and inspiredly. And we pray, Lord, now that by the help of your spirit You would help us to not only make sense of it, but Lord, to stand under it and have its truth make sense of us, drawing us nearer to Christ our Savior. Father, help us now as we listen to your word to listen with receptive hearts. May my preaching be preaching that is your word to us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's always good when springtime arises, as we are now in the midst of springtime, to break out C. S. Lewis's great and classic work. The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. And of course, if you've read the book, you know how the book begins. It begins as these young English children find their way in the magical land of Narnia, and yet Narnia is oppressed under the death and coldness of a winter that is always winter and never Christmas. You know the story. And of course, Narnia is there because the white witch, white with the paleness of death, has entered in maliciously, deceptively. And through her leading has cursed the land. All she can do is take what is life and turn it into the death of cold statues as fear and deception rage throughout the land. But of course, halfway through, as the Penzi kids are led by Mr. and Mrs. Beaver, And they hear the jingling of Santa Claus come in and they come out and say, what's happening? And and the great news is discovered. Aslan the lion, the Christ figure is on the move. And for the rest of the story, what begins to emerge is life. Winter dissipating, flowers and leaves and rivers running free yet again. This is a beautiful story that reminds us that Christ has entered in, and what he has come to do is restore a cold and dead and dark world to life and life everlasting Lewis, I think, for sure, had these verses in the back of his mind as he was thinking through the lion, the witch, and the wardrobe. And these verses, picking up on where we left off with verse 3, continue to tell us about this word. Who not only was with God, but this word who is God, Jesus Christ. And he gives us now in verses four and five two themes. Maybe three that really will develop and and be a pronounced set of themes throughout the Gospel of John. In him was life, the steam of life. And the life was the light of men, the steam of light. And he tells us staggeringly in verse 5 that the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome. These three themes are major aspects of the Gospel of John, and no doubt over the next year we'll return to these themes and see them again and again. But this morning, as we think about who and what Jesus is What he came to do. Well, let's think through these three themes. He is life. In him was life. Now we know that the opposite of life is death The absence of any life is death. And here is one who in and of himself, as we've seen, the eternal word who was with God in the beginning, is the very essence of eternal life himself. What does John mean here? The word life actually appears about 36 times in the Gospel of John. If you add in to live, we see it about 50 times. Far more than any other New Testament book. It's one of John's most important ideas. The preceding verse says that the word was with God. We read that last week. And the word was God, and that all things were made, created through him. The second person of the Godhead, that is the word, who is the main focus of this gospel. In other words, he is the source of all life in all existence. The entire universe, and especially this lonely planet within a cold universe, a planet bustling with life comes about because of the word. Not only does he possess life in and of himself, but life itself is found in him and comes through him. Jesus will later say in John chapter 5, verse 26 For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself. In other words, all life exists. Why? Well, because Jesus, the Word of God, is the author of life. A clear, somewhat simple and yet staggering truth. And if it were not a truth, again I repeat what we repeated last week, if this were not true of Christ, then we are of all people the most pitiable to be gathered here and worshiping him. But John tells us right at the beginning, he is life. You'll of course remember that after Adam and Eve ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, a tree Where God warned, the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. It was there at that moment when Adam and Eve bit into that fruit. That both death and darkness not only entered into our world, but more drastically still entered into destroy and deform and decay our world into death. The darkness of death, the fruit of our sin, is that which has, in a sense, been the drumbeat of rebellion against God ever since that moment. It has been the heartbeat of all of humanity's unbelief, all of humanity's cruelty and suffering. God, who said in his very first words, let there be light. And there was light. God who said, let us create men in our image, men and women who, as reflected image bearers of his eternal life and light, were meant to enjoy and rely upon God. Well, our response to him since those early days of Adam and Eve eating the fruit, our response to him has been, no, give us darkness. We'll take death. In other words, physical death in this world is really only the fruit of our spiritual death and spiritual darkness. They ate. Spiritual death ensued. They hid from God, hiding from his encroaching light as he walked in the garden And then of course over time that spiritual death produced the fruit of their physical death. And so it seems to me that just here in verse 4 John is especially referring to this connection and I think even highlighting the spiritual life aspect. In him was life. This is, of course, the understanding behind the most famous verse in John's Gospel, John 3, verse 16, which proclaims that God so loved the world that he sent his son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have Eternal life. For Jesus, the spiritual and the physical, they always go together What we do physically reflects who we are at heart spiritually. And of course, what Jesus does and did physically, entering into this world. All of his ministry, all of his good acts, all of his miracles reflected who he is spiritually. When the Word of God entered into this world as the man Jesus Christ, and and John will highlight this especially. His physical miracles will always point to a deeper spiritual reality. I think we see this in the life and ministry of Jesus, don't we? It's interesting We have three different accounts in the Gospels of Jesus raising people from the dead. The first, he comes to a little girl, Jairus' daughter. Whose breath has barely left her body. She's been dead for less than a day. And Jesus comes to her and and he raises her. New life. He gets his little girl back. And then Jesus comes next to To this funeral procession. It's a funeral for a young man already being carried to his grave. It seems that he's been dead now for about two days. Jesus stops the funeral march. And again, he raises him from the dead. New life. And then, of course, there's the famous account of Lazarus, with which John gives us an extensive, detailed account. Lazarus had been dead for four days, we're told. The stench of his decaying body already setting in. What does Jesus do? He simply gives the command. He gives his word. In whom is life. Lazarus, get up. And four-day dead Lazarus gets up and walks out of the grave. Jesus resurrects him. Do you see it? One day dead? Two days dead, four days dead, none of it makes a difference to Jesus Christ. Death is not a spectrum of difficulty for our Savior. Death. The absolute absence of life. Death is an enemy under his sovereign authority. And whether death has just whispered or has long since taken hold, the voice of Jesus Christ is always and will forever be stronger than death. When Jesus speaks, the grave gives up their dead. Why? Verse 4: In him was life. This certainly gets behind the truth that he will later teach us in the Gospel of John: that he is the way, the truth, and the life. No one gets to the Father, no one gets to eternal life, yet by through him. So by physically raising the dead, I think he is showing us that he has within himself the ability to conquer not only physical death, but the deeper root of our spiritual death. Which means that when John says in him was life, he means it's only through Jesus that we could ever find this new life. Spiritual life. And then eternal life. Spiritual John will go on to tell us in his first epistle, 1 John chapter 5. John writes, We know that the Son of God has come. And has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And if we, talking to believers of Jesus, those who trust in Jesus, John says, if this is true, and we are in him who is true. That is spiritually united to him. Well, because he is the true God, he is eternal life. Do you know Jesus? Do you know what your eternity holds? I don't mean just know about him. I mean know him. Spiritually speaking, in a in a personal way. You've communicated to him in prayer. And when you open up this book, you hear him speak to you in these divine words. A true spiritual life. Which is the precursor to true eternal life. True spiritual life means having a kind of vitality within you, doesn't it? It means that you have life in you and you bear the fruit that shows that you have that life. Dead trees being dead produce no fruit. The white witch won't let that happen But living trees, when spring begins to re-emerge, living trees and and therefore spiritually living men and living women, they bear the fruit of knowing and therefore being spiritually united. To he who has life. And by being in him by faith, well, that is the source of our life We have fruits of faithfulness. By being united to Him, we we we show and grow within our lives the fruit of meekness, the fruit of love and humility. We show the fruit of repentance over sin. Because we're now spiritually alive in him, we we hate everything that takes us away from him. And we grow to hate our own sin more and more. And because he is the source of eternal life, we desire to grow closer to Jesus Christ more and more. It's fascinating in the Magician's Nephew, one of the later volumes in the Chronicles of Narnia, the White Witch re-emerges and and there in a kind of uh prequel to the lion, the witch in the wardrobe, she she offers this character Diggory, a man from our world who's entered into Narnia, this fruit It's depicted almost like the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And she says rightly, it will give you life, eternal life. Diggory has a dying mom back in this world. And he knows if I get this fruit and bring it back, it will give her life. There's just one problem. As Lana said, don't take of that. fruit. Don't take it that fruit. She, the white witch, ate it. And she has, from eating that fruit, lived forever. But she's lived forever at one major cost. Still corrupted by the internal spiritual death of her malnourished spiritual soul, ever lying, ever deceiving, ever wanting more death and decay And so Diggory rightly withholds and he tests the test, if it were. It's interesting. Lewis, I think, is highlighting a point for us, a point that John gets at. Do we want life for just the sake of life? Or are we pursuing life in Christ for the sake of knowing Christ forevermore Your eternity matters. And to just live forever is no true blessing. No, to live in the presence of Christ. Now without guilt and sin reflecting the love of Christ. This is what the Gospel of John is going to teach. take up for us. Listen to how Jesus puts it in John chapter 6. Jesus says, as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father. So to whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. Children, your first question this morning in your children's bulletin asks this question. Where is the only source of eternal saving life? And the answer, a simple but most profoundly important answer is Jesus Christ. And I hasten to add that the point of that eternal life is so that you might know him more and more. This is why when Jesus came, He He preached about Himself. This is why when the apostles were sent out into the darkness of this world, they preached about Jesus Christ. the glory and the beauty and the everlasting life found in him. And this is why when the New Testament was being written, all of it focused on Jesus. And this is why when churches gather and preach the gospel or evangelize in our communities, we don't just preach these kind of shallow, finicky gospels of how to live a better life. No, we preach Jesus Christ. Because without him there is no hope. In John chapter 12, Jesus will lay out the stakes. He'll tell us why this is crucially important. He says, quote, the one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I've spoken will judge him on the last day For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment. Is eternal life. Consider that. In other words, the first and greatest commandment is to love God Jesus is God. And it is in him that eternal life is found. The warning here, then I think, is this: Will we reject Jesus Or will we come to Him? And the consequences of which we choose, well, they're eternal consequences. Eternal death, or in the person of Jesus Christ. Eternal life. It's staggering, I think. Look at verse four. In him was life. John doesn't merely say Jesus gives life, and he does. He does give life, obviously. John is saying something deeper here. Life is in him. It's essential to him, intrinsic to him. It belongs to his very being. Which again means Jesus is not just a mere spiritual teacher pointing the way to life. Life vaguely somewhere out there. No, no, no. He's not merely a moral example showing us how to live. And he's certainly not a religious guide offering improvement strategies for better living today. John is giving us the heart of the gospel, which is the person of Jesus Christ. Christ, in whom is life. He is life itself. And the grand point I think we can say of verse 4 is that without him Because of our sin and our spiritual decay, without him, we will only die more and more for eternity more. But with Jesus, who is divine life incarnate, with Jesus and in Jesus. That that spiritual decay that that spiritual deformity and spiritual death that pulses through our very veins and tempts us every morning, it all stops. One day, in glory, when eternal life begins, the presence of it will be vanquished. But right now, as we Come to him, and we follow this greater Aslan. Like springtime emerging in Narnia, life begins to emerge. The pale white death of the witch's curse over us Is vanquished. So it is with our Savior. It's interesting, the white witch exuding death from her being. Would not and could not win. She she came to steal life away. What does Jesus say in John chapter 10? The thief always comes to steal and kill and destroy. I came that you may have life and have it abundantly Well next he moves to light, the opposite of darkness. The life was the light of men. This idea, this theme of light is a is a deeply rich concept. I think at the very least John is saying this, life in Christ. begins to show us that life is no longer hidden. He shines in, and when he shines, that life, that light, it's truth that reveals and exposes And brings to our awareness the reality of all that is. Light always does that. It exposes what's really there Jesus, who is the life and in whom is light, he shines into the darkness of all our confusion, all of our ignorance, all of our self-deception. And he shows us not only who God truly is, but in the light of knowing God, he shows us also who we truly are. Those twin truths, the revealing of both who God really is and the revealing of who I really am, let's be honest, that's one of the most terrifying things to have an awareness of The absolute holiness and brightness and glory of a true and just and holy God. And then conversely to have that light reflected upon me and to see the decrepit, deceptive, fallen sinfulness that's bundled up in my very being. It's an uncomfortable truth. Which is why later on here in the prologue, John will say he came to his own, and his own people did not even receive him. The true light, which gave light to everyone. The world didn't even want to know him. To put it provocatively, if not in a cross way, like cockroaches that love to hide in the coolness of the dark So naturally speaking, when we come into contact with the truth and the light of Christ and who he is and who we are, we prefer hiding in the coolness of the dark. And yet that's exactly what light does. It exposes. Darkness hides, sin hides in darkness, but light which shines into the dark and shines on to our sin, it exposes. It says, look, I see you, I see what that is. Do you see it? I think also in a sense it it kills Light always kills the germs out on the countertop of our sin. But first it exposes. Which means Christ, when he comes as light, when Christ, when he's preached to you as light He comes to you not just to flatter you. It's not light to look closer in a vanity mirror. It's light which exposes and he reveals the pride that we justify to ourselves He reveals to us the lust that we excuse. He reveals to us the bitterness and anger that we hold over and against our neighbor. The light reveals all the idols that we hold so precious and we want to keep hidden up in our own dark little hearts. I think this is why so many people reject him. It's not because the light is unclear. It's precisely because the light is perfectly clear and therefore perfectly uncomfortable to us. But when we allow the light to convict us, and when we allow the light to show us who we really are, I think by God's grace, what it begins to do is it shows us a place where we realize for the first time I am far worse and far darker than I ever dare imagined, and I need a savior. I need a greater light by which to guide me out of this darkness. And that's what light does. It doesn't just expose, but it guides. It leads. It's a spotlight that leaves you not just exposed and condemned, but a lamp that leads you home. Of course, most preciously, that light is given in the light of God's Word, the light of His gospel. Words we're called upon to believe and follow, to even obey. I think if you're a believer here this morning, if you are a Christian, this has massive implications. To walk in the light. And to follow the light of Christ as he guides us and leads us means that you live honestly before God. You're now able to confess sin quickly. God already knows it. You're able to pursue holiness. He's showing you where it leads to. It enables you to love the truth even when it costs you. No longer lying. Satan who is the father of lies. No, we expose first in our own lies. All those lies that we put up to make ourselves look better than I think if you're a Christian and you're following and living in the light of Christ, it means that you stop managing appearances and you start pursuing reality as He has exposed it to be You don't want to just look like a Christian. You don't want to even want to be a Christian. You want Christ and you want to reflect Him as you were created and recreated to be. But of course, there's the opposite warning if you're not a believer. The warning of loving darkness. John later says that the people who love darkness rather than the light, because their deeds are evil. They hide and they reject the light and and then they they they build up little castles within that darkness, hardening their hearts against any gospel truth. My dear friends, perhaps I could put it this way. Are you even right now still resisting Christ? Not because you lack evidence. He has been raised from the dead. We prayed about his resurrection this morning, and in that prayer it is history. It really happened. Are you resisting Christ though because you love your own sin? And you're afraid to have it exposed to a watching world. You want your autonomy. You want to define good and evil on your own terms. Dear friends, here's the truth: darkness never leads to life. Do not let the greater white witch of Satan whisper into your eye into your mind and ears that you can get to glory and eternal life through holding on to your own idols. Children, question number two this morning. Question number two in your children's bulletin. Where is the only source of eternal saving light? And again, the same answer. But just as profound still, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ In him was life and light, and we're told that the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. I think this is one of the most hope-filled statements in all of Scripture. Notice the present tense. It shines. Not at 1. 2000 years ago shown. It is a continually active truth. Right now, unstoppably, unconquerable, shining of light. Which means that no matter how dark the world becomes, Christ is shining Which means for you, no matter how dark your world becomes, insofar as you have Christ, You have that ever-comforting nightlight that will never be put out. Now, of course, the darkness is real. John doesn't minimize darkness. We'll see it throughout this book, the world is dark with sin and confusion. Sin distorts everything even to ourselves. Evil is real and suffering is deep. I don't need to convince you of it. We all live it. We know it. We ache over it. But here John wants to convince us of Jesus, who is this unconquerable light. Jesus will later say in John chapter 8 verse 12, speaking to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. And again, a present active reality. As we saw previously in Psalm 23, even though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death. You, God, are with me. An ever-present light. This is the judgment, says Jesus in John 3. The light has come into the world. And people have loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Have you come to that light? Who is the Son of Man, they ask in John 12? This was Jesus' answer. The light is among you for a little while longer. While you walk, you have the light. Continue to walk in it, he says, lest darkness overtake you. John twelve, verse thirty six. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you are the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. Listen to that. While you walk, you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. Jesus is saying darkness can overcome you. You can be conquered by darkness. To say the same thing in the backwards, you cannot by yourself overcome darkness. Darkness out there, nor even the darkness within here. But Christ has. And in Christ, he will for you. I guess the question that remains, and it's not explicitly laid out here, but it will be laid out in the rest of the gospel. Is how has Christ come into this dark world as light? A darkness that clearly has hated him and has wanted to put that light out? How has he been able to conquer? Why is he the victor and not darkness? Well, here's the great truth of the gospel. This is the reason why we gather on Easter, isn't it? The deep irony, the deep mystery here is that, I guess we could put it this way, darkness did in fact at one point overcome the light. What we refer to as Good Friday can only be called Good Friday. Why? Because of the perspective that we have on Easter Sunday. It's only the resurrection of Christ that allows us to look back on the death of Christ and see it as something good. But on that day, from our human perspective, it certainly didn't seem good, not to the apostles who followed him. Even Christ Himself crying out in agony, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The sun itself going black with darkness. Jesus who healed the sick. Jesus who actually raised the dead back up to life. That Jesus was killed, murdered, under false pretenses? The darkness of lies led to the greater darkness of his condemnation, and then to the ultimate darkness. Of the author of life being crucified upon a cross and actually dying. And then actually being buried. And from all perspectives present there, it sure seemed like darkness had actually overcome the light of Christ's life and ministry. Evil had won. Darkness reigned. The white witch had slain Aslan. If that were the rest of the story, Jesus would be just like every other religious leader. Muhammad died. And Muhammad stays conquered by the darkness of death even today. Buddha died. And he remains conquered by the darkness of death. Darwin, he died. No evolution in death. But Jesus Christ did not die. And even in the most darkest gloom of Hades itself, there he conquered and re-emerged victoriously. And in his trail of victory brings with him new life so that all who now believe in him, as he sits at the right hand of the Father, will not only have spiritual life. But you can know and enjoy true eternal life. This is the joy of Easter. The darkness has not, will not, and can never conquer the sun. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? Answer, removed. Death has died Darkness has become dark, and the light of Christ will eternally reign for all those in him as heavens and the earth become one, and the new glory of Christ's reign will be ours for ever and ever. Endeavor. Children, the last question in your bulletin this morning asks this. The world is made up of only two kinds of people, those who live in spiritual darkness or those who live in spiritual light Those who live in spiritual death or those who live in spiritual life? Your question, which I hope you think about and talk with your parents for the rest of this Easter Sunday, your question is this: which kind of person am I? My prayer is that you would be those, all of you, who find life and light in Jesus Christ our Savior. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let us pray together. Father, we confess that We, by our very natures, have loved the darkness, and we hated the light. We hardened our hearts against you again and again, longing for the pleat the fleeting pleasures of sin instead of the glories of Your commandments. And so we acknowledge that rightfully we earned our wages. Which were death, and your wrath upon us forever. And yet, Lord, even though you had every right to leave us in our sins, Even though justice itself demanded our punishment, you did not abandon us to what we deserved. You did not leave us To our own devices. But you sent Christ into the world. Christ who kept your law perfectly Who gave himself up for our sins. And so we who once sat in darkness saw a great light A light that brought us life and hope. Lord, we thank you for this We cannot even fully comprehend how marvelous this mercy was, how undeserving we were of this gift. Of this offer of mercy and forgiveness. But you know, Lord, and we know that it is greater than anything we can conceive of. For we do know that our hearts were dark, and that your mercy is great, greater than we can imagine. And yet, Lord, we know that despite this offer of mercy, despite the light shining in the darkness, Despite the offer of the gospel, even though you set a feast for us and invited us in, We, left to ourselves, would have made a wretched choice, and like so many thousands before us, turned away from you. Choosing rather to starve than to come. But your eye diffused a quickening ray. Your Holy Spirit came And convinced us of our sin and misery. You enlightened enlightened our mind in the knowledge of Christ. You persuaded and enabled us To embrace Jesus Christ, who was freely offered to us in the gospel. And now we come running to Him, embracing Him. Lord, we pray now for those who still continue to harden their hearts against your mercy. Against your love, who still cling to the fleeting pleasures of sin and turn away from the eternal life that you have offered Lord, we pray that you would open their eyes, that you would show to them that mercy is still offered And that your mercy is greater than all their sins. Lord, we know that no matter how hard their hearts are, You can break the stony heart and replace it with a heart of flesh. And so we pray that you would, and we pray that you would in Jesus' name. Amen.

