Please open with me and your copy of God's word to Luke chapter twenty-three

You can find this on page 884 of the Pew Bible in front of you.

This evening we are going to focus our attention on Luke 23, verses 26 through 49.

Many years ago now, when I was in college, a very famous film came out.

It was made by Mel Gibson

It is called The Passion of the Christ.

It is a film that very graphically and violently displays the death of Jesus Christ on Good Friday.

There are many reasons that I would recommend you do not actually see the film.

One of the reasons that I would recommend not actually watching this film is it does a very good job of showing that Christ died, but it never actually explains why.

It doesn't actually explain why.

During that same year that the film came out, the pastor John Piper wrote a book called 50 Reasons Why Christ Came to Die.

I was in college at the time, and a number of the members of the college group actually

took copies of that book and stood outside of the movie theater and handed them out to people so that having watched the movie and not understanding why Christ died, they might read the book and figure out

it out.

Tonight I want to speak to us about why Jesus Christ died.

Why did he come to die?

I'm not going to give you 50 reasons.

Instead, I want to focus our attention on what the Apostle Paul says are the main reasons, the reasons of first importance why our Lord Jesus Christ died on Good Friday.

Paul says in 1 Corinthians.

Corinthians chapter 15, Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures.

I delivered to you as of first importance that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures.

Scriptures.

This is evident in every account of Christ's death that we can read in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John.

Tonight we are going to look at the ways in which we see Christ Jesus dying for our sins according to the

to the scriptures.

Please read with me from Luke chapter 23, verses 26 through 49.

And as they led Jesus away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross to carry it behind Jesus

And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him.

But turning to them.

Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.

For behold, the days are coming when they will say,

Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.

Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us.

For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?

Two others, who are criminals, were led away to be put to death with him

And when they came to the place that is called the Skull, there they crucified him and the criminals, one on his right, and one on his left.

And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.

And they cast lots to divide his garments.

And the people stood by watching.

But the rulers scoffed at him, saying, He saved others.

Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, his chosen one

The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself

There was also an inscription over him.

This is the King of the Jews.

One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ?

Save yourself and us.

But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?

And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds

But this man has done nothing wrong.

And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.

And he said to him, Truly I say to you,

Today you will be with me in paradise.

It was now about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, while the sun's light failed.

And the curtain of the temple was torn in two.

Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.

And having said this,

He breathed his last.

Now, when the centurion saw what had taken place, he praised God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent.

And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home, beating their breasts, and all his acquaintances, and the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance

Watching these things.

This is the word of the Lord.

Thanks be to God.

Please pray with me.

Father, we come before you this evening and thank you for the privilege and the opportunity to study your Holy Word.

I pray, Father, that you will, by the power of your Holy Spirit, who inspired Luke to write these things.

open up our hearts and minds to understand what is being said, to believe it, and ultimately to live in love and obedience.

Towards you.

I pray, Father, that in the power of the same Holy Spirit, you will strengthen me to speak as if speaking your very words for your glory and for the good of your people in Christ Jesus.

Jesus.

I pray all of these things in Jesus' name.

Amen.

This evening I am not going to cover every detail of

Of this particular passage.

We're going to do three things together, however.

We are going to look at the way in which Luke reminds us from these verses: one, that Christ died for our sins.

Two, that Christ died according to the scriptures.

And then we're going to finish, number three, with some applications for each one of us.

So let's start this evening by thinking about the way in which Luke reminds us from these.

verses that Christ died for our sins.

In order to appreciate what that means, we actually have to understand

What sin is.

What is sin?

Sin, the Bible tells us is lawlessness.

It is rebellion against a holy God who made us to have fellowship with Him, to enjoy Him forever and ever.

Instead, we have disobeyed him.

We have decided to live our own way.

That's what sin is

And sin is terrible.

It is wicked.

The wages of sin, according to the Bible, are death and judgment.

Because we have sinned, we are people who deserve to die under the righteous wrath.

of a holy and just God.

We are people who deserve to suffer forever in hell, separated from the goodness of this righteous God.

God.

That is what sin is, according to the Bible.

And because we are the ones who brought sin into the world, we are not the ones who can take care of sin.

God is the one who must save us.

From our sins.

And what Luke reminds us in this passage is that God is the one who has done everything necessary to save us from our sins.

And he has done that by sending his Son, our Lord and Savior.

Jesus Christ.

Theologians have often described the way in which Christ has saved us from our sins as his active obedience and his passive obedience.

If you put these two things together, Christ's obedience, that's what makes up his saving work.

And we can see both of these things taking place in this passage.

What is Christ's active obedience?

Well, the Bible tells us that Jesus himself came to this world with the full intention of obeying his Father from the very beginning of his life all the way to the end of his life.

Obeying the law of God, because he was born under the law of God, living with sinless perfection, as Steve mentioned earlier when he was reading

from the scriptures.

The Lord Jesus was a man who, during the course of his life, and this is incredible to think about, never had a sinful thought.

Never spoke a sinful word, never committed a sinful deed.

He was immaculate and perfect in everything that he did from the moment that he walked on this earth

What's very interesting is in the Gospel of Luke, the characters in this story reiterate over and over again at the end of Jesus' life, he is a perfect man.

He is a man who does not deserve what is being done to him at this cross on this mountain.

In fact, three times already before we get to

This text.

In the trials, in the kangaroo courts, where he was tried and convicted and sent to the cross, his own enemies said, This man has done nothing wrong.

He does not deserve to die.

Three times already.

And then in the text that we are reading this evening, twice again we have characters in the story acknowledging this man actively obeyed God.

He deserves nothing that is happening.

Look with me at verse 41.

Jesus is hanging between two criminals, one on his right hand and one on his left, and one of these criminals said, We are dying justly.

We are receiving the due reward for our deeds.

The man recognizes, as we should all recognize, that you and I deserve to hang on a cross and to die.

He understood that.

And he looked over at Jesus and he said, again, verse 41: This man has done nothing wrong.

He spoke even better than he understood.

Nothing wrong.

No sinful thought, no sinful word, no sinful deed, not at any point during his life.

We see it again in verse 47.

We have a Roman centurion who is standing at the foot of the cross when he stands

sees the Lord Jesus die and he says certainly this man was innocent in fact the better translation would be this man was righteous uh not only had he not committed any of these

These sins.

In fact, he actually did everything necessary to please God.

Why did he do that?

He did it for us.

This is the first way in which Christ died for our sins.

In order for us to be saved, someone had to come and do what God required us to do, and we failed to do.

That was Jesus.

He was innocent.

He was righteous.

That's his active obedience.

Theologians also talk about Christ's passive obedience.

This doesn't mean that uh

Jesus sat around on a beanbag chair and chilled out all day.

That's not what we mean by passive.

Passive comes from a Latin word that refers to his death, to the very events that we are discussing.

in today's text.

After Christ lived this sinless life for us and for our salvation, that qualified him as the pure spotless lamb to die in our place for our sins.

You can think about the Old Testament sacrifice.

The Old Testament sacrifices prefigured that this was the way things had to happen.

When the Israelites went and selected a lamb from the

It had to be a lamb that was without blemish, a lamb that was perfect, signaling that in order for a sacrifice for sin, for our sin to take place, the man who had to die need to be perfect.

and without blemish.

Christ's active obedience qualified him to go to the cross in our place for our sins, to pay the penalty for our sins.

And we see that our sin has been laid upon him, as we have sung about, again in verse 41.

It is very significant when we think about how Jesus hung on the cross.

He hung there between criminals.

He hung there between people who were wicked, who were sinners, because he had been, as Steve mentioned earlier from 2

2 Corinthians 5, made sin.

You can think of it in terms of a bank account.

You and I, we are morally bankrupt.

All we have in our account is a pile and a hoard of sin.

And what God did on Good Friday is take the pile and hoard of sin from each one of the lives of his people and

he put it on Christ.

He deposited it in his account.

So as Jesus hung on the cross, yes, he was an innocent man.

He was a righteous man who had been made.

Sin.

He died there as a thief.

He died there as a criminal.

He died there as a liar.

As a murderer, as an adulterer, you can imagine the sin, that's what Jesus was on the cross.

He died there between those two crimes.

And in God's justice, he deserved to be there.

Not because he'd done anything wrong, but because our sins were placed

on him by the Father.

We can see that the Father accepted the payment of Christ's death on the cross for us from this

This text.

How do we know that God said, Yes, that man has died in your place, and therefore you can be forgiven of your sins and declared righteous?

How do we know that?

Look at verse 45.

According to verse 45, while the sun's light failed in the middle of the day, the curtain of the temple was torn.

The curtain of the temple was symbolic of our inability to enter into the presence of God

as sinners.

When Adam and Eve first sinned in the Garden of Eden they were kicked out of the garden.

They were sent east, and the Lord put a cherubim with a flaming sword in front of the garden, so that no sinner could enter back in and enjoy presence in fellowship with

God.

That is something that sinners cannot do.

What was on the curtain of the temple, according to the Old Testament?

What was on the curtain of the temple?

were cherubim.

The only person who was allowed to go in behind that curtain and once a year was the high priest of Israel in order to offer an acceptable sacrifice for

Sin on the Day of Atonement.

This was a place that nobody could go.

You and I have no right as sinners to enter into God's presence and to enjoy fellowship with Him until Christ died and the temple curtain.

Tore in two.

God accepted his sacrifice on our behalf and opened up the way of salvation so that you and I, by faith in Christ, can now confidently enter into the presence.

presence of God as an accepted sinner.

Not because we have done anything to save ourselves, but because all of the righteousness that was in Christ's account has now been transferred to ours.

If we trust

Trust in him.

God looks at us if we are in Christ and He does not see sinners.

He sees righteous people.

He sees holy people because he sees Christ.

Which is quite remarkable.

How can we rest assured that this good news is true?

It is easy for anyone who has trusted in Christ for your

salvation to wonder at times how can this possibly be true?

I mean I'm I'm so bad maybe this isn't actually true in my case

How do we know it's true?

And I think that the old children's song is exactly right, the Bible tells me so.

The Bible tells me it's true.

And the Bible's been telling this from long time.

This is the second thing we want to consider tonight.

Not only that Christ died for our sins, but that he died according to the scriptures.

Scriptures that were written centuries and millennia before any of the events that we're talking about.

You can see in many places in the New Testament citations and allusions to the Old Testament.

A citation is where an author explicitly says, this is an Old Testament text, from this place it's being fulfilled.

An illusion is where he doesn't explicitly cite it, but he's making it clear.

This is a text from the Old Testament.

It is being fulfilled.

Here.

In the passage that I read tonight, just in the verses that I read tonight, there are at least ten citations and allusions to the Old Testament.

At least ten.

Everything that happened as Jesus

Christ was dying was happening according to the scriptures, according to prophecies that had been made thousands of years and hundreds of years before

these events happen.

I'm not going to read all 10, but I will point out two.

Two examples where Jesus and Luke, the author of

This gospel alludes to Psalms that were written by David, King David.

It's significant that these were psalms that were written by David, because David was a man who was the

King of Israel, he was a man who suffered, he was a man who suffered in many of the same ways that the coming king in his royal line would suffer.

The Messiah, the Christ, Jesus.

Christ.

So what you have in the Psalms of David are these foreshadowings of what was going to happen in the life of Jesus.

And we see those coming to their fulfillment here on Good Friday as Christ goes to the

cross.

The first one is Psalm 22.

I'm going to read from Psalm 22 verses 16 through 18.

And as I read, think about the ways that you can see these verses fulfilled in the account of Christ's death that we have read this evening.

This is what Psalm 22 says.

For dogs encompass me.

A company of evildoers encircles me.

They have pierced my hands and feet.

I can count all my bones.

They stare and gloat over me.

They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.

That was not written by a reporter standing at the foot of the cross describing what took place.

That was written centuries and millennia before these events took place.

This was the Spirit of Christ speaking through David about what he was going to do.

When he went to the cross for us and for our salvation.

They pierced his hands and feet.

They cast lots to divide his garments.

The evildoers encompassed him and

loaded over him.

The other example comes from Psalm 31.

I'm going to read from Psalm 31 verses

3-5, again, a psalm of David.

David confessing to the Lord, For you are my rock and my fortress, and for your name's sake you lead me and guide me.

You take me out of the net they have hidden from me.

For you are my refuge.

Into your hand I commit my spirit.

You have redeemed me, O Lord, faithful God.

What do you think Jesus was thinking about in the last, most tormented moments of his life?

What was going through his mind?

We actually know the answer to that question.

Question.

It was Psalm 31.

He was thinking through Psalm 31.

How do we know that?

We know that because we see it in verse 2

46.

The last thing that Jesus said before he died, calling out with a loud voice, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.

And having said this, he breathed

His last.

When you're reading through the accounts of Christ's crucifixion, everything that's happening in these stories, it would be easy to get the first impression that Christ's death was something

That was done to him, that he was a victim, that other people were causing these things to happen.

And that is half true.

The Bible reminds us that the Romans, the Jews, they were gathered together against the Lord.

We know that that's half true, but it's only half true.

As you read carefully through these accounts and as you think about the fact

That Jesus Christ died according to the scriptures.

It becomes clear that the deeper reality is that Christ's death is something that He is actively making

Happen.

It is something that God had ordained, the Bible reminds us, before the foundation of the world, before there was a creation, before there was a fall.

None of this is Plan B.

All of this is what God

God designed to take place from before the foundation of the world.

It was something that was predicted by the Spirit of Christ through David.

Centuries and millennia.

millennia before this.

It was completed in total control by the Lord Jesus Christ on Good Friday, who over and over again intentionally alludes to and points back to these texts and makes sure that he is fulfilled.

Fulfilling them exactly as he himself in his spirit through the prophets had predicted them.

Jesus is in total, complete control.

He says in the Gospel of John, no one takes my life from me, I lay down my life.

It was something that he did voluntarily.

How do you respond to the fact that Christ died for our sins?

sins and that he died according to the scriptures.

How do you respond to that?

How have you responded to that?

There's an old spiritual

That asks the question, were you there when they crucified my Lord?

And over and over again, that spiritual repeat.

I was there.

Now that may seem strange to you.

You're like, really?

That was 2,000 years ago.

What is that getting at?

Here's what it's getting at.

There are a lot of characters in this story.

A lot.

There are a lot of people responding to what is happening to Jesus when he is going to the cross for us and for our salvation.

Salvation.

And guess what?

You are one of them in the sense that you are just like them.

You and I are people like them.

We are people created in God's image.

We are people created for glory.

We are people who have spurned our Creator.

We are people with the same passions and struggles and everything else.

So you have to read this story and you have to put yourself into the shoot.

Of the people who are killing Jesus and responding to his death.

Were you there when they crucified my Lord?

And the answer is yes.

You were there and I was there.

Think about three basic groups of people in this passage.

And this is where I want to apply this text to us this evening in order to conclude.

The first group of people are people who see what is happening and they're sympathetic.

They see this man who has been terribly beaten.

He's bleeding.

He can barely walk.

He's groaning.

And they mourn.

You can see this especially in verses 26 through 31 as Jesus is walking towards Calvary.

There's this multitude of women.

And we are told that they are mourning and lamenting for him.

They feel terrible that this is happening.

They have compassion.

They don't want to see people suffer like this.

What does Jesus do?

He turns to them and he says, Thank you for feeling like this for me.

I really appreciate it.

On that basis, you will be saved.

Is that what Jesus says to them?

No.

Maybe shockingly, even, Jesus says to them, daughters of Jerusalem, don't weep for me.

Weep for me.

For yourselves.

What does he mean by that?

He means that if you are not a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, if you are just sympathetic,

And you haven't actually trusted in him, you're in much worse shape right now than he was when he was going to the cross.

It would be better.

You'd be in better shape if you had a crown of thorns on your head.

If you were carrying that wood on your back, if you had been scourged by the Romans, you're in better shape if all you do is have sympathy when you look at Jesus and you see the terrible things.

Suffering that he experienced, but you don't actually trust in him.

He warns them of a coming judgment.

He's warning them, in fact, about the destruction of Jerusalem that would happen in 70 A.

D.

When things would go horribly bad, and these women, their children, Jesus prophesies, would die and die miserably.

Don't just be sympathetic when you see that Jesus suffered.

That's not going to save anybody.

You need to realize that you are going to suffer.

Suffer worse if you do not trust in him.

That's the warning that Jesus gives at the beginning of this text.

The second group of people

in this passage are those who are just openly hostile.

So they see all of this stuff happening.

In fact, they're doing much of the punishing, much of the persecuting.

that is taking place.

They see it all happening and they like it.

These are the rulers.

These are the soldiers.

This is the first criminal who is

Hanging there, and he's deriding Christ from the cross.

What does Jesus say to them?

Jesus says to them, You know what?

You deserve it, and I can't wait to come back in judgment and destroy you guys.

Is that what Jesus says?

No.

He says one of the most remarkable things, I think, that we see in the entire Bible.

Look at verse 34.

They've just crucified him.

They're deriding him.

And Jesus prays, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.

He shows grace.

He shows mercy.

He shows compassion.

He shows us what it looks like to love an enemy and to desire their good even when they desire the worse for us.

This is an important thing for you.

Maybe you got dragged here this evening.

You don't really want to be here.

You're not really interested in

Jesus.

In fact, you've even made fun of him.

You're happy very often, perhaps, to use his name in vain as a cuss word.

You're openly deriding him.

You're just like these hostile

People in the passage.

What does Jesus have to say to you?

Father, forgive them.

So they know not what they do.

You don't realize what you're doing when you are mocking

the Lord Jesus Christ.

But he realizes what he was doing when he prayed, if God so wills, that you would repent and believe in him and suffer none of the consequences that you deserve for your open heart.

Hostility to Jesus.

Is that you?

The third group of people that we see in this passage are the faithful.

And the two shining examples that we see in this text are the second criminal and the centurion.

Luke doesn't tell us this, but what's remarkable about the second criminal

Is that moments before he was looking to Jesus as his hope and his salvation, we are told he also, with the other criminal, was making fun of him.

And he was deriding him.

Right there on the cross, at some point, God changed his heart, and he went from someone who was openly hostile to being the first answer to Christ's prayer.

Father, forgive them.

And in this passage, we see this criminal asking Jesus: You should ask Jesus this.

Jesus, remember me when you come into your

kingdom.

He wants assurance of his salvation.

He knows he's awful.

He knows he's terrible.

Do you know that?

All you need to do is come to Jesus.

Ask him to grab a hold of you, and he will promise to you, today you will be with me and perish.

paradise.

He knew that because that man was gonna die that day.

I hope you don't die today.

I really do.

But I do hope that when that day comes, you can have the kind of confidence that that thief on the cross

Had.

Today I'm going to be with Jesus in paradise.

Do you know that?

The other great shining example of a faithful man here is a Roman centurion, probably the least likely

Person that you could imagine to confess faith in the Lord Jesus.

In fact, he was probably one of the men who put the nails through his hands, put the nails into his feet, and watched him die there on the cross.

This is the man who confessed.

Certainly, this man is innocent.

This is the man who Luke tells us in verse 47: praised God.

If you are a Christian, if you have heeded the warnings that Jesus made to those women, if you are the answer to his prayers, Father, forgive them.

For they know not what they do.

If you are a Christian and you have entrusted yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ, you can, and this is a very mysterious thing, as Steve mentioned

Earlier, think about his death, his awful death, and praise God for it.

The worst thing that has ever happened in human history.

Why?

Because this is

The gate to paradise.

There's no other way for you and me to enter back into the fellowship with God that He meant for us than to trust in Jesus.

So the best thing that could possibly happen for you

You and for me.

It's for the only sinless, innocent man who has ever lived to die in our place for our sins, according to the scriptures.

That's the thing of first importance.

That is why

Christ died.

Paul adds then in 1 Corinthians that there is one other thing of first importance.

And that other thing of first importance is not only that Christ died for our sins in accordance with Christ.

the scriptures.

He then adds that he was buried.

And then he adds, and he was raised again on the third day in accordance with

The scriptures.

So, I would exhort you this evening to take some time over the next couple of days looking forward to that part of the story.

Christ died for us so that He could

live for us.

If it all ends here at the cross, that's not good news.

The good news comes on Sunday when we celebrate the fact that the Lord Jesus

rose from the dead, and that because we have died with him, we also, if we trust in him, will live with him.

Let's pray.

Father, thank you for all that the Lord Jesus has done for us sinners, for us, and for our salvation.

I pray that you will help each and every one of us tonight to turn from our sins, to trust in Him, and to walk away with assurance that we have been forgiven.

And that when our lives come to an end, we can entrust our spirit to you, and we can be with the Lord Jesus in paradise.

I pray all of these things in Jesus' name.

Amen.

