Speaker 1
Well good morning. We return this morning to hear God speak to us. And to feed and nourish us, and we've been spending our time slowly meditating through Psalm 23, this beloved, most comforting of Psalms. And this morning we look at verse four. I'll read Psalm twenty-three, verses one, two, three, and four. Hear now God's holy word, a psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me This is indeed God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. pray. Father, we do thank you for your word to us. It is light and life. And Father, we pray that now you would not only bring us comfort. But Father, work in us greater reliance and faith, not only on account of the truths of your word. But faith in Christ our shepherd. May He lead us now. May His staff comfort us now, even if it bring conviction We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, again, we have been slowly meditating on this beautiful psalm over the past few weeks, and we come this morning to what is arguably the most well-known part of the psalm. The shepherd imagery that began the psalm continues even here with the image of rod and staff. But now the shepherd who has been leading his sheep Has led his sheep into a valley, a valley of deep darkness, as our English translations put it, the valley of the shadow of death. There is something menacing about this verse, about those words. And perhaps this is why this psalm is so well loved. It deals honestly. With the low and dark points of our lives. It deals honestly with the fear that comes upon us when death's cold shadow draws near. But it's just there, isn't it? In this dark moment where the psalm gives us one of arguably the most comforting lines. For you, God, are with me. In fact, that line, for you are with me, is arguably, I think, the high point and central climax of the whole psalm in the original Hebrew of Psalm 23, there are exactly 20 lines. And line 10, the exact midpoint of the Psalm, are those words for you Are with me. This is the astounding truth that wherever we find ourselves, whatever path we find ourselves walking down It is a path that we will never walk alone. We will see, I hope, how this truth, the truth of God's shepherding presence, even in the face of real evil, We're in the midst of deep darkness. This truth is still true today for those who are counted as God's sheep. There's a lot of richness in almost every word of this verse. I think in all the commentaries, there's more ink spilled on this verse. But we'll look at verse 4 in three simple sections. First, the problem. First, the problem. Secondly, the promise. The promise. And then thirdly, the protection. The protection. Problem, promise, and protection. What is the problem? Well, it is true that God accompanies the speaker and takes care of him or her in a general sense throughout Psalm 23. And really, in a culture of religious sentimentality, this is very appealing. This psalm is a psalm beloved by believers and unbelievers alike. I've been to many a funeral where this is the psalm that is requested to be read, even though knowing the person that were there for the funeral has never given his life to Christ. People love this song Interestingly, I found out that this psalm really wasn't used as a funeral psalm until after 1880. There's something about what was happening in the world that only after 1880 was this a psalm used in funerals. Still We need to look closer, not fall into religious sentimentality. I think the great surprise of this is how God is accompanying the speaker, that the sheep, they're moving and they're on the move from the Lord's leading. In verse 1 and in 2, on to the right paths that we looked at last week in verse 3, and then continue following his lead right here into verse 4 through the valley of the shadow of death. In other words, the unexpected development in the story of Psalm 23 is that the Good Shepherd's paths of righteousness sometimes include the valley of the shadow of death. If I find myself in this valley of deep darkness, well let us at least admit here, I'm there because the Lord has led me there. It's clear in this verse that we have not left the shepherd sheep relationship behind. Our companion, he has a rod, he has a staff in his hand. And verse 5, we'll see next week these active verbs. To describe the activity of our host toward us as he nourishes us and leads us safely to his dwelling place. But I think it's unwise to simply assume, as many do, unthinkingly, that we have a shepherd who Who will, yes, lead us to peace and tranquility to this house where he nourishes us, but somehow has no say over how sheep come to find themselves in a threatening gorge. No, no, no. The valley of the shadow of death, the days of deep darkness do not mean we have left the paths of righteousness. Verse 4 is not evidence that David, the psalm writer, has somehow wandered away from the Lord. No, in fact, they are exactly where the shepherds' paths of righteousness oftentimes Lead a sheep through. I say this as a surprise because we need to reckon with the terrible intensity of the image that dominates this verse, the valley of the shadow of death. Commentators tell us that while the translation of the word for valley is straightforward, it's one word in the Hebrew, the word translated shadow of death, that's a little bit more difficult. What's being described here? Again, it's a single Hebrew word that can mean deep darkness. I think your ESV footnotes will have that. Many other places in the Old Testament the word is translated as exactly that. So Job uses it in Job chapter 24. It peers twice for deep darkness. is morning to all of them, and they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness. It's a terrifying place, whatever it is. But many commentators also realize that the expression may have been used deliberately to convey the threat of death. That's why we've translated it the valley of the shadow of death. Again in Job Job ten, as evidence, are not my days few? Then cease and leave me alone, that I may find a little cheer before I go, and I shall not return. And here it is, to the land of darkness. And deep shadow, the land of gloom like thick darkness, like deep shadow without any order, where light is as thick as darkness. Job has here the metaphorical idea of deep darkness as very clearly tied to the place of no return. It's the world of the afterlife. It's death. It's a journey from the light of the known into that scary obscurity of the unknown, away from the warmth of the sun And now into the cold shadow of death. This valley of deep darkness is therefore a perfect metaphor for death's encroachment on Life. And perhaps this is why it has increasingly been a funeral psalm to be read. The fear of death is a reality for every person in our fallen world. Death is an inescapable truth that every soul will have to face. Death is God's curse on our sin, and here's the great truth. Of the scriptures, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and death is what we deserve. Physical, spiritual, and perhaps most terrifying of all, eternal. Perhaps here is the appropriate place to bring out the important distinction This Psalm, Psalm 23, is a Psalm 4, God's sheep. There will be comfort given in this passage, but that comfort, that. That comes in the midst of this darkness. It's a comfort for those who have Christ as their shepherd. Allow that truth to sit awkwardly. Especially if you were here with somebody who has not yet made Christ your shepherd. You have not yet repented of your sin. You have not yet put your faith in Jesus. And you cannot say on good assurance that you are now following your shepherd, whether you be on the mountaintop or in the valley. It is inescapably true that death will come. And at some point, the cold shadow of that reality will begin to chill your bones and your soul. Oh dear friend, don't approach that moment unprepared without a shepherd. If you are a believer though, listen. One of my prayers for us is that as we've heard this and and and now continue to meditate, especially on verse 4. My prayer is that we would all come to know that any valley we are in, even that valley of death that we all must walk through. Well You are in it. Under the leadership of your good shepherd. He's led you there You might feel at this moment, perhaps you're here this morning, in your own deep valley. It may be the valley of the shadow of death, some medical news that has come back. Um bad and not promising. Well perhaps for many of us it's a valley of the shadow of death that is Not physical death, but spiritual in nature, emotional in nature. Whatever the walls are that are Built up around you, you feel lost, more lost than ever, and in some deep dark shroud, and you can't make sense of the turmoil that the Lord has led you in. But here's the truth. Your Lord Jesus is not standing there beside you lost or scratching his head wondering what to do. I'm sorry, I didn't know how we got here It may not be a part of your theological framework, but I pray it begins to be. That all things, including every valley, even perhaps the valley you're walking through now. Come from God's fatherly hand. This is an inescapable truth of the entirety of Scripture If God is not in charge of every valley, then how can we know he can get you through it? We've put in your bulletin, I believe, the Heidelberg Catechism, at least questions 27 and 28. And I have found incredible comfort from this biblical truth summarized here. What do you understand by the providence of God? And here their beautiful answer: the almighty and ever-present power of God, by which God upholds as with his hand heaven and earth and all creatures. And so rules them that leaf and blade, rain and drought, fruitful and lean years, food and drink, health and sickness, prosperity and poverty All things in fact come to us not by chance, but by his fatherly hand. My dear friends, This is nothing more than exalting the absolute sovereignty of our transcendent God who is in control of every detail of life. He is a big, big God. And the reason we preach that truth of a big, big God is because we all know we will face valleys, we will be led into situations where it seems inescapably dark and dear friends to have this truth now implanted deeply upon our hearts is to be prepared to walk through that valley It is a shallow, shallow comfort to find yourself in deep darkness and be wondering, is God in control of this at all? It is shallow comfort to have a theology of God that somehow says, Oh, God must have made a mistake, or somehow my decision hamstrung the will of God. No, dear friends, even in the midst of our foolishness. decisions which sometimes lead us into dark valleys, praise God he's still in control. And as Paul reminds us in Romans 8, he works out all things. For the good of those who love him. We have a big, big God. And this comfort, look at question 28 in this Heidelberg Catechism. How does this knowledge of God's creation and providence help us? In other words, they're helping us to realize this isn't just theology, pie in the sky, trying to know the right biblical answer. This is a real help answer. We can be patient when things go against us. Thankful when things go well And for the future, we can have good confidence in our faithful God and Father, that nothing in creation will separate us from his love For all creatures are so completely in God's hand that without his will, they can neither move nor be moved. Oh dear church, I pray you not only believe in that God, but find deep help and comfort from that God. Supremely, we see all of this in the valley path our shepherd himself walked through his entire life. You could summarize the entirety of Jesus' mission here on earth as one long valley of shadow of death Our shepherd, who himself walked through this life, a path he traveled to the point of the deepest darkness and his sacrificial death on the cross. And yet, even this According to Acts 2. 23, even that was all according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. This underlying profound belief in the sovereignty Of our shepherd, our divine shepherd, and his providential care over every step that we take in the way. This is why David sings. Notice Notice, he doesn't say I walk on or in or I'm stuck in the valley. No, he says, I walked through the valley of the shadow of death, through it Dear friends, your valley right now, however oppressive its valley walls might seem to be crumbling down over you. No matter how deep the depression of your valley is, it's not the final destination. Your shepherd has led you there, and he will lead you through it, and he will bring you out. For the Lord Jesus is Path was the humiliation of his incarnation, and then the cross of his atoning death. But then came the crown of glory. My dear friends, that's just as true of us if we are is sheep. We follow in that same path. We suffer, and then there's glory. Whatever the valley though, you are walking through it. Jesus is not up ahead asking for directions. He's not lost. He's not on the other side of the valley saying, just keep walking, I think you're going to make it. He knows where he's leading you. He knows there's a way through it. He knows there's a way out of it. Because that was his experience. And he's already been there ahead of you. And he's walking now with you through that. Therefore, if I could apply some kind of imperative out of verse 4, I think it would be this. Walk. Just keep walking. Walk faithfully. Walk reliantly upon your shepherd. Charles Spurgeon comments on this verse. He says, Yea, though I walk As if the believer did not quicken his pace when he came to die, but but still calmly walked with God. To walk, says Spurgeon, indicates the steady advance of a soul which knows its road He knows there's an end and he resolves to follow that path and he feels quite safe and is therefore perfectly calm and composed. Why? Because in the end, it is ultimately God's valley. God's valley for me. And when I've walked through it, I will see that it was God's valley for his glory. And praise God, he walked with me through it. This is why David can write, I will fear no evil. I remember growing up, we would take the back roads from Bowie to BWI. And if you know those back roads, it's a lot of farmland, there are no lights And there's some weird like NSA military bases out there with weird lasers going on. And for a young teenager, it's somewhat frightening. And my dad would always say, hey, we're gonna go pick up Aunt and Uncle So-and-so. I'll drop you off here for an hour In the middle of the night. You think you can stay here for an hour? Well, just stay here. I'll pick you right back up. Me and my sister. Would be itching in her pants. Oh, could I do it? And no one ever said yes. It was a terrifying prospect. Probably weird hunters out there hunting after hours. No, you don't want to be caught out there. Then my dad said, well, we'll have your mom take the car to the airport. What if I stayed with you? We'll do it, Dad. Dad'd be fun. Absolutely. One option was nerve-wracking to the soul. The other, instantly, a stillness. Didn't we sing that just before? Be still, my soul. Why? The Lord is on thy side. Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain. Leave to thy God to order and provide. In every change, he faithful will remain. Be still, my soul, thy best, thy heavenly friend. What comfort? There's something beautiful, something comforting, something that brings a peace surpassing all understanding when you know and you believe, because the reality is there that Jesus is by your side. Therefore I will fear no evil. This leads us to the promise of verse four. For you are with me There's a major shift here, a profoundly comforting shift. The shift from the use of the word he to the worst of the use of the word you David's Psalm turns from a psalm about God to now in the middle of verse 4 a psalm of prayer to God. He's transitioned from the third person, he, to now addressing him directly in the second person, you The meaning of the words, which I think we just intuitively sense, is that it is one thing to be able to say that someone is with me, but quite another thing to be able to turn toward that individual and address him personally by saying, you are with me Guys, this is not abstract preaching. We're hearing here the reality that if you are a sheep of the great shepherd, he is with you. If I speak in the third person, it's possible that I have known the benefits of the shepherd by being just one of the sheep among many in the flock. And if of course that's a precious truth. But by speaking now in the second person, isn't David, aren't we subtly aware of an intimate deepening of the relationship? It's somehow as if in this psalm all the other sheep are not really in the frame at this moment. They're there. But from his subjective point of view, it's just dangerous. David and his shepherd. That individual relationship that's been presumed and implied now, it comes to center stage, and it will be the way the Psalm continues through the rest of Psalm 25. three the central confession of faith. This is between you and me, Lord, personally. And it's there that I find deepest comfort. This has always been God's design. Never this abstract relationship, but a personal one And again, as we prepare to go into the Gospel of John, we will see that profoundly, as Jesus makes clear over and over and again, it is your relationship with me. Children, I didn't prepare questions, but here's a good question for you. Is Jesus my shepherd because my parents are Christian? Questions. And here's the answer. No. No. I must believe in Jesus. For him to be my shepherd. Do you know Jesus as your shepherd? This has always been God's design. Personal presence. In Eden, God lived with Adam and Eve. Later on Mount Horeb, God promised Moses that he would be with him in Egypt. When they got to Mount Sinai, God came to live with Israel in a tent, and he spoke with Moses face to face as a man speaks to his friend. In the promised land, God came to live with Israel in the temple. In Jesus, God came to live with his people as Emmanuel, God with us. When Jesus prepared his disciples for his departure, he sent his Holy Spirit so that he could come and live in us. And Jesus promised his disciples. He promises us, Matthew 28, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. In the new heavens and the new earth, God will once again live with his people, and personally so, wiping every tear from every eye of every sheep that he's brought there. Revelation climactically ends this way. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with me. Man. He will dwell with them and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. Dear friends, do you believe I think, of course, this finds greatest fulfillment in the New Testament when believers are described as being those who are in Christ and Christ is in us. In other words, if you've come to believe in Jesus and give your life to following Him as your shepherd, here's the great truth: by the power of the Holy Spirit, you are so united with Jesus that when God sees you He sees Jesus in you and he sees you in Jesus. You are united to him. And so he's with you. Never to be rent asunder. A spiritual union that God will never pronounce a dictate of divorce over. The bridegroom will never leave his bride. Well, if this is true, and it is, how is it practical? And this leads us to our third point, the protection. What is the protection offered here? Well, even though I walked through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Great, amen. Oh also, your rod and your staff. Thank you. comfort me. What are these tools in our shepherd's hands? Tools he's never given up. One commentator puts it this way. The shepherds themselves had none of that peaceful and placid aspect which is generally associated with pastoral life and habits. Shepherds looked like warriors marching to the battlefield, a long gun slung from the shoulder a dagger and heavy pistols in the belt, a light battle-axe or iron-headed club in the hand. Here he's describing more modern shepherds, of course. Such were the equipments, and their fierce flashing eyes and scowling countenances showed but too plainly that they were prepared to use their weapons at any moment. The great reality is that the Lord does lead us through valleys, and there is evil in the dark corners of those valleys Evil that only desires to take you out, to swallow you whole, and to snatch you away from the shepherd Amen. We have no meek mannered, weak shepherd, but a mighty one. warrior. I think we're used to the gentleness of Psalm 23 that that sometimes we've never felt the kind of raw steel of a sword that is depicted here. One of my favorite preachers, Dale Ralph Davis, says this. Jesus Christ, our shepherd, is no emaciated weakling. Our shepherd is a warrior. A shepherd's had to be. No one can snatch his sheep out of his hand, John 10, 28. The muscles of his arms are flexed to defend his flock. He doesn't carry a club for nothing. He is obviously enough for whatever the valley throws at us. Dear friends, I hope you believe in that shepherd. He's the same shepherd. Who, as we read earlier this morning from Revelation chapter 5, is the lion of the tribe of Judah. And when that lion returns, he will use fang and claw. To devour all enemies of the gospel and all enemies to the sheep. Righteousness tattooed on his thigh, a sword grit between his teeth. He is the mighty warrior. That we find comfort in. The rod. This really was a weapon. It's the same word used for the scepter in Psalm 2. It's the same used word to describe a tool of defense against serious threats And a shepherd knows how to use that weapon. And he wields it with fatal destruction to any who attack the sheep. For his sole care, his number one desire is to protect the lives of these sheep, putting himself between the sheep and whatever threat goes after them. Interestingly though, apparently the rod was also used to count the sheep It was a tool that protected, and it was a tool that made sure all the sheep were accounted for. John Golden Gay says this. The rod helps us to know that having the Lord with us is not merely a feeling. It doesn't signify mere presence, but here we're seeing that it shows action. This presence expresses itself by aggressive action to defeat enemies and thus protect the one to whom Yahweh is coming. Committed. Your shepherd carries a perfect rod and wields it with perfect divine accuracy. No sheep will ever be snatched out of the shepherd's hand The second tool? Well it's his staff. We know what the staff is. It was that walking stick that sure helped the shepherd walk upon. . . Tough cliffs and and hard paths. But more it was used for the sheep for correcting them. I always have uh Night at the Apollo in the back of my head when I read this, to correct that bad performance. from the crowd and uh out comes that shepherd staff to pull the uh the bad performer off the stage. Here the staff is used to correct the sheep who wander. Guiding. Pulling back. Here the staff is used for those sheep prone to wander. To leave the flock, to leave the presence of the comfort of the shepherd. And though the shepherd whistled, and though the shepherd called it by name, the sheep just kept on wandering. And so, with his staff, he would come and he would take the hook at the end of that staff and wring it around the neck and yank that sheep back. Sometimes violently so. And though it hurt the sheep, it was hurt given out of love because he knew out in this valley there is evil that will kill the sheep. sheep and I will hurt the sheep now. I will discipline the sheep now to make sure that it stays close to me. My dear friend How many of us in the midst of some valley are tempted to wander, not believing the presence of the Lord, and therefore we find some bypath or some shortcut out of the valley? And the shepherd knows that's not a shortcut. There's more danger that way. But because we do not believe in the presence of our shepherd, we take the shortcut anyway. We begin to stop going to church on Sunday mornings. We begin to stop meeting with fellow Christian brothers and sisters. To be reminded about the comfort of our shepherd. And we begin to wander in such a way that we are further and further and further away from his safety and presence. Dear friend, if that's you this morning, take comfort when the Lord disciplines you. And sometimes he uses his staff. in such a harsh way to remind you that he loves you and he's not willing to let you go and follow your own wandering will into danger. John Owen, one of the brightest Puritans to ever write, shockingly said that the worst judgment God could ever inflict upon man is to give him up to his own exalted sense of free will. The worst judgment God could ever inflict upon a sheep, a so-called sheep, is to say, okay, have it your way, wander away. We ought to pray, if we're there right now, in a wandering spiritual state, we ought to pray, Lord, bring me back, even if by your For the psalmwriter, these tools in the Savior's hands, how does it end? They are a comfort to me They comfort me. There is safety in the presence of Christ. Safety, yes, against enemies, evil and dark, but safety even against our own wayward enemies. will. The reality is, is that there are deeper, darker valleys within our own hearts than there are sometimes out there. There's more danger bubbling up from our own wants and wayward desires than there are spiritual enemies out there. And here David, I think, echoes the heart of a true believer who says, Oh Lord, your rod, yes, it comforts me. Thank you for the protection from out there. But your staff That is just as much a comfort to me because I know how evil and wayward I can be Dear friends, let us thank our God that He is a perfect Savior, even though we are in perfect shape. Let us pray.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Our good and gracious Heavenly Father, we do give you thanks and praise this morning for the simple and yet profound and life-altering truth. That Christ our Savior is with us. Father, we thank you that through the work of your Spirit That as we have trusted in Christ and repented of our sin, we have been united to Jesus, our Savior. That there is there is nowhere we can go. There is there is uh Father no time in our lives, no moment. Not only that you do not see, but Father, that Christ is not with us. And we thank you for that, and we praise you for that, because we've also been reminded this morning that you take us often. Through the valleys of tribulation and trial. Father, we confess that this world is full of those things. That the fall uh and ever since the fall of our forefathers, Adam and Eve, Father, death itself crouches. Death itself eats at us. Our physical bodies break down. Disease, cancer, death itself is too often waiting. Rather often, our minds, our hearts, our emotions, every facet of our being, it seems, is broken and corrupted by the fall. And death eats at it all. And Father, we thank you evermore then for the presence of Christ our Savior. That Christ is with us in those valleys, that Christ leads us in those valleys and and offers protection. Though Father, perhaps even he allows death to take its effect. We see even then in the goodness of being transported into your very presence in heaven And so, Father, with James, we can truly echo and count it joy when we face trials and tribulations in the valley of the shadow of death. Father, we thank you for your correction in our lives, that you do not let your sheep wander off. But Father, you bring us back. And though it may be painful in the moment, we know that in your discipline of us You use it. You use the pain sometimes to sanctify us and grow us up more into the image of Christ. Father, you use all of these things, your discipline, you use the trials to grow our trust and our faith in you, to grow us in our knowledge of your goodness and your faithfulness to us. In your glory and in your sovereign providence over all of creation. And so, Father, we ask this morning. That you would grow us, that you would make us more like Christ, our shepherd, and that he would be honored and glorified in our midst as you do so. And it's in his name we pray.

