Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me to Psalm 23 as we conclude this Lord's Day morning our uh Five, six weeks now through this psalm. I'll read the entirety of the psalm and we will look this morning at verse six, Psalm 23. Hear now the reading of God's holy and inspired word. A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil For you are with me. Your rod and your staff they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. This is an Indeed, God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you. For another opportunity to come by your grace and your goodness and mercy to us before your word. This living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, and and by it you not only excise from us sin, bringing us to repentance, but Lord. You implant within us faith and a closeness to Christ our Savior. We pray that you would do that now by the power of your Spirit. May we be comforted by that This word. May we be built up in persevering faith by this word. And Lord, I do pray that you would help us to long more for our final home in glory. With you, our great shepherd. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Surely goodness and mercy Shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We've seen the great truth that even though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, still the Lord our shepherd is with us. I will fear no evil, for you are with me. And yet this personal closeness that we looked at back in verse 4, in the midst of enemies, in the midst of darkness and death. In other words, the Lord is personally present to protect. Yes, amen. But that's just it. He's protecting us. Us. Why? Because we're still on our journey. We've not yet made it home. And so as we come to this last verse of Psalm 23, we really do come to the end, as it were Not just the end of the Psalm, but in a sense, verse 6 is a summary of the end of the entirety of redemptive history. It's summarizing for us the end of the Christian life. Not just to have the Lord with us, but having us to be with the Lord in his home forevermore. It's not that the Lord shall dwell with me in my valley, as good and as comforting as that is. No, this this last verse takes us a step farther. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Now, in examining this last verse of Psalm 23, we see that there are two parts of the verse. The first part, God's goodness and mercy following me all the days of my life. And then the second part, dwelling in the house of the Lord forever. I want to this morning begin with that second part. I want to begin by having us cast our eyes forward to our final destination, our final resting place, the place where if we are Christians We will assuredly be for eternity. And then after we examine that, I want to move and look at the first part of verse 6, which describes our current reality now. So let's begin at the end, which ironically is endless. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. There's some debate amongst the different commentaries as to the meaning of this phrase forever. It literally means for length of days, perhaps your footnote. Says that. And so some question the sense of endless duration. You know, this this idea of an afterlife. Maybe David is just simply saying here: this is where he will be for as long as he lives. In the temple, back in the temple of the Lord for the rest of my days. Okay. But I think it's best to read length of days, not merely as synonymous with all the days of my life as we see in the first part of the verse but i think actually something more intense he's he's escalating the intensity from the first part of verse six now to the second part Something that really means forever and ever. For instance, in Psalm 21, verse 4, again in Psalm 93, verse 5, Lamentations, chapter 5, the phrase length of days is clearly used. to mean forevermore, eternity. Getting at this idea of eternal unending life. And when we live with the Lord Forever, we will never have to move out. I think that's the the emphasis of this text. It will never end. We will make it home. We will be with God. And God will say, welcome now to the rest of eternity. He'll never disown us. We'll never grow weary of drawing near to him. No more distractions, no more anxieties. There's something good, isn't there? John tells us this in 1 John about meditating and thinking about the glory of eternity with God that actually has a sanctifying effect upon us now. We could do no better thing than just spend the rest of this sermon doing nothing but thinking about the glory of eternity with Christ. But I want to point your attention to something else here as well. Your Bibles probably have a footnote after the word dwell In verse 6, I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. But this could also be translated as: I shall return to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I think it's a very good reason for that translation. So I want to commend it to you and think about it for a second. I think it actually helps us make good sense of the psalm as a whole and it actually helps us see a summary of what we've studied so far these past five weeks. Think about it. Human beings, all human beings are walking, talking, homing devices. In other words, we all have these kind of built-in spiritual satellite navigation systems. systems hardwired within us to find home. Augustine most famously writes about this in his book, The Confessions. Where he says to the Lord, Lord, you move us to delight in praising you, for you have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless until they rest in you. Now, of course, fallen sinners who have yet to be born again, well, their navigation system, even though it still works in a sense, it's always seeking home, it's broken. It's always leading us to the wrong home, wrong places of rest. This is why we make idols out of so many different things, as if they can satisfy us like God, but they can't. But within believers. This desire for home becomes more acute and And fixed now by the Spirit within us and with the right roadmap given to us in the Bible, we are now zeroed in on our true home to be with the Lord. We know where we're going, and we have a good map of how to get there. Well, this is how we are created. Every human person Was created for fellowship with God. The whole point of our existence is to dwell with Him. What is the chief end of man? But to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And again, even though this desire has been cracked and fractured by the fall, that desire, that original design, designed by God, is still there. So what does this have to do with the interpretive footnote suggesting that a better translation should be, I shall return to dwell in the house of the Lord? Well, it's just this Psalm 23 is a song of praise to the God who has come to get us. To rescue us. In fact, rescue us so as to bring us home. The journey is long and We've seen throughout the psalm we need a shepherd. It's dangerous, and we've seen throughout the psalm we need a companion. And it's wearisome. We need a host. We looked at that last week. But the journey is not just for the journey's sake. Journeys always have an intended end. And the journey has always had the ultimate destination. in mind our being rescued and restored so that we can return and finally come to the house of the Lord. We saw this hinted at when we looked at verse three. Do you remember verse three? He Restores my soul. We noted that the word restore actually carries the idea of God causing my soul to return. Repent, even. So that when we read verses 1 and 2 and 3, we're actually reading this: the sheep had actually wandered away from the right path, and it was the shepherd who personally found and fetched and brought the sheep back to where they properly belonged. The picture is so beautiful. The sheep is wayward, and yet the shepherd is still watching, going after. It is the amazing grace of God who is poised to watch and to retreat. and to rescue us and bring us back to the path that leads home. If you're a Christian here this morning, that's what God has done with you. He sought you out. Even while you were still dead in your sins and trespasses, he sought you. We can see how deeply then Psalm 23 connects with what Eddie read for us earlier from Luke 15 about the Good Shepherd. Jesus has come to seek and to save the lost, to find the missing sheep, to bring them to repentance, to restore their souls and to bring them home. Guys, this is nothing more than the story of the Bible. It is the gospel through and through that God so loved the world that he sent his son to shepherd first the Lord. Lost sheep of Israel, and then more than that, to call others who are not a part of that flock to now join the flock, and that is most of us here today. And he did so by becoming one of us. This is beautiful. The shepherd became a sheep, was even slaughtered as a lamb for us. And then in his resurrection became and remains even now or ever-living sheep shepherd, the God man who will lose none of his sheep and will bring us home. We'll look as we begin the Gospel of John next week. One of the major themes that ties the entirety of the Gospel of John together is Is this this marriage imagery? The first great miracle, of course, taking place at the wedding of Cana. And then the gospel picking up that theme throughout And ending and ending with this idea that the bridegroom must have his bride with him in heaven as he goes to prepare a place for her And heaven and hell and earth and nothing will be able to separate the bridegroom from the bride because his love is so committed, so devoted to making sure You, the sheep, you, the bride whom he's died for, will be with him forevermore. What is home forevermore? I think one way to think about it is as Eden restored. There was a time when we were with God. He walking With us in the cool of the day. And yet, wayward, we all went in our first father Adam. The Bible ends, though, with heaven and earth coming together. The New Eden. There again where God is with His people. In fact, the climactic verse at the end of Revelation, Revelation 21. 3. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. And they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. stop. No more entrance of serpents tempting us to sin. No more entrance of distractions. making us want to follow our eyes and our wayward wills, nothing but the full enjoyment of God in Christ. Keith, last evening service at the prayer service, prayed in our confession of sin, Lord, we are tempted to think of heaven as the end. The glory of being in heaven and yet forgive us, Father, for not thinking of Christ in heaven as the end. Christ, the temple resurrected. Christ, who is our final home I think Christians have a longing for this kind of glorious homecoming reunion at a deep, deep level. Because we know what it is to live here amongst the ruins of the world. In a sense, being born again, our eyes have been opened to the travesty and devastation of what exists right here, right now. And so at a deep level, if we are increasingly falling out of love with sin and increasingly falling in love with Christ, Don't you long for that reunion? Simple homes can be some of the happiest places on earth filled with love. And in a sense, a a good home here is a is a kind of foretaste of heaven, quiet and peaceful. And yet so many of us also know the the dungeons of a bad home, overrun with strife and sorrow, imprisoned. Psalm 23 resonates with us so deeply because it speaks, I think, to every one of us, this yearning that we have. To arrive at last in a place of unreserved welcome, untainted beauty, perfection, and shalom. Peace. Again, we could spend the best part of the day doing nothing but thinking about that final day. Well, how is it that we will ever get home to this final resting place to be with God? And this is where I think the first part of verse 6 becomes so incredibly beautiful. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Now here's what's interesting, almost without exception, commentators on this verse point out that the verb follow is in fact a very weak rendering of the Hebrew. Richard Briggs goes so far as to say that it is the one word in the whole psalm that, in my opinion, has been persistently poorly translated in English. Okay, so what's a better word? Well, instead, it seems that the very heart of the word is the meaning to pursue To pursue goodness and mercy pursue me all the days of my life David, writing this, seems to be saying goodness and mercy aren't merely following him, they're pursuing him The world is so intense. David, who knew combat quite well, was constantly on the run and in these dark valleys. And he would have known what it is to be pursued to death, walking through those valleys of the shadow of death. And yet the word pursue here doesn't have that kind of negative connotation. In fact, it can be used with With regularity throughout the Bible to mean a good thing. Psalm 34 for verse 14: turn away from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. It's a positive pursuit. It's almost as if the verse attributes here, though, both agency and initiative to these two divine characteristics. If you translate it as follow, it suggests a sort of tagging along. Come on, to the two puppies of goodness and mercy. Come on. No. What seems to be what's going on here, rather, is that God's goodness and God's mercy, almost personified, are dogged and determined in their pursuit of you, no matter where you are. God has sent them after me and they will not let me go. I cannot outrun God's goodness and I cannot outrun God's mercy. They're hot on pursuit of me. Think about that. No matter my wandering away, no matter my Temptation to go after that sin or this sin. No matter the missteps I make in life, God has sent his goodness and mercy to follow and watch and pursue me from behind. It's interesting, isn't it? After all the focus in this psalm on following the Good Shepherd, That's the main drive of Psalm 23, to follow our shepherd. Now in verse 6, we we kind of look older over our shoulders, as it were, and we see two things following us. What is that? It's still there. Oh, it's God's goodness. It's God's mercy. His steadfast love. God delights in sending them. I think it's better to say God delights. in pursuing us. For indeed this is God. I don't think we should think of mercy and goodness as some kind of abstract idea of goodness and mercy as it if they existed personified on their own. This is God's goodness. This is God's mercy and therefore it is God because God is all that He is. Look at the whole of Psalm 23. Look in verse 1. The third word in verse 1 is the word Lord, Yahweh. shepherd that we're to follow. And then here at the end, verse 6, the third word from the end is again the word Lord. Yahweh. Literary, the Lord is compassing, literally encompassing the psalm at the top and tail and in front and behind. In verses 1, 2, and 3, the shepherd is ahead of us, leading us. We're to follow. In verse 4, he's with us, escorting us. us through the wilderness and then hosting us in his presence. And now in verse 6, well he's behind us, sending his goodness, sending his love to catch us up from behind. I'm sure you've been downtown DC where all life stops because the presidential escort is coming through. And there's so many cars, blaring sirens, and you don't know which one is the president purposefully. But there he is, somewhere in that mix-up of 30-some cars, and there's police escort in the front And then there's police motorcycles on either side. And then there's police escorts in the back. And you might even get a helicopter up above. Why? Because there is nothing safer than making sure that the president is led to his destination from the front, on the side, and from behind. Is there any Except for where to travel? No. Completely secure. Perfect protection. The sense of Psalm 23 is exactly the same here. Psalm 139 gives I think a similar idea. You hem me in, says the psalmist of the Lord. You hem me in behind and before and you lay your hand upon me. What a beautiful image. Do you know your God to be that to you? Look at something even more more stunning. Do you notice the modifier that begins verse 6? That little word surely? Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me What does this word communicate? It's a word of assurance. It's a confident confession. This will happen. It must happen. No other thing but this can happen. Think about that in the life of David. David writing the psalm is now looking back over his shoulder at all that has gone before. And he's able now, as he puts pen to paper, he's able to confess that he can see from the hindsight the the kind of 2020 vision of getting through it all you can confess that He sees God's steadfast love in every single circumstance that he's been through. He's been through the valley of the shadow of death, and he looks back. Huh. I didn't notice it in the moment, but now I see it. There was God's goodness. There was God's mercy. And all that happens to me, David is basically writing this. I see only goodness and loving kindness. Commentators who offer this translation recognize quite simply one commentator says this, the expression is remarkable. It is an astonishing confession of faith that the changing scenes of life, life which is full of evil, life which is full of pain and suffering. Never indicate a bad God. Rather, in all that happens, despite all that happens, those who are led by the shepherd, and walk with the shepherd all the days of their life. When they look back, they can see that God is only ever good and surely loving to a sheep. All the time. We need to hear that. Pause and just feel the intensity of this truth Not just that there's a circle drawn all around that happens and yep, God's in control of it But no, no, no. In the midst of it, the Lord is surely like this all the days of my life. It's personalized. Friends, every single day, every high and every low, every moment, he has no days off. There's no half-hearted days for the Lord. There's no days where instead of pursuit, he thinks, you know what? I need a little rest. Let me dawdle. I'll catch up later. Go on. There's no days where God drops the ball. He doesn't send badness. He doesn't send judgment and wickedness. Oh, here. He sends goodness and mercy. Psalm 119, verse 68. Lord, you are good, and you do good. Perhaps like me, you've been in a heated argument with a close family member, and we're never thinking rightly in those moments. And you hear yourself say out loud, or perhaps you've had it said to you, you always Once you say those two words, you always. When you kind of universalize some action as if it's always being done, it's a moment to stop and say, let me let me back up. I'm not sure I'm thinking clearly through this. Let's let's take a breather and we'll come back to it. It's not a good way to argue. But here's the wild thing. David is using this kind of language I think there's a footnote that says, surely can be translated as only. Always. It's intense, it's personal, it's direct, telling God what he always does. Uh-oh, that's not good. But it's not in a heated outburst of anger. Instead, it's It's in a song of love and praise. You, Lord, you always do this. You are always good to me. You are always only ever merciful to me. I've blown it so many times, and yet every single time when I turn around and look behind me and I think certainly I've lost God. My sins have made me wander too far. He can't find me. No, there you are. I see your goodness and I see your loving kindness and mercy in close pursuit. Now, is this true of everyone? Is this true of every single soul? And the answer has to be a qualified no. Romans 828 is very clear that the Lord works out all things for the good of those whom he loves and those who love him. In other words, this language of goodness and mercy pursuing is language that is restricted to the life and experience of someone who is a sheep of the shepherd. And the reality is not everybody is a sheep to the shepherd. Some are wolves, some are goats. And so the qualified yes and no is this. This does not refer to you until you repent and put your faith in Jesus Christ. In other words, if I could apply the psalm this way to you right now, if you were here this morning, if somebody was not a believer perhaps you being here right now working through this text hearing this very sermon is in fact the goodness and the mercy Of God pursuing you right now. Don't neglect it. Don't outrun it. Allow God's mercy. Allow God's goodness to catch you Overwhelm you and have you leave here as somebody radically transformed. You walked in as a goat and you're leaving as a sheep. Oh dear friend, what better experience For those who are believers, the question still might be lingering in your mind. Is this true of me? Maybe right now you're in the realm of some raw and brutal situation that is ravaging your life. More likely than not, there's a number of you here right now. And it seems to you impossible beyond belief that you might ever combine your current reality with this passage: death, illness. Injury, divorce, infertility, some some deep grief. You are right now walking in the midst of the valley of the shadow of of death. Darkness is closing in on you. Darkness is your only friend. You look around, you're looking behind you. I Pastor, I don't see goodness. I don't see mercy. Let me say this as you wrestle with this theology: that if your own current experience cannot handle this perspective, just take time to know The vantage point of David here in verse 6. Goodness and mercy are pursuing him, which presupposes He's been moving forward. They're behind him. He's in front. And sometimes it's only after we've gotten through Some events after we've walked through the valley a little bit longer, then as we re-emerge and we can with the light of day shining now in front of us, then begin to look back and say, Oh, now Now I see. Now I see the Lord. He was there the whole time. In other words, if you can't feel it now, the Lord is still with you in the valley. you are a believer. They'll still walk with you without fail all the days of your life. And one day it may be that you look back on the worst experience you The most dreadful time that almost knocked you off of believing in Christ altogether. And you'll say, Oh, I see it now. I see God's goodness. And I see God's mercy. In the summer of sixteen eighty, Alan Cameron, a Scottish covenanter, uh one who was committed to worshiping Christ, not as the king commanded, but as he saw in the Bible. And it was illegal for them to gather in churches and so they had to go and and worship out in the woods. Well, he was in prison for doing such an illegal action at that time. In Edinburgh, and he did not know that his son Richard had been killed in a battle outside of the town. A trooper opened the door and flung down a bloodied head and two hands And yelled, Alan, do you know who these belong to? Cameron took the gory tokens upon his knees and held them He says, Yes, they're my sons, my dear, dear sons. And then he went on. Good is the Lord who could never wrong me or mine. And as many Goodness and mercy to follow me all the days of my life. It stretches our minds, doesn't it? For someone to quote Psalm 23, 6 in the darkness of that. There's examples near. Helen Rosevere was a British medical missionary in the Belgian Congo, heart of Congo. She worked for the African missions in the 1950s and 60s. And in 1964, right in the middle of the Congolese Civil War, she was brutally breathed. beaten and taken advantage of. On that dreadful night, she writes, beaten and bruised, terrified and tormented, unutterably alone, I had felt at last God had failed me. Surely he couldn't he could have stepped in earlier. Surely things need not have gone that far. I had reached what seemed to me to be the ultimate depth of despairing nothingness. This is words I think we could understandably hear. She writes on, through the brutal, heartbreaking experience of rape. God met with me with outstretched arms of love. It was a beautiful, almost unbelievable experience. He was so utterly there, so totally understanding. His comfort was so so complete and suddenly I knew in that darkest of spots that I really was the object of his love and that was utterly sufficient for everything else. He did love me. And I loved him. It seems impossible to us that in an occasion like that, God might be pursuing one of his sheep. And yet he did. She writes this. One word became unbelievably clear, and that word was privilege. Can you imagine writing that? He did not take away the pain. He allowed the cruelty and the humiliation. No, it was all there, but now it was altogether different. It was with him, for him, and in him. He was actually offering me the inestimable privilege of sharing in some little way the edge of the fellowship of his suffering. In the weeks of imprisonment that followed, and the subsequent years of continued service, looking back, one has tried to count the cost, as it were, but I find it all swallowed up in that moment of privilege. The cost suddenly seems very small and transient in the greatness and permanence of the privilege of carrying my cross with Christ. share the story to suggest that each of our values will always lead to the same thing and be that dark. But I do want to suggest that this story is is a part of a chorus of faithful witness witnesses stretching all the way back through church history into the pages of of even scripture where David writes of his own valley of the shadow of death Back beyond him into the storyline of redemption, and they all proclaim with one unified voice our pain, but also that the shepherd has not abandoned us. And he became a sheep and entered into that valley in pain with us and for us. And in his resurrection is now a great shepherd, where he will resurrect us. all of us out of whatever valley we are in and bring us home to where he is now. This is the great truth of Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear Fear no evil, for you were with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup Overflows, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning in a prayer of great praise. Father, for your steadfast love and for your enduring faithfulness. Lord, you are our true shepherd. Father, you provide for us everything that we need. Father, you take away our fear and our anxiety Even when we don't feel it, even when we don't understand it, Lord, we know that you watch over us. Lord, you've restored our souls from death to life As we walk through the trials and the difficulties, even the darkest moments in our life, Lord, you have promised us you will be there. Even as we walk through our own sin, you call us back in repentance. You comfort us. Father, we praise you for these great truths. And Lord, we do Look forward with great joy as we see how you've cared for us in this life. See how you provide for us. Father, we do look forward to an eternity in your presence. Lord, we see the goodness and the mercy that you give to us even in the midst of these trials of our life, even as we Feel sin seeking after us. Lord, your goodness and your mercy is ever present. present. Even to be here this morning to worship you. Father, we we don't deserve it. It is a mercy just that we can gather together and to worship you and pray. Praise your name when all we deserve is death. All we deserve is your wrath and your punishment because of our Savior Jesus Christ, our good shepherd. Lord, we are in the midst of your mercy and of your goodness. And Lord, we do long to dwell in your house forever. To know our Savior face to face. to shut off all the things that separate us from you, the sin that still dwells in our hearts and in our minds. So, Father, we just thank you and we praise you for your word that reminds us of your goodness, that teaches us. Of our great shepherd Jesus Christ. Father, we pray this morning for those among us who have not known Christ in this way. Other they may have believed that he was a historic man, some good figure, but not the savior of the world. Not the man that came to die, the God man who gave his life to rescue our souls from death. Father, we pray for those this morning who have not done this, and we ask that by your Spirit, Lord, you would use Steve's preaching this morning, that you would use your word to open their hearts and their minds and bring them to Christ Jesus this morning. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen

