Speaker 1
couple of weeks. I want to read this morning all of Psalm 23, though we will spend our time looking at verse 1, 2, and 3 Here now is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Well again, this is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures. Forever. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word to us. We thank you that it is light and life. And Father, we pray this morning that you would, by this psalm, by the truths contained in this word. Oh Lord, lift our hearts to the comfort that is found in Christ. Lift our hearts to find the assurance given to us in Christ We pray that you would lift our hearts to ultimately exalt and to worship and adore our Savior Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we've just finished our long study through the book of Exodus, and in just a few short weeks, we'll begin our next study through the Gospel of John. But today and over the next, oh, maybe three or four weeks, I'm not sure, we will find ourselves here in this well-known Psalm, Psalm 23. One of the most beloved, recited, read over and over psalms throughout the Psalter. And it's read so often because it's so wonderfully reassuring. Gloriously optimistic in its picture of the Christian's life. David, the author of this psalm, if you know anything of his life, you will know that he was a man who knew all about the highs. And the lows of the life of faith. He knew personally and intimately what it was to be in the heights with the Lord and what it was to be in the depths. For some years his life had hung by a thread as King Saul hounded him and panted after his life, seeking to put him to death. But even after he became king, even then he would later also experience this kind of internal revolt within his own palace, his own son, Absalom, rising against him, and David had to flee again for his life. He was a man who knew all about being in the deep valleys and those moments where he was close to the heavens with the Lord. He's not writing here the 23rd Psalm from some kind of ivory-towered dissertation on the great heavenly shepherd. No, for David. This is a man who knew powerfully and intimately what it was to experience these great highs, but also these deep, deep lows. David's personal testimony of the Lord's unfailing faithfulness through all the experiences of life. But I want to point out also that this is a very appropriate psalm for us because it both looks back to Exodus, which we've just Just spent 59 weeks looking at while at the same time looking forward to the Gospel of John and many of the great themes laid out there. The Psalm certainly evokes Exodus when it begins in verse 1 and ends in verse 6 with the covenant name of God, the Lord, Yahweh. This is none other than the name God introduces to Moses in Exodus, or again in verse 6, when David says, goodness and mercy will follow him all of his life. He's alluding back to Exodus, where God tells Moses that he will have his goodness pass before him. And then he reveals his name as he who is merciful to a thousand generations. Or look again in verse 6 where the house of the Lord is mentioned, pointing back, no doubt, to the tabernacle, which takes up so much space in Exodus. There's the verb lead in verse 2. He leads me beside still waters. It's the same verb repeated throughout Exodus, describing God's guiding of Israel through the wilderness. All this to say, we should not lose sight of the covenantal flavor that David has here and would have been meditating upon as he wrote this song. But while David was in his own valley of despair, his own valley of death, where did he look to find the resources that pointed him to God as his shepherd? He went to the scriptures. Very likely he went to the book of Exodus, which highlights God as a as a saving and as a sustaining and as a shepherd in God's life. God. But the psalm also looks forward to the Gospel of John in some pretty remarkable ways. For one, the Gospel of John, out of all the Gospels, is the one most concern for individuals. For individuals to believe in and follow Jesus Christ. In other words, yes, John, like all the other gospels, will emphasize the community aspect of God's people. But John, more than the others, really highlights that this also means you, individually, you need to make sure that you are right with God. Throughout the gospel, the question is always being asked, have you repented? And have you put your faith in Jesus as your Savior? And that certainly comes out in rich ways here in Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. This is a very personal psalm. This psalm also points forward to the Gospel of John because it points forward to the better King David. The shepherd king. It's not for nothing that Jesus so often describes himself as a shepherd to his sheep in John's Gospel. It's not for nothing that Jesus says, He has the waters of eternal life, which alone can restore souls And it's not for nothing that Jesus literally prepares a table for his disciples before being arrested by his enemies. One of those enemies, Judas himself, was right there in their midst. And there at the table he broke bread, and the cup overflowed with wine. Perhaps the greatest connection comes from the fact That Psalm 23 comes right on the heels of Psalm 22. Or the very Psalm Jesus himself quotes as he hung upon the cross. Could it be that while Jesus hung there in what would have been his darkest valley, and there upon the cross where he quotes Psalm 22, verse 1, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That his mind also would have found comfort in the very next Psalm. Psalm 23. Christopher Ash in his excellent commentary on the Psalms makes just this point. He says It is because Jesus Christ endured the suffering of Psalm 22, and it is because in his trials he continued to trust the assurance given him by his father in Psalm 23. That he is now for us the good shepherd, so emphasized throughout John's Gospel. Which should make us ask an important question Are we to assume that what we read in this 23rd Psalm was David's daily, unvarying experience? Is this a picture of David's believing life uniformly? Through all of its highs and lows, throughout all of the different parts of David's life. Does this psalm paint for us a picture of what steady and constant faithfulness looks like? And I think the answer must be no How could it be? It's just one song among the other 149, many of them filled with the language of despair, the language of destitution, and even the language of defeat. I mean again just take Psalm 22 again verses 1 and 2. Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? cries out David. Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night I find no rest. This comes off as almost the exact opposite of what we see here in Psalm 23, verse 2. He leads me beside still waters. Literally in the Hebrew, he leads me beside waters of rest. So, what are we to make of this? Well, only this: that we should see in all the Psalms the The variegated spectrum of all that a faithful believer is to feel and experience. Psalm 23 is just one snapshot of the believer's experience. And yet, even in the midst of this most encouraging and triumphant psalm, look at verse 4. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death even in the midst of experience that God is leading and and and and and giving him rest in it's an experience that david has within the broader experience of the This valley that is fogged and clouded with the shadow of death. And yet, perhaps this is why we love Psalm 23 so much. And yet despite the very real and sometimes constant experiences of walking through these kinds of valleys, it's just there where We sense more palpably than we had before that God, even though I can't see him, God is there. And not only is he there, but he's leading me. It's almost as if the darker the shadow and the deeper the valley, the closer and stronger is my sense of God. And it's there where we come to realize he's been at work in my life all along. I mean, I think that certainly comes out in the Psalm from start to end. We see this language describing God's Active, intensive, causative work. Verse two. He makes me lie down. Verse 2 again, he leads me. Verse 3, He leads me in paths of righteousness. Verse 4, you God, are with me. Your rod and staff comfort me. Verse 5. You prepare a table. You anoint my head. The grand thematic truth of this psalm is just that. No matter how high and elevated my experiences are, or how low and miserable I am in some state of despair. God is actively and perfectly at work. He truly is our perfect divine shepherd. And the work God is working out on our behalf, on your behalf. This isn't the work of some disinterested interested God, so transcendent and far removed that he does all this with some kind of nonchalant apathy. No. How does the psalm start? The Lord is my shepherd. This idea of God as a shepherd is one which is a favorite of God's to use for himself. It denotes this idea not only of intimate attention, but of a kind that is, well, I think sacrificial. There's of course Ezekiel 34, where God, and in counter distinction to the false shepherds of Israel's priests and scribes, God says of Himself in Ezekiel 34, Behold. I myself will search for my sheep and I will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is Among his sheep that have been scattered, so I will seek out my sheep and I will rescue them from all places where they've been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. Do you see? The Lord actually seeks out his sheep. He cares For his sheep. And staggeringly, the language he uses here to speak of his role as a shepherd, even though he is omniscient and omnipresent, he says, I search for my sheep. This isn't a disinterested God. This is a God who so loves you that even when you have wandered away from him, he goes after you. Or take, for instance, that great passage in John chapter 10, where Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Oh dear brothers and sisters, so invested, so loving is our God as our shepherd that the Son of God gives his own life for yourself. The shepherd dying for the sheep. Children, the first question in your children's bulletin this morning asks this: How do I know? That God loves me? And the answer is because Jesus died for me. He died for me. He willingly came and became a man so that he, the Son of God, might die for you. We all know the passage well. God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. Condemnation, though we deserve. But in order that the world might be saved. Rescued, restored through him. Perhaps the most striking aspect, though, is not that we have a shepherd per se But that the Psalm is so clear in who our shepherd is Yahweh, the Lord. The Lord is my shepherd. I am who I am is my shati. In other words, this is the God over all existence who himself is the eternal one, the God who Is from himself and of himself from eternity past. He is him who is indebted to no one or to no thing for his being. He was when no one else was. He is what he is of himself and from himself, and eternally and unchangeably so. I am who I am. The Lord. Think about that. Yahweh is my shepherd. The one who is not dependent upon anyone or anything has given himself to be my shepherd. David Gibson puts the matter in his wonderful little green book on Psalm 23. He says this, the one whom you need to shepherd you, neither needs you nor needs to be shepherded himself, as he gives himself to shepherd you. Friends, ought we not be astounded at this reality? Why should God decide to take this kind of work on and And I think really the only answer I could come up with is amazing grace. And as we sang earlier, amazing, surprising love. It's this surprising love that makes me think actually that the the actually the most astounding word in verse 1. It's probably that little word is The Lord is my shepherd. Look at the confidence. Look at the absolute assurance David has In that one verse. There are no ifs, there are no maybes, there is no, I hope the Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. Dear friends, this is nothing other than the great doctrine of a Christian's assurance. The truth that a man or woman can know that God is no longer a judge over them, condemning them for their sin and giving them the wrath they deserve. Know that God is now for them. And with faith and assurance, they know it. He is the shepherd. Their father, their savior. And as the shepherd now tends to us as sheep, we can say with assurance, the Lord is my shepherd. Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine! Heir of salvation, purchase of God, born of his spirit. washed in his blood. Contrary to the explicit teaching of the Roman Catholic Church, who teaches that we can never really know if we're truly saved or not This psalm, in its very first verse, shows us the truth. It's not only possible to know and to make a claim like we find here, but it is the treasure of the gospel that we can know this personally. He is my shepherd. My dear friend, is this true of you this morning? Can you say God is your shepherd? You may be able to affirm the truth that God is a shepherd. Can you say that he is your shepherd? That's the great question. Or the most important and pressing question anyone could ever ask themselves. And of course, the answer to that question is found in the person of Jesus Christ and your belief in Him. That He indeed did give His life for you, and that by His death and resurrection You can know that what he accomplished for you is accomplished for you. Everything's been provided. Everything in Christ is secure. Your forgiveness is found in his condemnation. The satisfaction you need for your sin is found in his self-sacrifice. Your purification is found in his shed blood. Your newness of life is found in his resurrection. Your adoption is found in his being God's son. Your inheritance in heaven is found in his ascending up to heaven for you. Everything you need is found securely and assuringly in Jesus Christ. Do you believe in him? If you do, then you can know he is your shepherd. It's right here where we need to add the great caveat of this psalm. You can know he is your shepherd even though even though you walk through valleys of death. Right? Like, like even though David is riding from a dark place, the the light of his assurance, the the fact that he knows that God is his shepherd, allows him to walk through the valley Not only faithfully, but I think the import of the psalm is telling us that he's walking through that valley reliantly. Faithfully and reliantly. Do you see? If the Lord is David's shepherd, then he's of course implying that he is himself a needy sheep. He needs a shepherd. Throughout the Psalm, David is, well, he's the one in need. And he's reliant upon the Lord for everything that he gets. Just scan your eye through the Psalm. He requires food, rest. Water, guidance, shelter, a comfort. David isn't portraying himself here as self-reliant, but is absolutely needy. He needs God. But look at his confession of assurance at the end of verse 1. Even when things seem darkest, what does he say? I shall not want. Now how on earth could David say this Surely he like us wanted. Surely he lacked things that he thought, you know, if I had this, if I had that, things would be better. But the logic of verse 1 is really quite striking. He's saying, Because the Lord is my shepherd, I lack for nothing, even if I don't have the things that I think I need. If I have God, I have everything. But since God knows far better what I need than I do, because after all, I'm the sheep and he's my divine shepherd. Well what I do have is exactly what the Lord has designed for me to have, even if it's currently a valley of death. Richard Briggs puts the force of verse 1 really well. He says, quote, verse 1 of Psalm 23 points to Yahweh deciding what it is I need. In the very process of ensuring that whatever it is, I will not lack it. The power, then, of Psalm 23, says Briggs. Is that it is training my sense of need to be better attuned to what God provides rather than what I think or feel like I need. Do you see? Already, already in just the first verse of the psalm, God is like a wise shepherd using this verse like a rod and a staff to recalibrate my desires. And make me more grateful for the things God does supply rather than allow me to keep on grumbling over the things I feel like He should be supplying. Children, question number two when your bulletin asks this: if I am a Christian Will God ever fail in giving me what I need? If I'm a Christian, will God ever fail in giving me what I need? And the answer is no. You can underline that three times. No. He supplies everything. It may not always be what you think he should give, or even when you think he should give it. But God will never fail in supplying you what he knows is best for you at the right time. I think this is exactly what the Apostle Paul meant in 2 Corinthians 6 when he describes his ability to live having nothing. And yet possessing everything. Think about that. David, who is confessing here that because God is his shepherd, and therefore he does not want. This is the same David who in Psalm 22 has prayed, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? I think this is why we should never read Psalm 23 or any other Psalm for that matter as if it's a summary of the believer's whole life of faith. It's not. It's just one one portrait in a wider portfolio of what the believer's life is to look like. The believer's life is not a steady and even experience. At the end of the day, all we have to do is look at the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. His life was remarkably uneven. There were trials and there were testing. There were temptations. There were times when his closest friends deserted him. And there was that ultimate climax where even he upon the cross cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So I think we need to guard against this unreal, that is, this unbiblical expectation of what the life of faith actually is. The life of faith may be at its brightest when it is most being pressed and tested and tempted and tried in every way. But And this must always be here to balance us. Even in the midst of the darkest trials, the Christian believer can nonetheless say, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. Why? How can we say this? Well, it's not because of the experience, but because of the God who watches over us, even who orchestrates all my experiences. We can say this not because of the experiences that we're facing, but because of the God who is over and orchestrating all the experiences that I face. Look at the emphasis of verse 2 and 3. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my Soul. It's God who is active here. Yes, we we've seen that. But think about that in light of David, seeing himself as a sheep. Sheep, right? Who are not a lying down kind of animal. They are prone to wander. Sheep who are easily distracted. Distracted either by unreasonable fears Or distracted by unreasonable desires for more, here the sheep is made to lie down, made to follow, and ultimately restored. I hope you see this. The sheep doesn't need to go drifting off to other places for more food. The sheep doesn't need to wander over to some other shepherd for better protection or more secure leading. Everything needed by the sheep can be provided and will be obtained by him whose aim is to restore my soul. Do you believe that about God? And again, where did David get this from? We know David was a shepherd. And so did David just extrapolate his experience and kind of impute it to God as if to say, well, I was a good shepherd to my sheep, so God must be a better shepherd. Maybe. Perhaps. But again, I think the better answer is that David actually got this idea from his deep meditation upon God's Word, meditating it on it day and night, as he says in Psalm 1 Consider. When David says in verse 1 that he will not want, that he will lack for nothing. He uses the exact same phrase found in Deuteronomy chapter 2, verse 7. Quote, These 40 years, the Lord your God has been with you, you have lacked nothing. In other words, the idea of God's faithful provision and leading is so freighted in the Israelite thought. With their wilderness experience after the Exodus, and God supplying them with food and drink, leading them to a broad place. The use of that same word here is surely, I think, meant to recall to their minds How God has always been a faithful shepherd. He shepherded Israel, and he'll continue to do so. Consider Exodus 15. Verse 13, where Moses writes, You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed. You have guided them by your strength to your holy abode. The word translated there as abode is actually the word pasture. The same word as the green pastures in which the Lord makes David to lie down and The verb translated as guide is the same word used in both Exodus and Psalm 23. God's guiding. But David sees then that what God did in the Exodus is the exact same thing he's been doing and will continue to do with all of his sheep. leading them to the promised land, a land flowing with milk and honey where they could dwell with God forever and ever and ever. I think if I could put it this way, God is at work in retrieving all his sheep so as to lead them back to dwell with him in an Eden-like garden. That's the whole storyline of scripture. The shepherd seeking to receive So that they might dwell with him forever in Eden like Garden. This comes out forcefully when we realize that the still waters that David mentions here And verse 2 literally says, Waters of rest. He will lead me to waters of rest. The same idea being communicated when in Genesis 2. 15 we read, Yahweh took the man and caused him to rest. In the Garden of Eden. It's the same idea being communicated when God said he was leading Israel to the resting places of the promised land. In other words, when David refers to waters of rest, he's evoking much more than just a nice picturesque little lake. This is infused with all the narrative of biblical theology. And he's saying that Yahweh shepherds his people to the promised New Eden. Where Adam first had rest, and where Israel found a semblance of rest in the promised land. A renewal of what was originally lost when Satan snuck in, and through his deceptive voice, he caused God's shield. To wander off. I think if anything, this should make Jesus' words in John 10 really stick out to us. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. And there, I think he has his eye on Satan. The shepherd, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. No wonder David can say that the Lord restores his soul David realizes here that God's leading and shepherding is far more than just receiving physical comforts and blessings. No. It's ultimately a restoration of my soul. Well the word even communicates a returning back to God. A soul that outside of God's rescue is being misled, misfed, and disfigured by sin and the lies of the thief. Satan, whose only aim is to steal, kill, and destroy. At the end of the day, it's not an exaggeration to say that everyone, everyone has a shepherd. There's no one in all existence without some shepherd. It's just a matter of who. Who is your shepherd? Who is leading you? What paths are you following in this life? What voices are leading you to make certain decisions? Are you a sojourning sheep being led to life everlasting, led by the word of God to the final rest of his new Eden, heaven on earth? Or are you wandering and lost, being led by a multiplicity of different worldly voices, different shepherds, being led to death by the destroyer of your soul? Perhaps I can offer this test as we come to a close, a test to see who your ultimate shepherd is. How do I know? When you read the lines, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, there will almost inevitably arise in our minds the realization that there are a lot of things that I don't have. That I would like to have. Things I want. They may be good things, or they could be bad things. It could be wise things or foolish things. But here, Psalm 23 is teaching us that Jesus, our true shepherd, is the source and culmination of everything his sheep desire. Think about it. The greatest abundance on earth is but a dry wasteland if Jesus is not there. Heaven is not heaven without Christ. But to those who are truly Gotchie, though that man has but little of this world, he has He has Jesus. And wherever Jesus is, there he is in the greenest of pastures. There his soul is restored. There he lacks nothing. Because he has Christ as his shepherd. We read earlier this morning from Revelation chapter 7. We're here looking back and alluding to Psalm 23. We're told that the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd. And you will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There's the end game There's the final culmination of what was first lost in Eden, what was given back in some semblance with Israel in the Promised Land. Which has given security in Christ who came as first our Lamb and now he leads as our great shepherd. And we can have assurance, because this is the promise of Christ Himself, that we will be with Him in a place of absolute rest and comfort. will see our shepherds, and there we will be a sheep forevermore. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Our great God, Heavenly Father, we do come to you this morning. And we acknowledge that we live in a world that is fallen It is full of ups and downs, moments of of absolute bliss and joy, moments of happiness. And yet often moments of sorrow, of mourning, of challenge, of trial, where it does indeed feel like we are in the midst of the valley of the shadow of death. And Father, we thank you that in the midst of the highest highs and the lowest lows, you are our shepherd. That our God and our Savior Jesus Christ is with us every step of the way, every moment, every circumstance of our lives. We are not only accompanied by, but led by our Savior. There is nothing that comes to pass, no circumstance. Or he does not take us. He does not lead us for our good, for the restoration of our souls, for drawing us into deeper fellowship with himself. Yeah, too often in those moments of high and low, we fail to look and gaze at our Savior We fail to see his leading, and too often we look at ourselves and and wonder what it is that we've done to bring us here. Perhaps in those moments of joy and success, we we look at ourselves and give ourselves the credit. We look at our accomplishments and all that we've done, and yet we've been reminded this morning that it is you who acts, it is you who leads, who restores. And too often in the lowest lows and those moments where we live in the valley, we look at ourselves and wonder what is what we've done to get ourselves here. Or perhaps we even look at you, knowing that you've led us there, and we question you. We question your goodness, we question your sovereignty. We listen to the voices of the world that say, how can a good God lead us into those valleys? But you do so, Father, because you love us. Because you seek to grow us up into the image of our Savior. You seek to love us and care for us, and you will one day bring us home to heaven Although not without scars, those scars, Father, serve to be a good reminder of your good providence to us. A good yet often hard providence. And so we ask this morning, Father, that in the midst of the circumstances of our lives you would remind us that you lead us. That you would grow us in our trust and our faith in you and in your goodness to us.

Speaker 3
We do pray all of these things in Jesus' name.

