Well, good morning.

Turn with me to Psalm 23.

We continue our slow but delightful meditation through this beautiful psalm.

Though I had originally intended weeks ago to maybe do verses five and six together, the more I kept thinking about verse five.

I decided best to just stick with verse 5 this morning.

So I'll read Psalm 23, 1 through 5.

Here's now God's word, a psalm of David.

The Lord is my shepherd.

I shall not want.

He makes me lie down in green pastures.

He leads me beside still waters.

He restores my soul.

He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death

I will fear no evil, for you are with me.

Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflow.

flows.

Well this is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word.

The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord never fails, it endures.

Forever.

Let's pray.

Father, thank you for this time.

Thank you for your word to us.

Thank you for your spirit who takes your living and active word and applies it as a two-edged sword to our hearts, and therein piercing

into the depths of our dark hearts reveals to us not only those areas of life that we need to repent of, but enables us through

the gift of faith to cling mightily to our Savior Christ, our great shepherd.

So help us to do just that this morning.

We pray in Jesus' name.

Amen.

We've been looking at just the splendid beauty of what seems to be the life of a believer

Not the whole of a believer's life, but particular aspects, especially those aspects that help us to remember that the Lord is indeed our shepherd.

And as a perfect, good, divine shepherd, he watches, he leads, he restores.

And though his leading, yes, is a leading unto righteousness, we saw last week, it is a leading unto righteousness that oftentimes

It's through dark, dark valleys.

It seems like perhaps we've made a mistake.

We've taken the wrong path.

No.

He's leading.

He's

He's there.

And he continues with this shepherding leading imagery.

We're now in verse 5.

He tells us.

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

You anoint my head with oil.

My cup overflows.

It's a very dramatic picture that David is painting for us here.

The flock of God is surrounded by enemies.

There are dark forces at work out to destroy, to tear apart, to maim, to kill the flock of God.

And in the midst of that.

It's almost unimaginable.

God prepares a table.

He spreads personally.

You prepare a table for me.

It's this note of holy realism that perhaps shines most brightly from the fifth verse.

The believing life is a life that is oftentimes subject to dangers.

We know that there are trials, there are troubles, there are always oppositions.

And the Bible never hides that from us, does it?

There's no attempt to soft play the seriousness of being in the flock of the Most High God.

There's no attempt to

Underplay the dangers and the difficulties, all the trials and troubles that will face those sheep that follow the shepherd.

This is why our Lord Jesus Christ would always be encouraging and pleading with would-be disciples.

And he would tell them, and he tells us even today, count the cost.

This is no health, wealth, prosperity, gospel.

Count the cost following me will cost you.

Maybe someone here this morning, and you're thinking seriously, of bringing your life to Jesus Christ.

You've been visiting and you've been wrestling.

Is this a life I want to pursue?

A life of following after Jesus Christ is my shepherd?

It's a wonderful thing.

And I've been praying for you.

You could do no better thing in life than to give all that you are to the Son of God who loves you and gave him

Himself for you.

But consider this: our Lord Jesus Christ always warned people: count the cost, stop, look before you leap.

Do you understand what belonging to me really entails?

Do you understand that belonging to me may bring you into serious trials?

That once you begin to follow after me, the spiritual radar, as it were, of dark oppositional forces now have a target on you.

There was a man who came to Jesus one day and he said, Jesus, I will follow you wherever you go.

You would think that our Lord would respond to such a bold statement of faith with, Well, welcome.

I love people like you.

No, this is what he says.

Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.

You want to be mine?

You're willing to follow me?

Are you willing to be homeless?

Are you willing to be a reject in society?

To be looked down upon because you hold to some ethical standards that I've laid out?

Because if you're not willing to do that, you may as well go back and think again.

Whoever does not take up his cross

and follow me, cannot be my disciple.

It's often thought at this point in the Psalm and and a lot of the commentators say this, that David perhaps leaves the pastoral shepherd sheep imagery and and now moves on to

pressing reality that he himself is personally experiencing, but I'm not so sure.

In verses 1 through 4, you you have the shepherd and the sheep.

And it seems that he's still leading out of that valley of the shadow of death.

I don't know much about sheep.

I don't know much about animals.

I know more about the history of Puritans than I do about animals.

That's my forte.

You can talk to Jeremy or you can talk to Keith about sheep.

I could talk to Maricel about chickens, and you could talk to Sarah about ducks.

But this is what I do know.

Sheep are always prey to predators.

Sheep are helpless.

They're hapless animals.

That's why they need shepherds.

Enemies are always coming.

They're always hunting when sheep are around.

Being a sheep means you will always have enemies on the lookout.

To devour you.

Dear friends, visiting Greenboat Baptist Church for the first time as an unbeliever, this is who we are: weak, pitiable sheep.

Think about that as a Christian.

A sheep's life is never trouble-free.

It's a life precisely because you become a sheep that is now filled with predators.

It's filled with enemies who hate the shepherd and therefore want nothing more than to devour the sheep.

You remember how when David offers himself in the services of King Saul to go and fight Goliath, and Saul looks at David in 1 Samuel 17 and he sees this kid.

He can't even fit rightly into Saul's armor.

David says to Saul, your servant has been keeping his father's sheep.

When a lion or a bear came and carried off a sheep from the flock, I went after it, and struck it, and rescued the sheep from its mouth.

When it turned on me I seized it by its hair.

I struck it and killed it.

I've killed both lion and bear.

It's a remarkable thing, actually.

David is saying a lion

Or a bear has carried off one of his sheep.

And you would think, I would think, the youthful kid shepherd boy would say to himself, Well, you know what?

I don't mind losing one sheep.

Better one sheep than me.

Like can you imagine David going up to his dad and saying, Father, a lion, a bear has carried off one of the sheep.

I'm gonna go off and rescue the sheep now.

If you're a dad, no, no, no, boy, just just let it go.

We'll buy another one later

But of course David, the shepherd king who typifies in his life the shepherd king, Jesus Christ

Who with no regard for himself gave himself to rescue his flock from the jaws not of a lion and not of a bear, but of Satan himself.

The flock of God is always a flock subject to enemies.

And here David speaks so confidently.

Do you see the divine shepherd's protective care of his sheep?

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

You anoint my head with oil.

My cup overflows.

It's very striking.

The shepherd not only protects his sheep from their enemies, he actually prepares a table for them.

For the sheep in the presence of their enemies.

In other words, if you want to break down verse 5, you can break it down this way: there is provision as well as

protection.

Not merely deliverance.

But verse 5 seems to be saying that there is a soul nourishing deliverance.

What an encouraging verse.

Coming out of the shadow of the valley of death, this dark valley with enemies left and right, the enemies have not disappeared.

They're still there.

But so is Christ

Our shepherd is there with him, and he's still protecting, but now he's also providing when the attack

They go after the sheep.

There he is, both keeping them back, and at the same time with the other hand feeding them.

He's nourishing and providing just just the care they need to keep.

Keep on, keeping on.

So as we think about how to understand this fifth verse and apply it to the life of the flock of God, a number of things I think become obvious in this passage.

And I want to look at three this morning.

Number one, God's flock is never free of enemies.

God's flock is never free of enemies

That much should be obvious to us.

We've already talked about it a little bit.

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

And I think as we seek to kind of translate that language into the language of today, into the language of the life

Of a believer in the Church of Jesus Christ, we need to understand that the Church of God is just that, a communion of saints that is always surrounded, always surrounded by enemies.

Of course, throughout the course of David's life, there were, you know, a whole range of enemies.

There were the Philistines and the different people groups all surrounding Israel, the surrounding nations.

All these international enemies against the people of God.

But then there were also internal enemies.

We can think of Absalom

And his revolt, David having to flee, when his own son Absalom rose up in a rebellion against his dad and had even tried to kill him.

And I think we can translate that into the language of today.

The Church of Jesus Christ will find itself living out the life of faith in the midst of

a fallen and sinful and and God denying and Christ rejecting and Christ hating world.

There are enemies out there

There are also enemies within here.

Think of the words of the Apostle Peter.

Your enemy, the devil, as a roaring lion, is looking for someone to devour.

Might just be you today

It might just be me.

I can't help but think of Psalm 2.

Why do the nations rage and the people's plot in vain?

Of the earth take their stand, the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed.

We see that animosity today, don't we?

I mean whether it's outright blowing up, like in certain places in the Middle East, believers meeting secretly huddled away in secret churches.

You see it in China.

You see it in parts of Africa, you see it horribly in in in in certain sections of Nigeria today.

And again, it's not just out there.

Arguably the church's greatest enemies

has has never been in the hostility of an unbelieving world.

We we actually seem to grow against that kind of hostility.

We we we we seem to kind of have a spine when the enemy's out there and persecution begins to

squeeze in.

What does Jesus tell us in Matthew chapter 7 verse 15?

Watch out

He says, watch out.

Now, what would you expect Jesus to say next?

When Jesus begins his warning with watch out, what would you think

Jesus would offer as that threat we need to most watch out for.

He says, watch out for false prophets.

They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves, false prophets who have wormed their way in the very fabric of the Church of Jesus Christ.

We can listen to Paul's words and his farewell address to all the elders who are at the church in Ephesus.

This is in Acts 20, and they're astonishing words.

He says.

Keep watch over yourselves, speaking to these elders and all the flock of God which are there

Keep watch over yourselves, be shepherds of the church of God which he bought with his own blood.

I know, says Paul.

That after I leave, savage wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock even from your own number.

Rising up even from your own number.

Men will rise up from within the church and subtly

and sheep's clothing, distort the truth and draw disciples away after them, plaguing the gospel.

I find it bewildering that there are people in the New Covenant who are false-hearted renegades.

But that is a reality that both Christ and the Apostle Paul gives as warnings to the church.

Read Hebrews 10, read Acts 28.

The church's greatest enemy has always been those enemies that are within Judas among the 12.

My friends, is it not the case that there is always a Judas within each and every one of us?

Do you not consider yourself to be your own worst enemy?

And the fight for holiness and to make it to heaven.

God's flock is never free of enemies

And all this means is that we need to be prepared.

Jesus tells us clearly: watch out.

Paul says, be on your guard, whether from without or within, God's sheep

Are sheep that exist among wolves?

And my hunch, I don't know this for sure, I've never taken a poll, but my hunch is that the number one critique.

The number one complaint about the elders of Greenboat Baptist Church is that they're too theologically critical.

too precise, too serious about the distinctions and doctrines of the gospel.

But friends, I want to give this answer.

Of course they are.

They're concerned and careful not to let wolves into the flock.

They're concerned that this church be a good and healthy and thriving church for generations to come.

And the quickest and easiest way to lose that glory.

is to not care about wolves.

The number one way our Lord warns us that we lose that is to let enemies sneak in and to rise up within us and lead the church astray.

There are always enemies around.

But then, secondly, notice the God's flock, yes, they're protected, but they are also given in the midst of that protection, they're given great provision.

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

The picture of David Paints here is

I think simply breathtaking, enemies are circling the sheep.

Vulnerable, in and of themselves helpless.

They're mere sheep.

But David says.

You, God, not not not some servant, you, the Lord of glory, you prepare a table before me.

You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.

That's astounding to me.

Protection?

Yes, amen.

But on top of the protection, there is this abundant provision.

There's a banquet.

It's almost a surreal picture.

Think about what this means for you as a sheep.

It's a call, isn't it?

To turn and to take your eyes off of the enemy, to take your eyes off of the danger surrounding you, and to come and to and to look at what the Lord is providing for you right now.

Right now.

But Lord, look, they're all around

Snarling, vicious wolves, beastly, violent predators.

The world hates us.

Squeezing in.

Come.

and eat.

Stop thinking about them, my daughter, my son.

Just come and sit

And eat and drink with me.

Could it be that what's being described here and the very nature of what it means to be a sheep under our shepherd?

Could it be

be what's being described is that we have at heart this supernatural ability to somehow in the midst of the most severe trials to be able to do just

That?

I mean, come on.

There's so much plaguing our weekly schedules.

Inevitably, almost everyone in here

here has something bubbling, some danger, some problem, some sore trial plaguing them.

And yet here we are, sitting, eating, drinking.

And eating and drinking the Word of God.

Despite all the things going on, the verse is calling us to come to Christ, come to church

Just sit, eat bread, drink wine, and just sit in the enjoyment of our Lord.

If I could say the same thing negatively,

Perhaps one of our great problems as Christians is our unwillingness to believe.

To believe that Christ is our shepherd.

When trials come.

When troubles come, isn't it sometimes the case that we just want to retreat?

Just stay in bed that Sunday.

morning.

Turn on the tube.

Under your blankets and doom scroll the worries away.

Rather than

Stand our ground, we compromise.

We cave in.

We neglect the great banquet of our Lord's table.

And it's no wonder the writer to the Hebrews, writing to Christians who are being sorely persecuted by their enemies from both without and within.

What does the writer to the Hebrews say?

Chapter 10, therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus

by a new and living way that he opened up for us through the curtain that is through his flesh.

And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near

With a true heart and full assurance, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised us faithful.

And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some.

But encouraging one another all the more as you see the day drawing near.

The writer to the Hebrews.

His answer to the problem of trials and to the problem of persecution and to the problem of whatever it is that's that's weighing us down is don't neglect to meet.

Come sit at the table.

Friends, if we are Christians and we are sojourners.

Sojourners on this journey home, home to be with the Lord, and we'll look at that next week in verse 6, but a journey that is now still in this.

Wilderness.

This is not our home.

But what amazing grace that even now, out here in this wilderness of a fallen and ruthless world, the Lord, even here, prepares a table for us.

Friends, I hope you see the beauty of this reality.

It's better to be in the wilderness with God than to be in a palace without him.

Wherever our Lord is setting up his table, the sheep will be there.

What is on this table that he sets up?

Well, it's not entirely clear, and in one sense, the question doesn't even really matter.

Why?

Because the Lord has prepared it.

It's his table, and therefore we know it's a perfect table with exactly what the Lord knows we need.

It's his table and he's there, and therefore we know that it's right, it's good, and it's exactly what we need.

need from him.

And yet, in another sense, I think we can say this, the Lord Himself is what is offered on the table.

Jesus took bread and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, take, eat, this is my body.

And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.

In other words, the Lord has always been intentional about nourishing his sheep with himself.

The sheep finding their sustenance and strength in God.

Come to me, all you who are weary, and I will give you rest.

Come to me and lay hold of me and find your rest in me, says the shepherd.

Friends, if you're here this morning as someone who has never truly come to rest in and believe in Jesus, dear friend,

This is what you're missing.

The only thing that truly satisfies.

The only nourishment that truly gives strength

Take it to heart right now.

Won't you give up the shallow comforts of this world and come to Jesus Christ, taking hold of him, to sit at his table?

Feed on the infinite divine perfection of what he provides there.

Money will not save you from that final enemy of death

And that final enemy is circling.

Here's a table.

Prepared right now in the midst of that enemy.

Friendships cannot save you from that final enemy of death.

Even church cannot save you.

you from that final enemy of death.

Only Christ can do that.

Believe in him while you still can

Can be washed in his blood and washed clean in the water of his baptism, and then come and eat of his table.

Well, thirdly and finally, and I think probably most remarkably

We see here not only God's protection and not only God's provision, but we also see God's overflowing, abundant plenitude.

Plentitude is the idea of complete fullness and overflowing sufficiency

It's not that there's enough, but that there's an overabundance, a richness that spills beyond mere necessity and now even generates a kind of generosity and giving.

You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.

When you have found yourself at times embattled, when you're struggling in all these different kinds of ways, when you when you're just crushed under the weight of life and you're tempted to just settle.

Wouldn't it be enough for just the Lord to give me protection?

But here we see a table filled with an overflowing abundance of good.

things.

Not only does God prepare the table, and not only does it do it in the presence of my enemies, but but here there's a plentitude

You anoint my head with oil.

My cup, the cup you gave me, it's overflowing.

Okay, that's enough, Lord.

No, it's not

Now oil is very much symbolic in scripture of two things, I think.

There was the oil of gladness and joy.

In the face of dark danger and difficulty, you see that the gospel does not come simply to enable us to grit our teeth

And to bear it, the language here of oil, if it's this oil of gladness, the gospel comes to fill our hearts with joy, unspeakable joy and full of glory.

But I think probably more rightly we see in the Old Testament that oil in many places is symbolic of the presence and ministry of the Holy Spirit

It's the Holy Spirit who comes.

It's the Holy Spirit who brings to us the fruit and the virtue of the blessings of Jesus Christ into our lives.

How is it that I, a man, separated over 2,000 years and half the world away from something that happened in an obscure part of Israel?

Millennia ago, can become a partaker with all that he accomplished?

And the answer is by his Holy Spirit

This is why he said, it's good for me to go back to the Father.

For then I will give you, I will pour out my Holy Spirit.

And when he does, he does so overabundantly.

As the King James Version puts it, my cup runneth over.

God is here not simply protecting us from our enemies, but to overwhelm us with his blessing and his

presence.

Are you overwhelmed with what's out there?

Come to the table.

We're with a kind of effold

of new affections and new joys, God will overwhelm you with the riches of His grace.

He doesn't come simply to give you the bare minimum, to help you just cope.

He comes to you with the divine person of his Holy Spirit, who fills men and women and ultimately unites you to Christ the shepherd.

And because of that, well, as Paul puts it, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.

Romans chapter 8, which is that chapter that mentions the Holy Spirit probably more than any other chapter.

Maybe 1 Corinthians 15 is more

His conclusion, after being filled with the Spirit and united to Christ the Shepherd King, his conclusion is that you are now more than conquerors through him who loved us.

Well, Pastor, I don't I don't feel more than a conqueror this morning.

I feel like I'm being conquered by the world.

World all the time.

Okay.

Be that as it may.

But if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, even if it's just a mustard seed size to faith, dear friend,

The inescapable reality of the scripture says this, you are more than a conqueror.

You are, whether you feel it or not.

Christ has conquered, and you've conquered in him and with him.

When I am weary and count the cost, I look

To the triumph of the cross.

And that reality is ours.

Think about this in light of how we started this morning.

Our Lord didn't hide from would-be Christians the cost of being his

Watch out, pick up your cross and follow me.

It will be dangerous.

There are enemies aboard abroad.

Now he tells us.

Now he tells us the opposite but equally present reality.

Heavenly provisions will be promised.

God who gives.

He's he's the God who gives and who gives again and he keeps on giving until your cup overflows.

And when you think that you've had enough, he says, No, you haven't, and I will fill your cup again.

It's no wonder Paul could tell the Ephesians, the Ephesian church, now unto him who was able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or imagine.

That's our God.

Exceeding abundantly above

That reality is a reality now, though we're tempted to not see it through

our enemies around us.

It will be an ever present reality that we will see and enjoy forever in glory.

So I think that

it's something we ought to hope for.

But I wonder, I wonder at this truth, the truth that God gives overabundantly, how does that impact your prayers?

Do you go to bed at night asking the Lord for the bare minimum?

Or are you encouraged by the truth of the

This scripture, by the truth of what the Bible says repeatedly throughout, that God gives a plenitude of blessings.

And you ask with big prayer mentality, Lord.

More.

More.

More missionaries from our church.

More visitors to come hear the gospel.

More evangelists to preach out into Green Bay.

belt and their surrounding community.

More impact for the gospel.

Big prayers.

Not for me.

But for the glory of the shepherd, who loves to pour out abundantly for his sheep as they follow him and to give him all glory and praise.

Well, my prayer was that our cup would continue to overflow.

And as it does, our response

Of gratitude would be just that.

Lord, more.

More.

Let's pray.

