Speaker 1
Good morning. Turn with me, if you will, to Psalm 23. Psalm 23, and we continue this morning. Meditating on this glorious psalm I'll read for us this morning verses one, two, and three. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. This is God's holy and inerrant and inspired word The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord endures forever. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you. That you are our shepherd. And we come humbly before you this morning as sheep. Many of us wayward. We've been led down paths that are not right. And yet, you have led us here this morning. Feed us, we pray, with your word. Restore our souls by your word. And lift us up so that by faith we might see our great shepherd Jesus Christ and continue to follow him unto life everlasting. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. As we continue to meditate on Psalm 23, a psalm well known for the comfort it brings to believers. I become struck by the way in which the psalm lays out for believers all the privileges promised for them as sheep under the care of our great shepherd. There's nothing we lack with God as our shepherd. In just the first three verses were promised the privileges of rest, restoration Righteousness, all of it accomplished by God. In verse 4, we're promised the privileges of his presence and protection. Verses 5 and 6 were promised the privileges of communion, consecration, and even covenant comfort All of these are the privileges provided by God to the believer. John Owen, the great English Puritan, said concerning the Christian life that quote Our greatest hindrance in the Christian life is not our lack of effort, but our lack of acquaintedness with our privileges, our lack of acquaintedness with our privileges. And in this 23rd Psalm, David has been showing us with divinely inspired poetic beauty all these beautiful privileges. To us as God's beloved sheep. This morning we focus our attention on the privileges given here in verse 3. He restores my soul, he leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Two astounding mercies given by God, two promises provided for his sheep, restoration, and a leading toward righteousness. These two promises go together. They must go together. Because the one necessarily follows the other to walk down righteous paths, that is, to be a man or woman of God whose life is marked. By righteousness. You must first be a man or woman who has been restored. First, restoration. Then righteous walking To reverse this order is to get it horribly confused, to get it backwards, to put the cart before the horse, and yet how often are we tempted to do that? Josh prayed this morning that we would not find our righteousness in the things we give up or do. To think if I want restoration I must first walk righteously is a different gospel, says Paul To put this in theological language of Paul, I think it would be like thinking that in order to be justified, I must first be sanctified. That's never been the answer of the gospel. The medicine God has provided for us is first a restored soul, and then secondly, a righteous life. Look at the first part of verse 3 again. He restores my soul. This comes right on the heels of David saying that it was God who led him to green pastures and And the waters of rest. God, as David's shepherd, has graciously led David to find rest. And the result of that, verse 3, is a rested and restored soul. In other words, David didn't restore his soul through anything he did or with anything he had in and of himself. He was restored by God leading him and by God providing for him that which David did not have. Living water. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, says Jesus Christ, Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. What are we to make then of this idea of God restoring David? I would guess that there are few lines that have provided deeper comfort to believers. Why? Well, because we know so personally our own proclivities to abandon our shepherd The believer more than anyone else knows our own waywardness, our constant temptations to go and drink from the polluted waters of this world with all of its broken cisterns. rather than sit and drink deeply of the living waters provided for us by Christ. All we like sheep have gone astray. We secretly love unrighteous things. And constantly, whether we do it outwardly and openly or hiddenly in our hearts. We walk in paths of wickedness more often than we want. And so, yes, David is so clearly comforted here that God His God, his caring shepherd, he's done what? He's he's led David, he's redirected him to waters that first restores his soul and then sets him back on the paths of righteousness. This word restore literally means to turn around, to be turned back. He turns me back to himself, is what David is saying And there are a few ways we could understand what David means here. By this little phrase, he restores my soul. First, he's communicating the idea that God refreshes his soul. He takes what has become spiritually parched, dry and withering. A soul that's dying under its own encrusted hardness. And he turns it into something now refreshed, something living and pulsing with life. He turns it from dryness A rockiness into something sweet and flowing with waters bubbling out of it That would fit well, I think, with the context here. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores, he refreshes my soul, as my thirsty soul is quenched by the waters of the Spirit. What does David write elsewhere? As a deer pants for water, so David's soul thirsted for something spiritually refreshing, something only God could provide. It's wonderfully true, isn't it, that this is what the Lord does for his people? Because there are times, are there not? In your own life, certainly are in mine, when you become spiritually jaded, spiritually dry. When the gospel's not as sweet to you as it once was, when you find worship on the Lord's day lacking in a way that it used to delight you and capture your heart with ravenous attention. This is what Psalm 19 describes. Psalm 19 verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The precepts of the Lord are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the Lord are radiant, giving light to the eyes, so on and so on. I think certainly David has in mind here But this restoration is God giving life and joy back to his heart so that he delights in the things of God. But I think more fundamentally, David is also saying this, and I think this is what the root meaning of the word is emphasizing. We can't get around the fact that it's the same word that's used for God converting the soul. Or at the very least, in the life of a believer, turning the soul back around and therefore back to God again. So I agree with those commentaries who say it's far more likely here that David is thinking about the Lord's grace to him. and actually restoring him back to fellowship with God and back to being under the favor of God. This great great Scottish divine, David Dixon, writing in 1653, says of this verse, quote, It is possible through the evil that is in us that we may fall into a decay of graces, into sicknesses of diverse sorts, yea, and that we may wander away from the shepherd And the society of the flock sometimes, in which case, if we were to be left, we should perish if our careful Lord did not apply himself to our necessities to Relieve us. For it is He that restores the soul. It is God that reclaims us from our wanderings. It's God that directs us and keeps us from going on down those bypaths and off the narrow way. Amen. This is certainly nothing but the sovereign monarchistic work of God alone. Only God can truly restore and convert a soul. He restores my soul, says David. Friends, if you're here this morning as someone who's not sure if you're a believer in Christ yet. You're here, you're curious, you're thinking about it. Amen. Here's the great truth David is laying out for you right here. Even you being here and wrestling over this passage and thinking about salvation, that is God leading you and Lord willing beginning to restore your soul. Maybe you are beginning to taste the sweetness of the gospel. You're beginning to find rest as you think more and more about Christ. as your shepherd. You're beginning to really wrestle with following after him and committing yourself to him as a Christian. You want to be his sheep. Dear friend, if that's you, this is all the result of God beginning to restore. your soul. Here's the wonderful and wild thing about this. And David says this here. God will keep on restoring your soul. Do you see? He doesn't say he restored my soul. He says he restores my soul He continues to pour grace upon grace, comfort upon comfort. What did Jesus say? If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Out of his heart will flow rivers. This is the daily experience of God's sheep. This is the daily work of God in his believers. Why? Because it's our daily need. Every day I need God to come and turn me around, turn me back to him precisely because I'm daily flooded with the temptations of this world and then the very sins that bubble up within me. Without the rivers of living water that God uses to restore within me, there is polluted rivers of my own selfish sin. And praise God, his river always floods out the other one. If God did not daily restore us, every one of us would drown under the flood of our own wayward desires. Divine restoration is not a one-time event. It begins with initial conversion, yes, but it is an ongoing reality for every true believer. The Apostle Peter, who denied Christ three times, he was a recipient of God's restoring grace Paul, who had a thorn of temptation constantly plaguing his soul, he was a recipient of God's continued restoring grace. Even David here. David, after he committed adultery. And then he murdered Bathsheba's husband. He was crushed under the weight of that conviction. What does he cry out for in Psalm 51? Psalm 51, verse 12, restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Dear friends, consider here the absolute marvel of what it means for God to be our shepherd. He alone is able to reach down and penetrate the very depths of our hearts and therein make us to return. willingly and refreshingly back to him. It's a profound mystery to me But a comforting one. Our great shepherd does not prevent every fall, though we very well could. Don't get me wrong, he certainly does keep us from falling headlong into many self-made pits. No doubt I go to bed at night thanking God for the sins that he's kept me from. Yet still he doesn't prevent every fall. He allows them. He allows us to wander away at times to feel for a season what it's actually like to be out of his care. Though, truly, from his perspective, we're never outside of his care. And he does so for many reasons, I'm sure. But one reason I'm sure he allows this, he allows us to fall is because he wants to show us the power of his restoring. God allows us to find ourselves in dark places so that we can cry out to him, God, save me! I tasted salvation and I'm far from it. Bring me back. And there, seemingly away from God and surrounded by enemies, there he comes and he he turns it. us back. He restores our souls. Have you prayed this psalm? If that's you this morning? Does your soul feel dry and parched and distant? What better way to pray than praying the very words of this psalm? God's divine word. Lord. You restore souls. Oh, restore mine. John Newton, before he became a pastor in the Anglican church, and then before he even became a Christian, spent the first part of his young adult life as a captain of a slave trading ship, making voyage after voyage in one pursuit to make money off of stolen lives and selling them into lifelong slavery. It was during one voyage in the midst of a storm that nearly sank the ship that he for the first time in his life cried out for God. Still, he admitted, though he could pray and cry out for help, he says, quote, I could not draw near to a reconciled God I could not call him father. The comfortless principles of my own infidelity and sin were still deeply riveted in my soul The great question that plagued me was, How can I obtain faith? He began to read a Bible for the first time, and therein found truth concerning Christ and the Spirit of Christ. And that truth began to, in his words, restore his soul. Convert him. He believed He not only gave up the slave trade, but was one of the most active contributors to England ending the Atlantic strave trade. He worked hard now to say this practice needs to end. Newton was a man who knew God's restoring power. And yet, even late in life, he would write a letter to a friend marveling at God calling him from out of darkness. And to even become a preacher of the gospel. He wrote this: I commit my soul to my gracious God and Savior, who mercifully spared and preserved me when I was an apostate. I was a blasphemer. I was an infidel. It was God who delivered me from the state of my misery on the coast of Africa, into which my obstinate wickedness had plunged me, and and he who has been pleased to admit me, though I am most unworthy. He has caused me to preach his glorious gospel. John Newton was a man amazed at the grace of God, which is why, of course, he authors that most famous Christian hymn, Amazing Grace. John Newton. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me I once was lost, but now am found, was blind, but now I see. Twas grace that taught my heart to fear And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? Those are the words of a restored soul. Here's what makes the story so amazing. John Newton's life really changed, didn't it? Like the amazing grace he wrote about was real, and he knew it was real, and we know it's real, because his whole life. The entire direction of his life shifted. It shifted away from self, from sin, from selling slaves, and now he pursued Christ. And verse 3, he began to walk in paths of righteousness. Notice the logic of Verse 3. A restored soul evidences itself in a righteous life, walking the right way as you now follow your right shepherd. Restoration leads to walking in paths of righteousness. Consider this today, the Lord's day. Josh read about the Lord's day for us earlier. Today we rest, but we do so by gathering together in the presence of Christ, where two or more are gathered in his name. There he is amongst us. And we do so to have our souls restored. We've come to worship and to be restored in that worship. recalibrated from the hardships, even the sins of this week. And here, by the restoring power of God, Have our lives refocused upon Christ, our shepherd. And how do we do that? Well, we're doing it now. We hear him speak to us through his word, the scriptures. And by that our hearts are restored, but but again, they're also redirected. redirected to keep on walking with paths of righteousness. Every one of us has come here this morning. Either being tempted to walk down some wrong paths, or perhaps we took that path. And yet here we are, hearing from God, having our souls restored and then redirected so that we continue to walk down the right path. Every path ends in a particular destination. You can take the path of temptation and sin, and there's only one destination. Death and hell. Or you can take the path of righteousness, following after Christ, and the destination of that path is life and eternal glory. And the beauty and the goodness of coming together on this day of rest to have our souls restored and to hear the shepherd speak to us by his word. And so that we might again have our shepherd gently lead us, redirect us, and say, not that path, dear sheep. You're wandering away. This path. This is the path I'm walking down. And we hear, and we say yes, and amen, and we follow after. The verse tells us that he leads us. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Gives us, I think, a wonderful antidote to Christian believers who worry about guidance. That's a problem that many think about. Perhaps today many obsess about it. What does God want for me? How do I follow Christ? Well, here's medicine for that problem. Specifically, David gives us three great truths, three ingredients that make this medicine so potent. Who it is who leads the flock, where it is he leads the flock, and thirdly, why it is he leads the flock. of God. Who, where, and why. The who, very simple notice first of all, God is the one guiding belief. The great responsibility of leading the flock of God? The great responsibility of going down that path of righteousness? Well, here the first emphasis is that God will lead you. He's the one who restores your soul. And he's not going to leave you to wander. He'll continue to lead down that path. of righteousness. At the very least, just friends, take this as an encouragement. God is leading. He's a good shepherd. And insofar as you've been restored and you believe in Christ, he will not let you go. He will lead you Even when you wander. We'll see that next week when his rod and his staff bring comfort. Well that rod and staff, firstly and foremostly, is for the sheep to say, get back here But he will lead. And it is true, all we like sheep have gone astray. We all wander. Because of our fallenness and Adam, because of the twistedness of our own natures, the corruption of our own hearts, the the waywardness of our our sinful desires. Inherently we don't know the right way to go. But the Lord God does. And here the great truth is he's taken it upon himself. He's given himself the main responsibility to guide, to lead his sheep. He leads his believing people safely and purposefully. Friends, this is where the Christian believers' confidence regarding guidance ultimately dies. Not that we can discern every way wherein God is leading us. But that God has promised and pledged in covenant love that He will lead us Now, of course, we can know for sure the right ways to take when we read his word and we make decisions based upon the principles of his word. But in those gray areas of life where God has not told us what job to take or or which person to marry or or or what town to move to. There's no thus saith the Lord in John chapter 4, move to Greenbelt, Maryland. We pray and we trust that insofar as my decision is not sinful, the Lord is leading and he's guiding. And he'll be our shepherd. Where does he lead? The text is clear: he leads in paths of righteousness. Again, this is this is a life that is marked by walking in right ways. the right paths that follow God and his right word for us. In other words, if I could put it this way, How do I know I'm making the right decision in those tough gray areas? Well, does your decision break any of the commandments that we know from the Bible? No, it doesn't. Well, praise God. It's a righteous path. But Pastor, this girl, I mean, she's so beautiful. Ah well, is she a believer? No, no, no. She doesn't believe in Christ, but man, I I just can't be without her. I love her. I need her to be my wife. Well, you know, we've studied 1 Corinthians 7, where it says, if you're to marry, marry in the Lord. I know, I know the Bible says that, but really she's the best option in my mind. Oh dear brother, if that's the path you're walking down, it's an unrighteous one because it goes against the clear commands of God. Jesus always leads in paths of righteousness. If we could just take it down and kind of put it simply for us, do we know God's word to us so well that in those tough decisions we can make decisions? That are clearly following his righteous word. I fear that many of us don't follow the shepherd in paths of righteousness precisely because we're not listening to the shepherd speak to us in his word. We think, oh, this feeling I have, maybe that's God telling me something. Those goosebumps, maybe that's God telling me something. Oh dear friend, listen to your shepherd in the clear righteousness of what he said in this word. And as we follow his voice here, we can be sure that we're walking in paths of righteousness. Why? Why does it lead this way? He does so for his name's sake. That when we reached the destination and we followed our shepherd through all the twists and turns of this fallen world, We've we've said no to the temptations, we've said no to the bypaths, and we've made it to glory. Do we turn around and say, look at me, I've done it? No. We say, oh God, praise you for not only leading me, but keeping me. Me, all glory and praise go to you. Heaven will be an eternal existence of our worship and gratitude to God for his perfect leader. And we'll be able, perhaps, with some modicum of hindsight, look back at this twisted world with all of its twisted paths. Where in the moment we thought, what is going on? Where is my great shepherd? Why do you have me in this dark valley of the shadow of death? And yet there in glory we can look back and say, oh God, that was good. That was perfect. Because any other path I would have fallen away. What a great grace to realize that the shepherd who restores souls perfectly leads those souls to make it to glory. And though we can't see the paths now from 30,000 feet up above, Christ does. And he knows exactly where he's leading you. And so far as you are continuing to follow his voice, you can trust that is a right, right path. Let's pray.

Speaker 2
Let's pray together. Our great God and Heavenly Father, we do come to you this morning, and we do ask that by your Spirit you would give us a deeper hunger and thirst for you. We acknowledge that often our minds and hearts are preoccupied and distracted, and sometimes rightfully so, with the circumstances of our lives. Father, you place us in this world to be about your business, to work hard for your glory. And Father, often our minds are so consumed with those things. That our souls become dry and parched. Often perhaps we allow the troubles in the valley of the shadow of death to overwhelm us And Father, our our hunger and thirst for you drize up. We no longer desire you. We no longer desire to commune and to fellowship with you. Father, perhaps it's it is the the goods of this world, the the many material blessings that you have bestowed upon us here, especially in this country. Father, our minds and hearts can be, as it were, distracted to death. And Father, that often as well causes us to lose our hunger. Our bellies are filled with many, many other things. And so we ask this morning that you would help us. We ask this morning that you would. Give us a true hunger and thirst for you. Make us like hungry sheep, following after our good shepherd. Dependent upon you for every path, for every step that we take, for every ounce of food and nourishment. Not only physical food, though Father, you do tell us and remind us that we are dependent upon you even for our daily physical bread. Remind us of that, we pray, but Lord, we are dependent upon you for our spiritual food. For any Good that is in us is a gift and righteous uh gift, righteous gift from you. And so we ask that you would make us to depend upon you for that. Don't allow us to think that our own walking will revive our souls. As we've been reminded this morning, the order matters Lord, you save us, you justify us, you restore our soul to you, and then, Father, it is in that that we can walk with faith and trust. We ask that you would grow us with a hunger and thirst for your word, that we would desire each and every day, perhaps morning and evening, to open the scriptures. To seek to know you more in your word. To seek out what it is that you have for us, the commands that you give us to walk righteously. Lord, again, doing so because of what you have done for us in Christ. We ask that you would do all of this.

Speaker 3
Not for our own name's sake, but for yours. And we do pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.

