They will say, Where is this coming he promised? And that world was destroyed. Well, how do you know? Let the sea resound and all that's in it, let the fields be jubilant and everything in them. The barrel of the shotgun was pointed directly at the chair, and the way to view the exhibit was by CD being seated in the chair. What about them? And this tape recorder was then embedded in your brain. And we will at that moment be overwhelmed with a sense of his wisdom, of his majesty, of his power, and of his justice. That's a strange cartoon. Then he's going off toward this light, you know, this tunnel of light. And you see, and there's Satan sitting there looking at the obituary column, and that's the end of our friend. The new creation, which we'll talk about in the next couple of weeks, forever and ever, will be decided by that verdict You think about a final judgment that's already taken place. With Satan as our master, but you've rescued us out of his kingdom and you've brought us into life with Jesus. By the same word, the present heavens are reserved for fire. There's gonna be this kind of smiling deity there who welcomes mass murderers and child abusers along with little people who tried to sacrifice and help others and you know it really doesn't make much difference. You say, Oh man, that that seems terribling. We began that series last May. Didn't cover Armageddon and all the rest of that. Eternal life and all and that you know, and everybody's yeah, that's that's good, yeah. uh was that we believed that a person needs Jesus Christ to not come under God's just judgment, a judgment which we said was too terrible to even contemplate back then Columbia Presbyterian, oh you're you're the guys that the Columbia flyers had believe that you need Jesus or you're going to hell. Well, yeah, uh I I guess that's us uh, you know you know, a little awkward. That long ago by God's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water by water. that were according to God's word. an errant um asteroid that just comes along and nobody knew where it was coming from. Here's a tape recorder and uh you know small a lot smaller ones you can get today. And does not accept my words. And so if you've heard the gospel, you are under even more severe condemnation. Any of you kids that have grown up in a Christian home and you continue to hear the gospel, but you've never decided that you really want to follow Jesus. The shaking of the fist that says, I'll be good, I'll do this, I'll do that, I'll be this, but I will not bow before Jesus Christ. that God knows what we would have done under other circumstances. There will be no statement of anything that is unjust, but even those who are condemned. Despite a career built on lying and cheating my way to the top, I still got here. That Jesus is a hard master. To talk and to pray, to make sure, nothing more important, to know that Jesus' judgment has already occurred for you and that you won't miss it. and they're passed only blood to blood, not through the air, that people die before they can pass it on. in the day when you come not only to render your verdict, but also to destroy sin in every particle of its existence Uh and how we tend to like to joke about Judgment Day. That we try to escape the uncomfortableness of that by joking about it. serious, more heavy than to face God in final judgment. sharing with seven other congregations and and it came out we we said to them that um we um one of the the things that we believe that's distinctive about us separate from the other seven congregations I'm here to tell you that the Bible's teaching about Judgment Day is not only there, unmistakable, central Uh, where Peter, you remember back at that time we were looking how Peter was saying that while Jesus it would seem will not be coming for some time, there'll be a long delay, nevertheless we should expect him at any moment. They deliberately forget. uh are under his rule, under obligation to love him and serve him, because he's the one that made us and made all things. 100% track record, what he says he does. Of the universe depends on that. That's still true. that uh this tape recorder, or one that's really high tech, was reduced to such dimensions that it was just barely visible, and yet it had uh a vast capacity for memory Something like should or ought or must. The standard of your own life, which reflects his law written on your heart, sometimes accurately, sometimes distorting. never heard. What verse seven is talking about are the consequences of that verdict. But when he comes, it's over. And Peter describes those consequences as, first of all, the destruction not only of this present heaven and earth, and all that's in it, everything that you see. I have somebody that I've been talking to intensely about that, convinced that that's what's gonna be the end of time, that we're also gonna go through this tunnel of light and gonna be joy and Yeah, I I continue to mention that uh some of the best philosophy today is in cartoons. And uh he's gone. And God's judgment came upon you at that moment in the person of Jesus Christ, so that you think about the final judgment Because you have the very righteousness of Jesus Christ. Then they describe that, you know, and you know, you're ready to lose your lunch and then you go on and it says, That's nothing compared to your bowl of Xaire Next time you're in Camden Yards and you look around the stadium and you see all the people there or any other stadium, every one of these people Believe Jesus Christ who's taken your place or are you going to stand before that judgment seat by your own record? Well, happy Mother's Day to all you moms. I actually simply decided that it was time to finish the Y2K series on biblical prophecy with no more delay. two days shy of one year for this series. Before we finish, there are three subjects that I felt like we really need to cover before we wrap this all up. The second is the question of the new heavens and the new earth. And therefore today we're going to talk about Judgment Day. It is the judgment that gives us hope about the future because it is so closely related to the very nature of God. the evil of that time by something as catastrophic as a worldwide deluge. He comes to judge the earth. Paul, speaking to the unbelievers in Athens, says, For he, God, has set a day when he will judge the world with justice. By the man that he has appointed. What is uncertain is the time. Remember Jesus, Matthew 24 and 25, gave us seven pictures to describe the uncertainty. That you need Jesus Christ as your personal Savior and your Lord from sin to be forgiven by his finished work. And you have not yet found it convenient to settle that issue, you are gambling that it won't be today. The shotgun was on a timer. The time was undisclosed. Jesus Christ is offered to me today as the escape from that judgment on my life. God's law reflects who he is. Romans chapter 2, 17 to 29 says, You will be judged in that day by what you know of the Bible, what you did and what you didn't do. Um somewhere between 1982 and 2082, that thing's gonna go off. All God needs to do is to play on, turn on your own tape recorder, and let your own words. Those words, your own words, would be enough to condemn you. Will also be a means of that judgment. I remember some years ago sharing the gospel with a fellow that I was had some contact with, and as I talked to him of his need for Jesus Christ, he uh threw up the uh you know the age-old thing that you always hear, well what about those that are He says, You mean I'm under greater judgment because you told me this than before? And I always remember his response was just a very disarming, open-hearted statement of an unbeliever. The issue is that our hearts refuse to bow before him. We will stand and we will listen to the account as he speaks of the thoughts and the intents. As we listen in awe to the declaration of his wisdom so minutely displayed. In our in the revealing of our hearts, and then of his justice. The whole world, our mouth will be stopped. There will no longer be any rebellion to his authority. And we look and we see today this idea of uh this light, this tunnel of light at the end, you know? You know, this idea that, oh, well I'd like to believe, there isn't any judgment. In the blazing light of his glory, and the reality that is so obviously true and right. Only his ungodliness was not his, but was rather yours. Have placed the concern for his glory in the periphery of the circumference of our convenience. He was enduring the final judgment. Help us to see reality and not be so short-sighted that we put off sharing the good news of Jesus. He was being destroyed as the ungodly man. And Galatians 2. Think uh Lauren Erickson gave me a book a few years back. That can liquefy your body, that are out there in the jungle waiting for a host to transmit it from animal to human. What will happen if you and if I were to stand before that holy God in all his sovereignty with all of his power at his disposal? The way things are getting, you get longer and longer time to think while you're riding down 95. It's going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. It's going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And if Jesus has taken your place, nothing else in life matters as much as the freedom and the forgiveness you have already experienced. It will be banished and obliterated forever and ever. And we thank you for your mercy to us who, under that justice, would have been rendered abandoned for eternity. Uh, I mean that's what we said back then. Necessarily displayed when Jesus comes. In a way far more minutely accurate than we can imagine would be the standard used for us to be accountable to Him. The chronology of the judgment. Well, um I think you're a little too strict there. Says, maybe it says present heavens and earth reserved by fire, being kept for the day of judgment, and the destruction of ungodly men Those who so, so need this news, we pray that in Jesus' name. Of God's rightful place in your life, whereby you and I who are obligated to love Him and to obey Him Of a microscopic virus. Do we believe in judgment and find it inconvenient to share the gospel with people that we know and contact regularly Standing before God with your sin exposed and condemned for eternity? And uh so if you want to look at the context and the overview of chapter three of 2 Peter, you can get out your bullet and outline for that Sunday. who mock the coming. That word also was the word that spoke of the flood in Noah's day. Seven times he talks about the uncertainty of the timing, but the certainty of the coming That was just wrong for him to do. Who of us has lived up to our own professed standard? Well you see, I mean you think about, you've just I've just talked to you about how you can have heaven and the forgiveness of all your sins, and what you're saying is, yeah, but that's gonna make me more guilty. You see, what I have talked to you about so far has to do with the verdict that's rendered in the court, the judgment seat That has not yet happened. Will declare that God was just in his condemnation. Or whether it will be an eternity, an unending eternity, in which Satan, who was your master, who you said, I believe That there is a final judgment that has already taken place. And if you have a desire to talk about this more, there will be an elder up here right after the service so that you'd be able to These viruses are so deadly, the Ebola viruses, that as they pass through the human system, the only thing that has kept them from becoming worldwide plagues is they kill people off so quickly And it simply consumes the systems of your body, system by system. who not with petulance is irritated with sin, but a God who with perfect white hot fury hates sin because of all its twistedness. Compares with the terror of what awaits you if you do not receive Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord. When it came it was too late. Conscience is the law written on our hearts. In addition to that standard, Jesus said in John chapter twelve and verse forty-eight that what we did with him, if we knew him, if we have heard the gospel The essence is that he's saying, well, if I'm going to go to hell, so be it. In comparison to an eternity apart from God under his wrath Dol Zaire is a molecular shark that consumes your body and liquefies it so you bleed out of every pore. Nothing. Because somehow it never seems quite right. I mean let's face it, you you look and you say, did that really have to be in the Bible? Being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men Notice that Peter says the judgment day is as certain as two previous events. Judgment is as certain as God's sovereignty and his nature. And if that seems foolish to you, how much more foolish a person who knows God's judgment is certain Well, you know what God's going to do with them. But I'm not going to bow, you see. Well, how is this going to take place? So three steps you see them there. To suffer under that judgment. At that point, your eternity will be settled. Year after year, millennium after millennium, so that this life is just but a passing blip He was enduring God's final judgment on sin. And Jesus took that punishment. Because it is the contradiction of his own perfect glory and all that is good and right The next time you're over at the mall and you're fighting for a parking spot and you go through the mall, every person in this mall is going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. It's the greatest news that you could ever hear. gambling that it wouldn't go off in their minute. But it's also a doctrine without which we would have no hope. Now, for those of you who keep good records, you may remember that on September the 5th, we looked at 2 Peter chapter 3. First of all, notice the certainty of judgment. But also the destruction, he says at the end of verse 7, of ungodly men and women. Now finally, the fourth thing is to see the amazing statement Judgment is to destroy the ungodly. Lord, help us to believe and to know the reality of that judgment. By the same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire He must punish sin and sinners. We were created to reflect God's character, and therefore we are created to live under His law. God knows everything about our hearts, and we will be amazed Think about the cross. And eternal destruction. Back in 1982, there was a rather unusual art exhibit that made the headlines. The law which dictates how you should live, how I should live, which reflects his perfect character, God's law is not arbitrary But what about those who have never read the Bible, who don't have a Bible, who have no Bible available to them, who've never even heard that there is a Bible. For God to simply use your own standard, and yet your own standard would condemn you. And all this in that day when we stand there, all of a sudden all the deceptions and the hopes and wouldn't it be and God wouldn't be like will evaporate. You see, the cross, the Bible says, is God's prejudgment in history. And it's at the cross that Jesus endured the full weight of God's wrath. Oh our Father, how we rejoice in the hope that we have that not only have we been forgiven for our sins, but that sin will be destroyed. Well, he will judge the peoples with equity. Well, you know, this has been a hard thing to deal with. And what about the people that you know? How will they be judged? It's not chaos and chance that is ruling. This world will not be destroyed by flood but by fire. The standard of the judgment is very simple. And and then the next panelists uh you know boink boink oh angel wings, cool. 20 says, if by faith you have trusted him, then you were crucified with him And we'll talk about the hope that you'll have in the next couple of weeks. There is still time for you to realize your need of a Savior and to come to Him. And uh you remember that he uh he talks about that in terms of the scoffers And if this morning you continue to put off settling in your life And you know, so I talked about, well, God will judge them according to the standards of their conscience and what they understand of creation. But um in this one particular episode, and you just never know what this guy's gonna come up with, uh there's this guy walking across uh who says don't walk and he gets blasted by this semi and so zing there it is up in the air, whoops. Notice they don't just forget, they deliberately forget, and people today want to to deny that there is a judgment. Because you see, we get sometimes confused here. It makes your you know, your blood runs cold as you read what this thing does and it says, But that's nothing compared to a bowl of soudan Well, what's going to be the standard of that judgment? I'm not going to follow him. Want to look at that verse, verse seven with you this morning, to glean from it four points. You've given enough for an outline of what is happening. Psalm ninety-six points that out. Remember there in verse 3. And people uh you know, looked at that and said, You guys really believe that? Beginning verse seven. That very word which I spoke will condemn him at the last day. I think one year is enough. First of all, there's the coming of Christ as judge. Um you know, it should have cut a little slack because you really didn't have you Romans 319 says Amazing thing is that there were long lines of people at this exhibit, people lining up to get their chance to sit in that chair for one minute. Every time you made such a judgment, this little thing just clicked on and recorded your judgment. And so judgment is certain, because God's justice is certain Now all I have to do is follow the light to my final reward. Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation, but they deliberately forget Secondly, then there's the courtroom scene. That's enough time for it. They saw that God keeps his word. There is a necessity to God's law because it simply translates God's character into commands for you and for me to obey in this life under his rule. And the Bible is quite clear in Romans chapter 2, verses 12 to 16, they will be judged by conscience. He will judge the world in righteousness and the people in his truth. John 12, 48, Jesus said, There is a judge for the one who rejects me. You have been declared acquitted, innocent. It would go off sometime in the next 100 years. Because at the cross, you see the utter abandonment of someone in the weight of their sin. We don't know whether it'll be a thousand years from now or whether it'll be Tuesday morning. The people in your family? I mean, this whole week uh thinking about this, I don't want any of you You look at the television and you see the Million Mom March. What a terrible thing. It was this word, this sovereign word, that brought all things into being, and that's why we are all accountable to God, why we all And so back in the days of Noah, people thought that God was too tame to judge the world Every time you made a moral judgment, she shouldn't have done that By the same word. Amen. First of all, you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. What does the final judgment look like? It was called The Hot Zone. And thirdly, this matter of glorification or glory. But judgment? The very coherence, the foundation, the stability And I want you to know that the sermon title that you see today is not about Mother's Day. We're going to finish it in May. And the next time you're riding down Laney Five You will. All the trees of the forest are going to sing for joy. Third point I want to notice is the chronology of the judgment We will be in silence before him. He spoke the word, brought the world into being. In Acts chapter seventeen and verse thirty-one The hope that it gives. Let me illustrate, perhaps, a way of understanding how that works. You're going to find out what kind of a master you really had in Satan. Let's read Matthew chapter 12 Do you realize that when Jesus Christ was dying on the cross Even though we haven't covered everything we could say about the end times in the future You see, the the stability of life is based on the fact that God is a God who will judge the peoples with equity. No more sin You look at all the cars around you, up and down, say, every one of these people are going to stand before that judgment seat. The people that you say, Well, I know this person's not a Christian. And it was programmed to click on every time you said When he comes, life is over, the verdict is about to be rendered. I almost feel sorry for all those suckers who wasted their time thinking decency with their ticket to paradise What is the capacity of a God? No one will say He was enduring God's judgment at that point. We will be judged by God's holy law. So you see that when Jesus died And that is the very heart of why God's judgment must come upon us. I would suggest that there's a three-step process, and in verse 7 of 2 Peter 3 is only discussing the third step. I mean some of us remember back in nineteen eighty-three when we as a church had decided to leave the interface center that we were But he says it is certain. The sin that you have amassed in a lifelong record of denial Judgment's real. That's the essence of the judgment. By these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed. Hey, the thrill of a minute, knowing this thing is loaded and ready to go off I tremble for those who have heard the gospel for years. At that point, the fate of whether you go to be under his authority in the new heavens and the new earth Now uh you know I thought about what I said uh that um it's not about Mother's Day And I think we do that because Judgment Day is so serious, it is so severe. You had uh Al Burkas and Dan Rowell's course if you wanted more specifics, so there it is. Remember in Psalm 96, the psalmist worship saying, Fe among the nations, the Lord reigns, the world is firmly established and cannot be moved. Well you guys really believe in hell? We don't have to worry about maybe being smashed to smithereens by The Bible describes it as a great white throne. You see, I I mean think about that I mean, what can there be that is more And it is the hope of the believer that that judgment, that justice, will be displayed. I mean, there's a lot of other things in the Bible that I can defend and talk about and people are willing to listen and talk about resurrection and Jesus with you and But I want to have the least hell possible. I will. Now Peter's reminding us that God has a You know, the world is firmly established. And I said, That's absolutely right, but you also have the chance of salvation And this one uh got my attention a little while ago, non sequitur A final judgment that has already taken place. So we not only joke about it at times, but I think sometimes as Christians we are embarrassed by it, aren't we? Well the same word is what? And those that you've called us into, Lord, to have a spot in our lives, people that we care for, Lord. The certainty of judgment When you think of the final judgment, don't think about earthquakes or plagues or viruses. So, Lord, we praise you for your justice. You see there in verse 6. By the same word the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire being kept for the day of judgment and the destruction of ungodly men. Because after the rendering of the verdict, then there's the consequences I actually wind up finishing it the exact same Sunday that we began it the year before. You want a book to keep you awake at night? Thank you. But if you have not experienced that, nothing Lord, I pray that nobody here would miss eternal life through him. Hell And Peter says And when we're before God, that standard Do you know how the Bible says that God not only knows what we do and what we think? There will be no excuses, no blame shifting. The final panel is a bug zapper. Well you know, there's a lot of truth to that thing If there isn't any judgment, there is no end to sin. And you look at those hordes of people. Brothers and sisters, friends don't let friends go to hell. Then to verse 7, 2 Peter 3. You come to that judgment, and God welcomes you into his presence as his son, as his daughter. They're going to sing for joy before the Lord. He said, Well, I wish you hadn't told me about it, because now I'm in worse trouble. That's our hope, you see. Um but let's suppose I hope that maybe someday some Christian, but it's never convenient for me. Now you kids talk about what's fair, right? It must come. And uh Sega smiles, a sinister smile as he's flapping his new wings. Now, you might have thought sounds like fun to me He goes through the Marburg Ebola The only question you see is, have you already endured the judgment? Thank you for what you've done for us. And if that is the result Therefore be ready at a time when you don't think that's when the Son of Man is going to come. It was a chair that was attached to a shotgun. Well first of all, the same word as the word of creation, back there in verse five, you see. He spoke the world, the world spoke the word, and the world was flooded But that's really not the issue for you because you've heard the gospel. We're all assembled around that throne. It's all laid out there for you. That's the second thing. Judgment is as certain as God is just Take a look at that thing. Um But then also he says that there is a second certainty. It cannot be moved. But I think I'll wait a little longer to lead my life the way I want to lead it. Amen. The pre-judgment at the cross of Jesus Some people in our congregation, you know, you'd be in a carpool and you know You read that and He said, every one of those women The first is the question of the day of judgment Because it's already happened Romans says, their thoughts either accusing or excusing. By these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed. God is going to put an end at that point to all evil. And then verse seven Why? That standard is then known in two ways. So those are the next three weeks, and then we will be finished that. I'm not going to do that today, but I want to refer back to that chapter. God is in control. What the Bible's saying basically is when you stand before God in that last day, I mean, you know, this thing says that basically there are viruses When Jesus died on the cross. To as Peter says, destroy ungodly men. And that's the way most people feel The ancient of days is seated in his majesty. Because he comes And what you see that it reveals is the real issue. And at that point Amen. And we all know far more than we do, don't we? We need to share that hope. So because the leap year it'll be put as Wouldn't that be fair? There is no justice. Therefore you're even more accountable. It is our refusal. And so they deliberately forget that it was by Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad. First of all, through the Bible. But Can we really say? The Bible says He says, Ha! Let's pray. But