And when you think of that, you know, you conjure up this picture, you've you know seen angels on clouds playing harps, you know, with wings, and you think, oh, well heaven, that's the only picture I ever get. So for, I don't know, Christmas or birthday, Christmas, our house, that's the same thing. And we will either get, you will get either, exactly what you deserve from an all-knowing and holy God are like a piece of old clothes that are going to be discarded. are accounted as having kept the law to the same degree as Jesus Christ himself. Because it's a dangerous place. Our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. And then I invite you, as I do each week, there will be an elder right up in this corner of the room, right after the service, for you to talk to and to pray with if you'd like to do that right after the service. In fact, one of the reasons that you and I need to be here Sunday after Sunday is to be reminded that we're pilgrims. And the destruction of ungodly men. It's not just the judgment of the world, but it is the destruction of the world. I my brother Tom and uh Tom and Gene. You know, you imagine glory with my face. Still worth wearing with us guys. There's the old, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires to be made new. So you see, there it is again. That when Jesus Christ died and rose, his resurrection, his finished work accomplished a newness that permeates down to every single molecule of the universe. And a new earth, the home of righteousness. The new heavens and the new earth are not a democracy. to just notice all the things that you do that are related to security because of sin. That the creation waits in eager expectation for the sons of God to be revealed. of the children of God. Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly. to pick out the market pack or the flat of plants, you know, and they're so fresh and they're so healthy and so green, you know, or it's a bush or a tree, you know. There it is, and it somehow it carries with it the promise of making your backyard a little bit more like Eden. And if it doesn't die by starvation and thirst and the bugs are gonna attack it, you know, and aphids are gonna suck the life out of it and you look at this thing and you say, you know I pulled the barrel off the w off the garage wall, and along with it came the grass spreader right on the car. It'll be a reminder to me of the hope of the new heavens and the new earth. Last week we looked at the fact that when Jesus Christ comes back, we will stand before the throne of God and all of our hearts will be revealed. Who is absolutely just, or by grace through faith, you will get exactly what Jesus Christ deserves. Now you see it there in verse 7, you see it again in verse 10. Can you imagine the roar that there will be when the entire cosmos disappears? In keeping with this promise, such as Isaiah 65 and other places, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. The contrast of the new versus the former. Two main Greek words for new, nios and kinos. Now, what's interesting about that is that those new bodies will be connected to these bodies. you know, whether we'll look exactly like we do now, in some cases um perhaps that there'll be more alteration than in others. Get into that more next week. It's all new, freshly new. It's decay. And uh we gave it to Dean, our son, who was very young at that point, didn't mind having a woman's purse because he loved throwing stuff in it. And that's what he's going to do with this cosmos. And so all these things that are such treasures to us now, God says, When I bring you into the new heavens and the new earth that I have created, you're not even going to miss this one. But you remain the same. Which is superior to the old covenant that we were unable to keep. Do you recall how we have seen it in the book of Ephesians? And you remember how Paul put it there, and we will get back to that in a couple of well, a few weeks. In the attitude of your minds and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. But you still have that old nature, and so you are still assaulted with doubts and temptations and the desire to live as if this world is home. All is going to be made new. And you will delight in the safety and the security of his protection and of his sovereign wisdom. There will be no evil. If there was no sin to have to contend with, how it changes everything that we do. Do you anticipate it? Environed by the deepest darkness. That they are as one who has felt the ice cracking beneath his feet and finds himself on a single ice block, severed, alone, and drifting out into the freezing darkness. So that you'd have his record in the day of judgment and the hope of the new heavens and the new earth? He says in verse 14, since you're looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace with him. Uh that's the garden type of nurseries I'm talking about. I love to go through the garden nurseries in the spring. You you look at that thing and it and it just seems to say, just plot me in the ground and watch me bloom, you know. never gonna thrive, you know. She was riding in a plane 33,000 feet, and she said, I was looking out the window, and I was looking at the clouds, and the clouds looked so substantial. That it looked like you could just jump out and bounce on them, walk on them. Fix in our hearts this week the hope of the new heavens and the new earth That you have placed eternity in our hearts. Verse 11, Since then everything will be destroyed in this way. And somehow it sounds like a an eternal Sunday school class or something, you know. The fact that we have a present heavens and earth in verse 7 contrasted to the pre-diluvian, pre-flood uh earth that you see there in verse six. And about the same time, um I gave Heather, our oldest daughter, uh a new doll. You know, the Bible says that God takes this heaven and this earth, and it's it's like an old suit of clothes that you're thinking about, either throwing away or given to ambits. In fact, just yesterday, I was finishing laying my fourth cubic yard of compost of uh mulch And that we would live in that hope, live in that expectation of the redemption of our bodies, of the return of Jesus. That we forget that the days of this world are very limited. Last week, coming to the end now of the biblical prophecy series, we looked at Judgment Day. Of the heavens by fire, and the elements, the very basic elements, the molecular structures That was okay, you see. They will all wear out like a garment. The Word of God and people. In the beginning you laid the foundations of the earth. But the gospel has come, which has said that Jesus has kept the stipulations of that covenant. And you will never again be tempted to doubt him or to disobey him. Of all the people who live there. Did you ever stop to think about how much time and energy you and I consume because of security concerns? The few years of pilgrimage that you have here, to live in the community of his people. And there is no hope apart from this. And somebody very dear to me this week died, and I had the opportunity to share the gospel with him, but he wasn't interested. I am appalled at the forlorn solitude in which I am placed by my philosophy. When we come to know, really know, that the hopes we cherished will never come true, that our dead loved one is gone from this life forever And that you will spend some time between the bed and the bathroom, and what you do in those first few moments, thinking about the new heavens and the new earth. And that this world has a severely limited time span ahead of it. 2,000 years ago for you. Peter said, by the same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment. Now, heavens and earth in the Bible refer to the universe, the cosmos. It is new in terms of new in contrast to the former. uh that there were not the kinds of mountains that we have now before that time. that we now live in. So you will be still you, uniquely you, uh, but you will be totally new Having been present at the first creation, for a moment just imagine that you were in the Garden of Eden. But he says like that old piece of clues. By the new birth. Can you imagine what it will be to live in a place that is characterized as the home of righteousness? There is the hope in this of the new heavens and the new earth. And then heaven becomes our passion. Will be of Jesus Christ and His righteousness, and the hope of heaven that He has gained for you by His finished work. Because he traded records with you and suffered Judgment Day on the cross. The elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare, consumed, burned up. Will be dissolved, melt in the heat. And we often speak of heaven as eternal. And to point out three things about that word new that give us some ideas, some clues about the new heavens and the new earth. First of all, notice the contrast of the new. We live in bodies that will be destroyed by death, and we will have new bodies. The Bible says that this heavens and earth are about to be discarded The National Gallery of Art and De Beer's Diamonds. Will be consumed and destroyed. To feel the force, perhaps, of this word new, look at the second idea in your bulletin outline there, the climax of the new. The climax of the new. Where wolves and lambs will play together, and no one does anyone else any harm. Is righteousness. And that's because this kingdom is inhabited by righteous people. Again, see, he says it's a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. There will be no lying there. You'll be able to open your email attachments without ever worrying whether there's a virus attached or a worm included. And that means that there will be no locks and no keys and no pin numbers that you gotta remember In order to live the radical lifestyle that Jesus calls you to live, because, hey, you're passing through here to something that's infinitely better. Peter said, remember in verse 11, Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? Nothing else really matters a whole lot. Yeah, or new camera. And to live then as pilgrims rather than as residents, abandoning ourselves to you Because we know you are absolutely trustworthy. That we will never be as pretty, as popular, as successful, or as famous as we had once imagined. Your home, a home of righteousness. And you may have run into his arguments in a college class, his attacks on Christianity, but did you know that Hume wrote at the end of his life these words? This word that Peter uses is the word kinos, which is new in terms of quality. Be totally new body, and yet it's connected, you see. When Jesus comes, they will be discarded. Because uh this letter, 2 Peter, is in what? You know, you gotta make sure the house is locked and can't leave the house, the car outside if you've got a garage door opener without locking the car because somebody could open, you know. British philosopher who is a materialist believed that this life is all there is, only what you can see. Broken necks and broken arms and broken homes and broken hearts, these things crush our illusions that Earth can keep its promises. We will not spend eternity in heaven. That's what we're looking forward to. For instance, some idea of that is uh in the verses just before where Peter talked about you will have a body that is no longer subject to decay, to disease, to aging, to death. And as you do that, you're investing in your new home. His rule will bring your delight and his glory into perfect harmony. She said, Life's like that. Amen. It moves our eyes from this world, which God knows could never satisfy us anyway, and it sets them on the life to come. Whatever it does to take to remind you to do this, that you determine that the first waking thought you will have each day this week when you wake up and get out of bed. Everything is going to be remade, reformed. Everything, every crack house and every brothel You will see in every fiber of your being how worthy he is of your worship, of your affections, and of your obedience. No one will try to deceive you. Johnny Erickson records, you know, Johnny Erickson's a woman who was a teenager to a diving accident, broke her neck, and was made a quadriplegic We live so much in the today. That you would turn them to Jesus this day to confess their sin and their need of Him. Listen, after the first service, a woman came out in tears and said, thank you so much for that message. Well, there's some. But it's gone and and what you replace it with, you see, is is so great, you don't even think about it. But there's coming a time when God says the gospel is so radically new Is it any wonder that Romans in chapter 8 verse 19 Paul says What's going to happen though after that takes place? No hope without it. It's kind of hard to thank you for this right now. Who is going to replace Robins Amen's? You and I spend so much time and so much energy trying to make the best that we can out of this life Everything placed without precedent, nothing there is stale or stagnant or putrid or polluted. Only warmth and acceptance, no competition designed to put you down so that somebody else can look better. We are called to live by the hope of the gospel. The BMW Showroom, your house, and everything you have accumulated She said, it is suffering that gets us ready for heaven. To live, recognizing. And Lord, we are reminded that this life can never deliver on its promises. Lord, help us to see Jesus. And you know what the Maryland long hot summers with some drought to it and you know, so you're gonna have to probably water the thing every couple of days or it's gonna wild up and it's gonna die, you know I keep moving on this message, I'll tell you, hear that Rob Amen from Robin, and we haven't even started yet. But a better contrast and a more biblical, explicitly biblical contrast of this word new, kinos, is our bodies. Well why? My wife begs me to finally get rid of my clothes. We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Amen? You never have to suspect anyone. Your years will never end. Only now you see you and I have just the first fruits of the newness, the first fruits of the Spirit. Well, you know, I mean it'll be recognizable, but it'll be, you know, pleasant to look on, and everything about us will be pleasant to behold. We worry about running out of resources and the change in the quality of the atmosphere, one thing after another. Well, you see, because they were about to be discarded. And therefore, you are given a new nature with a new name. Can you see why it makes such sense when you understand this to live a life here of utter abandonment to Jesus Christ? Is Jesus Christ your hope this morning? But the fact is that everything, not just our bodies, but everything similarly will be new. This verse, in keeping with this promise, we're looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, is the home of righteousness, is really a climax to the gospel. Something very substantial and very new. Hi. You don't believe that? Like clothing, you will change them, and they will be discarded. Oh, our Father, we are such temporal people Now, it's the difference between us guys and you women probably, you women, you know, it's probably The character of the newness is righteousness. They are not a republic. Whether I'm happy today and whether what I hoped would happen today would happen. And as I was doing that uh this spring, it occurred to me that one of the things we love to do is And if you have any concern or question about whether in fact you are sure of that hope Light on the fender, put a big dent, scratch in it, you know. Look at Psalm 102. But the day of the Lord will come. We're going to go to heaven. Welcome or worship. So if you want to invest in the new heavens and the new earth, invest God's Word in the lives of people We gotta have some volunteers out there, you know. And so we saw from 2 Peter 7, chapter 3, verse 7. She's born on Christmas. And you remember we saw last week when we looked at that that that says that Judgment Day is not just a verdict, but it's actual destruction. The heavens are the work of your hands. What does that mean? The children of your servants will live in your presence. And you and I are going to live not just as new, transformed creatures, but in an entirely new cosmos. So she said, What is it that gets us ready for heaven? And uh some biblical scholars think that that earth was significantly different. Everything, everything that you see will be consumed and destroyed. You'll be able to take anyone at their word and never second guess whether you can believe what they said. The Gospel of Ephesians, we call the manual of Christian discipleship. What the Bible says in verse 13, very clear. Only two things, as it's been said, will outlast this world Spend enough time in the others. And what I would like to do for this morning is to just focus on verse 13 and that word new. Can you taste that? Just this week I came across a comment from David Hume, the Fix, we pray, that hope in our hearts, in Jesus' name. You know, she you know and it's so the big question is is it good enough for the goodwill or you just throw it out, you see You know, this time of the year, I love to wander through nurseries What kind of people ought you to be? We'll be with the Lord in heaven Now I remember several years ago, my wife had a purse that was kind of old and worn and Therefore, the Bible says by regeneration, the new birth, you are a new creature. You know, just think this week, I challenge you So whatever it was, I gave her this new purse. It will be thrown out, God says, like an old garment. The word nios is new and refers primarily to time. So, what Peter is saying there is, we're looking forward to a new universe, a rebuilt cosmos. Both covenants are based on law. But I pray that whenever I look at that dent, it's the kind that you never fix, you know, it's just gonna be there. And we see that in our longing for beauty and order. In keeping with this promise, we're looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. Just noticed you there. But they are a place where all adoringly are under the authority of King Jesus. It's in the New Testament, which is called the New Testament, because it's the record of the New Covenant. You see, this is going to be a place that will be ruled by a righteous king That until the day of judgment is settled, and the hope in the new heavens and earth burn in your heart. And that you will live in that hope and see what difference it makes to your day. You will be able to live in absolute trust and security. Verse 21, that creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom. Can you imagine it? To see him in his finished work. Like a thief, the heavens will disappear with a roar. Psalm 102, verse 25. Can you see it? Buckingham Palace It's not very exciting, not very stimulating, but that's not what the Bible says. That it was a more temperate climate, but it was significantly different. Again, look at verse 13. Dear family, dear friends. F. Let me challenge you to do something this week. You have their uh your two main Greek words for new They will be identifiably ours. Now For those that you may bring along with you And so we gave her old doll to Dean, because he liked to chew on it. They will perish, but you will remain. Their descendants will be established before you. Hang on. W. Peter repeats that again and again, destruction by fire. But now the earth under the curse is old There will never be any betrayal. And nothing here will last and be perfect. This world is not permanent and it's not home. Imagine just for a moment And I begin to fancy myself in the most deplorable condition imaginable. Because if you haven't, there is no hope apart from him You ought to live holy and godly lives as you look forward to the day of God and speed its coming. And so Robertson wrote of those who are without hope in Christ Have you come to him? Can you feel it? You know, you're going to restore this little plot of beauty, and everything about it is full of promise. And you don't think of the fact that you got lousy soil and so you gotta fertilize the thing or else it's Therefore, you and I, in the new covenant, by grace And here is where many Christians are a little fuzzy, because we talk about heaven But you said, I know that they wouldn't hold that promise But you remember in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 22, Paul says, You were taught with regard to your former way of life. Righteousness dwells there as a permanent resident in the hearts. How does it get us ready? Just one more week after today now. Now, is there any clues about what that will be like? And what it would be like Um In keeping with his promise, Peter says, we are looking forward to a new heaven. You ought to live holy and godly lives. Maybe you ought to get in training or something, you know This whole world is doomed And this is what she wrote Lord, I pray that if there is anyone here who is not resting in that finished work. And so we took the old purse. And as I watched it bounce off, I said, Lord The same item, but it's different. It was a bag to him. The idea there in the Greek is on tiptoe, looking to see the adoption. But there's the curse to remind me, man ain't here yet. And Lord, remind us Those of us who belong to you, Lord Jesus, that you would I mean, just leaving aside what this place will look like But Because, and this is the third point in the outline, the character of the new You don't miss it The gospel is about new And you'd see everything freshly minted out of the mind of God. Some think that the flood was actually the first rainfall You will be recognizable as Jesus was after his resurrection. So that was great, you know Because no one will have sinister motives. And all the things that we do to protect ourselves. But you and I were not able to keep the old covenant, and therefore we're under its curse. We will go on forever. Well And Peter contrasts that world, he says, with the present world. Amen. I challenge you Can you imagine that? You'll be able to trust everyone. Because it makes us want to go there. And it lifts our sights. We see that, Lord, in the springtime. It's new in contrast to old. It's qualitatively different. That whenever I look at that thing And But this heavens and earth, he says. It's the consequence of the verdict. That day will bring about destruction. You're not going to miss it. No conflict. Let's pray. It'll be glory.