I love that song we just sang. I Love You Lord. I don't know if you've ever thought about it, but uh it's a good song to sing while you're driving. It's a good song to memorize. Very simple. And if you start sometime when you're kind of feeling like you got a jump start, your spirit, you know, a little praise in the morning It's a good one to start with and uh sing it a couple times and then you can make up your own stanza or two and go on with it. It's very personal. Uh it's intimate and uh the directness of it can be um very moving. I have found that many times Well, one contemporary bit of cultural buzz that I can safely assume you're all aware of is the Y2K concern. Anybody here not heard anything of the Y2K? You've read it on you've read it in the magazines, you've heard it on television, you've heard it from your friends, you've seen it all over. It's in today's bulletin board, last week's bulletin board about finances, this week about heat. You know, get your kerosene heaters ready and all this stuff. On and on and on and on. We've heard it all over so many times. June 27th, we'll be having special middle hour presentation From our Y2K task force to talk about our own preparedness as well as opportunities for ministry. You've probably also seen and heard connections that people are making between the Y2K concerns and the spiritual significance of the year 2000. Many cults as well as many Christians are writing on this from Gary Falwell to Gary North. In fact, one former marketing director of Columbia of the Christian Broad Testing Network. Wrote a novel called Judgment Day two thousand, portrays a rather grim scenario. Um Tim LaHayes trilogy. Tribulation force left behind, laid as the Pollyon. Pollyon was the Barnes <unk> Noble selection on the opening screen of AOL a couple months ago. 30% off Let me tell you, when Barnes <unk> Noble advertises a book on the screen of AOL, what they're paying for that, that means that book is not just appealing to Christians. We're talking general cultural interest here. So you're seeing it all over. In fact, Time magazine back in January 18th of this year, cover article on it was the end of the world as we know it. Question mark And then the byline reads, the millennium bug could bite VCRs, ICBMs, and more. Doomsayers say it is all in God's endgame. So they begin by talking about some of the technical concerns, the computer-related concerns about Y2K. But then they get into several pages of the spiritual significance. We're not talking World Magazine, we're talking Time magazine here. In fact, pages 68 to 70 of this magazine detail uh the various schools of Christian eschatology, premillennialism, amillennialism, post-millennialism, number of paragraphs on Rashduni, Gary North, and other writers. That's Time magazine. And so they uh go through this describing uh how many people see that uh This whole 2000 uh scenario uh could mean the end of the world. Where are we going? What hope is there for us? You know, people look at pretty grim scenarios terms of the ecology, terms of political situations, moral situations. Well, for twenty-one years of our church, Columbia Presbyterian, I have never preached a series on prophecy. And I figure if there is ever a time when I should do it, this is the teachable moment. You know, there's times when I could do it, and you know, it's one of those things where if you've looked at something recently, then you're really interested. But if you have Kind of like, ah yeah, someday. This is the year, these months ahead, when probably most of us have more than usual interest in What does the Bible say about the future? And so that's the title of the series, The Bible and the Future. And we're going to look at this setting Ephesians aside for a few months. This is In terms around here, relatively brief series that only goes on into the next millennium, but you know, we'll get back to Ephesians next year sometime. Don't forget also this Saturday we have the seminar on Revelation. That's one of those that I'm afraid a number of you could slip by and you'll say, well Matt, get into that later on. Oh, I wish I had gotten to that seminar. um because um that's uh you know an unusual opportunity to have somebody who's written a book on the book of Revelation from what I at least consider is a very biblical perspective, very difficult book of course But um I think Dr. Alan Bauer has done a very good job on this. There will be a lot of discussion. So I encourage you please uh if you haven't signed up um Let us know even if you uh don't we still can have walk-ins. So make sure you're here by 9 o'clock sharp Saturday morning. We will begin at 9 and it will go until 3 o'clock. So take advantage of that opportunity. But not only do I believe that you're interested now, but I think also it's an opportunity for us in terms of our friends. More than any other time in certainly recent years, you will probably find some of your unbelieving friends or family are interested in what the Bible says about the future. So, a couple of suggestions you may want for this series to invite them to come. Maybe somebody that, you know, has some religious background, wouldn't mind coming to church, just never gets around to it. Now's the opportunity to give them some little incentives, say, hey, we're looking at our uh church uh morning worship at what the bible says about the future. Are you interested in that? Come on find out with us. Or if they're not going to do that, um every sermon I ever preached in 21 years has been taped So uh you can take the tapes, borrow tapes, uh buyer borrow tapes, and lend them to them so that they could listen to it and then you could discuss the thoughts together or at least Talk to them about it. Just mention, you know, uh you ever thought about what's gonna happen in two thousand and what that says about the Bible and the end time and all this kind of we're talking about that now and just pass on to them some of the thoughts that you're having, some of the passages we're going into, some of the truths that God's showing you to be able to discuss these with your friends and family. So take advantage of this opportunity. It really is an opportunity. A window of opportunity that's brief in terms of talking to people about the Lord. Many Christians would testify that their first awakening of spiritual interest was when they began to think about the Bible and prophecy and the future. I don't know if that's true of how many of you, but I know that's true of a number of friends of mine, uh of people who have said, you know, I really didn't think much about what was going to happen to me until I heard somebody talking about the Bible and the end of history, or the Bible and what's going to happen in the future. And then I began to think, yes, what's going to happen to me? So this is an opportunity for us. We don't want to miss I hope to help you understand what the Bible says about the future for yourself Uh and to get our minds after having immersed ourselves in the details of living the Christian life day by day in Ephesians, verse by verse, looking at very closely some of the specific commands to now back up for a few months and to get the big picture of what God's doing. I think both are necessary Can't always just be looking at the big picture, have to look at the details of practical Christian living. We've been doing that. Now I want to back up and I want for us to be able to look at what God is doing in the scope of history in these times. Uh what does the Bible say about the end of history, about Christ's return, about heaven? What's it say about the seventy weeks of Daniel, you know, the kingdom, signs of the times, Matthew 24, all these things we're going to look at, Book of Revelation. Kind of an overview. What does the Bible say about this so that we, as God's people, can be built up in our faith and think about history. Big picture questions. In the light of what God says. I hope that's going to help us as we move ahead as a church into the next millennium to be asking big questions and looking at God's big picture. Now, let me lay aside one particular matter right at the beginning of this series so I can dispose of it at the beginning and not have to deal with it again. Let me say it flat out, I do not think there is any spiritual significance to the year 2000. Yep. I hate to tell you. I don't think there is. I don't think one jot. I'll tell you why. First of all, because we're not coming up on the year 2000 Um whether you know it or not, there never was a year zero in our calendars. The calendars went from one BC to immediately one AD. So you really don't hit 2000 until 2001 And besides that, you really don't complete two thousand until the end of two thousand one, because that's when you finish finally two thousand and go into the second, the third millennium, which is really two thousand two. But besides that, Jesus, of course, wasn't born zero A. D. or one. B. C. or what yeah. He was born probably either five BC or four BC. No, he couldn't have been born after four B. C. Because Herod, who is mentioned in Matthew 2, the reason that Jesus and his family fled to Egypt, Herod died in 4 BC. So he couldn't have been born after that, probably a year or so before that. So this really is right now, if you want to be accurate, we're right now in the year 2003 or 2004. Okay? So we're already past 2000. Maybe that's a big relief to you. All the sweat. See, you've already passed it. Don't worry about it, all right? What I want, though, from this series is that you and I will begin to live with the daily expectation that Jesus could come anytime. This could be our last worship service at Columbia Presbyterian. He might be here Thursday. No, we won't be back next week, you see. He'll have come So I want for us to begin to live more in the hope and the expectation of the soon, or as the church called it through the ages, the imminent means at any time return, at the soon, if very close return. of the Lord Jesus Christ. Having said that, let's look at the scripture now. Colossians chapter 1, which speaks of hope. And that's what I want to focus on this morning as we begin this series. This is a series about hope. You look at what Paul says in Colossians Chapter one. I'm going to pick it up now at verse three, where he begins the body of his letter. He says, We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, the faith and love that springs from the hope that is stored up for you in heaven. And that you have already heard about in the word of truth, the gospel that has come to you. Now you've heard me say many times that the book of Colossians parallels the book of Ephesians Both in content and structure in many ways, some differences, of course, but it's sort of like Matthew and John or Matthew and Mark or Luke. So if you look in this passage, Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 to 6 parallels Ephesians 1, verses 15 to 18 He begins in verse 3, thanking God for what he sees happening in the Colossians. That's just like Ephesians 1. 16. Because of their faith and love, verse 4, that's just like Ephesians 1. 15, it's just the reverse order. But where does the faith and the love come from? What energizes the faith that fires the love? In verse 5 and 6, the faith and love that spring from the hope that is stored up for you in heaven, that you've already heard about in the word of truth, the gospel that's come to you. Which is exactly what Paul is saying in Ephesians 1:18, our second purpose as a church. Praise, remember that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened, that you might know The riches, the hope of your calling, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, the hope of your calling. That's what energizes the faith and the love. That's what Paul's saying here in Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 to 6. So you can see that in one sense we're really not leaving Ephesians. We're just kind of taking a discourse off of Ephesians 1. 18. You could say that this whole series is really simply an expansion of Ephesians 1 18. I pray that the eyes of your heart will be open to see the hope of your calling, the riches of his glorious inheritance which he has for you as saints. So you know if some of those of you that don't like, you know, say, why don't you just f finish Ephesians? You know, there is life after Ephesians, Harris, deal with it, just get on with it, finish the thing and go on. All right, we're we're still on Ephesians. All right. This is just a little big paragraph here. A big paragraph, um, I mean parenthesis, um, not to be confused with the church parenthesis, which we'll get into later. This is just a parenthesis in Ephesians chapter one. But it's all about hope. Because hope is absolutely vital to us. Paul says his prayer in Romans, I pray that the God of hope will fill you with all joy and peace, so that you might overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. We're looking now at the matter of hope. So just two brief points this morning in introducing this material. First of all, number one, the practical effect of hope. Which is faith and love. The practical effect of hope. This series is an extremely practical series. It is not For us to just be able to enter into eschatological, it means the end times, eschatological debates, prophecy charts, get all things, you know, get everybody straightened all out. Uh the idea is that uh the Bible always presents the hope of Jesus coming as having very practical consequences. Notice again, he says I Thank God, because, verse 4, I've heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you have for all the saints. That faith and that love that spring from Greek literally is because of the hope that's stored up for you in heaven. So the hope Is the mainspring of your daily faith and your love. Hope is the source Your faith and your love, your faith in Jesus springs from the hope that God has for you. Biblical hope then fuels our faith in Jesus. That's the one blank. And then secondly, uh, your love also for all the saints, especially those that are hard to love, those that are difficult. That love springs not from their lovableness, but from the hope that God has for you The love for all the saints, you know, is not just the friendly saints, not just the saints you like, not just the saints you want to hang around. Your love for all the saints springs from hope That is stored up from heaven. And that's the second point. What is the promised source of this hope? Second point, promised source. First practical effect. Second, the promised source of hope is heaven. Heaven that is revealed in the gospel. Again, verse 5. He says this faith and love that springs from the hope that is stored up for you in heaven. That you have already heard about in the word of truth, the gospel that has come to you. For many of us, heaven is rather nebulous You think of heaven and you think of, you know, the old cartoons, people on clouds with harps, you know, one long pray service, and you just think of something that's up there, doesn't have much substance to it. Uh you know, not much of a life that, you know, really appeals to you. And so you don't gain a whole lot of hope from that. I mean, you know, who wants to As spiritual as you are, set your heart on an eternal hymn singing. I mean, you know, it's great you hear some songs and you think, ah, that's heavenly. But you know, there's other things I'd like to do And those things are enjoying God in different capacities. So what is involved in that? We'll get into that. But what I want you to focus on right now Is that the hope that he speaks of is the hope of beauty restored. The hope of beauty restored. That's the next blanks. Now, how does this work? It's hoping a lot of things, but I want to focus on this this morning. Dan Allender in his book Bold Love talks about the fact that when he says, we all as creatures who are made in God's image have a passion for beauty We're drawn to what is beautiful. We're repulsed by what is ugly. Uh you would just simply rather look at a brand new Mercedes C LK or something like that, then an old beat up pinto with vents and scratches. I mean, you know, it's just there's something, you know, look at a beautiful home, well landscaped yard, gardens. appeals more than looking at a place that's kind of run down with weeds and a bunch of crabgrass starting to grow. We're drawn to beauty He talks about the fact that um when he was um just a kid he had the opportunity uh to go to Italy and uh with his folks to see Michelangelo's Piazza uh which is a sculpture, you know, of it's one of Mary holding the dead body of Jesus. And uh Alender talks about how when he looked at that, even as a kid, he was deeply moved by the expression, the realistic expression of peace on the face of Jesus and of grief and sorrow on Mary's face, how how vivid, how real it was, the details of it, the beauty of the marble And um remembered that. And a few years later he's in college. He read a story in the newspaper about a madman that got in there and took a hammer and attacked the statue to destroy it. And he said he wept tears of rage, thinking of the wanton destruction, the senseless destruction of beauty. And then he thought about how general principle that is in our lives. There are things that we are drawn to, that experiences, things, relationships. That we see as beautiful. But then something comes along and destroys it. We hope that a certain boy will notice us or a certain girl. We set our heart on it and never comes to pass or begins to develop and then you break up or a man or a woman or your kids or some relationship, something happened, something which you saw is beautiful. And it's destroyed. It's taken away It talks about how when we do that, it's very easy to become cynical. To become cynical, your heart sort of shrivels up because the disappointment That is risked if you hope again that something beautiful will remain as you hope Risks a disappointment that may be too hurtful to bear. So what happens? You don't hope so much. Right? Your heart begins to shrivel. And what happens when that takes place is that you lose your hunger for heaven Your eyes have been fixed on what is in this world, which inevitably always will let you down. In fact, God intends that everything in this fallen world that you and I enjoy, set our hearts on, delight in Because it is impermanent and imperfect, only finds its meaning In giving us the thrill of the anticipation of the greater that lies ahead in the hope of heaven. Apart from that, I'm not saying that we can't enjoy things here. I'm saying apart from the realization That whatever is good and beautiful here is intended in part to thrust us forward in anticipation of the hope Of the perfect and permanent that lies ahead is the only way that we will escape the cynicism and bitterness of disappointment. Beauty restored is the hope of our hearts, the longing. Of that place where the lion lies down with the lamb. Where the strong no longer take advantage of the weak, where everyone is interested in adding to your weight of glory rather than simply using you for their own advantage. This is the hope of beauty restored, stored up for you in heaven, where the lion rules, who was the lamb who was slain, because of your sin. The one who was slain because you marred the beauty of the image of God in you. By perverting and distorting his intention in your life, seeking to live independently from him And as he suffered and died the curse you and I deserved, his work is to begin to restore the beauty of that image in your life. But his work is now just beginning in you. The Bible describes it as a first fruits. And so as you and I begin to enter into the genuineness, but just the beginning. of that new work of what he is doing. Our hearts long for that work to be completed, right? And as we long for that to be completed Our hearts are set on the beauty restored in us and in the world that He has made. The glory that will be restored when Jesus comes again. Recently my cousin told me about a woman who had cancer And this woman uh knew that her time was short, and she called her pastor in uh in order to make final arrangements for her funeral. She described uh scriptures that she wanted read and the hymns that she wanted sung and talked about how she wanted to be buried and she wanted to be buried with her Bible and and then she added at the end, she said, and don't forget, this is very important, don't forget Bury me with a fork in my right hand. Well the pastor was kind of following it up to that point, and he said, excuse me, and she said, Yeah, a fork She said, You're puzzled, aren't you? He said, Well, uh to tell you the truth, I I am. What's with the fork? And she said, Well, y you remember how through the years we've had uh congregational dinners and She said, whenever we had the congregational dinner, when it came to the end of the meal, if somebody said, keep your fork, then I knew something better was coming. It wasn't just going to be a piece of fruit or a bowl of jello. It was going to be a pie or a cake or something I could really enjoy. And so I began to think of that fork as reminding me that something better was promised and I was looking forward to it. She said, When I'm laying in that casket, I want to see, I want people to see me with a fork in my hand so that they'll know I'm looking forward to the feast. The pastor had the ceremony, she died shortly after that, and people filed by the open casket, and inevitably, as you might guess, they would look and they'd smile and then they'd say, So what's with a fork? And so in the pastor's remarks at the service, said, Brothers and sisters, here's a sister who may understand the hope of heaven better than you and I do. It's so real to her that she wanted to be buried with a fork in her hand to picture to her the dessert, the feast that was coming. Something better is coming You and I live in that hope. We live as we look. Next time you sit down and you look at that pork, you think about it. Something better is coming. Something better's coming at the end. Jesus has promised it. And therefore, you see your hope issues forth. It becomes the source of your faith in Jesus and your love for all the saints. Because that love does not depend on whether or not they disappoint you. It depends on whether or not Jesus disappoints you. And you know he won't disappoint you because Paul says here the hope that is stored up for you in heaven that you have already heard about in the word of truth, the gospel that has come to you. This hope is so important that if you and I simply had the hope, without the basis for the hope We'd say, Well, I hope that things will be better at the end. I hope that this old world, when it finally runs out and it's all polluted and all the violence and the hurt and the pain and all that are done with, I hope something better is gonna happen. But the gospel tell you that when the men of evil crucified the Lord of glory and he died, he rose again. And when he came back to his disciples he said, I want to tell you I'm coming back again and you know that because here I am resurrected from the dead. The gospel says to you and to me that Jesus has come back, and therefore he will come back again. And Your hope is sure, brothers and sisters. Jesus will not disappoint you. So Peter states that in his word to those who are suffering in persecution. 1 Peter 1, he says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given to us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance. That glorious inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept, reserved Like an account in the bank, it's kept for you in heaven, who, through faith, are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice. In this, you see, in the hope. Not in whether things are working out here, right now, this week, in your circumstances, in your family, in your job. the way that you want. It is in that hope in which you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief In all kinds of trials. These have come so that your faith of greater worth than gold, which perishes, even though it's refined by fire. Gold is pure. Even gold corrodes and can perish. Will be destroyed. Your faith is more imperishable. It will be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you've not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now, you believe in him, and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy, for you're receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. So he says in verse 13, therefore, prepare your minds for action. Be self-controlled. This is the concrete, immediate. Set your hope. Fully when the grace to be given to you when Jesus Christ is revealed. But some of you are afraid to hope. You've been disappointed so many times. The pain is so great. You're free to hope. Let me tell you If you and I become bitter and cynical and lose our hunger for heaven, our hope dies. And we will not be able to believe or to love. It's all based in the hope. And the hope is based in the gospel that speaks of heaven. And if you repent of the bitterness, the cynicism, that shuts out that hope, Jesus Christ this morning. Wants to renew in your heart the hope. The hope that is stored up for you, being reserved, kept in heaven. For you know, as Paul says, whom you have believed, and you're persuaded that he's able to keep that which you've committed to him against that day. And that hope is sure. And that hope makes all the difference. That hope is a hope which delivers you from the terror of those who do not know Jesus Christ. And when he comes again. Will face him in a terror too unspeakable to mention. But if you've come to him for your sins forgiven, you have a hope And that open shine. Let's pray. Lord, we're a people who need hope like we need water to drink. We confess before you now that some of us have gotten kind of thin on hope. Some of us, Lord, live pretty much in the present. We're survivalists. We get through. And our faith in you is kind of weak, and our love for others who have disappointed us and caused us pain. Well, Lord, we just kind of rationalize why we don't need to love them. Lord, would you bring the gospel to our hearts this morning to show us that that love is possible not because they won't disappoint us again. But that that love is possible because Jesus will never disappoint us. And you've given to us a hope. A hope that's stored up in heaven, that's sure. A hope that is ready to be revealed at that time when Jesus breaks into our history and gathers us up to himself. So, Lord, deliver us, any of us, from the bitterness and the cynicism that, like crusty barnacles, have gathered around our souls. May we strip them in renouncing now that bitterness and coming again to believe the gospel, to believe the hope that you have given to us. That we might this week, every day, wake up to a hope. We might live by that hope. We might live in an expectation of your coming, in the hope of a beauty restored in relationships and delights That infinitely surpasses our wildest dreams and imaginations. Give that hope we pray to us Concrete in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.