Oh, I didn't think. I hope you noticed those nice uh crisp lines out in the parking lot as you pulled in today. singles group that uh worked here yesterday doing that. So uh see one of them, thank 'em. It's big help to us to have that now you know uh where to park and not scatter all over the place. So thanks so much. You know, I don't remember the day when I decided that it would be a good idea to preach on biblical prophecy and the end times in anticipation of Y2K and uh the expected increase in interest in prophecy, particularly biblical prophecy and the end of history and all those issues. Um whatever day that was, it was not a day that I had any idea what I was getting myself into. This has probably been about the hardest series to work on in the 21 years I think that I have been preaching at Columbia Presbyterian. Not only because the passages uh are so difficult in understanding and many sincere Christians have honest disagreements on what they mean, but there's just so much you have to read to understand everybody's position So that as I try to open it up to you, I can be fair and honest and try to say, this is what God intends for us. There is no place that that is more true than Matthew chapter 24. It's particularly been the case I find difficult because the most popular Generally accepted understandings of these passages, Matthew twenty-four, book of Revelation and others. The popular understandings, I have become more convinced, are misunderstandings of what God really intended. So I have before me a very difficult task, and you kids particularly have my sympathy. Because to go through this and to try and make sense of the passage. to try and contrast what I think it's saying from the things that I think are misunderstandings, and then to draw some conclusions involves a lot of heavy thinking and following what I'm trying to say. And so if any of you kids find this is really hard to follow through, hopefully I'll be able to pull you back in at the end when we draw some basic, simple conclusions that I think are clear. And so try to work with me in this. You know, this this became so hard, I must admit, that this summer, I actually was wondering if there was a way that I could avoid preaching on Matthew 24. I thought, you know, maybe I don't really need to cover that passage. Now it's kind of ironic that this passage was so difficult for me, because back in 1976 I actually presented a paper at a prophecy conference on Matthew chapter 24 in the book of Revelation. And it was still so hard to do. You know, one night I actually sneaked over here during vacation And I read all my commentaries, the best ones, on Matthew 24. Seven commentaries. These are the acknowledged best evangelical scholarship And I read all those and I thought that's going to give me a help, give me a fix on this thing. Do you know? No. Two commentaries agreed. I mean it wasn't three here, three there, and one here, or three, two, three. No, bless you. No two of those agree. And none of those agreed with the most popular view that most Christians believe is the understanding of Matthew 24. None of them. So, this is a tough one. And if you're new, this is not a typical message. But I want to go through what I think God has for us in this. And then we will be spending three weeks on Matthew 24 and 25. That's all one top on one discourse. And then three weeks on the book of Revelation. You believe that? That I'm going to speak three weeks on a book of Revelation? I mean, that's unheard of, isn't it? You know, here's the guy that usually five weeks on one verse. Well, three weeks on Matthew 24 and 25, three weeks in the book of Revelation. And just to try and give you an overview of these things and the scope of what I think the Lord is saying about the signs of the times and what is what we can expect about the day in which we live and the hope of his coming. Matthew 24 and 25 are called the Olivet Discourse because They were given on the Mount of Olives, or Mount Olivet, where Jesus uh spoke it. And you may recall It's important the context to these. Often they're misunderstood because of the context. People don't get the context. Context is chapter 23, where Jesus has just in the temple denounced the Pharisees' hypocrisy. And their self-righteousness. They have refused and rejected his ministry. And Jesus has said to them that you are going to see the judgment of God come upon you for this. He walks out of the temple, and just as he does, the disciples, whether they maybe didn't hear this, but they're commenting on the temple. Verse 1. Disciples came up to him, called his attention to its buildings. Wow, look at this, Lord. Forty-eight years this thing has been under construction with almost unlimited resources from Herod So it was considered one of the wonders of the ancient world. Someone wrote, He has never seen beauty who has not seen Herod's temple. There's a fantastic edifice, the beauty and majesty of this thing. And they're calling attention to that. And Jesus says in verse 2, do you see all these things? I tell you the truth. Not one stone here will be left on another. Every one is going to be thrown down. Now, to get some idea of that, and this isn't even a very good idea, but it is kind of imagine walking out of the Capitol building down in DC, heading out toward the mall, and you're looking at the Capitol and all of, you know, the Smithsonian and all the other buildings that line the mall and there's the Washington Monument at the end. And the Jefferson and Lincoln Memorial and all this shit. And you're walking down and somebody looks and they say, look at all this. Isn't this beautiful? And somebody says, You see all this? The day's coming when there's not going to be a stone left on another. It's all going to be destroyed. Well, it it must have literally knocked the wind out of them. Because they don't even say anything. Even Peter doesn't say anything. And so they walk along and they're just kind of, you know, and they get over to the out east of Jerusalem, outside the gates to Mount of Olives And at this point they kind of recover themselves. Maybe they have a little conference. And they come to them privately and they say, whoa, Lord, hey. Tell us. And they ask him three questions. Very important. You see, there's three questions here that they ask that Jesus answers. Tell us, they said. When will this happen? That's the first question. Secondly, what will be the sign of your coming? And thirdly, and of the end of the age. Now, in their mind, those three things are all wrapped up together. You know, it's all all the end. When's it gonna happen? What Jesus does in in an absolutely brilliant manner that's taken two thousand years for us to still try to figure out what in the world He means and how he answered this was that he interweaves his answer to inextricably answer all three questions But in a way that we can look back and see unravels that those are three different answers, or at least two. His coming and the end of the age are wrapped up together. Now, that's the first thing to understand and try to get a hold of this passage The second thing that you need to see as a key to understand it is verse 34. And verse 34 is far and away the most difficult verse. I can't imagine and would hate to think of the number of hours I've spent this summer thinking about verse thirty four. I would think I had it and then I'd lose it and then I'd think I'd have it again and I'd Verse 34 is absolutely critical because the whole question here is when's this going to happen? In verse 34, Jesus says when it's going to happen. But what does he mean by when it's going to happen? Look at verse 34. After saying all these things, he gives basically what I'll go over next week considered to be twelve signs. He then says in verse 34, I tell you the truth. This generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. Now, what does he mean by that? Uh I thought about that and I thought about that and uh finally R. C. Skrull in his book The Last Days According to Jesus helped me to see there's really basically three ways you can approach How to interpret Matthew 24. Because you see, the problem is how do you understand all the signs, and how do you understand when the signs will occur in verse 34? And there are three ways to do that that you see outlined in your bulletin outline there. Three basic solutions to understanding when this is going to happen. And what it means. First of all, first solution is to interpret the entire discourse literally. That is, everything that Jesus says here in these verses that Tom read including the sun will be darkened, moon's not going to give its light, the stars fall from the sky, heavenly bodies will be shaken. All that is literally going to be fulfilled. The coming of the Son of Man, uh all of that literally will be fulfilled. And it will all happen within a literal generation. That is, there will be people that Jesus was speaking to who'd still be alive when that would all happen. And the inevitable conclusion to that interpretation is Jesus was wrong. He was mistaken, because it didn't. Jesus didn't come back within 40 years of when he spoke that. We're still looking for his return, therefore he was writing a lot of stuff, but too bad that's one where he missed. He was a little misguided. Well, suffice it to say, no person who holds the Bible to be God's word holds that view. That's only a view that's held by those that say the Bible contains errors. But even apart from our view of Scripture, we know that's not what he meant. Because right after he says verse 34 and confirms it by heaven and earth can pass away, but my word isn't. In other words, you can really count on what I'm saying. He then says, very next verse, no one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. What's he talking about? Well, it's clear as he goes on, he's talking about his return. He then says the same thing in verse 42. Nobody knows when it's going to be. Be ready. Verse 44 says the same thing again. So clearly, Jesus is saying, I'm not speaking about the time of my coming back. Nobody knows that time. Even I at this point don't know when that will be. That's silly then to say, well, he just said he's going to come back within 40 years. Because he's telling you he doesn't know and he's not saying that So, how do you interpret it? That leaves two possibilities. Number one, number two, second way to do it, is to interpret the signs literally And the time frame, that word generation, figuratively. That's by far the most popular view today. It's the view on which Left Behind series is based and many other uh views that you hear today. That that is by far the accepted view. It says that the word generation does not mean literally that generation. The word generation means either the race of the Jews, that is, Jews will continue, this nation of Israel will continue to um will not have di disappeared before these things happen, or the unbelieving generation You know, there'll be unbelievers, which doesn't make a whole lot of sense. That's sort of obvious. Uh or the third view is that the generation where they begin to happen will not pass away till they've all happened That one isn't very popular either. So the the this view says generation is not literal, but the signs are literal. This Stars are literally going to fall from the sky, the sun's really going to be dark, the moon's going to turn to blood, you're going to see the sign of the Son of Man coming in heaven. All that's literally going to happen. That's one possibility. I don't think that's what he's saying. The third possibility is to do the other way To interpret the signs figuratively, when he says moon, sun's going to be darkened, moon turned to blood, stars fall from the sky. That doesn't mean literally those things will happen. It means figuratively they will happen. And take the time frame, the word generation, as literal. He does mean whatever's going to happen is going to happen within that generation, within the next 40 years, say. Why do I think that's the way to interpret it? Because I think that's the way Scripture interprets itself. For instance, in the Old Testament, you have a number of passages that have this same language of the sun being darkened, the moon turning to blood, the stars falling from the sky, the earth being shaken from its foundations. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 13. When Isaiah talks about how Israel is going to be carried away into captivity by Babylon, then he talks about Babylon's fall That God is going to judge Babylon. And when he describes the judgment of Babylon in Isaiah 13, what's the language he uses? He says, sun's going to be tarken, the moon's going to turn to blood, star is going to fall from the sky, all the earth, foundations of the earth are going to be shaken. Obviously, he didn't mean literally that was going to happen because when Babylon fell under Cyrus, that didn't happen. What he's saying is there's going to be an earth-shaking event And he just describes that in literal language. He's thinking, boy, things are really going to be shaken up. Joel II describes that about Israel going into captivity. You had that language a number of times. So there's a base biblical basis for that kind of interpretation. On the other hand, the word generation is straightforward language. There's nothing figurative about that In fact, what absolutely seals the case is that Matthew uses that phrase, this generation, a number of times. He talks about 14 generations before the birth of Christ, you know, different segments. Chapter eleven, verse sixteen. Remember last week we talked about how Jesus was saying, you know, you're like one of the kids in this uh that say play a happy tune, dance. We play a dirge, you're supposed to dance. You know, we want to call it to he says, What shall I liken this generation that rejects John and my ministry? You're not talking about the race of Israel, you're not talking about unbelievers in general. He's talking about literally these people, you who are living right now. Clear. Three times in chapter twelve he uses the phrase this generation. Clearly he's talking about those that are living right at that time who reject his ministry. That's the point of it. But even more than any of those, when he in chapter 23, verse 36 sums up his woes to the Pharisees, his denouncing them, He says, you guys have killed the prophets. You guys, the ones you right here. And he talks about them in verse 35. Upon you will come the righteous blood that has been shed on earth from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zachariah, the son of Barekiah, who you murdered between the temple and the altar. So I tell you the truth, all this will come upon this generation. Who's he talking about? You right here, hearing my words Clear that's what he means. Uses the same phrase, verse 34, when he says, so when you see all these things Verse 34, 33. So I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. So that means that Jesus is intending for us to understand the signs, some literally, some figuratively. But that it's whatever's going to happen that he's talking about is going to happen within the lifespan of those that he's speaking to. That's very important, understanding his speaking of the last days. How can you understand that? There's two ways to do that. If you're still with me, if you're still hanging in, congratulations. There's two ways you can understand that The first way is called the Preterist View. Now, if you never heard of the preterist view, I don't blame you. You know what in the view, you know, it doesn't light my fire. It's not something I go home and read about every night. But preterist view is not a very well-known view. And I defined it there just so you understand it. It comes from the Latin word preter, which means past. And basically what this view says is that all of verse 30, all of verse 4 to 34 took place By 70 A. D. So when you read Matthew 24, you're reading basically about history. Jesus said something was all this stuff was going to happen by 70 AD, and it all happened by 70 A. D. Say, wow, stars fell from the heaven, all the moonlight At that time the Son of Man will appear in the sky and all the nations will mourn. They'll see him coming in the cloud. All that happened? Yeah, it's all that happened. All right They divide between those that say it all happened and Jesus came and so all of Revelation and all Matthew 24 is all past. It's not about the future. It's all simply about what was fulfilled in 70 AD. Then there's those that say, well it was all passed, but there also still is a coming that we're looking forward to. I don't accept that view. I think it has a couple fatal flaws. Which I'll get to. Um let me just mention here that uh for those of you who are still with me and still hanging on to this, or you know, really, what is God saying? Remember back in July I talked about three basic views of the end times that were the all-millennial that says we are now in the kingdom, the millennium, Jesus is now reigning. And uh there is both his reign as well as tribulation. There were those who were the premillennialists that say, no, we're not in the kingdom now, that doesn't start until after Jesus comes back And then there are those who call themselves post-millennialists. They say Jesus' reign will be victorious, the world will be Christianized, and he will establish his millennial reign here in history before he returns. Now, here's the point. All post-millennialists who hold what is a view that is based on Scripture, it is a view that exalts Christ All postmillennialists are preterists. Write that down. But you'll never remember. All post-millennialists are preterists. Ah, we nailed them. What does that mean? We see Matthew 24 talks about tribulation. It talks about times of persecution. talks about a lot of difficult stuff. It says this age is gonna be tough. And the post millennialist says no no no that doesn't fit with my understanding of the kingdom Therefore, he's got to have a view that puts it all in 70 AD and says, that's not about today. Alright? I don't accept that. Why don't I accept it? I accept what I call, in fact when I put this down, I keep changing on this thing. When I put this down here, I called it the primary secondary understanding of it You could also call it the immediate and the full understanding. One I like best, I came up with on Friday, is first fruits and full. First fruits and full understanding of Matthew 24. What that says is That everything in Matthew 24, verses 1 to 34, when Jesus says, this generation won't pass until all these things happen, He said all those twelve signs were fulfilled by 70 AD. But just in their germinal, seminal form, they just were the first fruits of fulfillment. A type, a down payment, a guarantee of the fact that all these things will continue to fill up more and more through the age until I come again. Very significant. We're going to unfold that next week. I want to talk about the specific signs and what that means for you and for me. And what we should expect in our day. But that's very practical, very important. I'm just laying the groundwork today. This is the tough one. Why is it that I think That neither those who say it all happened in the past are correct, or those who say it's all going to happen in the future are correct. That's the left behind you. For this reason, now here's where, hopefully it's very simple for you, because we're just talking two verses. I think because Matthew 24, 34 is a link pin between chapter 23 and 25. And so if you look at what he says in chapter 23, 34 But I just told you, this generation will not pass till all these things have happened. That parallels chapter 23, verse 36, where he says to the Pharisees, All these things are going to happen, come upon this generation. Clearly he's talking about the judgment of 70 AD there, where the temple was destroyed, Jerusalem was destroyed by the Roman armies. We'll talk about that next week. But that judgment is what he clearly is referring to And that happened in that generation. So clearly, Matthew 24, you look at verses 15 to 22. It's very clear he's talking about what happened in Jerusalem in 70 AD. But it's not just that. And this is the amazing thing about what Jesus does. He combines that with the signs of his coming. So when you look at chapter 24 and verse 30. It says, at that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. They will say See the Son of Man coming in the clouds of the sky with power and great glory, and he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they'll gather his elect from the four winds from the very ends of the heavens to the other. That verse parallels chapter 25, verse 36. Excuse me, verse 31. Chapter 25, verse 31. Chapter 25, verse 31, Jesus, beginning the parable of the sheep and the goats, says, When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne in heavenly glory. Then he talks about the judgment, the final judgment at the end of history, wraps it all up with verse 46. Then they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Clearly that's not about 70 AD. That is about what is coming. If you look at chapter 24 in verses 30 and 31 and 25, 31, you see three things that are precisely in common. The word coming, the specific word that is used of Jesus' return, he comes in glory in both cases, and the angels are with him to gather the elect. Only that only happens, brothers and sisters, at the end of history when Jesus comes again. That did not happen in seventy AD So what happens in chapter 24 of Matthew is both past and future. Got that Jesus is saying the destruction that happened in 70 A. D. was a guarantee, was a statement That what happened then is a guarantee that I will come again and I will judge the nations. Now If you if you think about that, you just look at how he develops that very quickly. Look at what he's saying, then as an overview of the uh chapter 24. Verse 4 to 14 are general statements about the age between the first and second coming. Six signs. We'll look at them next week. You know, these are the wars, rumors of wars, pestilence, all these things, tribulation. Verse 15 to 21, he then focuses in on the judgment upon Jerusalem as a type and a warning of the final judgment that will come when Jesus returns. Then he talks about the warnings to say, in times of turmoil, when there's all this upheaval, there's going to be a particular vulnerability to false messiahs. Somebody that you're going to trust in, new age kind of things that we're seeing today, all the rest of this. He says that's going to be a particular danger in those times. We'll talk more about that Then, verse 29 to 31, he says, at the end of history, the wrap-up of this, there was a first fruits of it in 70 AD. There was the upheaval. Jesus did come in judgment But that wa he wasn't seen, he wasn't visible, but at the end of history, that down payment, that first fruits of his coming in judgment will be fulfilled completely and fully when he returns again. Then in verse 32 to 35, he stresses the imminence. When you see these signs, you know things are right at the door. The judgment of Jerusalem is going to happen, and at that point, you see, it opens up. The possibility of his return at any point. So Jesus was saying, I will not come until Jerusalem is destroyed. After it's destroyed, I may come at any moment. And that's the rest of chapter 24 and 25, which we'll go into more on the third week. All right. Come back now down to earth. What does this mean for you and for me? Very, very specifically and practically, brothers and sisters, look look at this. What Jesus is saying here is he is giving an astounding prophecy of that time. As the sign that you can trust his word in all that he says. Think about it for a moment. Jesus comes out, here's Jerusalem. Jerusalem was one of the great powers of that day. It was a very wealthy city. It was a secure city. Jerusalem had the favor of Rome, begrudging favor though it was, nevertheless, it had the favor of Rome. It had Antonio's fortress. It had the palace of Herod. It had all this opulence, all this grandeur. And Jesus is saying here, within 40 years, this is all going to be destroyed. All going to be destroyed. That is not an insight. Nobody would have ever predicted it at that time. They would have thought he was out of his mind. You're telling me that this city which is at peace, which which has the protection of Rome, which has no Body that is trying to assault it at this point in all of its glory and its opulence, you're telling me this city is going to be destroyed within forty years, that's like walking down the mall from the Capitol and saying, Washington, D. C. is going to be leveled in forty years. Yeah, I mean who'd want to make that prediction? I don't want to take God's, you know. I mean, it's just not it's not in the cards, you just don't see it. But Jesus is saying I'm telling you, I'm coming back. And I'm coming back to rule and to reign and to bring about the judgment against all those who have thought they could just pass off my word. All of you who have thought that you could live without any regard to my authority in your life. All of you who thought that I wasn't in control. This is going to happen, and when this happens, which is beyond what Matthew wrote, it's just simply beyond it. Nobody can say that Matthew wrote this after it happened. Nobody Jesus is saying, when you see that happen, then look up. Be ready. Because I'm coming back. Now listen, if in your life today you look and you think that there's things that are out of control, And you're wondering, Lord, what in the world are you doing? What are you doing in my life? What are you doing in history? Is there anybody that's running things? Is there anybody that's in control of this? You look at Matthew twenty four. See. You look at what Jesus predicted. Jesus made an absolutely astounding prophecy that came minutely true. This was not some general vague prophecy. It was a specific verses 15 to 22, very specific prophecy about the destruction of Jerusalem. And when that happened, It was the sign as he says in verse 35, heaven and earth may pass away. But my word is never going to pass away. Then verse 36, the very next thing, nobody knows. The day that I'm coming back, be ready. Are you ready? Are you ready for him? Are you ready to meet him? Jesus says he's coming back in judgment. But that judgment has still to come, and there's a day of mercy still offered. Because just after speaking these words in a matter of days, less than a week Jesus was crucified for sinners. He was crucified for all of those who had not lived under his authority. People like you and me who have messed up our lives. People like you and me who are full of shame and confusion, he gave his life to pay for the sin in your life and in my life. And he speaks these words so that you'll know he offers forgiveness, and he offers the protection that he who is in control of all of history alone can give. You can trust them. You can trust them with your life. You and I can rest secure in the fact that Jesus, who spoke these words that came so precisely true. He's coming back, and he's coming back soon. He's coming back very soon. We'll look at the signs next week He's coming back either for glory to those who love him and trust him and belong to him, or for horror, of which the destruction of Jerusalem was simply a foretaste. Are you ready? Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God We live as this life as if this life will just go on and on. And Lord, we need to wake up and to see. That you spoke something here which was a staggering statement, and then we saw it fulfilled, and it is recorded. Reticulously in history, how precisely your prophecy was fulfilled. And so it is sure you are coming back. It is sure that you will return. What is unknown is the time. It could be today. It could be before we meet again. But you will come back, the one whose authority will never again be challenged or ignored. Lord, I pray that there be nobody here so foolish as to think they can continue to ignore your offer of salvation or your command to fall before you. and to submit to your authority and rule in their lives. Lord, for those that are concerned that life seems out of control, Lord, speak the comfort to know. That you control history. You are able to control everything in our lives. We are secure as we rest in you. Lord, we then come now to submit our wills, to face whatever it is that That comes between you and us and are being ready and anticipating your return with hope and expectation. Search our hearts now, Lord.