Well if you're feeling like it's a little crowded here now and have put up some extra chairs, be glad we have 50 guys away camping in this beautiful weather Don't you envy them up there? Um but also uh just point out to you that uh if you are not somebody that takes advantage and needs children's church in your family The there were more seats at the 830 service. So uh if it gets a little crowded here then there is that alternative. Uh I understand that uh Saturday this place was packed out. I mean Friday this place was packed out also and the square dance, I wasn't able to make it But I understand that uh there was some pretty vigorous activity going on here. In fact I talked to one person that said their head still hurt Saturday afternoon from all the laughing. What a feat But uh I point that out because uh not only is that a lot of fun and we look forward to more, but I want you to particularly Take a hold of this thing. I understand they'd been handed out, CPC Fun and Fellowship. And did you realize these activities, the fall festival, the arts and crafts, Christmas Um, you know, we're gonna have a millennium celebration, they'll spend here New Year's Eve. Suffer together, right? Find out what happens. Well, these things aren't just for us They're to bring our friends. So uh think about some unchurched friend that you would have. Who you'd just like to get to see some Christians and hang around and take advantage of that, not just for us We also have a uh ambitious project coming up this year, our first Christmas cantata. Usually we do all kinds of other things, but You're going to hear more about that in the service, and so I won't tell you about it. All I want to say is I know some of you have already responded, and if you have any interest in this, let me encourage you strongly to get involved. Start right now. Uh that can be a great opportunity also of our not only rejoicing together and enjoying that time, but also an opportunity to bring our friends and our neighbors. Well back to the messages on Matthew chapter 24 and 25, third of three. And uh we're dealing with what lies ahead. What is it that lies ahead? And how can you know it? Isn't it amazing that with all the astounding technological, scientific advances that we have made as a culture Nobody yet can say exactly what's going to happen tomorrow. I mean, let alone years down the road. Nobody can say exactly what's going to happen to the stock market Or else you'd be able to make a killing, wouldn't you? Nobody knows exactly what the weather's gonna do. You have some probabilities, but you don't know exactly And yet that kind of irritates us, doesn't it? We just, why can't I know about tomorrow? And that's why there's such a demand for astrology. You know, futurologists don't have a very good track record. Even those that write about all the things will happen. Some things are kind of clear to see, but other things not very much so. You know, a hundred years ago, 1899 Futurologist of that generation said, definitively, all the major inventions that man has to make have already been done. Paul's now is just kind of refining them. All the major inventions have already been done. Well, so much for knowing the future. Can we know anything about the future? And that's why we're going to God's Word, because God is not confined to time. And when He says May not be in details, but in this book, he tells us what we need to know about the future. And do you remember that the last two weeks we have talked about what Jesus says How he at the end of his ministry said to the disciples, You see these buildings, these fabulous buildings and all that you see around here, Jerusalem? Well, I'll tell you that this generation will not have died out before not one stone is going to be left on another. It's all going to be destroyed. And he gives in chapter 24 of Matthew the first 33 verses, he gives 12 signs that he says, all these things in verse 34, all these things will have taken place. Before this generation dies out. He said that definitively. In fact, in verse 35 He adds a very significant statement. If you have your Bibles and you're open to Matthew 24, take a look at verse 35 there. He says, Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. The earth will crumble and dissolve before my word could fail. 1958, there was a soldier. He was stationed in Germany and was touring Berlin. He was walking around there in 1958 there were still a number of indications of the destruction of World War II. As he was walking through a residential area, he came across a place that had been cleared out, kind of made a park out of it, and he noticed that there was standing where there had once been a large church, all that was left was the door. And it was a large Gothic door, stone rounded, and it had carving. And in German, over the door were written these words From Matthew 24, verse 35, Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. There was nothing left except that door. Walked through the door into an open space that had been made a park and thought how these words are so true. The church will be bombed out, the whole earth will dissolve, everything will pass away. But the words of Jesus Christ will remain forever. And so when Jesus tells us what is going to happen, what he has done in this chapter, you see, is he has given us a sign to encourage our faith. He says, Jerusalem is going to be destroyed within this generation. And history recorded the fulfillment of that very unlikely prophecy. Now, what I want us to see this morning is how, in the rest of the discourse, that's only 34 verses, 35, if you had that. goes on for 61 more verses about another topic in answer to the disciples' question. When's this going to happen? What's going to be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Notice the contrast between verse thirty four and verse thirty six. In verse thirty four, Jesus says, I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away till all these things, these twelve signs, the wars, rumors of wars, the um the uh uh celestial shaking up the destruction of Jerusalem, the tribulation, the loss of life. Uh all these things, he said, none of all these things will take place within that generation. Then in verse 36 he says, but now in contrast to that, he says, no one knows about that day. Or our, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. So here's two events. When he says, I'm telling you within very limited bounds when that's going to happen. This I'm telling you. There is no indication of when it will happen. I couldn't even tell you if I wanted Jesus Christ Himself at that point But what I want us to notice, first of all, the first point you see there then is the contrast of verse 34 and 36. Verse 34 refers to the imminent destruction of Jerusalem. Jerusalem was, of course, destroyed in A. D. 70. Nearly a quarter of a million casualties. Unspeakable horror occurred at that time. Now, in contrast to that, that's the sign that he is coming in judgment. So the question is, when are you coming? When is that final physical appearance at the end of history? Verse 36 says, There are no signs. Therefore, the point is simply, next blank, be ready. Be ready. There will not be any signs to indicate when this is coming. The fulfillment of AD 70 was enough warning You know that my words will never pass away. Heaven and earth could pass away, and will. My words will never pass away, and I'm telling you, I'm coming. Now, what I want for us to do is to look at these next 61 verses. So we covered a lot of territory before. In the next 15 minutes, we're going to cover 61 verses. Seven warnings. I hear an amen there. Well, Passer, huh? Okay. Seven warnings that Jesus gives. And it all boils down to that same idea. I'm coming at any time. Be ready. But now, before we look at those seven stories that he gives in warning We need to ask the question, who are these warnings and stories addressed to? Because there's a tendency for us to look at that and to think, oh, I know who that's for That's for this person. That's for the person in front of me, or the person behind me, or the person that's visiting today here that doesn't know Jesus. That's it. No, the warnings are for you. You, every one of you. Some of you here don't know Jesus Christ in a personal way. You may be a seeker, you may be wondering, you have a respect for the Bible, you would like to know more about the God of Christianity, but you don't know how to know him. You have a lot of questions. The warning is for you, do not put that off. There is absolutely nothing more important in your life Than resolving the question of your relationship with Jesus Christ. He says, I'm coming. It could be at any time. Don't put off resolving that question and settling your relationship with me. Some of you are here and you maybe have been coming for weeks or for months, and You're still putting off Jesus. You're skeptical. You're saying, I have a lot of questions, and someday I'd like to get the answers, and I'm not really sure But down beneath all of it is really the concern to maintain control of your life. And so you're saying some other time when I get everything solved. And Jesus is warning you in these stories: do not put off your skepticism, the excuses See that I alone can give you life, forgiveness. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. Build your life on them No, I alone am your refuge. Don't put it off. Some of you here would say I've made a commitment to Jesus Christ at some time. At some point in my life I gave my life to him, but you know I I still oscillate, I go back and forth, and sometimes I feel like I know the Lord, and other times I feel like I don't, sometimes I feel like it's true, and other times I'm not really sure. You're like a styrofoam cup bobbing up and down on the waves of the ocean. Totally unsettled. The warning is for you. Get these matters settled. You don't know when Jesus is coming. It could be very soon. No more signs. Now some of you are going to say, oh well what about the sign of the Antichrist and the man of sin? Doesn't the Bible say that there's got to be that? And I'm kind of counting on that, you know, there's gonna be some no, there's gonna be a window there because I'll see that hey listen, we're gonna deal with that in the winter. You gotta hang on you gotta wait and come back and find out about the man of sin, the beast of Revelation The Antichrist. But let me tell you right now, I'll give you a preview. There is nothing that is said there that prevents Jesus Christ from coming back this week. So don't hold, don't think, oh well, you know, you can't be quite at the end. There's nothing. If Jesus intended to communicate to us That there is going to be a delay after Jerusalem is destroyed, but at that point there is nothing else that needs to be done. How could he do it? I suggest that the seven warnings he gives to us here. are as clear a statement of that position. Nothing else needs to happen and I can come at any moment. Be ready. Nothing could be clearer than what he gave to us in these seven mornings. Some of you could say, I've given my life to Jesus Christ and I'm walking with him, but You gotta be honest, your priorities are still pretty much fixed in this world. Don't really have time to get any training in discipleship. I know you offer this two-year discipleship curriculum during the middle hour and I I I understand that could give me some help in getting my life grounded in Jesus Christ, but you know, just It's hard to get here even regularly, let alone to get the middle hour in my schedule and you know, and I know you talk about the value of being in a cell and in fellowship and being able to be involved in these things and I someday I'd like to do that, but right now I'm just too busy. Just seems like my life is always in crisis. There's always something going on right now, maybe after this. Down deep inside you, there is a nagging voice that says, maybe at the end of your life, you're going to regret a number of the choices that you've been making. That draws a line around your life and says, I'll only let Jesus Christ have this much control. The warning's to you. He's coming at any point. Don't think you've got all these years left to say, well, after the crises He's looking for those who are ready, who are living in the light of his coming. Or maybe you're saying, I've given my life to Jesus Christ. I am looking forward to his coming and I'm I'm very imperfectly, but I'm I'm trying to live in the light of eternity and I I struggle with that, but I I I know what you're saying and I I really I give that to the Lord. You know, I've got people in my family and friends that I know and they don't know Jesus and I know that and I'd like an opportunity to talk to them, but yeah, it never seems like it's quite the right time. And you know, I don't want to impose my values. Gotta wait for a right time, you know, and maybe they're gonna be open and you know, maybe they'll fall down and say, what do I do to be saved? And I'll say, okay, well I guess maybe there's an opportunity. I'm looking for some sign, I guess, you know. The warning is for you. Sometime, possibly very soon, the door is going to be shut. Have you warned those that you care for? Have you thought about them and said, I don't I can't put this off. I don't know how long they have. You see, Jesus is speaking to each of us here. Now let's look at the stories that he gives, and we'll only be able to spend very brief time, just a few comments on each story, but I want you to see the drift of it, okay? So look in your bulletin outline so you can check the verses and you can look them up and you can read them later. But real quickly. First of all, notice the first story there beginning in verse 37 Or beginning verse 30 uh verse 37, uh Jesus compares his coming to the days of Noah. You know he says they were eating and drinking and that doesn't mean they were getting drunk and gluttonous on some I've heard sermons say that that's that's no just saying that life was going on, normal. Nobody thought anything special was gonna happen. Noah talks to them about God's gonna bring judgment. God says your sin is not escaping his notice. God is a God of justice. He must bring judgment And then that day came when finally it rained. And it didn't rain like it's raining today. The heavens poured, it says. They just dumped. And Noah and his family and all the animals are inside. They shut the door You can see the people as the waters rise, they're banging on the side of the ark and they're saying, Let us in, let us live. We'll listen to you now. And Lord, please let me in. I'll tell you what, I'll give you the deed to my beach property I mean there isn't any beach anymore, so let me in. You can have everything that I have. Let me in. It's too late. Jesus says that's the way it's going to be when the Son of Man comes. Or he gives two examples. He talks about two guys that are working in a field. He talks about two women working at a handmill where they pull the stone around. And he says like that, one's gonna be gone and the other's gonna be left. That's not about the rapture, by the way. It's probably about verse 31 where he talks about the angels They come and the coming of the Son of Man like the lightning from the east to the west. He says, the angels are then sent to gather the elect from the four winds. So there's that gathering of his people, and he's saying, that's going to be so fast. I'm going to appear, and then you're going to be gathered to me. As my people, and those that are left are left for judgment. No warning. Bam! Like that. Third example he gives, the careless homeowner. He says, Now you know, if if a guy knew when somebody was going to come around to burglarize, he'd Take the proper precautions. I told you about my wife warning me again and again. Close the garage doors. Well, you know, that Saturday that people, some kids came into our garage, apparently took some stuff. You know, I mean I wasn't saying Oh, gotta watch out. I think tonight there may be some kids coming around cruising in the neighborhood. I gotta make sure I get to grass. No, I'm just saying, ah, you know, it's like everyone probably not gonna be any burglars roaming around I just didn't think about it, you see, that's his point. Not that the guy was guessing or second guess. He simply said, I don't have to worry about tonight There's a story told about Robert Murray McShayn, a famous Scottish preacher. He's sitting around with his friends. And he says to his friends, Do you think that Jesus will come tonight? They began to talk about it and they said, well, no, I don't think it's going to be tonight. Next one, no, no, I don't think it's going to be tonight. No, I don't think no, I don't think it Can be the nine And then McCain read from verse 44 there in chapter 24. He says, The Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. So you think he's not coming tonight? That's when he says he's coming. When you think he's not. See the point is that there's a lot of Christians today that kind of think there's going to be something obvious just before Jesus comes that will say, ah Now we know he's coming because we've heard so many sermons about that, right? Oh, here's all the signs you know. Jesus' point again and again is you're not gonna know. You're gonna say it's not very likely now And he says, that's when I'm coming. See? That was the night that they came into the garage. That's what Jesus says. You know? Prepare, dummy. Think about it now. Fourth example that he gives. Talks about the wise and the wicked servant. Master leads the servant to take care of the people that he was over. One was faithful. The master comes back, and there's joy because he was found doing what the master had told him to do. And so there's this delight. The master is there and they share the fellowship. It's a great picture. Then Jesus says there's another one. He said, well, you know, the master's not coming for a long time. Now, very interesting that three times in these stories, Jesus talks about the master not coming back for a long time. Alright? So that tells us that even though Jesus said the signs will be fulfilled by A. D. 70 and the destruction of Jerusalem, it's probably not going to be A. D. 71. We're 171. He talks in verse 48. You see, he says, uh the servant says, My master is staying away a long time. So we've gotten used to his being away. Well, you look at chapter 25 and verse 5 about the bridegroom. The bridegroom was a long time in coming, and he became drowsy and fell asleep. Or you look at verse 19 of chapter 25. After a long time the master of those servants returned and settled the accounts. So the Bible, don't don't be disturbed by people who will say, you know, well you know the Bible's not true because the Bible clearly said Jesus was coming back and the disciples lifetime. And Jesus was simply wrong in that, and so we know that the Bible is not absolutely reliable. Jesus here three times says it's going to be a long time. Now how long? He doesn't tell us, you see. That's the whole point. So that those in ninety AD could have thought, well, maybe long time was now In a thousand AD, it's well, you know, it's been a long time. We come on 2000, it's been a long time. So you always are living in that tension of it's a long time, but Could be tonight. Could be today. And that's what he's trying to get across, you see. So the servant who thinks it's not along gonna be for a long time begins to act in a wicked way because, you see, he thinks he can live just for this life and enjoy. Indulging himself, showing that in fact he doesn't love or wait for his master. Notice the results of it in verse 51. It's not simply that as a result he misses out on a few goodies in heaven, has a few less acres of celestial real estate. Jesus says the master will come back and cut him in pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Indication is if you're not looking for Jesus in his coming, you don't really know him because essential to who he is. is the fact that he's coming back for his people. And so if you're living as if Jesus really doesn't enter into your life in a way that controls your priorities, there's a question about whether you really know him. The fifth example that he gives is of ten bridesmaids at Dick Redforce. Now you notice that in that story Uh it's not so much that they're virgins. It's all often called a parable of the ten virgins. Their virginity was kind of beside the point. The point is that they were bridesmaids to attend the bride and the bridegroom in the wedding that was coming up. They need to know just a word or two about Um they would drink a cup of communion and pledge their love, and then he would say, I'm gonna go and prepare a place for you, and I'm gonna come back and get ya. But they didn't set a date. Isn't that fun? You know, you hang girls really fun. How do you like that? You know, you're engaged, the guy's gonna come back and get you, but you don't know when. You don't know when your wedding day is Well who cares? He's the one that's got to make all the preparations. You like that? Maybe you like it better today. Anyway, he's back, he comes, and then in the distance there's this the sound of the shofar, the horn, you see, the trumpet that announces his coming. And what Jesus says here is in this wedding, he, you know, whether he kind of was getting behind in his preparations or whether he Was a guy that liked a little suspense, he really wanted to build it up. He delayed a little extra what beyond what she thought he might be doing. And so the bridesmaids are getting a little restless. Was Now can you imagine having ten bridesmaids? You say, I you guys just clear your schedules for the next couple of weeks 'cause I don't know, he's gonna come sometime, but you know, just hang around, you know, because we you know, don't go away, don't do anything, just hang around here. Well that's what they did then. And so what Jesus is saying here is that the five foolish didn't prepare. You see, in the weddings of those days, you had to carry a torch that had rags and it had oil. And if you didn't have the torch, it was assumed you were a party crasher because everybody had their own torch for the wedding. They didn't have it, they're locked out. Now the only thing I want you to see is you go to the next parable. It's the one of the talents, that famous one, which really isn't about talents. Talents simply a measurement of weight somewhere between fifty and eighty pounds. Could have been talents of gold, silver, whatever it was, it was a lot of money. Alright, so it's really the parable of investments That's what it's about. Master goes, he says, the three stewards, here, take this money, a lot of money, go invest it. Different amounts are given. First two do it, uh and they invest it. He comes back, been faithful in a little, you're gonna be faithful in much. Tremendous news for you as a Christian. We're not gonna be sitting on clouds playing harps. He's talking about a society in which we live in heaven with him. And so there's great joy. Third one this comes and he says, Well, you're a hard master, you're, you know, you're impossible to please. So I just dug it in the ground. I figure I'll give it back to you. Notice here's what Jesus is saying in a nutshell between these two pictures. I think he's getting at this. In the fifth about the bridesmaids, he's saying these people were locked out because they thought it was so easy. They thought that Christianity is no big deal. You know, hey, you know, at the last moment you can just sort of, oh Lord, uh forgive me, you know. Uh you know, I can I can live like I want because before I die or Jesus comes, then I'll get right. And he says, you think that it's just a matter of some glib prayer to God? He says, No, it don't work that way. The third steward was locked out because he thought it was too hard. See, his view of God was there wasn't any grace. Boy, his Christian life's really hard stuff. You know, I mean you gotta give up everything, boy, you gotta live and Can't relate to the rest of the world. You know, God's impossible to please. And so I'm not going to go that route until I have to. Jesus says it doesn't work that way, see. On the one hand, there's a radical change of lifestyle, but on the other hand, it's all by grace. You see, I'm not that kind of God. I'm not impossible to please. Toza once wrote an essay, God is easy to live with. You see, it's by grace through the work of Jesus Christ. And so you prepare because you prepare by his grace and let him change your life. But you must be prepared. And the fifth, the seventh, wraps it all up with a parable of the judgments. The sheep and the goats. What's significant there is that you notice they're both surprised. They're judged on the basis of how they treated his disciples, not because it's works. Simply Jesus is saying The transformation produces a life change. And that is exemplified in how you treat my disciples, your brothers and sisters in Christ. And so those who were the sheep were surprised. Oh, I you know, when did I do all this? Jesus says, you know, in when you did this and that, that act of kindness, I noticed that. You forgot it. You didn't think about it because you weren't doing it. For the reward you get. It was simply the reflection of a heart changed by my spirit because of the love I have for you that was worked out in your life. The goats, on the other hand, are surprised because they thought they'd been doing all this stuff. And Jesus says, you see, it's a heart matter. But that matter of the heart is seen in how we treat one another. So these are the warnings he gives, and he finishes up the whole thing in verse 46 by saying, Then they will go to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Now you see what's in common with all seven of these are two words. You see those the two blanks. Sudden judgment. In every case, it's sudden and unexpected, and in every case he talks about judgment. That's very significant, you see, because we think Lord Jesus you only needed about five verses here to make the point. Couldn't you have gotten back to love and all the rest of that? You know? Why does he take 61 verses? Of warning to get his point across. Wouldn't five been enough? And then we could get back to the good stuff I believe that the answer for that is because it is so hard to shake your lethargic heart that says that this light is all there is to live for. Jesus gives seven different warnings, 61 verses, and they're about judgment because he says that is a reality. And in so many other places he speaks about the joy of heaven and what he has for his people. And we'll get into that in the new heavens and the new earth. But at this point, he wants to warn those who are lethargic who are living as if this life is all that really matters, and it'll go on and on and on. He says, wake up! I'm coming back. Now, let me suppose, let's just suppose for a moment that because I'm a preacher, I get some inside information. Okay, so I get a note from St. Peter, and he says, nobody is supposed to know the time, but for you, I'm going to make an exception. Okay? Just once. I can tell you, Jesus is coming back a week from tomorrow, a week from Monday. Of course, being pastor and caring for you, I can't hold it back. And so I come and I tell you, I got the word. Jesus is coming back a week from tomorrow. I see the question that every one of us has to answer is, what difference would that make? What difference would that make in your life? Would you say, I think it's time to settle the questions I have And give my life to Jesus Christ to be forgiven of my sin, to gain the new life that He's promised. Well, if that's the case, what's keeping you? If you find that your priorities are locked up in this world But that's okay. Because there's a lot of pressures on you right now. And someday You'll be able to deal with that and get some training and get involved in ministry and really open your life up to Jesus Christ and what He wants to do with you. What difference would it make if you knew it was only a week it was gonna be left? You see, I mean the point's kinda obvious, isn't it? What Jesus is saying is not sell your house, get rid of all your stuff, you only got a week left, because we don't know But he's saying, remember you're a pilgrim here. You're not a resident. Travel light. Get rid of the baggage. Our whole vision statement as a church is based on the presumption that we are pilgrims here living for Jesus Christ. We're not people here to indulge ourselves in our residency in this world. So what difference would it make? Listen to Jesus. He's telling you this for your good. Let's pray. Lord, open our eyes that we might realize that you Who gave these warnings of the same one who said that within this generation Jerusalem is going to be destroyed, and you made good on that. And so, Lord, heaven and earth will pass away. But your words will never pass away. And you said you're coming. And you proved that you keep your word. And you are. And it could be much nearer than we think. Lord, I believe that there are indications that we could be right at the end. And so Lord, we we look to see what it means that's in our lives that just that just doesn't just contradicts that Any here who is not right with you, Lord, bring them to see. The time is now. Grace is promised for anyone who comes to you, but tomorrow has never been promised. Lord, help us to see that only two things were really going to outlast this world, this life, your word and people. So that we would begin to invest your word in the lives of people. Whatever baggage, Lord, is keeping us from that, open our eyes to see that now. Do we get rid of it? And we would live joyfully in anticipation of your appearance so soon. Hear us, Lord, because we are a people who want to wait with expectation in Jesus' name. Amen If you are a person who is saying, I really don't know, and I'm not sure, I do need to get this matter settled about my relationship with Jesus Christ, put it on a bracelet. And when those are handed in for the offering, we'll get that and get back to you. It's too important to pass up.