That uh they would make the book of Revelation into a movie You know they're gonna do that? Two Christian producers uh out in Hollywood that uh have seventeen point four million dollars budgeted For a book based on I mean a movie based on the Left Behind series of uh the Book of Revelation. That's a series by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins. In fact, there's a number of uh end-time movies uh out or coming out. Uh first of all, those guys produced a trilogy based on the end time the uh Left Behind series that um almost cost a total of seventeen million just for those and those are Christian distribution. This is going to be mainstream Hollywood pr distribution In November, uh Columbia Pictures is uh releasing uh a movie End of Days about the end of times, the end times, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. I don't know what part he plays, but uh imagine. A lot of stuff that's coming out. Hollywood's found out that uh people are really into prophecy This movie, of course, will see the book of Revelation according to the Left Behind series, as all said in the future. It's about a seven-year tribulation that is in the future. Other Christians, we saw last week, see the book of Revelation is all about or mostly about the past. Uh Lahaye and Left Behind sees that the tribulation of the future, from your perspective, tribulation of the future. Other Christians see that Revelation is basically about the great tribulation of 68 to 70 AD in the past. So the question is, is revelation about the tribulation in the past or is revelation about the tribulation in the future? And what I tried to lay out before you last week was the view which I hold that revelation is about the tribulation in the present. The tribulation that is all the way from the first coming to the second coming of Christ that tribulation that you are I in, that this is a book that is addressed to us pastorally and practically. And uh this is what John is writing for your comfort to build your faith to show both the tribulation and the victory of Christ during this time. In fact, you look at that chart And I gave you last week another copy this week, in case you forgot to bring it along, you know. Uh or maybe you weren't here last week, so you see what this is about. And you see that I believe that Revelation is divided into seven sections, plus a prologue and epilogue. Those seven sections each cover the whole period of the time between Christ first and second coming. And those uh each of those seven sections expand on a specific idea of Scripture. that is being revealed in our time. So if you look at your bulletin outline this week and combine it with the chart, you've got everything you need to know now. You've got, you see, in this bulletin outline, it's divided into seven sections, and these give you the verse so that if you think of a the section of Revelation You can look at this chart and it says, okay, here's a verse, and you can pick other verses, but these I think are among the what about the best way of zeroing in on what is the theme of that section. It's to open up the truth of that section. So what we want to do is to open that up this morning a little bit because remember Revelation means the unwrapping, the revealing, the opening up to you, Apocalypsis to unwrap something, and that's what revelation is intended to do. And for you kids for just a moment Let me give an illustration to help to unwrap to you what revelation means. It's about a girl, Jenny, who is having a really rough week. Now Jenny um had first of all this week her dog had died and that was pretty sad and then her best friend had moved away to another city, so that was sad And then now it's Saturday morning, and she found out that her favorite dress had been bleached in the wash. So that kind of put the cap on a pretty miserable week Her mom came home from shopping and Jenny just burst into tears and told her mom what a terrible week this was. And her mom listened to her and she said, Boy, it sounds like things have really gone downhill for you this week, Jenny. I'm really sorry to hear that. I got a package here and I'd like to show you it. It's a picture I bought. Would you like to see it? Jenny wasn't particularly in a mood for looking for a picture, but she said All right, Mom, you know, what'd you get? It's all wrapped up in brown wrapper, you know, so you couldn't see anything and there it was sitting on the counter. Your mom said, Okay, and she got a pair of scissors out of the drawer and she cut this little hole right in the center of the brown wrapping. And she said There, see my picture? Jenny said, come on, Mom, you know I can't see anything. Well yeah, let's take a look. So you know get up there real close. So you know Jenny put your eye on the holes in. I still can't see anything. It's just kind of dark in there. I just couple little colours and stuff And mom said, you know, Jenny, life's a lot like that picture, isn't it? You know, sometimes we get a little glimpse of this or that. It looks kind of dark and we don't see much. But she said, you know One day God's going to show us the whole thing. And then she took the picture and she just ripped off the wrapping, all the brown paper, and there was this beautiful painting. And hopefully Jenny got the point. Hopefully kids get the point of that. See we don't see much of what life's all about. We just see a little hole and sometimes it seems kind of dark But my point to you all now is that the book of Revelation is kind of like that wrapping. See, the Revelation takes that brown paper and it pulls it away to say, here's God's picture of reality. This is really what's going on Now the problem is that you and I look at Revelation as mildly interesting, but mostly frustrating, don't we? You know, it's got all these beasts and dragons and all this stuff going on. We say, what in the world is this all this stuff about? And that's more of a commentary, really, on our lifestyles than it is on the book of Revelation. Because you see, the book of Revelation was written to Christians under intense pressure. And I don't just mean their time schedules. They were Christians who were in conflict and spiritual warfare, and they knew it. So if these Christians would read Ephesians chapter six verse ten where Paul says, We wrestle not against just flesh and blood. Your enemy is not just your boss at work or the guy who's in power in the White House or the governor or people that you find that are making life difficult for you. That is really not the issue. Behind that there are principalities and powers in this age And if you said, Lord, open up what that means, then God in his grace said, I'll give you a whole book to do that. So you see, the Christians who were living at that time in this spiritual conflict saw Revelation as a book that was an answer to prayer. And if you and I could really see what our lives are like, what really is going on in the conflict, the stress in your life. We'd run to revelation every week. We'd say, God, I gotta see that again. Help me again to see what is it? Help me to see reality again, you see. It's a precious book. One book of the Bible that promises a blessing to him who reads it, beginning and the end. So, what we're going to do now, hope you consider this a blessing, is that somebody said after the first Service, you should have had a set of rollerblades for us to put on. We're going to cover the book of Revelation, twenty-two chapters in the next few minutes. Well just give you an overview. Alright? So grab your chart with one hand and your outline in your other hand and your Bible in your third hand. And if you don't have three, just double up there somehow All right, because I want you to have your Bible open to look at a couple of verses here so that we can see a little bit about what this is about. In order to help you to feel it more, last um Lord's Supper in October, we um read Had a dramatic reading of Revelation 1 to 12. We'll finish that November 7, Lord's Supper, Revelation 12 to 22. And so um Invite you all to come to hear that, and if you know the Lord Jesus, belong to him, or part of his body, that you would take the Lord's Supper with us at that time. We're not going to read it all now. We'll wait to hear that. But what I want to do is just give you some of the high points to help you to see the overview of what this beautiful and majestic book is about. First section, he begins in Revelation 1, 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him, to show his servants what must soon take place. And again in verse 3 says that these are the things that are going to happen. because the time is near. So he's saying this is what's going to happen now. Not just wait until the end of time when Jesus comes again. Revelation is about that whole time, from his first to his second coming. And so I would put with that the what the first section about, chapters 1 to 3, this is the letters to the seven churches, is Jesus, who's you see there in verse uh 13. Verse 12 and 13. It says I turn around to see the voice of him speaking to me. When I turned I saw seven golden lampstands, and among the lampstands was one, someone like a son of man. Now where's that phrase son of man come from? Anybody remember? I heard a grunt. Daniel. Daniel seven. Okay, good. I didn't get a grunt out of the first service. You know, early services is kind of hard, you know. But anyway, that's Jesus, of course. And where is Jesus? He's among the lampstands. What are the lampstands? The end of the chapter tells you. Now, what this is saying then is Matthew 28:20, I am with you always, and you are the light of the world. Those two verses from Matthew. The church is the light in the dark place, Jesus is among us. And you notice how Jesus is described there. Verse 13, among the lampstands, one like the Son of Man, that majestic figure from Daniel 7 Dressed in a robe, reaching down to his feet, with a golden sash around his chest, his head and his hair were white like wool, as white as the snow, his eyes were like blazing fire His eyes, his feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters. It reminds me of the first time I saw Niagara Falls when I was an adult And if you ever go to see Niagara Falls and you haven't seen it, don't go the American way. Cross over the Niagara River down by the Erie, Lake Erie, and drive up the Canadian side As a park, first of all, so it's a lot nicer. We drive along that northwestern uh side of the Niagara River, and you notice this this placid river that's flowing along and as you drive down there you notice the river starts picking up speed and gets a little faster and the current's moving along. And then you get to a point where you can't quite make out what it is, but in the distance you hear this dull roar. And it's it's quite a sound like you've never heard before. And as you move further down, this roar becomes louder, and then you come to this bend in the road where you come around the park, and you see down there Beyond the river, you can't quite make it out because it's still you can't see anything except there's always trees and stuff. But then there's this this kind of like a mushroom cloud, you know, it's it's just this this cloud of mist that's rising up And you keep driving down further, and the dull roar becomes a mighty earth-shaking roar. And you reach the brink of those falls and you have to shout to be heard, and the earth is trembling. Now that's what John says Jesus' voice was like. Like the sound of mighty rushing waters. John probably had in mind the breakers of the sea because he's on an island. But it's that kind of sound that he has in mind. Notice how he continues to describe him. He says in verse 16, his right hand he held seven stars. Out of his mouth came a sharp double-edged sword. His face was like the sun shining in all its brilliance. The sun is so powerful that from a distance of ninety-three million miles, you and I cannot look at the sun without going blind. You look away at the at the sun uh from ninety-three million miles away and and you know you you have to turn away And John says his face was like the sun, his voice like Niagara Falls or like the surf during a storm. And so the result is that John says in verse 17, When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. I mean, here's one that knew Jesus on earth. Who cuddled up to him at the Lord's Supper and laid on his chest. But he said, When I saw him in reality, in all his ascended glory, I fell at his feet and didn't dare to look at him. But then you have that verse goes on, he placed his right hand on me, and he said, John, do not be afraid. And you see, that's the picture of Jesus in Revelation. He is the one who strikes terror because of his glory and his majestic power. But to his people, he reaches out to touch us and say, do not be afraid. I'm your shepherd. I'm here to take care of you. And so that's expanded. As you go through those letters to the seven churches in that first section, it's a a series that I have actually begun to think about to prepare for. I'd love to do that. I hope to do that sometime. The letters to the seven churches, those are letters to you and to me, to the Church of Jesus Christ in this age. After that, he then, and that covers the whole period. Each of these represent a church that is like churches today, and we look and see how they apply to us. Then you move to the second section, chapters four to seven, and you see that the church in the world is going to suffer tribulation. Partly it will be persecution, and partly it will be simply the fact that we live in a world that is under the curse And so there are wars, there is famine, there is death, there are what are called the seven seals of the scroll Two things very significant about this. Number one, you notice that before John opens the scroll, he first of all has a vision of the throne room of heaven, and there is God sitting on the throne. It's a majestic picture uh to imagine it, uh the emerald or uh rainbow around the throne and all the rest of four living creatures, 24 elders, all the it's to show that no matter what the tribulation is, God's on the throne It's not man, it is not that circumstance that is ultimately in control, but God is on control. And then as he goes through the wars and the death and the famine and all the rest of this, he finishes up with the sealing of the 144,000. And that is the people of God. It is not a literal, I do not believe that refers to a literal number, it's not the Jews, it's not anything. 144,000 is 12 times 12 times 10 times 10 times 10. Twelve times twelve, the twelve tribes of the Old Testament, twelve apostles of the New Testament representing the Church of Jesus Christ in its fullness. Ten in the Bible is a number of fullness. 10 cubed, the Trinity, is fullness of fullness of fullness. So it's all of God's people. So what's the point? The second section is saying to you and me. In the world you'll have tribulation. Be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. There's going to be tribulation, but I have sealed my people, and they can never be destroyed. Move on to the third section. Seven trumpets Again, all of these cover the same time span, all the time between the first and the second coming. The seven trumpets, remember, trumpets are for warning. They're the warnings of the judgments of God. If you read those, you see that um God now is declaring to those who have set themselves against him, 2 Thessalonians 1, he will pay back trouble to those who trouble you. You look in the uh this is uh the seven trumpets, a couple things you'll notice is first of all notice the similarities to the plagues of Egypt, which were what? They were the warnings to Egypt As you read through those, you notice that they're all a thirds, third of the sea, third of the population, third. Well, those are all warnings, you see. God is saying he takes some people suffer In order that we would know that God is a God who does not treat sin lightly. And sometimes s Christians suffer with that But the warning is particularly to those who are arrayed against him. You see there the demons, locusts that come out of the abyss that smouldering furnace, as scorpions, so that people seek death and are not able to find it. Again, there's the contrast. In the midst of this, you have the two witnesses. Those two witnesses, who are they? Everybody wondered, who's the two witnesses? The two witnesses I do not believe are two literal men in the in a seven-year future tribulation is referring. You see, it's talking about two olive trees. You're reading Zachariah, those are God's witnesses, his people. Jesus sent out his disciples to dis to bring the Message of the gospel how? Two by two, probably referring to missionaries and the missionary movement throughout the age, throughout this period of time. Because the result of that is, you see, that they array themselves against them. They attack them, uh, but these missionaries are you can't you can't conquer them. You just can't put them down, you know. He says uh they blow with their mouth and uh no one is able to overcome them Nations have outlawed the gospel. Japan thought that they had obliterated the Christian movement within Japan. They practically did. And so Revelation speaks of these two witnesses killed. There they are. Their bodies are laying dead. Well, get away with them. Don't have to worry about Christianity coming into our culture, into our country And what happens? Three days later they rise up from the dead. Oh man, what is with these guys? You know, you kill 'em, more come. You just can't seem to put this thing down. That's the picture, you see that God is saying Jesus cannot disciple. He is King. He will overcome through the nations. And so the gospel continues to go forward. The result, as you see in chapter eleven, in verse fifteen then, is that uh the seventh angel sounded the trumpet, there were loud voices saying, The kingdom of this world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. And he will reign forever and ever. That's the point. Fourth section, you move in. Climax now to the first half of the book reveals the powers behind all this conflict. And say I had these figures in chapters twelve to fourteen. First figure is the woman. Who's the woman? The woman I believe refers to the people of God, the covenant people of God, particularly In the Old Testament, bringing forth the Son, who's the Son. Well, just read in chapter one, the Son of Man, Jesus, the Messiah. The woman bears the Son, chapter twelve. And as she is pregnant, bringing forth this one who is the Messiah. the people of God. What is she faced with? A dragon. The dragon faces her and the Bible says that he swept a third of the stars away with his tail and they came crashing down to earth. Now it kind of amuses me. I heard somebody going through this recently to kind of check out all the different views on this. One person saying, you know, it's about a seven year tribulation in the future, left behind kind of view of it, and saying, you know, and here's the dragon, he comes, sweeps the third of the stars to the earth. And the thing you might know you didn't elaborate on that, because if you think about that, you know, ten to a hundred billion galaxies, each one ten to twelve billion stars. You know, and so they figure that's probably a star for every couple of acres uh on Earth, you know, and those stars average between three and five hundred thousand times the size of the Earth apiece And And you got a few billion of them coming crashing down to earth. Not very likely. It's obviously symbolic language. You see, this is not something to be interpreted literally. What's the effect of that? You see the rage and it says specifically that the dragon is Satan. It's the rage of Satan when Jesus comes to destroy him, whether through Herod or whether through the persecution of the early church. And what comes with the dragon? Chapters 12 to 14, you've got his two allies, the beast from the sea and the beast from the earth, who is the false prophet. Who's the representative of the beast of the earth and the beast from the sea? It's the harlot, the prostitute, Babylon. And so you had these three figures arrayed against the church. The beast from the sea represents persecution. Read it, check it out yourself. The beast from the earth, the false prophet, represents false religion. The prostitute, the harlot of Babylon represents seduction of materialism in this world's values. Those are the three great enemies of the church. Persecution, false religion, and the seduction of temporal values. That's what it's about. And so that's unmasked. That's revealed in chapters twelve to fourteen. But then you go to chapter fifteen, and what do you see? Chapter 15, verse 2 And I saw what looked like, now notice this, get this image, classic illustration of how Don uses images. I saw what looked like a sea of glass mixed with fire. Now what is what what is sea and water referred to in Scripture? Well, often it refers to trial. You see, you go through the Red Sea, come out of Egypt Uh there's the churning of the sea goes through deep seas, deep waters. Water often in scripture refers to trial. Jesus Uh the disciples go down the boat, they are in a storm on the Sea of Galilee, and so what happens? There they are tossed, they're sure they're going to die. Jesus comes walking on the water To meet them, to calm the storm. You see. What do you have here? A sea of glass. We all walk on the water. There is no more trial to overcome us. What is that sea mixed with? What do you say there? What's it mixed with? Fire. What does that mean? What is the other symbol in the Bible for for trial and for purification? Fire So now here it is, here's a sea. Imagine the beauty of it, because here's a sea that's like diamonds. And it's not saying it's a literal, you know, the sea turned to glass. Oh gee, how are you gonna get a drink? You know, it's not about that. It's saying, get the image, you see. Here is a sea that you now walk on. There is no more tribulation. There is no more threat. And so what does he go on to say I saw a sea of glass mixed with fire standing beside the sea, those who had been victorious over the beast and his image and over the number of his name Skipped about the number of the name. I gotta talk about the beast later on in the series. Uh talked about a little in the middle hour. All I can say now you look in here The number of his name, chapter 13, verse 18. Number of his name, 666. You know, I got a whole file on what 666 is. I mean, you name it, I got it. Everybody that's ever had 666 on a license plate, on a billboard, and a credit card, everything, I got a file on it, all right? Now, that's not what it's about. 666. He says specifically 6 is the number of man. Revelation, the conflict, is between God as the true God and the false God. God, the true God, is the Holy Trinity. He is 777. God rested the seventh day, created man on the sixth day. The unholy trinity is that which aspires to God but can never be God. Satan, the false prophet, and the beast. And the number of them or him is six six six six Now, it's possible that Christians have made a case for the fact that if you look at the name of Nero in the first century, that uh the emperor who was the first emperor to persecute Christians, sixty four sixty five AD. If you take Nero's name in the Hebrew, the letters in Hebrew each letter refers to a number. They also double, you know, like you have X for ten in Roman Latin, you know, that kind of thing each Hebrew letter referred to a number. If you add up the number of the no numerical equivalent of the name Nero Caesar, what do you get? You add up, you get, behold, 666. What was Nero referred to as emperor? The beast. That's verified. We know that's what it been. There was nobody who was more bestial than Nero. Was Nero the beast, the Antichrist? No, I don't think so. I think he was a type of it. Just like Jerusalem in its destruction was a type of the final judgment, Nero is a type. We're going to talk three messages on who is the Antichrist, who is the beast of Revelation, who is the man of sin in Second Thessalonians. And hang on. Gotta move on for this now. That's just to get you thinking. Take a look on your own. Move on to the fourth section. Fixing the fifth section. And you come now to um chapters fifteen and sixteen, the trumpets have warned of God's judgment, the bulls now come to pour out that judgment. Now you have the same plagues But now instead of a third, it is complete. The sea, the full sea turns to blood. Sores all over, rivers and springs have turned to blood. The horror is so great that in the midst of this there is a statement. God, you are just to do this, because the statement the question comes of course how can anybody deserve this? Look at this horror of suffering. And so there is the statement in there, you are just and true in your judgments. Chapter 15, verse 5. Uh then he continues on with this to describe uh how this uh you know the heat that uh you know plagues and and you notice that there's a statement that people suffering these things don't turn to God, rather they curse God, they blaspheme Him. And then you have the thing culminated by the three evil spirits that are like loathsome frogs. evil spirits that come out and what do they initiate? The Battle of Armageddon. Ah boy, there's another thing you've read about too, right? Armageddon. What's Armageddon? Well I'm not going to tell you now. But let me just tell you this. You want us to understand what Armageddon is about? Don't look at contemporary political philosophy. That's not what John was writing about. You want to understand Armageddon? Well Armageddon appears in the Bible. Where does Armageddon appear in the Bible? Book of Judges Where does it appear in judges? When the Canaanites have overwhelmed the Israelites, their backs are to the wall, they think things are absolutely hopeless, they're going to be destroyed. God raises up Deborah And they defeat the enemy. Now, what does it say in Revelation 16, 5? Jesus comes like a thief in the night. That's unfolded in the next section. So you come to the sixth section. Sixth section, verses chapter 17 and 18, now spells out what is going to happen to the harlot, Babylon, to the beast from the sea, and to the beast from the earth, the false prophet. After describing them, it speaks of how they are destroyed. Babylon the Great who is uh the woman of adulteries is destroyed by Jesus. And you see the conflict, don't miss the conflict and contrast of the two cities. Babylon, all the temporal values, who in her pollutions not only uh drinks the blood of the saints, because she is set against us, temporal values? I mean w what what magazine has published as much or more anti-Christian material than anything else going in the popular press, Playboy magazine And so you have this conflict between Babylon the the prostitutes, and when Babylon is destroyed, what is revealed? Jerusalem, the bride of Christ coming down from heaven. What is Jerusalem? Jerusalem is the chaste bride by God's grace in contrast. She's the pure virgin. Not because you and I are pure, not because we come bringing our righteousness, but it's the gospel. So you come to chapter 19. And you see there in verse 3 that the picture is the contrast. Again, they shouted, Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever. Chapter 18 spells out the destruction. One hour. She has been destroyed. This is the praise of God that Babylon has now been destroyed. You contrast that with verse six. And I heard so it sounded like great multitude, like the roar of rushing waters, again there it is, like loud peals of thunder shouting, Hallelujah, for the Lord God Almighty reigns, let us rejoice and be glad and give him the glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come and his bride has made. She goes down to chapter 21, and he describes that bride as the new Jerusalem, verse 2, coming down out of heaven, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. She is the antithesis of Babylon. She is the church of Jesus Christ. She is you and me. And so you look today and you see all that looks glamorous in this world. You look at Hollywood and you look at all the you know the rich and the famous and all that and you say, boy, that really looks alluring. That's appealing. You look at the Church of Jesus Christ, you say, it looks stupid, it looks weak, I'm embarrassed by it sometimes And God says, look, strip away and see the reality. Church of Jesus Christ is the bride of his delight. In the sight of Jesus Christ, you and I are that bride that is the center of his affection, and he is going to glorify us. To be the most beautiful creation of all of his imagination throughout history. And so you see, in the seventh section, the last section Chapters 20 to 22. Once again, the review of history from the first coming to the second coming. So in chapter 20 you have the millennium. And that's you've got to understand that in the context. I'm not going to tell you what the millennium is because next week we're going to spend the whole week. The whole message is going to be on chapter 20 of Revelation, what the Millennium is, when it is, and what more information about that. But after the millennium, you notice that in verse 7 of chapter 20, Satan is released, there is one final battle, there is one final uh conflict between the saints and uh the evil one. And then Jesus comes and you see in chapter 20, in verse 10 That the devil who deceived them was thrown out into the lake of burning sulphur where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. And they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. You ever been in a movie, you know, where you see finally this person is to build up all this hostility toward, and you know, and is this person ever going to get And you finally see them, you know, there they go. And everybody in the movie house erupts, oh, yeah, yeah, you know. Well that's what you ought to be doing, you see. 'Cause Satan is going to be thrown into that lake and as you See that in Revelation, your heart ought to be leaping, you ought to be cheering. Yes, Jesus, you're gonna do it. You're gonna put him down under our feet, you're gonna destroy him forever. He'll never again have power. Amen. At least we can get that out of you. But you see, that's what revelation is to emote evoke emotional responses from us. Not analytical. What is this? What about? What is that? It is to g is to give you an impression so you look at that and you say, praise God. This is what he's doing. And so in the light of that, chapters 21 and 22 are just simply a picture of the new heavens and the new earth. The bride that has come down for Jesus. The one that has come in his glory. And so you see this climax of everything. In uh chapter twenty-one, you see that uh the new heavens and the new earth, for the first heavens and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. Here it again, no longer any Tribulation, trial. And I saw the holy city of the New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven for God from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be as people, and God Himself will be with them and be their God, and He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. You see, Revelation says, ye either have the mark of the beast or you have the mark of Jesus. In that final judgment in chapter 20, you either go with him to life eternal or you are cast into the lake of fire. It is either or There's nobody here in this room that's going to have a third alternative. Either you have the mark of Jesus, that is you have his spirit in your heart because you have confessed your sins and you have trusted him as your Savior to save you from your sins. to deliver you from the penalty that you deserve. Or you have the mark of the beast. Mark of the beast isn't some physical mark on your right hand or on your forehead. It is that mark upon you that identifies you as not belonging to Jesus Christ, because either you belong to him or you belong to the beast. So Jesus says in the very end, Behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy in this book. And then at the very end of it in chapter 22, verse 20, he who testifies to these things says, Yes, I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with God's people. Amen. Some years ago I remember James Thompson talking about the f uh seeing how elephants were trained. And in India what they do is they take an elephant and they'll keep it in isolation for three days. And then when the elephant is lonely and neurotic and nervous and vulnerable, they bring it out to a fire ceremony in which they yell at it, they intimidate it They shout at it, they beat it until finally by dawn the elephant's will is broken and it is under their control. You see, if the elephant saw what it was like, its strength, compared to these puny men, it would never submit. But the elephant is blinded by the manipulation Revelation is saying, brothers and sisters, see who you are in Jesus Christ. Open your eyes to see, in fact. Who you are and what you have in Him. And live this week as one who is waiting for Jesus' coming, as one who sees reality, who is identified with Him. Therefore is not blinded by the manipulation of this world and its false values. Do you see him? Do you see it? Can you see him? I hope so. Let's pray. Oh, Lord Jesus. Lord, open our eyes that we might see you You whose face is as the sun shining in its brilliance, whose mouth and voice is of the sound of rushing waters. Who could destroy us with a mere thought, and yet reach out your hand to us and say, do not be afraid. My power is exercised for your protection. And you are coming soon. Lord, strip away false values from our lives. We might see you and trust you and love you and serve you. That we might see reality in Jesus' name. Amen