Pretty doing it. So looking forward to it, you're not gonna wait for the invitation. Well, happy Reformation Day. Okay. Anybody even said the same to you? All right. Amen. That'll be good enough. I was very tempted, you know, it's not very often Reformation Day. You all know what Reformation Day is, don't you? That's when Luther nailed those Theses to the Dord Wittenberg, not coincidentally on Halloween, that is Hallows Eve, all Hallows Eve, all Saints Eve, but because of that occasion. So um it's uh a a tremendous opportunity to be able to talk about some of the central doctrines of the Reformation and things that were uncovered then that are important for us. And I resisted that temptation, even though it was on Sunday, because I thought after two weeks on the book of Revelation If I were to say well we postponed the millennium for a week because I want to talk about you know maybe an uprising. So we are going to, in spite of that, we are going to continue on in Revelation and just at least um in your mind see the connection somehow between Reformation Day and the great truth here of the millennium. This is a study we've been doing since the uh summer on what is in theology called eschatology. A word that apparently was invented around 1845, so a rather recent word, comes from two Greek words, esketa, which means end or last And then the word logia, which means word or discourse or study. So eschatology is the study of last things, the study of the end times. And we're seeing tremendous surge of interest in that. I don't know how many of you got this. We got this a couple weeks ago in our mailbox conference here in Colombia on the Millennium of Prophecy and uh movies coming out on it, conferences, books all over. So a lot of interest in eschatology, the study of the last things now as we approach the third millennium And nothing is more central to that study, which is basically focused on the return of Christ, than the whole matter of the millennium. You notice this thing is called. It's a Prophecy Conference and it's called Millennium of Prophecy, first sessions on the Millennial Man. And so you hear that term quite a bit. Millennium. The Millennium. What is the Millennium? Well, the millennium, the word is from the Latin, refers simply to a thousand years, and it is taken to refer within study of the last things to the thousand year reign of Christ. The big question for people that study Bible prophecy is is that reign of Christ, that thousand-year reign, something which is literal on earth and literally a thousand years Or is it something figurative and symbolic? And is does Christ return before or after the millennium? And that's where you get those terms, you know, people always say, well, where are you in your eschatology? Well I'm a pre-mill or I'm a post mill or I'm an ah mill, you know, and you had the people say I'm a panmill, it's all gonna just pan out, or I'm a windmill, I just keep going around and my can't make up my mind. You know, all these things. Well, the middle you see refers to millennium and those terms refer to where the millennium is with reference to the return of Christ. So a pre-mill brother or sister is somebody that says Jesus comes before the millennium. Premill people believe generally in a literal thousand-year reign on earth. And there's two pre-mill positions. One says Jesus comes, and then bingo, that's it. The millennium is established on earth. Others say Jesus comes secretly, takes the Christians to heaven, then there's a seven-year tribulation, and then after the great battle of Armageddon, then Jesus establishes his thousand-year reign on earth That's premillennialism. The post millennial brothers and sisters say Jesus comes after the millennium. And the millennium basically is saying that when Jesus I mean uh this view says that when Jesus gave the Great Commission, go and make disciples of all the nations, that wasn't simply a command, but that was an authoritative declaration that it would in fact occur. so that you will go and you will make disciples of all the nations. And in fact, we are in a period of time where that is being done. The victory of the gospel is seen more and more as you see in missions and the rest of this. In fact, these folks say that there will come a time when all the earth, every nation will bow before Jesus. Everyone will say, uh in um from among every nation, uh those who are not Christians will be the exception rather than the rule, and that after some long period of time, maybe a thousand years, maybe less, maybe a lot more longer Then Jesus will come back. Therefore they're called post millennials. Not because they're, you know, posting, you know, any other post stuff you have. I saw a cartoon a couple of weeks ago about, you know, the three kinds of cereals that people eat, you know. There's the there's the post mills and the pre mills and the post toasties and all this and I mean all this joking around and people do about, but is referring to simply the fact that where we understand this rain coming with regard to Jesus' return, the Amel people kind of unhappy term because it sounds like they're, you know, like agnostic or something. Uh these folks simply say that Jesus will come after the period of time, but it's not a literal millennium. It's not uh of rain on earth in the way that the other views see it. It's talking about now, what's happening now that uh in fact it has a dual reference to what's happening on earth and what is happening in heaven. Now, if you're thoroughly confused, I don't blame you, but what does the Bible say? That's all we're concerned about. We don't want to just establish a bunch of schools of prophecy. What does the Bible teach? The interesting thing is That so much is made about the millennium that you'd think that the millennium appears all over the Bible, that the millennium is, you know, from Genesis to Revelation, or at least from Matthew to Revelation And there's probably a lot that's said on this because it's so central to people's view of the end times. In fact, the word millennium, uh, it's kilia, from which we get kiliasm in the Greek That word only appears in one passage in the Bible. And that passage is a difficult passage in a difficult book, the book of Revelation, very symbolic book. So it's it's all you know, it's just to give you a clue that don't build your whole view of what you think is going to happen in history in the end of time on your view of the millennium because the millennium is really um a a difficult concept to get your hands on In fact, what I want you kids to do now, I've got a little assignment for you kids that are here still with me. I want to read that passage, part of that again. It's uh in Revelation chapter 20, verses 1 to 6. That's it about the millennium. So uh if you've studied that passage, you understand it in the context, you understand the millennium And I want you kids, as I read through this, to count how many times you hear the words thousand years, because that's the word millennium, it's the word kileas. But how many times do you hear a thousand years? And when I've gone through this and we finished this passage, that's how many times it is in the Bible, period. Nothing to add to that. So I've got to ask you afterwards Now, the first six verses are the verses that refer to it, but verse seven also makes reference to it, so I'll add that. So God's word to us from Revelation chapter 20 Though it may seem mysterious and difficult, God intends for us to understand this. Let's hear His word. John says, and I saw an angel coming down out of heaven. having the key to the abyss and holding in his hand a great chain. He sees the dragon, that ancient serpent Who is the devil or Satan, and bound him for a thousand years? He threw him into the abyss and locked and sealed it over him. to keep him from deceiving the nations any more until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be set free for a short time. I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus, and because of the word of God. They had not worshipped the beast or his image And had not received his mark on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life, and they reigned with Christ a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released from his prison and go out and deceive the nations. Now, you kids, you kids tell me, how many times did you hear thousand years? James, six, you got it. I got her six over here. Everybody got the right answer. Great. If I had any Halloween candy with me, you know, you don't have Halloween candy at Columbia Presbyterian, then I'd give you some. But That's great. You got it, dead on. Six times. And that are those are the only six times in the Bible that you have reference, specific reference to the millennium. Now what is it saying? Well, you see, this is why we laid the structure for Revelation before we talked about the millennium. Because if you read Revelation, as many people do, and you think that Revelation is intended to be read chronologically, linearly, then it's normal for you to think that, well, chapter 20 comes after chapter 19, therefore what happens in chapter 20 must come after what happened in chapter 19. What do you read at the end of chapter 19? You read about the return of Jesus. And so if you have Jesus coming back in chapter 19, and then you have a millennium in chapter 20, the millennium must be after Jesus returned. Therefore, we should all be premillennialist, right? Not quite that simple. Part of the problem is that in chapter 19 Jesus comes back, but that's the fifth time he's come back in the book of Revelation, so I don't know anybody that says Jesus comes back five times So we probably have some repetition here, and I tried to lay out before you. Now here's time to pull out your little chart there, as you see. Third week, same chart, no changes, but in case you didn't get the other two, uh, or you don't have it with me, you didn't have it with you, uh, this is the structure that I suggested to understand the book of Revelation, where you see that there are seven cycles. That what John does is he takes us through church history from Jesus' first coming to his second coming seven times. Seven very significant book in Revel a very significant number in Revelation. And John has seven times giving us a sweep of church history, all from slightly different angles. Seven letters to seven churches, and then you have judgments, and you have uh tribulations, and you have all these different things. And this is now the seventh, chapter 20 to 22. So this is the climax of the whole thing. John is now going the the deepest and the highest in order to reveal the triumph of Christ. So according to this understanding, you see, what you have in chapter twenty is not after chapter nineteen. You go to chapter nineteen Return of Christ. Now begin chapter 20. Okay, now we're back to the first coming again. Now we're going to move again through chapter 20 to 22 from the beginning to the end of church history, from Jesus' first to second coming. Now, if that's true, you see, if you follow me in that, then all of a sudden you begin to understand what some clues about what this millennium is in fact about. Fortunately, it divides neatly, those first six verses of chapter 20 about the millennium divide very neatly into two hunks of three, verses one to three and verses four to six. Verses 1 to 3 talk about the binding of Satan. Verses 4 to 6 talk about the reigning of the saints. Alright? We're going to look at these two sections now to try and understand this. First of all, the binding of Satan. Notice four things about this. in order to understand what God is trying to for you and for me practically to understand. First of all, notice the reference to the abyss. I saw an angel coming down out of heaven having a key to the abyss. and holding in his hand a great chain. That abyss is the same one you have in chapter nine, chapter twelve, it's talking about the the uh the haunt, the um place where the demons are. And you notice that the angel has a key. And a key in Revelation is a symbol of authority. Jesus has the key to death in Hades. Key is a symbol of authority. So this angel has some great authority, and what does he do? Well notice in verse 2 he seizes the dragon, that ancient serpent who is the devil or Satan And he bound him for a thousand years. Well, a couple of things you'll notice about that. First of all, very clear what the devil is, uh what the dragon is. The dragon is Satan But you notice that how does he bind Satan? What does he bind him with? We kids who were listening. What does he bind him with? He's got a key and he what else does he have Chain, right? Now, is Satan physical or is he spiritual? Is he a physical being or is he a spiritual being? What is he? He's a spirit, right? Now how are you going to bind a spirit with a chain? So obviously this is symbolic. This is not talking about something that's literally going to take place. It's conveying something to you. The angel has great authority and he binds Satan. He is limiting him. Now here's where a lot of times we go wrong. We think that he's binding Satan for a thousand years. That means that this is a period of time where Satan doesn't do much. You know, he's pretty well Incapacitated. There he is, he's down in this abyss and he can't do much. We know that's not true because of what he says in verses 4, 5, and 6, where you have persecution going on and the rest of that. So what is happening here? Verse 3 tells you that the binding is with reference to a very specific activity. You see in verse 3? He threw him into the abyss and he locked and he sealed it over him. to keep him from deceiving the nations anymore until the thousand years were ended. So this binding has a very specific purpose. It's not saying he's bound in general. It's saying with regard to not deceiving the nation. All of a sudden when you read that, you think, hmm, have I seen that anywhere else in the Bible? And all of a sudden you think, of course, of Matthew and a number of references. Do you remember, for instance, now look these up afterwards, I got them written down there, take a look, but we don't have time to turn to them Remember Matthew chapter 12, Jesus casting out demons. The Pharisees say, Oh, you do that through Beazelbub, the prince of the demons, you know, you're in league with him. Jesus, that's ridiculous. Is Satan going to cast himself out? But if I am in fact casting out demons by the power of the Spirit, then the kingdom has come upon you. Then he goes on and he says this no one can spoil the strong man's house unless he first fought. binds the strong man. That word binded he uses in Matthew 12, 29. Very same words you have here in Revelation 20. Same word. So that binding that Jesus is talking about is what? What is necessary for his kingdom to be established. Do you remember in Luke chapter 10? When Jesus sent out the disciples, sends them out two by two, and they come back and they say, We preached, and the demons were subject to us. We were able to cast them out. We had power and the power of the gospel. And what does Jesus say? I saw Satan falling like lightning. You see what? Satan was being cast out. He was being cast out. Similar language to John 12. Remember in John 12, Jesus talks about how uh the evil one is going to be cast out and if he is and I'm lifted up I will draw all men to myself. Word cast out is the same word you have here in Revelation chapter 20 verse 2. Bound him and uh he th uh excuse me in a ver begin of verse three. And he threw him into the abyss. That word throw him is the same word as John 12 about Satan being cast out. The picture that you had earlier in Revelation in chapter 12, where Michael, remember the the angels are wrestling against the devil and he is cast down? It's the same idea. So what's it talking about? It's talking about the Great Commission. What this is talking about is the history of missions. Jesus said in Matthew 28, all authority has been given to me. Authority what? Over the evil powers, over all that that would deceive the nations. Ephesians 1. Jesus when he was ascended. was above all rule and authority, power and dominion, you see, so that we can now preach the gospel, and Satan can no longer continue to blind the nations so they don't receive it. So when we look in February at the month of missions, that month of missions is the illustration and the opening up of the first three verses of Revelation 20. where Satan is bound in not being able to keep the gospel from going forth in power. That Jesus said it'll go forth, it'll go forth And so it's interesting that when we are studying that for those four weeks in month of February, think of this as an illustration of that at that time. At the time when you are studying toward the end of February, Lord willing, I will be in Seoul, Korea. And um so while we're looking at missions here I will be involved in uh mission activity there, but not the kind you might think. I will be preaching in a Presbyterian church Now understand that Seoul Korea, Korea as a nation was bound in darkness for 1900 years. Missionaries were persecuted. There was no foothold for Christianity. uh before nineteen hundred. Some activities and then they were kind of squashed. But then in this century God has worked, he said the gospel will go forth in Korea, and God sovereignly did a mighty work in Korea And so I will be preaching in a Korean church there, not a church of 500, not a church of 5,000, not a church of 50,000. It's a church with Sixty thousand members Presbyterian church. Believe that? In a place that was utterly closed to the gospel a hundred years ago. Now, what's even more amazing is I'm not going to be preaching to the congregation. I don't blame them. In fact, I understand that in that church you have binoculars to see to the back row. Came to see it. I will be preaching to pastors. We'll be having a conference there. How many pastors? As many pastors as we have here this morning at Columbia Presbyterian. 500 That's how many pastors. In fact, just the church staff is housed in 40 houses. But pastors will be from all over Korea. Now you see that is what John is talking about here. He says the gospel goes forth, and when it goes forth, nothing can stop it Satan does not have the power. You and I witness work and our neighbors. And what is what do we think sometimes don't? We think, well, I'm doing this, but it's really pretty weak, you know. I mean is anybody listening? You know, I say my neighbors, they seem so felt self-sufficient. They seem like, you know, they they, you know, I don't give a rip. This is irrelevant to their lives. And I just feel so weak. I feel like Satan has blinded them. That's what we always talk about. Satan's blinded my family, my friends, all this. Blind everybody around me. Whatever is going on somewhere else in the world, I don't know, but boy, they're bound and blinded where I am. Well, you see, we cannot think like that. Revelation is a practical book. It is to open your eyes and my eyes to see Satan is limited in his ability to do that. I come, my wife and I, from non-Christian homes, all right, and our our family, there is no gospel heritage in our family. We have prayed for our family for years Just this last Monday, I was up to see my two cousins and my aunt, and there's been no gospel activity that, you know We've known for years there. But just in recent years, God has begun to answer. And I don't even had that much contact with him, so it's not my influence. But with them, I I found with this one cousin, she's involved in a Bible study now, very similar to Bible study fellowship. Goes every week. So we're talking about this, and she's very open to the gospel. My aunt, who has had really no interest, hasn't gone to church, nothing. Says, uh, well, you know, um Sunday mornings, now I'm I'm really fine, I'm attractive. I'm listening to this guy on television, uh some D. James Kennedy or something. And she says, I really find that, you know, it's really helping me to understand what what Christianity is about and what the gospel's about. That's good, keep listening. Open this. I visited her and what's there on her table just came that day. Newsweek this week. What's it about? Prophecy, right? Course, everything So she said, well what about this? What do you think about the end of the? She's open as we're talking. You see, as we pray for our neighbors, for our family Think about Revelation 20. Satan cannot simply turn them off. It's not saying that everybody we talk to becomes Christians, but God has limited his ability to blind and to deceive. And so we need to claim that. We need to be bolder, more expectant that God will work in our witness. Well, you notice that at the end of verse 3, you have here a statement very interesting. After that he must be set free for a short time. That's picked up on in verse 7. If a thousand years are older over, Satan will be released from his prison, will go out to deceive the nation. See there it is, same reference. And then there's going to come this great conflagration, this great conflict between the church and the demonic powers, and Jesus moves in to deliver Now, that is probably associated with the same kinds of things as you read about the Antichrist, about the beast. and about the man of lawlessness. And I'm not going to tell you about that now because we're going to do that later. Take hopefully three messages. And it'll probably be after the missions conference. To be able to pursue that. So I'm not going to get into that right now, but one thing you do see that is absolutely clear is that after that time, the end of verse nine, You see, fire came down from heaven, devoured them, and the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake in burning sulphur. Where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown, and they will be tormented day and night forever and forever. That is the destruction of Satancy. That happens at the very end. And at that time, Satan will no longer be able to bring about any harm, any deception. Again, as I said last week, you and I have no idea how much he hates you. And how much he wants to destroy you and your family. There will come a day when Jesus will destroy him forever and ever. He will be tormented, consciously tormented forever and ever for all the evil that he has accomplished through history and against us and against his people. Amen? Look forward to that day. But now, while that's happening on earth, what's happening in heaven? Dual picture. Camera pans now from Earth and it moves up to heaven John says, I saw thrones on which receded those who had been given authority to judge. Now, where is this? That does not say that the thrones are in heaven. However Every time you see thrones in the book of Revelation, that's where they are. Chapters 4, 5, and 6, particularly, you look and you see the thrones that are in heaven. Uh and so this idea of thrones, I mean I wish the Lord had said there I saw thrones in heaven to be clear, because this is very controversial. A lot of people argue about whether that's referring to what's happening in heaven or on earth would make understanding of the millennium clear. Obviously if he said I saw thrones in heaven, then you wouldn't be talking about an earthly millennium. But he doesn't say it, but that seems to be In the context of the book of Revelation, what John's talking about is thrones that are in heaven. Now, what's happening here? Who's up there? Who is he looking at? Notice, first of all, the thrones are in heaven, and secondly, notice that the people that he's looking at are, that's the second point, A2, are with Jesus. The end of verse 4, it says that they are reigning with Christ a thousand years. The end of verse 6, they reign with him for a thousand years. So these people are with Jesus and they are reigning, indicating that they're in heaven. Now, who these people are, we're told in verse 4, 5, and 6. You see, I saw thrones Which are seated, uh who had been given authority. And who is it? He says, I saw the souls of those who have been beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus and because of the word of God These had not worshipped the beast or his image and had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Notice very significantly there. These are people who are martyrs. They have been beheaded, and he says, for their testimony and for the word of God. You have three, four times in the book of Revelation, that same language For their testimony and for the Word of God. Different ways they died, different things, but it refers always to Christians suffering for the gospel and for Jesus. Now, you notice that it's talking about those who had not received the mark of the beast. So who is that? That's every Christian. Remember there's no neutrality in in the book of Revelation. Isn't that? Well, some received the mark of the beast, some received the mark of the lamb. Then there's those who are kind of in between. They weren't for the beast, but you know, they weren't really committed to the lamb. It's either or You either have the mark of the beast or you have the mark of the lamb. That's absolutely clear. Even right in the end of this chapter. So This is referring to all Christians. And what it's saying is: if you belong to Jesus Christ, it's going to cost you. Are you willing to be identified with him in a world that hates him? In a world that has some evil influence, I mean this that's what's clear here, is that even though Satan can't utterly deceive the nations, he does bring rage within the nations against Christ. In fact, usually you see where the gospel is going forth in the greatest power, there's also the greatest resistance. And that's the picture you have here. So these are martyrs, but it's also saying to you and to me, everybody who belongs to Jesus is going to pay a cost for that. Now these people are those after this is looking now again at heaven, so it's those who had died. And what is it that he says about them? Here's the most difficult part of this whole passage. The end of verse 4. It says, They came to life and reigned with Christ. And it says that in verse 5, that this is the first resurrection. What's that referring to? Well, a lot of ink's been spilled on that for sure, but let me sum up what I think this is talking about. I think this is referring to what happens to saints after they die What happens when you die? The next moment you come to life with Jesus. We're going to go over that next week. I'm going to take a whole message to talk about what happens to Christians when they die. What happens to us between our death and the coming of Christ? So I don't want to get into that very much now. But I think that's what this is referring to. And you notice that what they're doing is not floating around on clouds with harps. You know, with wings and kinda, you know, in this uh semi saporific uh, you know, tranquility and sort of a daze of, you know, just these plastic smiles and everybody's kinda thing All the stuff that Satan wants to deceive us with. There is a society going on here. There are things that are happening because they are raining. They are consciously with Jesus and they are doing something. And the Bible's not real clear about what that is. We'll look at it next week. But we do see that these people in heaven Now, chapter 6, parallel passage, says they're waiting for their brothers and their sisters to join them, who are also being persecuted, who are suffering. And in this reigning, this speaks of the fact that there is already, you see, the foretaste of the victory of Jesus Christ. Now, this is to give to you and to me a boldness. You see, this is very practical. That's the so what, that's the perspective down there on the back. It's to give you unto me a boldness. That when we when we think about our our testimony for Jesus Christ, that we do not think in simply the weakness. Well who am I? What do I have to say? Nobody's interested. I can't form the words, can't think about You know, my life is such shambles, who you know You see, Satan wants to get you and me quiet. He he he figures if he can just get the Christians to just talk to Christians, he's won most of the battle. And that's why when I think about our vision, what is our basic vision, that we would be multiplying cells that multiply disciples within the context of the body, that's exciting to me. See, because it it means that when we have the fall festival on Friday, I mean it's not just for Christians to get together and have a good time. That's great, we do that But it's also that we're bringing our neighbors, we're bringing those that don't know Jesus so that next September, if I asked the question I asked this last September, how many of you adults here had never been to a church before CPC No hands went up. Next September some hands would go up. See? Because we'd say, Satan is bound. He cannot just have everybody I talked to turned off to the gospel. There's people that God is working in, in your neighbors. In your family, in your workplace. And so we're making contacts with those people. We're trying to bring them in contact with Christians. Whether it's through ourselves or socials or the various activities we have, you see that's what it's about. Or I think of how I rejoiced that Friday morning Ken Williams had pulled together a conference with the uh CAPS group of psych uh counselors and social workers in the area. And he had right here on this stand where I am now declaring Jesus Christ, there were two rabbis. And there were Christians and there were unbelievers and were people from all different uh beliefs Guy's back there is talking about New Age dancing and he's really into that. But you see what was happening? It was a conference in which a Christian was declaring with credentials from NIH that there is a spiritual dimension in healing, both physical and spiritual, and uh physical and emotional, that has been utterly ignored and secularized in our culture. And we're beginning to recognize that. And it opens a discussion for us to bring the gospel into the marketplace. The rating that I've had I I thought was so well put, I've had this for years, by a fellow by the name of George MacLeod, and this is what he wrote. I simply argue that the cross should be raised at the center of the marketplace as well as on the steeple of the church. I am recovering the claim that Jesus was not crucified in a cathedral between two candles, but on a cross between two thieves. on the town's garbage heap, at a crossword so cosmopolitan that they had to write his title in three languages, in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek. At the kind of place where cynics talk smut and thieves curse and soldiers gamble, because that is where he died. And that is what he died for. And that is what he died about. That that is where churchmen ought to be and what churchmen ought to be about. Today we'd say Christians. You see, that's what we're about, brothers and sisters. That there's a boldness, a sense that, yeah, a lot of people won't pay attention, that they won't be listening, won't be interested. But Satan is not able to bind all of them. And there's people that God is working in. And as you and I declare Christ, we're going to see some interest. We're going to see God touching this life. And He's fooling in that life. And He's working in this to raise questions. And as we do, we see that God brings some to Himself. It's also a great comfort, you see, because it means that when you look to your death and I look to my death We're looking to that time when Jesus will take us and we will be with him. We will be conscious of him. Not waiting. simply till he comes back again, but conscious with him. Again, more details on that next week. But what a comfort that you and I have. So you see it's saying, live, live boldly, live recklessly for Jesus now. Because the time's so short. You kids, are you willing to say grace in cafeteria at school? So people can know this is somebody that prays and And this is somebody that believes that there is a God who gives their food. Are you willing to do that? Are we willing to take a stand and places on moral issues and the things that God's calling us to? Because we believe that this time is short, and soon you and I are going to be reigning with the Lord of glory. Amen. Let's pray Oh Lord, you say your blessed and holy are those who are reigning with you, and that the second death has no power over them. Will all Lord unless you come first face the first death? But because of Jesus' sacrifice, we will not face the second death. It has no power over us. Hallelujah. Lord, help us to live as those who have been delivered, who have the mark of the Lamb, and that mark of the Lamb we're willing to let it show. We don't want to hide it. Lord, because you have bound Satan. You have limited his activity to deceive. Because you have given to us a glorious hope. Oh Lord, rather than this being a passage that's just argued over, may it be a passage that burns in our hearts. To give us hope, to give us comfort, that we might see and long for your coming, and live as those who are able to live boldly here and now while we wait. Lord Jesus, put this verse, put these thoughts into our mind this week as we seek to live for you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.