The Bible is more practical than you and I are. Because the Bible looks at the bigger picture. My daughter has a friend who is not a believer, and recently they were talking about where their lives were headed. And in that discussion, my daughter's friend brightly interrupted and said, Yeah, but the real question is, what are we going to do on Saturday night? And that's the way we are, isn't it? You come here on Sunday morning and you say, okay, preacher, say something that'll make me feel good for the next week. And the Bible says, well let's talk about a bigger picture here for a moment, like where are you going to spend eternity? See, the Bible deals with the fundamental questions that you and I have to answer. And you know that you're going to spend eternity somewhere. Just go to a funeral, and you will find that there's always the assumption that the person who's in the casket is somewhere They didn't cease to exist. In fact, my wife teaches English over at Oakland Mills High School, and she did a survey of her class a couple weeks ago and found out that all but two of the kids in the class affirmed That life goes on after death. Whatever they believe. Have you ever been at a funeral and you go to the casket and you look at the person that's laying there and you ask yourself Where are they now? What are they experiencing now? What do they know? You ever ask yourself that? I I I will look at the personal thing, you know, just a week ago, two weeks ago, you know Friday night, Dick Stum talked to his mom on the phone, 92 years old, had surgery, she was looking forward to coming back home, very optimistic, had a good conversation. Went to sleep, never woke up. Early Saturday morning. The Lord took Helen Stum home. Now as Nick goes up there this today, now the question is, where is Helen Stump now? Some of you remember Elaine Bigelow, who was with us for a few years. Elaine fought cancer for most of the time that she was with us. Even went to help our missionaries in Japan during period of summer mission and was here with us up through July, beginning of August, and the Lord took her. Where is Elaine Bigelow now? See, in the series we've been going through on prophecy, biblical prophecy, the end times, return of Christ, all this, we've been looking at the matter of Jesus coming again. That there will be a judgment, and that there will be then, after that judgment, we go to heaven or we go to hell, based on our relationship with Jesus Christ. The question I want to deal with this morning though, particularly, that was raised by Revelation 20 last week, is what about that time between death and when Jesus returns? You wondered about that? What happens? What is the experience of either the believer or the unbeliever, say five seconds after death, to when Jesus comes again? Well, the Bible does not give us a lot of data on that, but there are some very intriguing clues and a couple of fairly direct statements. The one passage that deals explicitly with this matter is in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. So that's what we're going to look at today. Please turn to that if you have your Bible and you haven't done so. And I want to focus on verses 6 to 8 of 2 Corinthians 5 Paul says there, therefore we are always confident and know that as long as we are at home in the body We are away from the Lord. We live by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. Now I want to ask three questions of what Paul says here. First of all, where are we going to be? With whom? And what are we going to be doing? See how much we can answer that. Well, this passage, um these verses are in the context of Paul Dealing with the question of what happens if a believer dies before Jesus comes again. First Corinthians 15. Remember he talked about Jesus coming, our bodies will be given glorified new bodies And that's the great hope of the resurrection. But what about if you die before Jesus comes? Well, you know, for the first generation of Christians, that was a You know, it was a serious question, like, wow, I thought Jesus was come back before anybody going to die. Now there's people dying. Where are they? What's happening to them? And of course many, many people have died since that time, so what's happened to them? Paul says in verse 1, now remember Paul was a tent maker by trade, and so he uses that idea of a tent as if our body is a tent because it's temporary. A tent is just a temporary dwelling place. And so you notice back in verse 1, Paul says, Now we know that if the earthly tent that we live in is destroyed, Alright, so that's before Jesus comes. We have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands. So first question, where are you going to be? Five seconds after you die, where's Elaine now? Where's Helen's stumb now? Well, the Bible says in heaven. Meanwhile, we groan longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling. Now, one of the confusions, it's a very difficult passage, and we don't have time to go through that, but if you read that on your own, you will find that Paul contrasts this idea of our tenth. with a heavenly dwelling, a building, something that's more permanent. And the confusion comes when people think that the building he's talking about is our resurrected body. It probably isn't. What he's talking about there is that when we die, uh we are the energy uses we're unclothed, we're naked, we don't have anything. Lost our body. So, you know, are we just naked? And he says, No, because we have a shelter. We have a a building from God that is in heaven. So that's the period while we're waiting. But This matter of going to heaven is not an automatic thing. You know, this you go to a lot of funerals and you get the idea that um Well, you know, death is just part of life and everybody that dies they just go on to the great beyond and whatever their hobby was, you know, that's being fulfilled now. They're playing on the heavenly golf links or they're hang gliding from the clouds, you know, whatever, all these images you get from people. Uh that's just not true. The Bible is quite clear that it is only those who are in relationship to Jesus Christ who will be going to heaven. You notice in verse 10, he says here, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That each one may receive what is due him for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad And then he goes down in verse 21, the climax of that, to speak about how it is that we get to heaven, he says in verse 21, God made him, Jesus. Verse 20. God made him, Jesus, in verse 21, who had no sin. Jesus was perfect. Jesus clothed in a body, kept God's law perfectly. He who had no sin, he made him to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. This is talking about substitution. The Jesus who would not have to die Because he was born in innocence. He was perfect. He obeyed God perfectly. He did all the things that you in your best moments wish you could do and can't do. Jesus did that. And then God says here in verse 21 that he allowed a tree so that Jesus comes and he offers to take your record And to suffer the penalty that your record is due before God, death and judgment But he then gives you, he takes that, and he is judged, he is slain by the Father. But then he gives you his righteousness. That's what it's saying, his record, verse 21. So that when you die. Five seconds after you die, your conscious thought is you are in heaven, not hell. I want to explore that a little bit more here. What does that mean? What will you experience? What about purgatory? What about soul sleep? What about those questions? Secondly, look at the question of who we're with, to try and get at that. You notice Paul says in verse 8 We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. And I believe that idea of being home with the Lord there has to do with conscious awareness of his presence. This is not purgatory, and it's not soul sleep. Do you remember what Jesus said that John read to you from Luke chapter 23 when Jesus was on the cross? And uh the passage just John just read from Luke 23 talked about, and I agree with John, it is a remarkable statement of faith. Here's a guy. who is hanging on a cross, sees Jesus, doesn't look any different. There's no halos. There is nothing to separate him from what the other thieves look like. Sometimes you see, you know, they have ropes, Jesus has nails, no, no, no. It's all the same. They're all crucified the same. They're hanging there, and uh, and that thief says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. I mean that you know what what that says about our Lord Jesus? He he looked like anyone else dying on a cross, but his demeanor His presence was so unique. No one had ever gone to death like he did. No one ever faced death. No one ever faced it forgiving his enemies rather than cursing them. And this thief is convinced that the one who's dying on a cross next to him is the Messiah. And so he says, Remember me when you come into your kingdom. The Jewish thought was that the Messiah would come in his kingdom at the last day. To bring his righteousness and the new world that was going to be ushered in. So he's saying, In that day, when you are victorious, come, remember me. I place my trust in you. Now, the response of Jesus is remarkable. Because what you would expect for Jesus to say is, your sins are forgiven, it'll be as you said. That's not what he says. He says, Amen amen, which is kind of like, listen up, that's colloquial translation. All right. Here comes something important. He says, Amein, Amen, truly I say to you, that today you will be with me in paradise. In paradise, that's an interesting word. It doesn't say heaven. What does he mean? That word paradise only appears two other times in the New Testament. One time it appears in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 4, where Paul gets taken up into the third heavens, remember, and sees God and hears things that he can't even utter. Clearly he's in heaven in God's presence. That's what he's talking about. He calls, he uses that same word, paradise. The other time is in Revelation chapter 2, verse 7. You remember when Jesus comes to the church at Ephesus And he says, For he who overcomes, I will grant to eat from the tree of life in the paradise of God. What he's saying there is that there's going to be a new Eden. Tree of life was in Eden. He's saying there's going to be a new Eden. And the one who overcomes, I will grant that he will eat in that new paradise. Now, where is that tree of life? You go to chapter 22 and you see the picture of the new Jerusalem and all of that, and it's heaven You see, it it is the presence of God with him in heaven. So when Jesus says to the thief Today you will be with me in paradise. He means you will be with me in heaven, in the presence of my Father and me. And you might say, well, but how do you know he didn't mean today as far as you're aware? Like you're going to die. And when I come back, that'll be your next conscious thought If that was the case, Jesus would have affirmed what the thief said in verse 42. Well, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus would have said, Yes, I will. He would have left it at that But you see, what Jesus does is he specifically contrasts the good news with that. He says, no, no, no. Today you will consciously be with me in my presence. Now you see, whatever else that says, it utterly destroys the doctrine of purgatory. The idea of purgatory is that God makes us righteous by the righteousness of Christ. But that that work is not complete, and so therefore after we die, there needs to be a period of time for that work to be finished, for the sin to be purged out of us before we are fit to go to heaven. But here's a thief who's dying for criminal offenses, has no possibility of doing anything righteous to work out that righteousness in him. Nothing And Jesus says, today you will be with me in paradise. So you see, there is no possibility. In fact, purgatory never appears in the Bible. It's not something that's derived from Scripture, it's derived from beyond Scripture traditions of the church. And purgatory cuts, you see, at the very heart of the gospel. Because it's Jesus plus a work in me. Jesus says no. That he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that the thief would have the righteousness of God. And you can have that same righteousness this morning by confessing your need for it and your bankruptcy without it Jesus will give you his righteousness. So that today, if you were to drive out of that parking lot and were to be hit by a truck on 108 At that very moment, if you were to be killed, you would enter into the very presence of Jesus Christ and you would be more intensely aware of him than you have at any point in your life up till now. You be with them. That's confirmed by what Paul says in Philippians chapter 1 that John read Remember in that passage, Paul is talking about the conflict he has. He says, you know, I want to go on here and be useful, but man, I'd sure like to be with the Lord. Notice how he states it, verse 21: for to me to live is Christ. And to die is gain, to gain more of Christ. If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. I can serve him here, build up the church. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know. I'm really torn. I'm torn between the two because I desire to depart and be with Christ And in the Greek that construction means it's like two sides of a coin. To depart is to be with Christ. It's the way it's the way literally it'd be translated Desire to depart which is to be and to be with Christ, which he says is better by far. Now, uh some years ago, somebody reminded me even up to a couple of years ago, I didn't realize this, uh, I was still persuaded of the idea that when we die we may enter into some unconscious state, sometimes called soul sleep, and uh we would be awakened at the trump of the resurrection. And then we would join the Lord and we receive our new bodies and that'd be it. Nothing in between. I don't believe that anymore Wherever I did, however recently, if I told you I'm sorry, I think that the Bible teaches something different. I think far better. Then what the Bible's teaching here is that Paul is saying, you see, I have some Fellowship with Jesus now. I you know is however imperfectly I am enjoying his presence. But he says, if I die I will be with him and enjoy a far better fellowship. See, if if he's going to be just asleep until the resurrection, that's not possible. He just, you know, that'll happen with us all and and and we'll be joined with him at that day. But I think what he's saying is, at the moment that I die I will see him and I will enjoy the fullness of his presence. Well, finally, let me ask: what are you going to be doing? What are we doing there? We sitting on clouds with harps, you know, watching things sort of drift by, telling St. Peter jokes, you know One long eternal hymn sing or something until Jesus comes back. No, I don't think so. I think there is going to be activity, and again, let's go back to where we were last week, which got us off on this, Revelation chapter 20. I think one of the sad things about the a lot of the eschatological, that is pro prophetic debates that go on, particularly over Revelation twenty, is we get so tied up in when is it and what's it gonna be and what is the millennium That we miss some of the tremendous comfort that this is practically to you and to me in our daily living. Notice in Revelation 20, speaking of the millennium, Paul's uh John says, there in verse 4 I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus, because of the word of God. They had not worshipped the beast or his image, had not received his mark on their foreheads or on their hands. So this is talking about all Christians. Either remember, he either got the mark of the beast or you got the mark of the land. Nothing in between. Everybody's marked Okay? He also is implying by that that if you're marked with the mark of the Lamb, you will suffer for that. It will cost you something. We'll talk more about that next week. Then he says, they came to life and they reigned with Christ a thousand years. So during this age, this period of time, those who die come to life. And they reign with Christ. Now, what does that mean? I really don't know, to tell you the truth There's a couple of things that are implied by reigning. First of all, that it's victory. No longer are you in ups and downs of defeat. There's no longer the struggle with sin. There is the conquering, the reigning. May have to do something with the idea of Uh Revelation 8 and others talk about our prayers being joined with his reign. Now we don't longer pray. We are with him. We are active with him participating in his rule over history. How do we do that? I don't know. But I think it does mean that there is activity For instance, in Matthew chapter 25, remember the parable of the talents, Jesus says to the first two, you've been faithful in a little Enter into the joy of your Lord. I'm going to make you faithful over much. I'm going to put you over much, I'm going to give you responsibility. Now you see, when you and I get responsibility, it's always a mixed blessing, isn't it? You did this job well, now I'm going to give you a bigger job. Oh great, promotion. But more responsibility. Maybe I'll mess up. Can I handle it? Peter principle, you know? I'm beyond my level of competence Whatever. But you see what Jesus here is saying is, by my grace in you, you've been faithful in the changing of the diapers, the preparing of the meals, the going to work. the being kind to your brothers and sisters, doing those little things that you may not even remember a day or a week later. But I remember them. And I'm going to put you over vastly more because of that little bit of faithfulness. Will that be before the resurrection? Matthew 525 talking about it. I don't know. But you see, the idea of reigning, the idea of responsibility, has in mind the idea of activity, conscious activity. Now, at this point, without bodies But still conscious activity with Jesus Christ. Amazing. There's one other passage, just look at very briefly. Revelation chapter 6. In Revelation 6, you have a very intriguing statement. It's a parallel passage to Revelation 20. Remember, my thesis is that Revelation is a number of seven parallel passages. And so this is one of the parallels, and you see that it's parallel because in verse 9, you have three parallels to what you have in verse 4 of chapter 20. When he opened the fifth seal I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and the testimony they maintain. Chapter 20 says they were beheaded. This says they were slain. Chapter 20 says, because of the word of God and their testimony. This says because of the word of God and their testimony. So it seems to be the same thing. Then verse 10. They called out in a loud voice. Now, you see, chapter 20 talks about reigning with Christ. This says something more specific They call down on a loud voice, How long, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood. And then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and brothers who were to be killed as they had been was completed. The Obviously talking about the present age. That persecution that we'll talk about next Sunday as we consider that. But I cannot tell you that this means That those who have died in the Lord know what's going on on earth. But it does seem to indicate something like that, doesn't it? They know there's suffering of their brothers and sisters down here. They're disturbed and they say, how long, O Lord, before you avenge that? And he gives them the white robe of righteousness, his righteousness representing that, and he says, My children, wait. Just wait. That time will come. So the reigning involves the waiting and an awareness, perhaps, of what is going on here. Maybe it's symbolic. I can't say that dogmatically that it's saying, but it's at least to me an intriguing clue to the fact that you and I may be having some awareness. of what is going on, and that those who have gone on before may have some awareness of what is in fact happening here. But let me finish with something that I can be sure about And that is that when you look in chapter 20, you find a very interesting pattern. I'd never noticed until I had done a study of these ideas of death and resurrection. The word death in the Bible means separation. Physical death is simply separation of the soul from the body. Makes sense, right? That's what death is. Spiritual death is separation of the soul from God. What is life? Life is union. Union of the soul in the body, that's life. Spiritual life, that's physical life. Spiritual life is union of the soul with God. What's resurrection? Resurrection is reunion. It's that rejoining. And you have a pattern here of first death, first resurrection, second resurrection, second death. Now what does that mean? Look at it. First of all, you have the first death. The saints are beheaded. They've lost their lives, so they're with Jesus. That's the first death. They're spirits, first Corinthians 2nd Corinthians five, where Paul talks about, you know, we are uh apart from the body, we are with the Lord. Alright, that's the first death. Then you have the first resurrection, which is at the point of death, being reunited spiritually with the Lord. Look at the end of verse 4 of Revelation 20. He says, They came to life and they reigned with Christ a thousand years. Then you've got a parenthesis. indicated in the NIV. So you skip the parenthesis. He reigned with Christ a thousand years. Then he says, This is the first resurrection. So the first resurrection is the spiritual reunion of our spirits directly with Jesus. Then he goes on. Notice the parenthesis, beginning of five. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. Now, again, what does that mean? It would seem to mean that if you are without Jesus Christ, or if you know someone who has died without Jesus Christ They are not in a conscious state until the judgment. They don't come to life. They are in that that veiled, uh shadowy land, the Sheol, the Hades, the Bible speaks of, that land of death, until the resurrection, until the judgment, the return of Jesus. Now, again, can't be absolutely dogmatic on that, but this is pretty straightforward language. The rest of the dead didn't come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Now notice, he goes on to the second resurrection and the second death. He said, Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrection. Then he goes on to talk about the further in the passage about Standing before the throne, how we are then uh declared if you have your name in the book of life, chapter twenty-one, twenty-two, speaks of you as that bride coming down from The heavenly Jerusalem, meeting with the Lord, and all that is involved in that. That's the second resurrection, which is described in more detail in 1 Corinthians 15. But there is also the second death. The second death now, first, remember, second resurrection is rejoining of the soul with the body with the Lord. The second death is now the separation of the soul from God. If we see that in verse 14. Revelation 20. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death. Now go back to verse 6. In verse 6, he said, Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrection. In other words, those who die five seconds later, they're with Jesus, they know him, they are part of that first resurrection. Go on. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. If you are in fact in Jesus Christ, you die, you go with him immediately, no sleep, no purgatory, nothing else, but an immediate conscious sense of his presence. He says the second death can have no power over you. That means that the next time you're at work or in a school playground or in the neighborhood and somebody gets really mad at you and they say, Oh, go to hell. You respond, sorry, can't do it. What? Well, you know, the Bible says If you belong to Jesus, the second death has no power over you. There is no way I can go to hell. Now, would you like to explain to you how that can be I'll guarantee you, whatever, wherever the conversation goes, they'll never tell you to go to hell again. But you can say that. That's the hope that we have, you see. The second death has no power over those who have gone to be with Jesus. They're already delivered. Now, let me ask you two important and personal questions. Notice back in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. The text of this whole thing. He says in verse 6. Where am I? First, 2 Corinthians 5. Therefore, we're always confident and know that as long as we're at home in the body, we're away from the Lord. We live by faith and not by sight We're confident, I say we prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord, so we make it our goal to please Him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. And as verse 7 says, we are at this point living by faith, not by sight. Do you realize that it is only before you die or Jesus comes that is the only point, the only opportunity in history That you have to honor God by your faith. When you die, there will be no more faith. When Jesus comes, there will be no more faith. We'll all be sight. Paul says, right now, right in this time, verse 7. Now we live by faith, not by sight. So if you want to honor God in a way you'll never get to honor God again in all of eternity. Here's your opportunity this week. Take his word, and at some point, when everything in you says, I want to go this way, but God you say in your word, go that way. You say to trust you when the circumstances seem to contradict it. You see to obey you when everything in my will says I want to disobey. At this point, only I can honor you by saying, I'm going to walk by faith. I'm going to make it my goal to please you while I am away from you in this body. For the short time that I have to do that. What an opportunity. Don't miss it. Let me ask you the second question. Are you really longing to see Jesus and to be with him? You think that five seconds after death you're going to see his face? I mean it's not five seconds, but you know, that's just conscious registering, you know. I mean, do you dream about seeing his face? Do you long to see those eyes that are so pure? So full of love and compassion toward you. Do you long to hear that voice for the first time audibly speak your name? I mean, here is the one who literally laid down his life for you. And you're going to see him. You're going to meet him. You're going to gaze on his face. The one who is more stimulating than any person you've ever known, who can remember Adam and the creation of the world as if it were yesterday. The one who is more wise, more good. You just feel so safe in his presence. Are you longing for that time? Are you longing like Peter, like Paul? He says, we would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. And he says, in that time that we'll have when you're with me, then I'm going to come back and oh yeah, by the way, I'm going to add a new heavens and a new earth. Oh yeah, that's right, I forgot that's going to get thrown in. But from the moment you die, if you know him, you're with him, intensely conscious Of his wonder and of his grace. And I wonder if at that moment we'll say I wish I had lived more fully for him in the years that I had and honored him by my trust. Hey, you've got that opportunity. Right now. Let's pray. Lord, open our eyes that we might see the promises that you give. Lord, that we might long for that day, whether it is in the time when, like Helen Stumm, you take us or Elaine Bigelow, or whether you come to be with us, Lord, to know. That at the moment of death, we who know you and trust you will be with you, conscious, fully conscious. Of the wonder of your presence. Oh Lord, may we dream of seeing you and live in the light of that hope. May we live more fully to please you, honoring you by our faith in your word. For each of us, whatever that means, speak to us, Lord. Show us. In Jesus' name. Amen