Chapter thirteen, verse one And I saw a beast coming out of the sea. He had ten horns and seven heads with ten crowns on his horns. And on each head a blasphemous name. The beast I saw resembled a leopard, but had feet like those of a bear, and a mouth like that of a lion. The dragon gave the beast his power and his throne and great authority. And then the last verse, verse 18 of that chapter. This calls for wisdom. If anyone has insight, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is man's number. His number is 666. Let me ask you, how many of you have heard some sermon or a lecture or have read a book or an article on who this beast is to identify him? Something about his who is what all right? Well less than the first congregation. They were over half, looks like between the third and a half here. So um you know nearly a half of you know who this is, right? You got this one figured out? Okay. You know, I commit myself to preach on these things, and uh then somewhere closer to the time I wonder how in the world I ever got myself into this. Um You know, why why couldn't I just stay in something simple like the book of Ephesians? Very practical. You know, the next verse in Ephesians, husbands or wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. Something simple like that, you know. I look at that verse and I say, maybe the beast isn't so bad. And some of you kids uh you know are in the kids communicing class and you um are getting the outlines on Thursday. So that you've uh already had a few days notice on this. So maybe some of you have figured this out, right? Who this beast is and what this is all about. Well, um As you look at that bulletin outline, you'll notice that uh the date on it is wrong. That should say March nineteenth. I know it's the nineteenth. That was my fault, uh error. I put the s of the twelfth on there. And that perhaps doesn't inspire a great deal of confidence in you as you're saying this is the guy that's going to tell us the identity of the beast, and he don't even know what day it is. But I'm going to try my best to find out here After a lot of thought on this, what it is that God is saying, what he is saying about the beast, and what this says to you and to me, particularly in where we live. Now, you remember that last week we looked at this matter of the Antichrist. And we saw last week that that word, that term Antichrist, only appears four times in the whole Bible. And those four times are all in John's letters. First and second John We saw there that uh is very clear that there are many Antichrists. John says that again and again, not just one, possibly one to come, but the primary thrust of it is that In this world we encounter many antichrists, and the antichrist is the one who denies Christ by seeking to discredit him or to discredit biblical Christianity, God's Word. He's the one who denies that Jesus is the Messiah sent from God, that he is God come in the flesh. We saw that anti has two ideas to it. Simply anti-Christos. That's what it is in the Greek, simply the same as the English. The word anti, that prefix, means opposition, to come against something. And so the Antichrist is the one who is in opposition to Jesus Christ. He is the persecutor of the church. He is the one who stands ready to discredit anything about Jesus or about the church or the Bible. But we saw also that the word anti means in place of. And so that is the idea of substitution, of imitation, of a counterfeit, of substituting for Jesus and his claims counterfeit claims of a false religion, of superstition, of a way that man seeks to achieve his standing before God, anything That denies Jesus his rightful central place in your life, in my life, as Savior and Lord is Antichrist or the Spirit of Antichrist. Now it's important to remember that John also wrote the book of Revelation. So we've got the same person who wrote four times about Antichrist in his letters writing now this Book which is circulated among the churches in chapter 13 by the same author that wrote what we just talked about concerning Antichrist. In Revelation 13, he talks about a beast. In fact, she talks about two beasts. And the question is, are these two Two beasts, one or both of them, connected somehow with this Antichrist? What is the connection and what is that intended to teach us? And that's what we want to look at. So I want to look at three things to do that. I want to look first of all at the data, just lay out what the chapter says. Then secondly, I want to look at the specific question of the identity of this beast or six six six hundred sixty-six the uh who this person or idea or whatever what this beast is. And then thirdly Very importantly, how does this apply to you and to me where we live? One of the problems so often of the preaching and writing on biblical prophecy is that it appeals in many cases to our curiosity to try and identify someone, but it's out there. It's not something that speaks to where we are. And clearly what John wrote was for the comfort, the warning, and the instruction of Christians in every age, in how they live. And so we've got to be able to see how this is relevant to us. If we're really understanding it correctly, it ought to be obviously relevant to us. First of all, then the data. The first beast, there's two beasts here, chapters divided into two parts. The first beast is described in verses 1 to 10. You see there what he says. Follow along in your Bibles again so that you see that this what is in Scripture and uh and I want you even to note something in it and not just what I'm saying. God says through John, I saw a beast coming out of the sea. He had ten horns, seven heads, with ten crowns on his horns, and on each head a blasphemous name. The beast I saw resembled a leopard, but had feet like those of a bear and a mouth like that of a lion. The dragon gave the beast his power and his throne and great authority Very clearly here you have a terrifying monster. He is the composite of the monster of Daniel 7. All sort of put together, body of a leopard, raging uh claws and large uh destructive paws of a bear and the mouth of a lion He appears to be invincible. Verse 3 says one of the heads of the beast seemed to have had a fatal wound, but the fatal wound had been healed. The whole world was astonished and followed the beast. Men worship the dragon because he had given authority to the beast. And they also worshiped the beast who asked, who is like the beast and who can make war against him? He seems to be utterly invincible. You can't kill him You seem like you've gotten them and there he is, right back up again. Sort of like uh an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie or something. You know, the thing just morphs into some other being and there it is, and you can't kill it And then notice verse 7. Verse 5. You see, the beast was given a mouth to utter proud words, blasphemies, exercise his authority for 42 months, opened his mouth to blaspheme God. He's arrogant. To slander his name and his dwelling place and those who live in heaven. And then most crucial to the identification, understanding, look what he says in verse 7. He was given power To make war against the saints and to conquer them. He was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation. All inhabitants of earth will worship the beast, and all whose names have not been written in the book of life, belonging to the land that was slain from the creation of the world. He who has an ear to hear, let him hear If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity, he will go. If anyone is to be killed with a sword, with a sword, he will be killed. This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of the saints Now you notice in verse 7 it says that he was given power to make war against the saints. And therefore, verse 10, when you understand the beast, the response of the believer is that this calls for patient endurance and faithfulness. On the part of the saints. So he is in direct opposition. He is a persecutor. He comes against the saints in terrifying power. Now, in contrast to that, you have a second beast. Notice how these two beasts are similar, and notice how they are different. The first beast is from the sea, the second beast is from the earth. And he is described in verses 11 to 18. Then I saw another beast coming out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb. Now you see the first beast, leopard, bear, lion, is very terrifying. You look at him and you are in terror of his formidable appearance. But the second beast looks very innocent. He has two horns like a lamb. You could go up and pet him But he spoke like a dragon. Now the dragon is clearly identified in chapter 12 and verse 14 as Satan, the deceiver. So he is one who speaks like the devil. He exercised all the authority of the first beast on his behalf. So they're in League. And he made the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose fatal wound had been healed. And he performed great and miraculous signs, even causing fire to come down from heaven to earth in full view of men. So he does some awesome stuff. Because of the signs he was given power to do on behalf of the first beast, he deceived the inhabitants of the earth. That's an important statement. He ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was wounded by the sword and yet lived. He was given power. To give breath to the image of the first beast, so that it could speak and cause all who refuse to worship the image to be killed, He also forced everyone, small and great, rich and poor, free, enslaved, to receive a mark on his right hand or on his forehead, so that no one could buy or sell unless he had the mark, which is the name of the beast, or the number of his name. This calls for wisdom. If anyone has insight, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is man's number. His number is 666. Now, a couple things to notice about that. First of all, if you're the kind of person who marks your Bible, which I think is a good idea, I mark my Bible all the time, underline things, put little notes That doesn't dishonor the Bible, God's words, just helps me understand it. If you're the kind of person that does that, I would encourage you back in verse 7 to underline the word war or the words make war. Because that's what is critical to understand about the first beast. He makes war against the saints. In contrast, the second beast, I would look at verse 14 and I would underline the word there, deceived. He deceived. The second beast doesn't make out and out war, at least at first. He becomes more arrogant and warlike as he moves on in his authority, but his initial strategy is to deceive, looks like a lamb. Now let me say a word before we identify these about that mark, the mark of the beast which is so often spoken of. I'll just throw in here as a little side note that I don't believe that's referring to anything physical. They often hear, you know, it's your social security number or some computer number or something. I don't think it has anything to do with that. I believe it's talking about a spiritual mark that can't be seen, and the reason I say that is because you look down at chapter 14 and verse 1, and it's fairly clear. Because the contrast is right there. Then I looked and there before me was the lamb. Okay, so here's the beast, and now here's the lamb. And you know, forget the chapter divisions, it's all just running along in John's writing So he sees the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, with him 144,000, who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. I don't know anybody that says that, you know, there's some time when all Christians in order to be a Christian are going to have the name Jesus or the Father or something written on your forehead to be a Christian. That's what that's talking about is the same idea as Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. which is the sealing of the Spirit. And we are marked, Paul says, with a seal, the Holy Spirit. You see, well obviously it's a spiritual mark, spiritual seal. And that's what this is talking about. And so the idea here is either you are marked with Jesus, he is the mark, he is that mark of ownership, you see, the seal of the spirits marking ownership Or you belong to the beast. You have his mark. He's the one who has his imprint on your life. That's the idea that's there. Now, what about the identity of this beast or the two beasts? What's this referring to? Two questions. First of all, is it the same as Antichrist Is that what we're talking about here? Well, um just think about the data again. Uh we looked at Antichrist, anti meaning two things, opposition and deception. uh being against or in place of. And you look at the two beasts, the first beast, uh what's the key word, verse seven, he makes war against the saints And so uh he is the opposer, uh he's the persecutor, and uh so that seems to fit one idea. And then you look at the second beast, and he's the deceiver He's the one who seeks to set up a false religion in place of Christ. Uh he's the one who somehow gets people to worship the beast because of these great miraculous signs and powers that he demonstrates. And so the conclusion is uh it looks like a beast, smells like a beast, and uh so I'd say that the Antichrist and the Beast are Talking about the same thing. Seems like this is the same idea in two different figures that John is giving to us here: the idea of Antichrist and the idea of the beast. But that still doesn't tell us who it is. Who is it? Is this beast somebody who will be revealed in a seven-year tribulation after the rapture, before the final coming of Christ? Well, you remember earlier in the series. I believe that that notion is mistaken in understanding the fulfillment of biblical prophecy, uh that that tribulation, that warfare that's being described in the Bible is talking about this whole period of time between Jesus' first and his second coming. So when does the beast appear and how will we know him? Well, is he then somebody to come, or was he, like the many antichrists John wrote about, a contemporary of John? Well, I believe that there is fairly strong evidence that the immediate reference that John has in mind here is of a contemporary that is in fact revealed in code language. If you look at verse 18 here, well first of all you look at verse 1 And do you notice that the beast has ten horns and seven heads? Now, if you look at verse uh chapter seventeen, uh you see that the heaven seven heads are in fact in uh ver chapter seventeen and verse nine, the seven heads are the seven hills on which this woman, Babylon, sits There are also seven kings and then goes on to describe them. So the seven hills, clearly everybody who read that as soon as you read seven hills, you think of what? You think of Rome, the city of Seven Hills. And so uh because the seven hills are also kings, you think it's probably then talking about those who are the kings of Rome, those who are the political heads of the Roman Empire. So that's one clue. But then more specifically, when you come down to verse 18, you notice what John says, this calls for wisdom. If anyone has insight, let them calculate the number of the beast, for it's man's number. His number is six hundred sixty-six. Well What does that refer to? It wouldn't make much sense to us, but you've got to remember that back in those days, letters had numerical equivalents. Hebrew, Latin, both particularly had numerical equivalents. W We're familiar with that today still in outlines, you know, use a one Roman numeral I to stand for one or a V to stand for five, or an X to stand for ten, or a C to stand for a hundred, a D to stand for five hundred, an M to stand for a thousand, and on and on and on. Well it's back then it was this the same thing, obviously it's where it came from. But uh John here writing in Greek uh is referring to a person because he says uh he's talking about uh which is the name of the beast or the number of his name, verse 17 Uh so who could it be? Well, um there's a strong case for the fact that he has in mind, in fact, uh the first persecutor of the church, Nero. Nero was really the first to persecute the Church of Jesus Christ. You remember the story based on truth that he in fact um set fire to Rome and in order to avoid uh the blame, he blamed the Christians and turned the populace against the Christians, would uh cover them with tar and pitch and then light them as torches in his garden. He crucified Christians, he was an absolute madman. Uh could it be that he's talking about Nero? Well, turns out that if you take the Hebrew letters of Nero Caesar, which I've written out what the the equivalent would be there. If you took those uh those uh Hebrew letters and gave the numerical equivalents, it adds up to, lo and behold, six hundred sixty-six. Well, that doesn't prove that it's Nero. People have said that Ronald Reagan was possibly the Antichrist because if you take the three names Ronald Wilson and Reagan, they all have six letters So Ronald Wilson Reagan is 666 and that means he's the Antichrist, you know. Well, you know, there's a lot of cases can be made for numbers and all that. But the thing that um I find particularly arresting about the case for Nero Is that uh a bit later you had in about 202 A. D. a fellow by the name of Irenaeus, one of the early church fathers writing about Revelation, and you also have another guy a hundred years later about 380, about almost 200 years later, Ticonius, and they both quote Roman Revelation chapter 13, verse 18. Now these guys are writing in Latin, and they quote Revelation 13, 18 in Latin, but when they come to the end, they say, let them calculate the number of the beast for its man's number. His number is 616. Now, that can't be a copyist error because the word for 60 is execonta and the word for 16, the teen, is deca. And they don't look really look alike and they don't sound alike. So clearly somebody intentionally changed that. And if you take Take the n the letters of Nero Caesar in Latin and add them up, they add up to, guess what, 616. So it seemed like somebody was trying to get across in code rather than in a way that the Romans could see. Obviously, relations are already a little strained. You go around calling the Emperor of Rome the beast That's not going to endear the church to Rome. So I say that uh you could sort of, you know, a paraphrase of what John is saying in verse 18 is this calls for some special insight Let him calculate the number of the beast for its man's numbers, number six hundred and sixty-six, where it says, if anyone has insight, I'd say that's kind of like if you catch my drift. All right? Uh so John says, now think about that And you know, it's not opening it right out. Well now, is that saying then that Nero was the beast? By the way, one of the names that Nero was called behind his back was Nero the Beast because he was so bestial in his moral, immoral, as well as his violent behavior. He finally drove himself mad and committed suicide. Things were so utterly, deplorably corrupt. in his life. Is this Nero? Well, I would say, and I look on the back, that rather than saying that The beast now, 666, you can take and write home, okay, it's why it's referring to Nero, end of the matter. No, no, no, no. It's not that simple because you see, this this letter, this book is for all the ages. And you remember that when we looked at Matthew 24, we said that the destruction of Jerusalem is a picture of the final judgment of all unbelief against God. When we looked at the Antichrist, John says there were many Antichrists who are a picture of one possible Archantichrist to come, and I would say that analogously what you have here is the same idea. that Nero the beast is a type. John picks up on him because he was commonly known by that. People saw him as bestial. He was terrifying. He, by the way, pictured the first beast, not the second beast, and that he is this terrifying political figure who persecuted the church as a picture, a type of beasts to come down through the ages. So what does that mean? Now let me suggest to you here under point three the possible meaning of Revelation 13, and you need to tie in chapter 14 a little bit to understand. what I think is the complete picture. I think what John is saying here is that you and I always have this inbuilt propensity to make this place home We are always trying to make Christianity compatible with the world. I can be a Christian and I can fit into this world. I don't have to experience attention. It's not got to be an either-or. But I can be a Christian and I can kind of fit into the structures and be comfortable here. where I work with my neighbors and the rest of that, kids at school, all of this, you know. I don't have to stand out. And John is saying, sorry guys, this isn't home, and it's hostile territory. And the sooner you come to grips with that, and like the student I've talked about in the past on a campus when I was with university, I remember still to this day, One day, you know, this guy had been moving along, never really been growing much. Well, one day I walked in and his face was all lit up and he said, last night I decided to come out of the closet as a Christian. You know, people accept me, they're going to accept me as a Christian. If they don't accept me, they only accept me because I'm a Christian. But I am going to be identified publicly with Jesus and stop trying to hide it. And there was a new freedom in that student's life. And some of us are still trying to hide it. Some of us are still trying to pretend we can be at home in this world. And John says, you got three enemies. And they will hound you to your death. They'll hound you until Jesus comes. The first is the beast from the sea, and that refers to the political institutions of this world. The P on the right side is persecution. Talking about hostile governments, not all governments hostile. But in general, governments are not sympathetic to biblical Christianity. The only reason the American government is somewhat sympathetic is there are still a number of Christians involved But you take Indonesia, for example, where we have prayed and continue to pray this month for the brothers and sisters there. where it is openly hostile to Christianity, where it is the government soldiers who kill the Christians. Who will execute them? Who will stand by and guard the churches that others have burned so that the Christians can't rebuild them? A government openly hostile. That's the beast, you see. Or you take the Sudan. This week, uh, you know, our Thursday concert of prayer, Hal Wilson read a letter from Franklin Graham to the Wall Street Journal, it was in the Wall Street Journal, published. Where Franklin Graham was saying that the government of Khartoum is openly hostile to the rights of Christians simply to exist in their country. that they have recently purposely targeted and bombed the Christian hospital. You believe that? A Christian hospital giving relief to starving, displaced, suffering Christians in South Sudan. was bombed simply because it was a Christian hospital. You see, that's the beast And so we see in our own culture at times indications of increasing hostility. uh we see um uh what uh Charles Colson calls a brooding um w what was the word A brooding hostility towards religion, especially Christianity. And that idea is what's being portrayed here. Secondly, you have the beast from the earth, and that refers to false religions. So religions. And the D is deception. You see, there's sometimes through persecuting governments an open hostility, but then there is the new insights on what biblical Christianity is. Either by addition, cults that add to what the Bible says, or um Roman Catholic traditions, uh the exaltation of Mary, things like that, or by subtractions, where things are taken away, like miracles, incarnation, substitutionary atonement. Physical literal resurrection, all these kinds of things are removed, and this is the deception of the second beast. There's always the war, uh the war to defend the gospel, to uphold the gospel. I'm not saying for a moment that all other churches but ours, the OPC, the only perfect church, or you know, that's not what it stands for. It's not what I contend, all right. Not saying anything like that. I'm talking about those that take the gospel, scripture, and depart from that. We celebrate the many other true Christians and true Christian churches there are in our area as well as around the world. It's a matter of the gospel. And you see the references there. Then thirdly, in chapter 14, you have that third enemy, Babylon the Harlot. Here you have to go to chapter 14, verse 8. After he's talked about the beast in the first few verses of the first angel, the second angel follows and he says, fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. What does that refer to? I believe that that refers to Babylon the harlot materialism, and the blanco on the right is seduction. When I say materialism, I don't just mean money. I mean the finding of meaning in anything that is material or sensual. It could be either in things or lust, the perversion of sex, not sex in itself, but the perversion of it And all the things that go along with that, and that's spelled out in far more detail in chapter 18 of Revelation. Now what is interesting here is that you've got, you see, two beasts and you've got the Babylon. So two beasts and Babylon, Babylon and the harlot. Well why are these two beasts kind of associated. Well I because I believe that John is picturing that there has been, will be, maybe, particularly as we move on toward the end of history, an alliance between political and religious institutions. What he's talking about here is uh that as in the past with Spanish Inquisition, for instance, uh Spain and the Church, or the Church of England in its persecution of the Reformers or other cases, there can be a coming imposition of tolerance toward Christians in the years to come. And it will come from two sides, both religious and political. That is, it'll come from religious New Age ideology that says nobody uh can be arrogant enough to claim that they have a corner on the truth. That's offensive. That's simply repugnant to us and um we tolerant people will not tolerate people who say that they have a particular conviction about truth But that that then becomes allied with the government, either through the courts, the ACLU bringing cases to courts that are upheld, or through political policy That simply says, in order for us to all get along, we must enforce that nobody can claim to have unique absolute truth. Now you see, as you begin to look at that, you've got to ask yourself, what am I willing to sacrifice to stand for Jesus Christ in the years ahead? Because what I believe is that uh while this is what John is speaking to us about, that he is saying that as Christ's kingdom continues to advance And flourish and prosper in the years ahead, we may see great revival. We may see God do amazing things in bringing the outpouring of His Spirit upon us and our community and the rest of the That does not negate the fact that there can also be increasing resistance from an increasingly desperate dragon, the devil. Who is incarnate in political and religious institutions to oppose the gospel and the Church of Jesus Christ? Now that's my read on it. Uh you ought to just know, I stick in as a parenthesis, that there are a number of Latin American Christians who look at this picture of the beast and they say, that looks like America to me American foreign policies and American businesses and the way they interact with some of the countries. And I only mentioned that so that you understand we need to see that this is something which transcends just America in the year 2000. These are principles about the nature of the beast and how he opposes the Church of Jesus Christ and the gospel. And we need to understand the principles and then apply them to our situation. What's the application? I believe that you see it there is just as John has spelled out in chapters 2 and 3, of the letters to the seven churches that he began this whole thing with. Four of them deal with the warning of persecution, get ready to Smyrna, to Pergamon, to Thyatira, to Philadelphia Get ready to stand against the evil one. It's going to get tough. I'm going to bless you. I'm going to stand with you. But be ready. And I could say there that you could just add right on there, and the Church of Columbia. You see, the message to you and to me is that you and I have got to learn to live by conviction rather than by convenience. You kids are going to see, I believe, some absolutely staggering, exciting days and years ahead in your life as you grow up and as you live for Jesus Christ in this nation. You're also going to see some scary things. And every one of us have at this point when it's more subtle, when it doesn't cost us our job, our homes, possibly our lives to name Jesus Christ, to live for Him without compromise. But it will cost you something. At least popularity, at least fitting in And it may cost you more than that. It may cost you a promotion. It could cost you your job. Are you willing to give that up for Jesus Christ? To stand against the beast, to identify him, to recognize him in all his subtle manifestations, to come against you, to discredit Jesus Christ. To make the church so that it's marginalized. Nobody looks at the Church of Jesus Christ because it doesn't make a difference. But that they would look at a people. People at Columbia Presbyterian Church, and they'd say those people believe what they say. They stand for it, they're willing to pay a cost for it. And I want to listen to that Jesus. You see, he forgives us our compromise. But he won't continue to bless us if we refuse to repent of the compromise and to learn to live by conviction. With the hope, brothers and sisters, that one day Jesus will come back, and he says in chapter 20, in verse 10, there will be a day when he defeats the beast. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of burning sulphur, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and forever. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, search our hearts that we would see that area of troubled conscience, that area where we know that we compromise. And it doesn't seem like a big deal. The consequences are no big deal. Lord, we look at brothers and sisters in Indonesia and Sudan who are faced with life and death decisions and We're ashamed at the times when we back off and we're embarrassed or we're afraid to stand for a principle or to stand for the name and the cause of Jesus. Lord, we pray that you'd show us Jesus, the forgiveness that he offers to compromisers like Peter and like us. Lord, that you would strengthen our hearts, that we would learn to live by conviction rather than by convenience. We would learn to follow you and to identify the beast and the way he's manifest in the areas of our lives. And that we would, Lord, that we would stand in the strength of Jesus Christ. Lord, show us the areas in each of our lives Where that needs to change so that you will be glorified. In Jesus' name. Amen. And if God's speaking to you in some particular way and you'd like to pray with an elder, there will be an elder up here in the front at the end of the service to pray with you.