So school's out, kids. Right? Yeah, Amen. Yeah, the teachers too. And uh there will be an appreciation picnic for the teachers uh after this service But let me just mention that um if you're a parent who had a kid in one of the classes through this year, uh more important than anything we say is going to be what you say to the teachers of your kids in anything that God used them to teach the kids, things that you heard the kids uh bring home that they shared. Uh just go up to the teacher and just say, Thank you for your ministry, your investment in my kids' life. Um, really appreciate it and th that will be very meaningful to them and especially if you see May Beth uh to mention to her after five years of faithful services the superintendent of this whole operation, uh, that um maybe that's been doing this off and on for twenty one years And uh she's been very, very faithful in that. So you might want to mention to her too the appreciation you have for all the efforts she's put into that. Thinking two of people that uh are leaving, I noticed the Cisco's over there and he said, This is your last Sunday, right? So Kurt and Jackie might want to say goodbye to them. The Jaegers, you heard uh Laura singing up here and they'll be leaving in a week or two I think, uh heading out to Indiana. So Be farewell to them, Patricia Chow and her son David. This was there last Sunday, said goodbye this morning. So it's a time of a lot of transition And as a family, we um we long for those that are leaving and uh bid them farewell and God's blessing. And uh God adds to those that are coming to join us, and that's the way the the church functions will All be together in heaven where we'll never leave one another someday. Amen. Well finally, there is a Christian book that has been dominating the New York Times bestseller list. Uh through this spring, Tim LaHayes and Jerry Jenkins' book, Apollyon, a prophetic novel, has been on the bestseller list. That's a um the fifth in a series of uh called Left Behind of five prophetic novels set in the period of the seven-year tribulation between the rapture and the second coming of Christ. Pollyon is about a resistance force that battles the Antichrist, making a covenant with Israel during that tribulation. Many who read this assume as they read these novels that this is simply a depiction of what the Bible says is going to happen at the end times. And um they look at this and think that the Bible says that Israel is the focus of the seven-year tribulation following a secret rapture where Christians all disappear with the Lord in heaven. And so we are looking as we anticipate the year 2000, a lot of things about this being written. We're looking at what the Bible does in fact teach about the future, about the end times between now and the beginning of the year 2000. Now I said last week that as we begin this journey down the prophetic road of biblical literature, prophecy on the end times, that we very quickly come to a fork in the road. And that fork in the prophetic road has on the left side one road that is marked, Israel and the church are utterly distinct. Israel and the church are separate, that the Old Testament prophecies and promises that were made to Israel are not fulfilled in the New Testament church. They must wait a literal fulfillment in the nation of Israel in the geographical Mideast at the end time after the rapture particularly. The right fork of that prophetic road says Israel and the church are joined together. The church is Israel in the Old Testament. The promises and the prophecies to Israel are fulfilled in one person. Jesus Christ, who was the only true Israelite. Whoever lived, the only one who kept the covenant, and therefore all who are joined by faith to him are true Israel, which is called the church today. And the prophecies are being fulfilled in the church. Therefore, quick quiz time. See how you do compared to the first service here. You look on your bulletin outline, fork and the prophetic root, the basic questions, number one then. Is Israel the church in the Old Testament? Yes or no? Yes. Well You are ahead of the first class. Uh they were a little hesitant on that one. Of course I didn't hear a whole lot of yeses there. I had one yes over here, and I don't know who it was, but Congratulations. Uh is the church then the new covenant Israel? Yes or no? Yes. You guys get a little bolder. Okay, good, let's move on. Then are the prophecies and the promises to Israel fulfilled in the church in the New Testament? Yes or no? Yes, good, getting stronger. Are the prophecies and the promises of Israel only fulfilled to the nation of Israel at the end times? No. It's two are kind of mutually exclusive. Okay, you good. Boy, that's that's encouraging. That makes me want to go on. First class I mean I even said the same introduction at first service was really struggling. I think they were just hesitant. They were gonna say the wrong thing and be rebuked from the pulpit or something. I don't know. It's kinda rough. Yeah, it's kind of intimidating, I guess. Um somebody gave me uh who was in the first service had given me a uh kind of a newcomer's notes from a pastor uh recently was going through pastor who takes the position of all the things you just said no to, they say yes to, and the things you said yes, they say no. And so he is kind of teaching uh against what he believes are the errors that I'm teaching. And it's interesting how he stated it. He has a little section here called, you know, these are the Reformed Presbyterian folks their view of Israel and the church. And here's what he says. They, that's people like me, believe, and hopefully people like you, but I don't know that. You know, hang on, keep going. They believe that the church now possesses the promises made to Israel. Yep, right on. You got it. Now get this. The church therefore lives under the Old Testament law I never said that. How does that follow? Christ fulfilled it. We live in union with him. That doesn't follow. There's a misunderstanding there. And finds fulfillment of the biblical covenants to Israel in herself. Oh, now you're back on track. That's correct. That's true. Now this Israel does not have a unique future, according to these folks. I never said that. Israel by its very nature is unique. There is no no people that have gone through 2,000 years throughout the world, the nations with no land of their own, who have continued to exist as an entity. so that they might come to the promise of the fulfillment of Christ and be converted in our day, hopefully So we don't say that they don't have a unique future, but has simply merged with the church. Well what they're saying there is what that's simply what we say Ephesians 6. Just read your Bible. Ephesians 6 says the mystery is that Israel is now joined with the church as one body to receive the promises of the Old Testament, Ephesians 3. 6. We talked about Galatians 6. 16, where Paul talking clearly to the church Laying out the gospel says verse 16, peace and mercy to all who follow this rule, rule of the gospel, even to the Israel of God. Now that's the church he's talking about. So very clear. Now what I'm trying to do is seeking to demonstrate to you this by Scripture in this means. I'm taking three promises or prophecies that were made to Israel to show how the Bible says that they were fulfilled. Not how somebody writing today, speculating on it, says, how the Bible simply tells us that these things were fulfilled so that we might see the hope that we have. and the clues that that gives us to what to expect to happen at the end of history. Three promises. First one, promise to Abraham. And those three promises were, what were they? Remember? The The deed, the seed, and the blessing for every need. Okay? Good. Great. You got that too. Deed, seed, blessing for every need. We saw last week that the uh deed, that is the land, the deed to the land, was a shadow when that was promised to Abraham, Palestine, Canaan. That was actually a type, a foretaste. of the earth. Where Jesus says that, Paul says that, that in fact what this is referring to is the kingdom of God. among the nations becoming worldwide and ultimately fulfilled in the new heavens and the new earth wherein is righteousness, peace, all the things that were promised to Israel. That is what it that is about. We saw that the promise of the seed, Abraham having Isaac Isaac to Jacob, and then from that spreading to a large group of people, but that that really was not referring to the physical Israel Galatians 3. 16, very clear, the seed refers to Christ, and through Christ, the explosion of the nations brought to Christ Galatians 3. 29, you and I are the sons of Abraham, his seeds. If you belong to Christ, you are the spiritual seed of Abraham. Very clear. Nothing can be clearer in the Bible than that. That you are s you are the seed. So the church is the spiritual seed of Abraham. That's what it's about. And that's ultimately wrapped up in that third promise, the blessing for every need. Because Jesus, the one true Israelite, the one who kept the covenant, therefore receives all of the blessings of the kingdom, all the blessings of the relationship with God, the peace and all that means. He then forfeits that to take on your record, my record. He suffers for that as the covenant breaker, so that we are given the privileges of being accounted as covenant keepers. Therefore we are called Israel in Christ. And if you think, well, you know, he said that, but you know You'd have a guy from the other side and he'd get up there and he'd just use some as many scriptures and just kind of make his case. Um, then I'd say, fine, we will be having a course, hopefully, in lay Paul on end times. Where we can go into those kinds of things a little bit more. But that's why you have a bulletin outline. So you can take that home. You can look at what I'm saying. You can say, is this what the Bible teaches? Look at other things that are written, coming from a different point of view. Read those. Just ask yourself, what does the Bible teach? So that you satisfy yourself. Don't just satisfy because of me. I'm simply trying to present what I see the Bible teaching in this You need to satisfy yourself that this is the Biblical's teaching, Bible's teaching. Now this morning we move on quickly to the second promise. From Abraham now, want you to fast forward 500 years. Abraham has Isaac, Isaac has Jacob, Jacob has his name changed to what? Israel. Israel has how many sons? Twelve sons, those twelve sons are the twelve children of Israel. He has daughters too, but he has twelve sons, those are the twelve tribes. Quite literally, the nation of Israel are the children of Israel. That's where you get that term. So from Israel and his twelve sons, there's a famine. They go down into Egypt. And uh you know there's no TV, video games, or anything there, they start to have a lot of kids. And after four hundred years you got over a million of them. He had a lot of Jews in Egypt. In fact, there's so many that Pharaoh begins to become threatened by this large proliferation of Hebrews, and so he enslaves them, puts them under bondage. And these people reduced to the level of animals to live as animals, building his great projects. God remembers after 400 years, he says, I've remembered my covenant with Abraham. And so I've come down to rescue you with power and with plagues. God releases Israel out of slavery in Egypt. He brings them on a three-month march through the Sinai Peninsula, brings them to the very foot of Mount Sinai. And there you have the second landmark constituting the very identity of who Israel is. It's in Exodus chapter 19, turn to it if you haven't already, that God now says, I am going to constitute you as a nation. I am going to make you Israel. So this is a very important key passage in Who is Israel and the promises to Israel. We only have time to look at a couple of verses in Exodus nineteen To get a snapshot of the very heart of what it is God promises and says that Israel will be. In Exodus chapter 19 You read in verse 3, then Moses went up to God, the Lord called to him from the mountain, and he said, This is what you are to say to the house of Jacob. Now, remember, uh, he says, the house of Jacob and what you are to tell the people of Israel. Remember, that's the same person. Whenever God uses the name Jacob, that's his pre-conversion name, it's to remind Israel of their sin. to remind them of their need for grace. So he says, This is what you are to tell these people whom I've changed. Verse four, you yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, how I carried you on eagle's wings. The mother eagle that carries the babies who cannot fly yet, the young, and she bears them on her wings in the currents. so that they are able to take off from her wings. God says, I was that mother eagle. I bore you from the nest. I carried you. I brought you to myself. Now, verse 5, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations Three things he says will be true of you. One, out of all the nations, you will be my treasured possession. You're going to be my own special treasure. Although the whole earth is mine, secondly, you will be for me a kingdom of priests, and thirdly, a holy nation. These are the words you were to speak to the Israelites. Three things then are to characterize Israel. She's God's treasured possession. She is a kingdom of priests with direct access to God, and she is a holy nation set apart. Sanctified as special to him and separate from sin and from the other nations. Now, fast forward again, fifteen hundred years to a small group of nobodies who are gathered in a room in Pontus, south of the Black Sea, in Asia Minor, in a place which is now called Turkey. about the same latitude as Philadelphia and DC. This small group of nobodies there in Turkey have decided that Jesus is in fact the promised Messiah. They have given themselves to follow him, but they have followed him with a lot of baggage. Some of them are being persecuted for their faith, some of them are being mistreated. Some of them are being unfairly criticized. Some wives are struggling with how to love unbelieving husbands who occasionally abuse them. Some husbands don't know what it means to be spiritual leaders. They try. Sometimes they seem to succeed. Other times it seems like they are failures. The Apostle Peter, who followed Jesus, writes them a letter. He writes them a letter to encourage them. What does he say to them to encourage them in this letter? In 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 9 and 10, if you haven't turned to it, please do. If Genesis 12, 1-7 was the text for last week. 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10 is the text for this morning. What Peter writes to them Again, just the snapshot. Can't give you the whole thing, but just take these two verses that Peter writes for their encouragement. He says, after describing those who are in opposition to them, he says, but you are a chosen people. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God That you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Sound familiar? You see, these three, there's four designations here. Three of them, with the addition of chosen people from Deuteronomy, three of them are taken directly from Exodus 19, verses 5 and 6. What God said to a ragtag group of ex-slaves who had been living on the level of beasts, saying, I am calling you into exalted privilege. Of a people who are my treasured possession, a set-apart nation who have access to me as priests. He now says to this same group, to this group, 1500 years later, Of Christians, the church in Asia Minor, in Turkey. You see, he takes these same pictures And he applies them because it is the same covenant people that he's speaking to. There's a continuity. He's speaking to them in their need and saying, You have the same exalted privilege of the nation of Israel. You are that new covenant Israel. Now you fast forward again two thousand years, and you'd come to a ragtag group of people who have decided to follow Jesus because they believe he's the Messiah and they meet In the Ministry Center, in Columbia, Maryland, in the United States of America, west of the Atlantic Sea. And these people also have brought lots of baggage along with them in their desire to follow Jesus. Some of you are angry people. Some of you are critical people. Some of you are insecure and fragile people. Some of you are demanding and self-centered people. Some of you are people who feel like God doesn't notice you. Duh. God doesn't seem to care about you. You feel like you're all alone and you are abandoned, and this week you went through troubles that you wondered if God really cared very much about what was going on in your life. And to you, Peter writes these words, but you are a chosen people. You are a royal priesthood. You are a holy nation. You are a people belonging to God that you might declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. You see, he takes those same designations that were made to Israel in the Sinai Desert that were made to this group in Pontus, Turkey in the first century, and he addresses those by the word of God to you as God's covenant people, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. So, what is he saying to you? You feel as if you are abandoned and forgotten? You feel as if God is not interested in your life? He says, God has chosen you. Out of your darkness. You are a people that belong to him. It's the same idea as treasured possession. It's the same connected idea in the Old Testament to that. God has has said you are a pi pre special King James said peculiar people some of us feel maybe identify more with that description but the peculiar idea is special belonging to him You are his people. You feel like you don't really have access to him. God is removed from you. He doesn't hear your prayers. What does he assure you of there? He says, Come on, wake up. You are a royal priesthood. So very interesting that word royal that's used there. The word royal that's used there is the Greek word basileon, and it's a word that can be either, that same word can either be an adjective or a noun. If the word is used as an adjective, it means royal or pertaining to a king. In other words, he'd be saying, you are priests of the king. The word can also be used as a noun. If it's used as a noun, it means king or kingdom. In Revelation chapter 1, in verse 6, John writes to the church and he said, Grace to you, he has made us to be a kingdom priests. Now, that word can be a kingdom, but it also can be used to refer to kings. You are king priests Now, let me offer to you a clue on why I think that what Peter is saying here is that we are king priests. First of all, if you look at an ancient Jewish Targum commentary on Exodus chapter 19, verses 5 and 6, it translates that As you shall be my king and priests. If you look in Revelation chapter 5, where John picks up on that idea, In Revelation chapter 5, this is before the great throne, declaring what Jesus has done. He says, you have made them, that's us the church. To be a kingdom and priest to serve our God and they will reign on earth In other words, you've made for yourself a kingdom of priests who are kings on earth. They reign on earth. It's the idea of Ephesians 2. 6. You have caused us to be seated with Christ in the heavenlies. Reigning with him who in chapter 1 is seated at the right hand of power above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every name that can be named in this age and the age to come. We are reigning with Christ. If you want something even clearer, we will get to this later, but let me just tickle your mind with a foretaste. Revelation chapter 20 is the passage about millennium. Alright? We'll get to that. Not now. But If you look in that one chapter in all of the Bible that speaks of the millennium, everybody talks about the millennium. There's only one place in the Bible the millennium is specified. It's in Revelation 20. In verse 6 of Revelation 20, you read these words: Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrection. We'll talk later about what that means. The second death has no power over them. But they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. Clearly, what John is saying there is God has constituted a people who are priests, who are kings. Now, let me give you one last piece to the puzzle about this royal priesthood in 1 Peter 2. 9. If you look at that word, royal, that is used there. It's used as an adjective in the NIV as well as in I think the New American Standard. That word royal in that form is only used one other place in the New Testament. It's in Luke chapter 7, verse 25. In Luke 7, 25, the word is translated. No question about how it should be translated. It's translated Palaces. It's about those who live in palaces. Why would he use that word? Go back to verse 5 of 1 Peter chapter 2. You also, now this again, you people who see, you know, who am I? I'm nothing. I'm just kind of Trying to make a living. I'm trying to do my best. Here I am. What is there about me? God is saying, understand your identity. You, like living stones, are now being built into a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood. I think that Peter is saying in verse 9, that spiritual house is a palace. You are, best translation I can think of for verse 9, you are palace priest. Why do you have the king there? I mean the king. Well, because I changed my mind. I think palace priest is the best way to get a handle on. You are priests who are kings ruling as priests with Jesus Now, brother and sister, when you're struggling with temptation, when you feel like a victim, when you feel like God doesn't notice you, you need to remind yourself, you need to go back to 1 Peter 2, verse 9, and you need to see who you are. God says, I have chosen you as my own special possession, and have made you as priests who have direct access into my presence. seated in the heavenlies with Jesus in the palace ruling with him on earth as kings I hope that does something to you. Because I'll tell you, that changes our identity. That is not self-esteem stuff talking. That is the gospel. But now notice Moses, when he wrote those words, said there's a condition for your claiming that. Once again, what is the condition? In verse 19, verse 5, he says, If you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then you will have all these privileges. And he says, well, great. You offered the promise with the one hand, you just took it away with the other. Who is it that can keep the covenant fully and obey him? The history of Israel is one failure after another miserable failure. T you finally get to the promise to the prophets in Hosea that we read alternately with Lauren in that, and I hope you got the message there. The the message was quite clear. Israel got to the point where God said, I write you off. The essence of the covenant was, I will be your God and you will be my people. He says, Name or Lo Ruima. Because I will no longer have mercy on her. Name her, name him that little boy, Lo am I, not my people. Because I have cast you off, I will not be your God, and you shall not be my people. Cuts to the very heart of the covenant. But then God says, There's coming a day when those who were called, not my people, are going to be called sons of the living God. Those for whom I said I will have no mercy, I will have mercy on. Now, what does Peter do with that? You look at verse 10, 1 Peter chapter 2. Right after he has said, that you might declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. He said, in case you missed the point In case there was somebody who had fallen asleep in Sunday school and you didn't remember your catechism as a good Hebrew Jew, that you are that royal priesthood, that you are that holy nation, that you are that chosen special possession. He then quotes from Hosea 1. And he says, Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. No Jew would have ever read that without immediately thinking of Hosea 1 and 2 and saying, God is saying that's true of us. We are that people. We are that church of Jesus Christ. But he said, you can only be that if you fulfill the covenant and keep all my law. And so God sent his own son, Jesus, born under the law, and he says, Lo, I come to do your will, O my God. And Jesus kept every stipulation of the covenant. And as I said it before, I say it again, Jesus was that one true Israelite, the seed of Abraham, the one who ever lived that could claim the promises because he had kept all the conditions. Jesus is that ultimate priest king who comes because he has served faithfully. He is that one who is the embodiment of holiness. He is the chosen one, that special possession, the one of whom God says, this is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. And Jesus lays that all aside. And he takes your rotten record and my filthy record as the arch covenant breaker. And suffers the wrath of God against every child abuser, porn addict, drug dealer, every person whose life is the vilest and most despicable. Jesus hung on the cross They might take that sin and bear it, so that you and I would be given the privilege of covenant keepers. We would be given the privilege of Israel. You and I would be considered that corporate body that is the holy nation. That are the priests who rule in the palace as kings with Jesus in that kingdom in this age until he comes to subdue all authority under his feet. We are that special chosen privileged possession, which is the treasure that is so precious to him. And whatever you're going through, brothers and sisters, you need to remember who you are because of the grace of Jesus Christ. That means that when you and I look at the prophecies, we do not look for some millennial earthly kingdom in which Israel rebuilds the temple in Jerusalem as the fulfillment of what God promised to Abraham. For God has promised to do something infinitely greater than many people look at as the fulfillment of prophecy today. He's taken sinners like you and me, and he's made us priest kings, his cherished, chosen possession. That through us the gospel would go to the nations, and he would subdue the earth to Jesus Christ, that every knee should bow. We would be making disciples. so that the gospel permeates the nations and that we see the power of the gospel displayed in Jesus' headship and kingship. In our own day, advancing as Jesus' power fills us and goes through us. That's our calling. That's what God is doing in this day until Jesus comes back. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, our eyes are so small. And you prayed for us. You said through Paul, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened. So that you might know the hope of your calling, the riches of his glorious inheritance, the inheritance that was promised to Abraham and fulfilled in Jesus Christ, that we would know that inheritance. the riches of your glorious inheritance in and for the saints. So Lord, for that one who sees him herself or herself as a victim. Lift their eyes, to repent of the self-pity, to see that you have made that one a chosen special possession to yourself. Only because of Jesus Christ. That one who is intended by you to have the dignity of a king. To face temptation, not in powerlessness, but in the authority of Jesus Christ, with direct access to your throne. For fellowship and for seeking you for all of our needs. Lord, help us to understand what you're doing in our day, that you have established the kingdom. And that we are part of that kingdom in the church, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, build our faith. May we denounce unbelief. May any who are resisting, may you cause that person to see what it is that they are forsaking. That they would be ready when Jesus comes back as part of his kingdom. To belong to him. Lord, hear us as those who call on you, as priests with direct access in Jesus' name.