To return to the book of Ephesians. And here any cheers. It's actually the 38th message on this. We have not really been in Ephesians since last summer, and so I thought it would be good to review before we continue on in this study. If there is any book of the New Testament that you would consider a manual for Christian living, I would commend the book of Ephesians as that definitive book. The book of Ephesians breaks neatly into two halves, you recall. Chapters 1 to 3, chapters 4 to 6 Chapter 4, verse 1, the key verse. As a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you've received. And we've seen that that means uses a picture of a scale. And he's saying, I urge you to bring your life, your living, your daily living, into equilibrium with the calling that you have received in Jesus Christ. And so chapters 1 to 3 are mostly written in indicatives, statements of fact, who you are, what you have in Jesus Christ. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 are written mostly in imperatives, commands, how to live out that life that you've received in Jesus. You see on your bulletin outline there a couple of uh ways to uh illustrate that. Uh you see the little lines there. What you do with those, if you look on the left side One scale. The left side of that, I would write the word call. That is what you are called to be and to do And then chapter 4, verse 1, that's the vertical, you see, that's the dividing line, chapters 4, 5, and 6. On the right side, you write the word walk. you are called to walk. Literally chapter 4, verse 1 is I urge you to walk in equilibrium to the call that you've received. So chapters one to three, your call, chapters four, five, and six, your walk. Or put it on another way, and you see on the right side there The left side of that balance is the new life that you have in Jesus Christ. Right? New life. The right side of that scale, chapter 4, 5, and 6, is the new experience that you have, living out that life that is yours in Christ. So new life. You kids get this down too so you know where your scale is, all right? New life, new experience. Now you see underneath that there's real short uh A couple short lines and a little longer because on the right side you live that new life, you grasp it, you lay hold of it by faith So right in there, by faith. That's how you grasp this new life that is given to you in Jesus. Now, how is it that you live it out? How is it that you walk in it? Uh in the obedience. It is by Faith. Same word. You see, it's not different. And that's where many of us get hung up in our Christian living. We experience Christ in daily living by obedience. By faith in the same way that we grasp him as our Savior and our Lord for forgiveness of sin. So both are by faith. Now if you were to ask, what is that call, sum it up. Chapters 1 to 3, how would you sum up that call that you have in Jesus Christ? I can think of no better verse than chapter 2, verse 10, which is rather interesting because I didn't preach on chapter 2, verse 10, the whole first three chapters that I went through that And I want to correct that omission this morning. So for review, what we're going to do is look at how chapter 2, verse 10 puts together this idea of the call and the walk in the book of Ephesians. What is the call then? Right in there. 210, chapter 2, verse 10. And what does that say? It says simply that you are God's masterpiece. Now let me say one other thing before I go into that. Another way of looking at the overview of Ephesians that we have been studying is the four postures. Paul talks here about the Christian life in terms of four physical postures to help us to get a visual image of that which is spiritual. And so you see at the top, and it's been there ever since we've almost since we've begun, uh, that the series is sit, meal, walk, and stand. And those are the four things. And so we kid around a lot about that, but that communicates the truth. And the community and the truth is that in terms of chapters one to three, the sitting and the kneeling, and then chapters four, five, and six, the walking and the standing What is communicated is that in chapter 1, verse 20, you see that Jesus Christ is seated in the heavenly place because his work is finished. All that he has done necessary for your salvation has been accomplished. And so he is seated now At the right hand of power in all authority. Chapter 2, verse 6 then says that you and I by faith are seated with him. Therefore, in order for you to understand how it is that you can be rid of your guilt and the bondage of your sin, it is to lay hold of Christ in his finished work seated at the right hand of God. You then by faith grasp hold of that God by his Spirit unites you with Christ and you are seated with Him. That work is finished. Nothing to add to it. Hallelujah, right? You are seated with Jesus. That's I can see some of you are just rolling out of your seats one night. And that's why the second posture. Kneel. Because you and I don't grasp that It doesn't move us like it ought to. So what Paul does in chapter 3, verse 14, he says, Therefore I kneel for what purpose? To ask God for the power to grasp it. So you and I move from the seating to the kneeling to say, God help me to understand something of the length and the breadth and the height and the depth of the love of Christ. But that comes and fills my heart, and I understand what it is that I have in the riches of Jesus Christ, you see. Now you do that not to simply contemplate it until the Lord comes. He says, now I want you to experience that. Therefore, chapter 4, verse 1 says, walk. And you see that word eight times in the book, again and again. Walk, walk, walk. NIV generally translates it live, and so often you can miss it. But you and I are called to walk in that. And walk is very specific, you see, the posture of walking has the idea of step by step You don't start with a run, you don't start with leaps and bounds. You start simply by laying hold today of the truth that I need in Jesus, and I start walking in it. And then as you walk, you find that you are assaulted. Satan comes and he tempts you. Various weaknesses become more apparent to you. And so he finishes up in chapter six by saying, You need to learn to stand. Stand, therefore, girded with the armor of God against the evil one And learn how to stand against the principalities and powers. So you think of the Christian life in those four postures in the book of Ephesians. Sitting with Christ is finished work, kneeling to apprehend it, that the Spirit of God will fill you with an understanding of what you have in Him and how to apply it in walking day by day. By faith in what you have. Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in your daily experience by faith. that which is already true of you in Jesus Christ and as you do it you will be assaulted and so you learn to stand in the power of Christ day by day. Okay? May I get a little more excited? I hope so. And if you're not, let me remind you of how he puts it together in chapter two, verse ten. Back to what I was saying. He says there You, for we are God's workmanship. That word workmanship is literally the word poema in the Greek. From which we get our word poem. It means literally any work of art. It can refer to a statue, a song A building? A painting? A poem or any piece of writing? It is a work of art And that, brothers and sisters, is the word that God uses about you when he refers to what you are in Christ, for we are God's poema. We are God's work of art. We are in fact God's masterpiece. That's the way the word is used often in the Greek. This is not new age self-esteem, pump you up to feel good about yourself, kind of language. This is in fact God's own word to Christians We are God's masterpiece. We are his work of art. Now, before you start getting pumped up and feeling like you're hot stuff Why is it that you are his work of art? How are you that? How are you made that? Look at verse 10 again. For we are God's workmanship, his masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus. You didn't do it. He did it. He gets the glory for this masterpiece of what he is doing in your life. For what purpose has he done that? Look again at verse 10. For we are God's masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works. So the purpose is good works, which are the display of his masterpiece before the world. That's the outworking of his work in you. Good works are the walk. Which displays what God is doing in transforming a sinful people to become like his son What is the origin of these works? Look again at verse 10. We are God's masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. The origin of these works? God prepared them ahead of time. That's his calling to you. There are two ideas involved in that advanced preparation that verse 10 talks about. One is what I call the general work and call of God. It is that which we all have in common, chapter four. We spent By the way, in chapter 4, verses 1 to 16 of the 37 messages so far, 12 of them were on chapter 4, verses 1-16. Chapter 4 verses 1 to 16, because that's so strategic in understanding how the body is to function. And we are restructuring Columbia Presbyterians to try and come more into conformity to work out the principles and the function of that key passage. But now, as you and I look at that call that God has given to us, it has two parts to it. One is the general part, which is focused on in chapter 4, verses 2 to 6, that common saving grace. That is, we all are called to be like Jesus. So there's some works that God's prepared for you to do that are the same kind of work he's prepared for me to do. It is to tell the truth, it's to be kind, it's to return good for evil. It is to love God and love my neighbor as myself. Those are God's works He's prepared in advance to work out in you his masterpiece. But there is also in that work that he has prepared in advance, a unique particular call that he has given to you according to the gifts, the temperament, the talents that he's given to you. And those works he wants us to walk in also to work out. And for me, he's called me to be a pastor and a preacher. I didn't call myself to do that. I didn't intend to do it. I didn't even particularly like pastors. When I was growing up, I wanted to go into a totally different field. But God saw fit in his sense of humor to make me what I didn't particularly appreciate myself Because there was no other choice for me when he laid hold of me to do that. And whatever he's called you to do ought to be that which you rejoice in and find satisfaction in. Because he's worked in advance. He's prepared in advance by the way he created you as his masterpiece, that the outworking of your occupation, of your calling, of your ministries. are uniquely to express the masterpiece that God has made you to be in his image. See that? Now, for what purpose has he prepared these works in advance for us to walk in them Now here's what I don't want you to miss. Look again at chapter 2 verse 10. For we are his God's masterpiece, his work of art, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works. Which God prepared in advance for us, the NIV says, to do. That's not what Paul says. The Greek is literally To do good works which God prepared in advance for us to walk in them. That's the first use of the word walk in the book of Ephesians He has created these things for you to walk in them. He has made you to be something, his masterpiece created in Christ Jesus, so that you would walk in those works. Now, do you see here the beautiful intertwining and blending of his sovereignty and our responsibility? You see that in terms of his responsibility, of his sovereignty, We are his masterpiece. You're not your own masterpiece. You are the creation of God. You are his masterpiece. You are created in Christ Jesus. You didn't create yourself. That's his work. The works which you do, those that expression of his masterpiece are the works which he prepared in advance to enable you to do. It's his call to you and his outworking. But he doesn't do it You do it. It is the works which you do. You see, he's created us in Christ Jesus to do good works, not to sit around and watch him do the good works in me. You do the good works, which God prepared in advance for us to walk in. You do the walking And so you had this mysterious, majestic blend and intertwining in this verse of God's sovereignty and your responsibility in the Christian life. Very key verse in helping us to put together Ephesians. Great one for review. Now let me look a little more closely for a few minutes into how these two things work together. First of all, notice how you are his masterpiece. You're his masterpiece, his work of art. I believe there's no more exalted description of the Christian anywhere in Scripture. Then this statement in chapter 2 verse 10, you are his masterpiece, his work of art. The earth is his work of creation. You look at the seas, the sky, the mountains, the rivers, the streams, the ocean. As you think of something you might have seen on an IMAX screen, of the wonders of creation, in various trips that would be taken over by plane or helicopters into wilderness areas and regions. And you think of the wonder and the majesty of that, truly glorious, but that's not his masterpiece. You think even as you look up into the heavens and you see the amazing things. Last year, of course, the Hubble telescope sent back to Earth some amazing pictures of the universe. You look at these clouds of gas, and you can't see them very well, but all I want holding this up here for is that if you look at these projections of gas You look at this and the width of that and you say, now, you know, how wide is that? You know, how many miles would that be? Well that width is about the distance from one end of our solar system to the other end. And that's just this cloud of gas puffing up in one small area. Let me read to you from an article. that I got recently. The scientists know that light travels at the speed of nearly six trillion miles a year. They also know that the galaxy of which our solar system is a part is about 100,000 light years in diameter, or about 587,000 trillion miles. It is one of about a million such galaxies that are within the optical range of our telescopes. In our galaxy, there's about 100 billion stars. The Sun is one of them, a modest star burning a mere 6,000 degrees centigrade on the surface. traveling in an orbit at 155 miles per second going around the center of the galaxy Which means that how long does it take the sun to orbit the center of the galaxy? One revolution, about two hundred million years. And then you look at the star, Edacharonai, which is a hundred and fifty times the size of our Sun. Imagine looking at our sun and keep, you know, expanding it till it's a hundred and fifty times as big as what you see in the sky tomorrow or t this afternoon as you look out there And not only is it 150 times larger, it is four million times brighter. Hotter, more intense. In fact, it is so bright and so powerful that though it is one hundred thousand light years Excuse me, 10,000, one-tenth of the galaxy. Ten thousand light years away, you can see it on a dark night with the naked eye The heavens declare the glory of God. But the heavens are not his masterpiece And you look around you at the animals and the creatures that God has made, some that you may have domesticated, and others that you simply watch outside your yard for fun. Take the chipmunks, for example. And now chipmunks are rather intriguing creatures because as someone has once said they're simply rats with stripes They are no more friendly, no more beneficial. In fact, one chipmunk can steal 150 grains of wheat in his pouches. One farmer got so intrigued watching the chipmunk steal his grain that if it had been a rat or a squirrel or anything else, he'd have shot it without thinking of it. Because it was a chipmunk, he just sat there and watched this thing steal all his grain amazed at how much he could get into his pouches. One person watched the chipmunk steal all their nuts and Every time the chipunk would start to walk off, he would list to one side because he was a little heavier enough, he'd run back and just stuff another nut in the other side. He'd walk away, list a little bit, come back to get another nut. Charming creatures, very neat. Kipmunk builds a very neat burrow. Simple little hole. Goes down a couple of feet, may go out horizontally about 30 feet. Has all these little rooms that he's designed in there. He's got a pantry where he stores all his food. Then there's a nursery. You go beyond that, there's the master bedroom. Then you go down a couple feet, there's the toilet Everything nice and neat and tidy. When chipmunks court, the male chipmunk goes to the female chipmunks hole and he sings a song that sounds like a bird Then he tries to enter her hole. If she doesn't like the song, he gets nipped on the nose and the toes till he screams sorrowfully, running out of the hole. If she likes the song, he's welcomed in. Amazing creatures. And you look at the things that God has made that are not simply intriguing, but delight us. But they're not God's masterpiece. Or you look at a baby. Consider what God has given to many of you that we baptize up here and we are charmed by them and you look at All of God's majesty creating this creature in his image. The baby looks all around. And those two little eyes as they look Light rays come through the cornea, through the focusing lens, back to the retina. In the back of the retina, it strikes 150 nerve cells. stimulated by what's coming through that tiny opening in the eye. And then those Impressions are carried through an optical nerve that has one million insulated fibers. To keep from short circuiting, that all goes of the brain, recording, registering images that are consciously understood, where the ears or touch. The majesty, the wonder of the human body. And yet, this still is not the apex of God's masterpiece. For he tells you and me in this verse that the apex of his work of art, his masterpiece, are recreated human beings. Those who are not only created in Adam and reflect the wonders of his powers of creation, but more amazingly That you and I, recreated in Jesus Christ, are made like His Son. Morally, ethically, spiritually, that we might reflect his character And ultimately to be brought to him to worship him and adore him forever and ever as those who are made like his son. That, brothers and sisters, is the wonder of his masterpiece. And you are that masterpiece if you are in Christ Jesus this morning. You are not that masterpiece if you are outside of Christ. If you are outside of Christ, you look with longing and desire to see what God's intention is in your life, to take that mess. To be able to transform you and to forgive you and to renew you, to make you his masterpiece. And if you are that masterpiece, if you have placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ As the only sufficient Savior representative of your sin, to take that sin and to forgive you. You are that masterpiece now, not potentially. Now I could be if. You see in verse 10, we are currently, actually, right now. Do you believe that? Do you believe that as you sit here right this morning with all your doubts and your fears and your struggles, your sense of inadequacy? And what God says of you is true. You are His masterpiece. Created in Christ Jesus. For good works which God has prepared in advance is the expression of his glory as you walk in them. Isn't that amazing? Think of that in terms of a scale. If you looked at a scale and considered that on one side of the scale is God's standard in his character, his righteousness. And he's made you and me, created in his image to reflect that. Your righteousness and your character are to be equivalent to his. But consider someone who's a moral derelict or a pervert comes in and you know it's the kind of guy who on the daytime talk shows is always saying, Well at least I don't and at least I'm not like, you know, but I mean there's always somebody. I happen to see him when he shows, I think it was a waiting room or something There was a group of prostitutes on there, and they were talking about how they were morally superior to another group of prostitutes because of certain business practices that they had. You know, there's always I am not at the bottom of the feeding chain. You know. I am better off, and so I've got some moral things to commend me. This person maybe has an ounce or two of righteousness. And they try to put it on the scale and nothing happens, doesn't even budge. And then you've got those who are people who are generally decent people, but they mess up a lot They don't keep all their vows. They don't always do the honest thing. But generally they're the kind of person who if they're driving along and there's somebody stranded on the side of the highway, they'll stop to help them out They'll give them a lift. They're kind to their neighbors. They'll do favors for people. They care. Maybe this person's got five or six ounces of righteousness. And then you think of somebody like Mother Teresa, for instance, used often as an example of that. And I've told you, I think some of you the story that I once heard of the person who said, last night I had a terrible dream. Somebody said, what'd you dream? I dreamed that I was standing behind Mother Teresa on the day of judgment. She was right ahead of me. And I heard her before God, and all I could hear was when she finished, he said, Well, you know, you really could have done better. Maybe she's got eleven or twelve ounces of righteousness on that scale. But then you and I look at the other side of the scale. And we realize that there are tons of righteousness there. That if somehow you could translate God's goodness, his love The perfections of his character. There is this mountain. The Bible speaks of his righteousness as majestic mountains. And there it is on this scale. And nothing's going to budget. Until Jesus, his son, walks up. And Jesus places his righteousness, his life on the other side of that scale. And all of a sudden you see that they're in perfect balance. Here is one whose life measures up. And then Jesus turns to you and he says, Would you like my righteousness instead of yours to place on that scale? He said, Oh, Lord, what a relief. Oh man, I thought it was all gone. It was done. No hope. That was it. Yes, please give me your righteousness. And you take that righteousness and you place it on a scale and it's in perfect balance, and then you look and you say, But Lord, what about you? What are you going to do now for your own righteousness? And he says, My child, when I gave you my righteousness, I took yours. And you watch in horror as he places those couple paltry ounces of your righteousness on that scale. And the scale comes all the way slashing down. And you realize that Jesus is now going to bear the full weight, the crushing penalty of all of that which you deserve to have because of your inadequate righteousness. And you see that now Jesus is smitten and he suffers the full wrath and the curse of God for such paltry righteousness. That's why Paul says in chapter 2, in verse 8, for it is by grace that you have been saved through faith. That's not from yourselves. It's the gift of God, not by works Not by anything that you have done or could do, so that no one can boast, for we are God's masterpiece. Created in Christ Jesus. Not to simply pause and stop and say, well, then my good works are irrelevant. That's great, I can just watch. I don't have to even think about it. No. But when the righteousness of Jesus is laid on that scale, God by His Spirit begins to work out that righteousness in your character and in your life. And the calling upon you, both general and specific, which He has given to you, begins to work out as in gratitude and love. You do those good works. You learn to walk in those good works by faith Some of you this morning here need to lay hold of the righteousness of Christ. You're still trusting that somehow that which you've manufactured with your sincere intentions is going to be enough. And you're in for the worst possible shock of your life. If you stand before the righteousness of God with that hope. I plead with you in the name of Jesus that you would cast aside any such hope. And that you would come to him for his righteousness to be placed on that scale, realizing that by doing that, he takes your sin. And all that you were due to be punished in your stead. And if you have any questions on that, want to settle that, put it on the gray slip, or tell me as you leave. I want to make sure. That I have his righteousness. And we'll talk, we'll get together, and we'll talk about that. Perhaps for you, you have that righteousness You've come by faith in Jesus Christ. But you don't really believe that you're his masterpiece. Keep trying to add to that scale. You keep trying to add and say, I really feel like I'm something from a yard sale. Rather than a masterpiece. Let me tell you. I've been called controlling, obsessive, compulsive Deceitful, manipulative, more interested in appearance than in genuine heart change And that's all within the last week or two. And what's more, it's all true. For you and I, while we're as masterpiece, may feel at times when we're honest in our hearts, like we're something put out for a yard sale. And that's when you need to come back to chapter 2, verse 10. And see that God says, You are my masterpiece. Seated in Christ, you have his righteousness. But now I am in the process of working out that righteousness. So that by faith, as you lay hold of that, as you are able to hear those things Sometimes from your friends, sometimes who are not so much your friends, but truth that comes and opens your eyes and my eyes to what we're really like. And God says, I've prepared in advance the works of righteousness that I'm working out in you. You are not the same sinner that you were a year or two ago. I am working out my masterpiece, forming it in your life by trials, by difficulties. So that you will become that glory that I've intended. And that's what we're going to start to deal with next week in chapter 4, verse 17. Learning to walk. In the new life that He's prepared for us. Ready to take that walk? Let's pray. Lord our God, help us to see both our sin in honest ways and the righteousness of Jesus which you have given to us. That we might live as Luther Singh, conscious that we are both sinners and justified at one and the same moment. Sorrowful about our sin, but joyful about the masterpiece you have made us in Christ. That this week we would walk by faith in that new creation. Seeing your Spirit work out in us that which we could never do for ourselves, as we look to you and lay before you those areas of our lives. That you are wanting to transform and are able to transform in Jesus Christ. Receive us now to do that work in Jesus' name.