So, what time are you going to be here for worship next week? 9 30. Good. You guys remember, see the first group I don't have to worry about so much because if they miss it, they're just an hour early. If you miss it, you missed it. So it'll be 9 30 to about eleven o'clock, get a little more time for singing. It's the lowest time of all of Israel's history since God had constituted them as his people. after bringing them out of Egypt and calling them as his people at the foot of Mount Sinai. All the very grimaced Prophecies of even long-faced Jeremiah have come to pass. The Babylonians have invaded the land Nebuchadnezzar has swept into Jerusalem. He's destroyed it. He's burned it utterly to the ground. Not only has he destroyed the city, but I can barely bring myself to say it, he destroyed God's temple. The place where God lives. Where does God live now? Are the Babylonian gods in fact stronger than Yahweh, the God of Israel? And what about the promise that God made to Abraham that he would give him the land forever and That he would bless him? You call being slaughtered and carried away into captivity and watching your homeland burned and destroyed? Bless him I know the prophets say this was because of our sin, but come on, are we really that bad? In the year 606 BC, which marks the official beginning of the captivity. Among those who were carried away out of Jerusalem were four young men, Chadrach, Meshach, Abednego, and Daniel. Don't know their ages, but we know they're very young, probably teenagers, because seventy years later Daniel's still writing and serving. And this Daniel was one who was carried into that captivity, perhaps to give you an idea of in a contemporary sense how bad that was. the kind of crisis of faith that it would have been to Daniel, his friends, and other believers. Imagine This is the cover of Time magazine this week, and you have here people from Kosovo who have been massacred, and here's their identification papers. Now, suppose God said, I dwell in Kosovo. That's my home. That's where I have set my name forever. Those are my specially beloved people. And then you see reports of hundreds of them massacred and their homes burned, looted Wouldn't you ponder that's the best God can do? You see, that's what Daniel and his friends were struggling with as they're carried away into captivity in Babylon. Daniel came from being a slave to rising to one point being the second most powerful man in the entire Babylonian kingdom. Over the period of his years there, he wrote a book, the book of Daniel. Twelve chapters, divided roughly into two halves, equal halves, first six chapters, one to six were primarily history with a little bit of vision and prophecy thrown in. Chapters 7 to 12 were mostly vision and prophecy with a little bit of history thrown in. First six chapters, you have a remarkable study of what it is like for a believer to serve in politics under a government hostile to the Bible. Very instructive. That's where we get Daniel in the Lion's Den, made popular by the Vegetown version of it, you kids, and all the rest of that. That's that Daniel we're talking about. In the second six chapters, mostly prophecy, mostly vision, he focuses on this question of the kingdom of God. Now, you might say that all of the study of biblical prophecy, eschatology, the end times that we're going through, you might be able to say from one point of view That all of that is simply about the nature and the timing of God's kingdom. That's what it's really all about. When does it come? How does it grow? When is it consummated? What will happen at the end of history before and when Jesus comes again? So, for the next few weeks, from now until the first week of August, we're going to look at Daniel. And we're going to look particularly at two passages in Daniel: Daniel 7 and Daniel 9. This week and the two weeks after this, we're going to look at Daniel 7 concerning the kingdom of God. What that means and what Daniel tells about it and how it's fulfilled. We'll be kind of looking at an overview of that through the Bible. But seeing as our as our uh foundation of it, the groundwork of it in Daniel chapter seven, verses thirteen and fourteen So the first point I want to look at with you about this is the prophecy of the kingdom. The prophecy of the kingdom. Before we look at Daniel 7, I want to look for a moment at what John read for you from Daniel chapter 2. This took place early in Daniel's life when he was in Babylonia. When it seemed as if God's kingdom was simply a fond dream of a camelot that was never going to be All hope seemed to be lost of God's kingdom. It was during those years that King Nebuchadnezzar, the head of the Babylonian Empire, had a dream It was a deeply disturbing dream, but when he woke up, it's like one of those dreams you know you have a vague feeling about it, but you can't remember what it was. Do you ever have that kind of dream? Well, that's the way Nebuchadnezzar was. So he goes to his magicians and he says Would you guys remind me, tell me what was it that I dreamed and then interpret it for me? And all the magicians say, uh wait a minute, King, that's not the way it works. You see, the way it goes is you tell us the dream and we tell you the interpretation Nebuchadnezzar says, no, no, no, no. If you guys really are wise men and you know all about this stuff, then you tell me the dream and tell me the interpretation. They say, no, no, no. Nobody's ever asked that. That's impossible. And Nebuchadnezzar says, they're all frauds. Get them all. And so before they're able to execute these guys, one of them is Daniel. And Daniel says, hold on wait a minute, don't be so rash. Could you give me a couple of days and see if God will reveal this? Alright. And so Daniel comes back, and God has, in fact, revealed the dream and its interpretation. Now picture it's a very visual dream. So use your imagination now and picture up here a large statue And this statue is composed of four different parts. He says the head was of gold. That represents you, Nebuchadnezzar, and the kingdom of Babylonia. The chest and the arms are of silver. That represents the kingdom after you, which would have been the Medo-Persian kingdom. The belly and the thighs, he says, are of bronze. That pictures a kingdom after that, which seems to be the kingdom of Alexander the Great, Macedonian, the Greek kingdom. And then he said the legs and the feet, the legs were of iron, and the feet were of iron and clay, which likely represents the Empire of Rome. Now Daniel says, as you saw this statue, there was a rock that was carved cut out of the statue. But not with any human hands. And this rock then smashed the feet of the statue, and when that happened, the whole statue disintegrated In fact, it crumbled into dust, and the dust was swept away by the summer breeze like calf in a weak threshing floor. Now, four things to notice about that kingdom. You see them in your bulletin. First of all The rock, that kingdom, was not of human origin, was not cut out by human hands. Secondly, it's a universal kingdom, becomes a mountain that fills the whole earth, he says. Thirdly, it's an eternal kingdom. It lasts forever. And fourthly, it grows over time to conquer all the other kingdoms. Daniel chapter 2, verse 44 could be considered the T verse of the entire book of Daniel. Look at that again. Daniel says, in the time of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed. Nor will it be left to another people, it will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but it will itself endure forever Rather amazing prophecy from somebody who's just lost his home to the conquering king and his place is in ruins. He's saying now my God is the one. You know, it's like somebody from Kosovo. an ethnic Albanian coming and saying, just want to let you guys know that Kosovo is going to be the root of the world empire that will in fact conquer all other nations, and one out of Kosovo will rule forever. Yeah, right. That's why we're in there trying to help you guys so you can just go back to your homes, you see. It's that kind of likelihood Now, about 50 years later, Daniel is now a governor of one of the 120 provinces of Babylonia. One night, Daniel has a dream. His dream is also of four human kingdoms. And in this dream it's not a statue, but rather he dreams of four ferocious beasts. The kingdoms are depicted by beasts to show their ferocity, their evil, the fact that they are destructive. and that they're going to consume everything in their path. The four beasts are a lion, a leopard, a lion, a bear, and then a leopard. And then the fourth is a terrifying monster unlike any animal in the animal kingdom. In Daniel chapter 7, Daniel recounts that dream to us. And as he is meditating on this fourth beast, this fourth monster, which is the fourth kingdom, he says in Daniel 7, verse 9, if you have your Bibles Turn and look at this with me. Amazing, amazing prophecy. He says, as I looked, thrones were set in place. And the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was as white as snow, the hair of his head was white like wool. His throne was flaming with fire. Picture this. Use your imagination as I read this. Here's a throne room, all these thrones, number of thrones set in place There's one throne now. The spotlights on that one. Ancient of days comes, clothing white as snow, hair like wool. This throne was flaming with fire. So obviously this is not the human that's in this throne. Its wheels were all ablaze, and a river of fire was flowing coming out from before him. Thousands upon thousands now. You see these myriads of people attending him Ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court was seated, and the books were opened. Dramatic moment. Now, clearly, this one, the ancient of days, refers to God Who else, would it be said, is on a throne of fire, a river of fire flowing forth from him, ten thousand times ten thousand attending him standing before him in uh worship, in attention. So clearly this is picturing God's throne room. Now Dona goes on. He says, then I continued to watch because of the boastful words that the horn, that's part of this fourth beast, was speaking. I kept looking until the beast was slain and its body destroyed and thrown into the blazing fire before this throne. The other beasts had been stripped of their authority, but were allowed to live for a period of time. In my vision, now He's looking at this, all this that's going on, this the flames and the attendants and this beast destroyed in the fire, and then his attention is captured by something that's even more riveting. In my vision at night I looked. And there before me was one like a son of man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ancient of days and was led into his presence. He was given authority, glory, and sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every language worshiped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. Now again, to appreciate this, get your mind out of the 20th century, put yourself back about 600 to this point, probably about 550 BC. And picture what this would have meant to read this prophecy. I mean, as a Jew, you know there is but one God The Lord our God is one. But here you have God, and you have one, a son of man. He's like a son of man. That's in contrast, you see, to the beasts. This one is human, in fact he's majestically human, superhuman, he's coming on the clouds of heaven. He comes into the throne room and God gives to him all authority, glory, sovereign power, and he shares with him worship. All the nations worship this one who is the Son, and God, the ancient of days, is there endorsing it. Now, this is a mind-blowing prophecy, I submit to you. I mean, this is this is a guy who is writing as not a refugee, but as one who is in captivity from a defeated nation. Saying, this is the vision of what is to come. Pretty unlikely prophecy, wouldn't you think? Now, six hundred years go by. We come to the second point, the coming of the kingdom. Notice, again, this kingdom is depicted as universal and eternal. To picture what it means for Daniel to say, this kingdom. That the Son of Man God is a kingdom that is everlasting, it will not pass away, it will never be destroyed. So the first three kingdoms of the statue and the beasts lasted from about 700 BC to about 300 BC. So you got four kingdoms in the space of about 400 years. Rome, the Empire of Rome lasted perhaps about 600 years. So you have First three kingdoms, about uh 400 years, another six hundred years, about a thousand years for these four kingdoms. And Daniel says, There's coming a kingdom, which that'll be a spit in the bucket. I mean, after a thousand years, they're still having a coronation for this kingdom. This one's going to go on forever and ever and ever. Now 600 years go by. And after that period of time, about 600 The captivity has been ended. Jerusalem and Palestine have been rebuilt. But there is nothing of a Jewish kingdom. In fact, about 600 years later, about 30 A. D. , the Jews are under the dominion of Rome Anyone who claims to be that one bringing in the kingdom is crucified as a public spectacle. The Jews are chafing in their subjugation to Rome. And at that point, you turn to Mark chapter 1. And you see, it's in that context that Mark tells us that after John the Baptist was put in prison, there is this one, Jesus. Who went into Galilee? He's from Nazareth. And he's proclaiming the good news of God Now, Jesus of Nazareth is kind of like Jesus of Sparrow Point or something, you know. I mean, it's not the place where you would picture the Messiah is going to come You know, anybody here has relatives in Sparrow's point, you you know, you get the drift upon it's a great place, but you know, not where you picture the Messiah And what does he say? Jesus comes proclaiming the good news, and he says, The time has come, the kingdom of God is near Repent and believe the good news. So the first thing to notice is the kingdom now is near. The word means it's right at the door, it's right at hand Jesus then preaches about this kingdom. He does miracles to demonstrate power. He casts out demons. When one particular situation He casts out a demon from a man, and the Pharisees who are threatened by that, and who are jealous of the following that he's gaining uh take issue and they start grumbling among themselves cast out demons he probably does it by the prince of demons you know and jesus stops them and he says well think about what you're saying What is Satan's territory of his kingdom? Its people. If Satan is going to cast himself out of his territory, he's divided against himself. That doesn't make sense, does it? And then he says something, Matthew chapter 12, verse 28, absolutely vital to biblical prophecy, one of the most dramatic statements in the entire Bible from Genesis to Revelation In fact, that verse ought to sing your page. You ought to, you know, see burrow marks around this because this verse is so potent. Jesus says in Matthew 12, 28, but if I drive out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God Has come upon you. Now, any eschatology, any biblical prophecy, anything you read about the end times. That does not take that verse seriously, that the kingdom has come. Jesus is the king And he declares, if in fact I am overcoming Satan's kingdom by supernatural power, in specifically casting out demons I am demonstrating to you, I am proving to you, the kingdom has come. Now Jesus comes into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday and everybody shouts, Praise God, the king has come. You got a long idea of the kingdom. He comes in, he doesn't throw out the Romans He doesn't free Israel from the political oppression. In fact, a few days later, Jesus is standing as prisoner before those jealous Pharisees. They try to bring witnesses in order to accuse him, their case is falling apart until in desperation finally the high priest goes up nose to nose to Jesus, and in exasperation he says in Matthew 26, verse 63, I charge you under oath, by the living God, tell us if you're the Messiah, the Son of God. And Jesus calmly and majestically answers him, Yes, it is as you say. But I say to you all, in the future you will see the Son of Man. Remember that designation? Daniel 7:14, the one who is like the Son of Man. You will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One, that's the ancient of days, and coming on the clouds of heaven. Now what could be clearer than that Jesus is saying, Daniel 7, 13 and 14 has been fulfilled in me? But it was written by one who was in captivity. It is spoken by one who is in bondage. And the whole thing seems ludicrous, doesn't it? Jesus is saying, here as I stand with my arms tied behind my back About to be sentenced to death, I just want you to know, yes, I'm that son of man who's bringing in that worldwide kingdom. And they go out and they crucify him. Not for himself, but for your sin and for my sin. And he bears that curse So that you and I could be forgiven through him. Three days later, he walks out of the tomb. And when he walks out of the tomb, after 40 days teaching to his disciples, he gives the king's kingdom commission. If you've never noticed it before, it's about time you do. Take a look at Matthew 28. The words that Jesus uses in that commission. Notice he takes Daniel seven, thirteen and fourteen, and he applies it to the kingdom at hand. He says, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. See? Daniel 47, 14. All authority, glory, and sovereign power was given to the Son of Man by the ancient of days. That's what Jesus is saying. Therefore, go make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of this one, the Father, the ancient of days, and the Son, the Son of Man, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. Daniel 7. 14 where it says, All nations, all peoples, all People of every language shall worship him. The word worship could also be translated, shall serve him. So the idea is there that Jesus is saying, I am the king, I have established my kingdom. Now My weapons of conquest are not physical artillery. It's the weapon of the word. Go make disciples through the word. And who's his army? That's even the most ludicrous thing yet. It's you and me. We're the conquering army of the king. You grasp that, brothers and sisters? Jesus is saying, go! I have all the authority. I'm gathering the nations to myself in the period of time that I designate. Now you go and make those disciples. You see, this is a very contemporary kind of thing because the whole issue today is really who is king? Who's king of your life? Who's king? Who's our hope? Is there any hope? Let me give you two examples from this week's news about rival uh messiahs, as it were, to Jesus. If you would like to see, there was a picture in last Sunday's Washington Post. There is a picture of the Messiah. Here he is. His name is Rabbi Medekim Schneerson. He's a rabbi that lived in New York City, and he died five years ago this month in New York City. He's buried in Queens. And there are thousands who now say this is the Messiah, particularly out of the Lubavitch, very ultra-orthodox wing of Judaism. Very controversial. In fact, marriages are arranged on whether the two agree on whether he's the Messiah or not. This one is the Messiah. One fellow, Daniel Green not from our congregation, but uh guy who teaches Talmudic studies up there, uh claims that uh that uh Schmerson, the rabbi, uh speaks to him through his writings. He says, I write a letter, I tuck it by random into his uh many books that he's written, and he says, then I open up the page and I look on the other side and there is the answer to my letter from Rabbi Schneerson. So you have a group of people there who are now very zealously preparing the world for the coming of Mashiach. Rabbi Schneerson is coming back in order to rule the world. Now you can grant whatever credibility you want to those claims, but this guy's been dead for five years and he hasn't budged. Not much evidence of authority for world dominion. Three days later, Jesus was out of the tomb and has begun to gather the nations to himself. Do you see? I I I wish you could feel something of the absolute impossibility of this prophecy as you see the hope of some people to say, is there any way we can make it fit? No one could have fit that prophecy but Jesus. Or you take Star Wars. It's a current Star Wars film. I haven't seen it yet, but I've read a number of articles on the thing. One of the things that you kids can correct me afterwards, we can get into a discussion on this. But you notice in the Star Wars, you have a balance of good and evil The force is balanced by Luke Anakin, who is good and becomes evil in order to balance things. Well you see, in case you think this is the old-time goodies and baddies and good's going to prevail, this is not that. This is nothing but Eastern philosophy where good and evil are held in balance, and good is not better than evil. Good needs evil as a counterpoint. So there is never the triumph ultimately of good over evil, because both coexist in the ultimate sense. That's basic Hinduism. Now, Jesus, you see, states here in this prophecy, here's four kingdoms, ferocious, evil, man-centered. Here comes the Son of Man in majesty and power to destroy all evil. His kingdom comes and he reverses the curse. So when you and I are brought into that kingdom, it is life-transforming. Colossians chapter 1, verse 13 tells us that. In Colossians 1, you read in verse 13, for he has rescued us out of the dominion, that is the kingdom of darkness, and brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are in his kingdom. That is, he rules your life. You are part of his overturning of the evil forces of this world, disrupting the curse and establishing His rule and his kingdom. He's translated you, he's brought you into that kingdom in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And so if Jesus Christ is in your life, if you hope to go to heaven, understand who it is that you are trusting. It is Jesus who has fulfilled the prophecies, who is now reigning as king. The earliest creed of the Christian church was Jesus is Lord. Therefore, if you belong to him, he is in the process now of changing your life. You can't say I'm following Jesus. And I will decide if I ever want to bother to pick up the Bible and read what his will is for me. I will obey him in this area, but if this area isn't convenient, that's okay. I, you know, it's by grace and I'll trust him and I'll go to heaven. You see, that is a total distortion of who Jesus is. He has come to establish a kingdom in which he rules. And if he's not ruling in your life. Then there's a serious question of whether he's in your life. You see, the good news is that Jesus wants to transform your life, to come under his perfect and good rule. As soon as you look at your life this morning, are there areas where your resisting is rule? But there are areas where you don't trust that he could really change your values or he could take that habit, or there's some area of guerrilla resistance in the kingdom of your life that is opposed to Jesus. I want to present to you Jesus Himself, who comes this morning as King. He wants to enter your life, but he wants to enter it as King. He wants to transform your life, but he wants to clean it and change it. He wants to take out the distortion and the lies and the bondage. He wants to fill you with himself. He wants to take you out of that kingdom, that dominion of darkness. He wants to bring you into the kingdom of his light What are the areas where you're resisting that? What are the areas where you don't trust he can do it? Or that he's good, that his way is better than your way. I hope you can feel something of this prophecy, the supernaturalness Of its fulfillment in the person of Jesus Christ. A couple of weeks ago, week before last My wife and I went up to visit her parents for Father's Day, specifically to see her dad, who's in his 80s and has multiple sclerosis. That's where your brain's messages to your muscles don't get through. And so he barely can move but still makes valiant efforts. It took us about forty minutes to get them from the front door of their home into our car We went out to lunch together and then when we uh took him back, as we were going inside, it was just him and me And as he was struggling to get up the steps, he said, This isn't living. He said, I'm just a shell of a person. I pray to die in my sleep. And I thought, yeah, if this life is all it is, and I'm much hope But if there's a king who's reversed the curse, who's risen from the dead, what a hope. The next morning I came out to our patio and by the sliding glass door there was a cat. It was a cat that was a beautiful silver Persian cat But something had happened to it, probably hit by a car. And it was laying by our door, the fur was all matted, and leaves were in it and dirt, and I tried to give it something to eat or drink, and it But I had no interest. Clearly it was dying. And over the next hour I watched that cat, his eyes glaze over, and I watched life inch by inch pass from its body. And as I picked it up to take it out to the woods, I thought again, how ugly is death? How terrible. Is there anyone who can deliver us in this life from the curse? And my heart again rejoiced. How precious is the gospel! That Jesus is that King, the Son of Man, who's been given authority, power, and dominion over the distortions of this world. The destructions over Satan and death itself. Trust him. Trust him as your Lord. Let's pray. Lord, how foolish it would be to look at this prophecy, to see the miraculous fulfillment in the unique person and work of Jesus. And Lord, next week we'll look at how that kingdom has progressed. What you have done in fulfilling this prophecy. But Lord, you are absolutely unique as King. And we pray that you will make the connection in our lives. Where we don't trust you, where we don't believe you're strong enough for the deliverance we need, where we don't believe that you can deliver us from the bondage that enslaves us Where we cherish our sin over the ways you tell us to live. Lord, give us hearts delivered from the foolishness and the blindness of unbelief. That we would trust you, that we would bow before you as king, before you come as king to judge and destroy the enemies. May everyone here in this room belong to you by faith, have our sins removed, and your spirit to rule and reign in us. To the honor and glory of Jesus the King. Amen.