Now in the application section of the book of Ephesians, chapters four to six, chapter four, verses one to sixteen began by calling to our attention the importance of of being a vital part of the body of Christ in using our gifts in the lives of others, receiving from others, their ministry to us, as the foundational way of applying all that he's talked about in chapters 1 to 3 of who we are and what we have in Jesus Christ. Now in chapter 4 verse 17, Paul is turning his attention to focus now on us as individuals. Still in relationship with others, but now the focus is not on body life so much as it is on our holy life as individuals. He does this in verse 17 to 19, beginning to lay the foundation for everything that he's going to say from chapter 4, verse 17. on through chapter 5, verse 20, this section of his book. And he started, we saw last week, By saying something to you and to me that we very much need to hear, and that is, you can change We feel like we are locked into certain patterns that we've inherited or we've been so deeply flawed, marred in whatever experiences. Paul says in verse 17, so I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live, walk. as the Gentiles, the nations, those without Christ walk, do in the futility of their thinking. You can change. It's a decision that you make as you hear that word coming to you to say, I will obey that. By the grace of God, I will no longer give excuses and say, I can't, but if only if you knew my life, on and on, I can't do it. I can respond in obedience to verse 17. But you notice that that begins by how you think. He says, in the futility of their thinking. So we've seen last week in the beginning of this foundation that how you and I live, how we walk, The daily lifestyle that we live comes from our thinking. It is how we think that determines it all. He goes on. They're darkened. Verse 18 In their understanding, separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to the hardening of their hearts, having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over. to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. And so He says your thinking is not even the root issue. The thinking comes from your heart. And if your heart is hardened, and what is your heart? That's your affections. If what you center on in your affections is yourself rather than the God who made you, Jesus Christ, Lord of the universe, If our hearts are hardened against his authority and rule in our lives, our thinking becomes warped, darkened, ignorant, we're out of touch with reality. And that affects then how we live. So Paul's tracing things back in profound psychology here to the root, of you and me in change. If you want to change in your life, Paul says it's a heart issue ultimately. Then he goes on in verses 20 to 24 to continue the foundation. Last week was foundation part one. This is foundation part two. Then we'll start to apply the specifics in the weeks after that. But he moves in verses 20 to 24 to finish this foundation by giving us three contrasts. Two of them are specific and explicit, and one of them is applied implied. The first contrast, you notice in verse 20, says, you, however, did not come to know Christ that way. Strong contrast. No, different. Switch gears. The first contrast that he gives in verses twenty to twenty four is the contrast between self deception and truth. Self-deception versus truth. Now let's read, read and hear God's word. Ephesians chapter 4. Verses 20 to 24. Paul says, You, however, did not come to know Christ that way. Surely you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. To be made new in the attitude of your minds and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. The first contrast between self-deception and truth runs all the way through verses 17 to 24. In fact, Paul saying here, you might sum up Christianity if you just boil it down to the essence by saying that Christianity is truth and every other belief system, religion, philosophy is error, is false. Christianity in its by its very nature is truth. Now, that's a rather radical thought in a postmodern generation that has lost any concept of absolute truth. Paul says the very essence of Christianity is it's true. And if in fact you are not following what the Bible teaches about Jesus Christ And about salvation, the world, creation, values, everything. Then Paul says, You are thinking futilely. Your mind is darkened, you're in ignorance. That's a pretty bold statement. It's almost two in the year almost two thousand, isn't it? It's pretty radical stuff. I was just talking to somebody this week who is studying Chinese Taoism. And this person said they're doing this for the insights that they will get out of it. They want to improve their insights on their karma And they believe that this will help them to more holistically center in on themselves and be able to understand some of the ideas of the universe and how it functions. And I said, that's terrific. He said, What in the world? You lost your mind? We that's terrific. This guy's studying Chinese Taoism? He thinking it I said, That's great. Because I said most people don't even think about the meaning of life and try to search for it. That's really great. You're looking for some truth. Well then he made it clear, he said, well you know, I mean I'm not saying I'm gonna commit myself to this stuff. I mean so I'm looking at it, it's kinda like window shopping, you know. I mean let's take a look and get a little bit from here, a little bit from there, you know. Then I said, oh no. I said, I urge you, don't play mind games with truth. If it's true, give yourself to it. But examine it honestly. You see, most people today don't even have the notion that this might be true, which means this is false. But it's more kind of like, well, you know, you get an insight here and you know, you improve your self-image a little over here and pick up a little bit of understanding of your karma there and the rest of it, you know. Paul's saying Christianity is true, and that makes everything else that contradicts it false. Now that's radical. Look at how he states this. Verse 17. He says you must no longer walk as the nations do in the futility of their thinking, you see. It's futile, it's false. Verse eighteen. They're darkened in their understanding. They're separated from the life of God because of ignorance. That's in them. Then, in contrast to that, verse 20, you didn't come to know Christ that way. It Verse 21, surely you heard of him or were taught in him accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. Truth is in him. Where do you understand truth? It's in the Bible, and the center of the Bible, the focus of the Bible is Jesus Christ. Truth is in him. Look at verse 22. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self. How's that characterized? Which is being corrupted by deceitful desires, you see. Not true. Deceitful Verse 24. And to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness If you have a New American Standard, you see a more accurate literal translation. Paul actually says there, to be created like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Or which is in the truth. Now notice two things about this contrast. First of all, notice that truth is both in and from Jesus. He says in verse 20 In the NIV, it's you, however, did not come to know Christ that way. Again, more literally, it is you did not learn Christ. That's an interesting phrase, isn't it? You didn't learn Christ that way. What does he mean? Well, he's talking about Christ there as the subject of your learning. He is the, or the, he's the, you know, he's the subject you're studying. He's the object of your thinking. Jesus here is truth which is focused in him. You didn't learn Christ. Christ is truth. You didn't learn him in that way. Your futility and darkness. that comes from a corrupt heart. Now that's not just for people without Christ. Recently I was reading a book that was talking about Job confronting God and how God then confronted Job in his anger and his pain and his confusion. And I was rather getting into this, uh enjoying the insights of the author about what God was teaching Job and what Job was learning as he confronted God face to face. And then when I finished the chapter, I put the book down and I started going off to a task. And all of a sudden I was convicted. My God, what has happened to me? I can vicariously read about confronting the face of God. So yeah, that's pretty neat. Put the book down and then just go on my way. And all of a sudden I realized I will do anything except to confront Jesus Christ face to face head on. I love to vicariously read of others doing that But you see to stop and to say, Lord, I want to learn Christ. Learning Christ you see is direct It is not indirect. You didn't learn Christ. You didn't come to him face to face to learn who he is, what he is like. And so you and I have a choice. You can hear this message and you can say, well, you know, I picked up a few thoughts on that, something nice, you know, whatever, and go on. Or you can stop and say Lord Jesus, I want to learn you. As Paul said in Philippians chapter 3, I want to know Him and the fellowship of His sufferings. I want to be so intimate with him that I'm sharing in his humility, in how he felt in that. Knowing his heart, even he says, being conformed to his attitude as he went to the cross. I want to know him Now I uh have a unique advantage here this morning. All you middle schoolers are kind of grouped together, you see. And so uh I know why that is. But it gives me an opportunity, you see, because When you get to about your age, that's a real issue. Because your parents have all told you about Jesus. But what you have to ask yourself is, have I ever learned Christ? Have I ever come to Him directly, not just through my mom and dad, not just through my Sunday school teacher, the Shine Group or whatever, but me, me and Jesus, you see. That's what Paul's talking about. If he's going to be real to you, you can't avoid relating to him directly. Now, how do you do that? Look at verse 21. He says, Surely you heard of him, yeah, well, we've all heard of him, and you were taught in him, sure, we've been taught in him, in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. This is speaking about Jesus as the teacher. Now, Ephesians 4-6 nowhere says You shall have a daily quiet time. It's not there. So if anybody here is saying, you know, I don't have a daily quiet time where I study my Bible and you know go through that little time where people have this little holy sacred thing and they put up a little altar in their bedroom or something and it had you know, I'm not into that stuff. I just kinda pray as I'm going along and driving, commuting to work or walking along or what You know, that's fine, that's good, because the Bible doesn't ever say that. You're right. It doesn't ever say that. What it does say here in verse 21 Is that if you're going to learn Christ, you're going to take time to be taught by Him. You're going to take the time to hear His voice. You're going to take the time to be able to hear what he has to say to you. Now how's he going to speak to you? I'll tell you, if you're going to wait around for an audible voice, you're probably going to wait for a long time You may hear audible voices, but I don't think I trust them too good. He speaks to you through this book. He says he wants to teach you the truth that is in him. And whether you're 12 or 82 or whatever the age, Jesus wants to speak to you. He wants to speak to you of truth that is all focused in and wrapped up in himself. He wants to meet with you, that you will learn him. Now, notice the other thing about this contrast, and that is you are to put off deceit. And to put on righteousness and holiness of what? Truth. Right? That's how that phrase ends, verse 24. Created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Truth. He says in verse 22, that you're to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. And put on the new self created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Now, mark it down, think about it, meditate on it sometime long indeed. Sin always involves deceit. Sin always involves deceit. You and I are called here to put off our former way of life, our old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. You notice that is continual, which is being corrupted. It's something that is continuing to happen every day. If you are without Jesus in your life, that is very unconscious to most people who are without Christ. Occasionally, you may be aware that what you're doing tricks your conscience, doesn't seem to square with reality. But particularly, see, this is being addressed to Christians, those who have given their lives to Jesus. And he's saying here that you are still in that place of your former way of life, your old self, being corrupted by deceitful desires. And so every time I sin, sometimes fairly unconscious, sometimes subconscious, sometimes consciously. I am deceiving myself. I am saying I must do this. I can't help myself. I must satisfy this need. I've got to do this thing. This is going to make me happier than if I go the way God says to go. Sin always involves deceit. One of the clearest examples of that is sex outside of marriage. Reading a lot about that now, the nature of infidelity. Whether it is oral or any other way, the Bible is absolutely clear, all sexual activity outside of marriage is deceitful. It's deceptive to ourselves. We are saying, I must do this. Nobody's perfect. I can do it. How can anything that feels so good and so beautiful be wrong? All the other ways will rationalize and deceive ourselves. Paul says they are deceitful desires And when the old hormones kick in, and we put ourselves in a situation where we know we have gotten in over our heads, we will rationalize with the most convoluted kind of thinking to say this is really okay. All sin, sexual or otherwise, involves deceiving ourselves about reality. Maybe it is taking revenge. It's okay. Nursing bitterness. Or some need to be in control and to control and to manipulate, whatever it is. All sin involves deceit. And Paul says you are to put off the deception And what? Verse 24, put on the new self in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Righteousness and holiness, you see, derive from and flow out of the truth. Truth. So the beginning of holiness is honesty Not only to be connected to God's truth, but to be honest to ourselves and stop deceiving ourselves about why we do things. And why it's somebody else's fault who is making us do this, or anything else that is an excuse. Paul says, put off the deceptive desires. I am a prisoner to daily delusions of what I must have and do. And putting on the new nature in Christ involves being honest with myself about what I am like Sinclair Ferguson once said, all sin involves either forgetting who God is or who I am, or often both. And I must come in that honesty to say, this is what my heart is like And when I am able to be honest by the grace of God and tell myself truth, I am on the way to righteousness and holiness. Now, second contrast, not simply speaking, but the activity. Secondly, he then says: put off the old self and put on the new self. Verse 22, you were taught with regard to your form of way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. And to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self, created to be like God, in righteousness and holiness of truth. This is a key distinctive of Christian counseling. So much counseling that even goes by the name of Christian. Is really simply the world's therapies, a therapeutic model of our behavior as deriving from sickness rather than sin. We're centering in the self-esteem movement, which says that I do wrong things simply because I don't love myself enough, or any of the other stuff. That is error, because it never calls people to what Paul here so call clearly calls us to. To put off the old self in its deceptions, and to put on the new self in righteousness and holiness of truth. Another observation I want to make of these verses before we face directly what they're saying is you notice here How you see the interweaving of Christian counseling and Christian discipleship. There is such an overlap of these two things. That they're sometimes indistinguishable. In fact, I would say that all Christians are involved in discipleship, and we get involved in Christian counseling where there is some impediment to our moving on in our discipleship. The counseling is the kind of corrective that is helping us to move on in Christ-likeness. But you notice that what Paul states here is a principle of Christian discipleship. It is also a principle of Christian counseling. And they are woven here together as the foundation to both. You can't really separate this as a principle of counseling or of discipleship. Now the problem with many of us The problem with me and the problem with you often in the area of change, where we want to change, is that our focus is on ceasing what we want to stop doing without focusing on the alternative that we need to start. You see what Paul says here is put off negative, but also put on positive. Now at this point, I'm afraid I must give a rather lousy riddle that Jay Adams has used. I don't like it. And um it's corny, it's lousy, and I I I shudder to even give it, but um somehow it seems to make the point and sticks. So I'll do it. Jay Adams says, when is a door not a door? You know the answer you kids know? When When it's a jar. You got it. When it's a jar. Now isn't that corny? I mean there is no laughing in that thing. That is a pure groaner. When is a door, not a door, when it's a jar. But what's the point? The door is not a door when it is something else. It doesn't just cease to be a door. And so what Paul says here to you and to me, he goes on in verse 25. When is a liar not a liar? When he stops lying? No. Maybe he's just afraid to lie at that point. When is a liar not a liar? When he becomes a truth-teller. When he's committed to telling truth. When is a thief not a thief? When he's not stealing? No. Maybe he's just afraid of getting caught. He really wants all that much right that moment. When is a thief not a thief? Paul says in verse 27 Is it verse 27? Verse 28. Verse 28 says, A thief is not a thief when he becomes a giver rather than a taker. And so in all the things he will begin to unfold to us, he applies this idea of not simply ceasing, stopping sinful activity, but replacing it with holy positive activity. Bitterness, not simply stopping bitterness But putting on kindness or bitter words to words that build up. You see, the pattern is always from sin to righteousness. From something negative to an alternative that is positive. You see this throughout Scripture, Galatians 5. Put off The deeds, the works of the flesh, put on the fruits of the Spirit as the alternative. Psalm 1 Don't walk, stand, sit with the ungodly, but what? Meditate on God's word. Put on his word in your thinking. Jesus did the same thing. When he said, if anyone wants to come after me, then first deny yourself, take up your cross, the instrument of death. That's the putting off. And then what? Follow me. Putting on the positive alternative. He doesn't just say stop sinning. So I think that for you and for me, we need to see at this point that while we're looking at the foundation, there's no specifics here yet. This is the foundational principle. So you now have the privilege of filling in the blank. What is the area of sin in your life that you wish you could change and escape That perhaps you are not finding victory over because all you do is focus on that negative and say, I gotta stop doing that, I gotta stop doing that, I gotta stop doing it, I gotta stop looking at this, I gotta stop doing that, I g Stop reacting this way Without looking at what is the alternative godly behavior to replace You fill in the blank in terms of your own life and see what God will do. Finally, the third thing, without which this would be pure moralism, you cannot do this in your own strength. The third contrast, which is implied in these verses, Is the contrast between self-effort moralism and gospel-based sanctification. The contrast between self-effort moralism and gospel-based sanctification. Sanctification is just a fancy word for holiness, becoming like Jesus. And you see that all three parts of the Godhead are involved in this. Verse 2021, we are taught by Jesus, and He is the content. In verse 23, it talks about being made new in the spirit of your minds. I don't believe that word spirit refers to the Holy Spirit, but it is the Spirit. who in fact renews our minds. And then verse 24, we're created to be like God. Used in that way probably refers to the Father. The picture you see that Paul's giving in this whole thing, and it's so it's so obvious that we can overlook it. What is the picture of this putting off and putting on? Why does he use that language? What do you put off and put on? Clothes, right? So it's a picture of changing clothes. Now, take as an example Here's my t-shirt, one of my nice Cape Cod t-shirts. Now, you know, let's suppose it was summer, and so I wore this thing For a week of camping. Never changed it. Man, I did everything. I climbed, I did, you know, all the everything we did. I wore this thing for a solid week. Then I come home And I changed the oil as you can see in this thing. And then I also did some grease work with it, you know, and so you know I got this thing really pretty grungy. And and then I take this thing And I wipe up the garbage with it. In fact I I stick it in the can and and it's you know, it's hot and and there's maggots in there And so I'm wiping up this thing, you know, and I get all this sort of maggots hanging off it. And I didn't do that just to save you guys from retching. But you know, this thing's got garbage hanging on it and there's a few things crawling around on it. And then I put it back on. So you see, Paul says that is what your old nature looks like. Man, it's foul and it stinks. You and I deceive ourselves that our sin really doesn't look too bad. But Paul says lying and deceptiveness and backbiting and gossiping and all this stuff, it is foul Now, what he's saying to you and to me is put that off. And what you put on is instead a nice Brand new t-shirt. So you take this thing, it's never been worn, right out of the bag there. Have to stick that thing back in the bag somehow for the second service We're going to stick this thing. There it is. Now, nice and brand and clean. You see? And what Paul's saying is that is the nature of Jesus. Galatians chapter 3, verse 27, Paul says, When you are baptized, you put off the old nature and clothe yourselves with Christ. That's why, if you've ever read in the early church, when they had baptism, they had what they called baptismal investiture. That is, they would put on a white robe. Why? You know, someone to baptize them so they you know wouldn't get their regular clothes wet. No, no, no, no. It was to picture the new nature in Jesus. That this is what he does for you You don't have that nature of yourself. You will never change your heart to become like that. You put on Jesus nature. By faith he comes in you and you are created like God, verse 24. Chapter 2, verse 10. You have been made his masterpiece created. in Christ to do the good works, the positive side, the putting on. When Abraham Lincoln Freed the slaves with the Emancipation Proclamation. He thought that in itself, the country thought these people will be freed and that will accomplish the solution to the problem They found out it was the beginning of a problem. Because as those slaves were freed, they still fought like slaves. And what needed to be added to that was teaching people how to put off slave thinking and to be able to put on free thinking And you and I have been delivered from the bondage and slavery to sin in Jesus Christ, but some of us are still thinking like slaves. We're still thinking with the deceptions of the old nature. And we need to learn to live in that daily repentance. That is one missionary wrote. He says, I I woke up in the middle of the night, I kicked over a laundry basket, and my immediate response with hatred toward my wife. How did she leave that thing out of here? It's her fault. But he said, God worked in my heart the gospel. And I was able to repent of that hatred and blame shifting, and by the morning we were able to rejoice that God had changed my heart. From someone who was hateful to someone who was humble and loving. He goes on to speak about a mother who was angry at her daughter, and he says she wanted to correct her daughter out of her rudeness and her disobedience. Until God showed her that her own heart had been hateful toward her daughter, that she had provoked her by shaming her with contemptuous speaking to her. And came to repent to her daughter of her attitude, and then in the gospel to correct her daughter for her lack of respect as fellow sinners. Putting on the gospel affects everything you do day and night. Where's God speaking to you about the deceptions and the areas He wants to change? Let's pray. Lord our God, we continue to walk in the deceptive desires, the deceptiveness of our thinking. Right now, Lord, we want to come and we want to ask you to reveal to us where we are deceiving ourselves. I have got to do this. I can't change. And on and on and on we go. To see, Lord, what you have done for us, Lord Jesus, not simply in forgiving our sin, but in providing that new nature in yourself which you call for us to put on by faith. And in doing that, that you would take from us that sin. And you would put on that new nature in Jesus. Which is righteousness and holiness in the truth that we learn from you. Reveal to us, Lord, this week where you want us to apply that. Even now in Jesus name.