Well let me say that I am impressed how many of you are here today. You know what I'm speaking on? I mean even last week's bulletin didn't tell you what I was speaking on this week as it normally does. It uh repeated last week as if uh It was afraid that uh if you really knew what I was speaking on this week, you might not come back. You see the title in your sermon outline, How to Stop Lying. And yet you're all still here. I'm impressed. I've got to tell you that uh this last Sunday I contacted a cousin of mine that I hadn't seen for five years or had any contact with. And we exchanged email addresses and this week she emailed me three times. The second email was I saw her name and on my little mailbox there the subject was Sermon Online. Now that took me back a bit because I had said nothing to her about preaching online this Sunday. And so I opened it up and it said, just in case you ever speak online. Here's an incident that I heard just recently that occurred. She said a pastor was going to preach online And so he said to the congregation the Sunday before, next week I'm going to speak online, and in preparation for this, I would appreciate it if you would all read Mark chapter 17. Then the next Sunday came back and began the sermon by saying, Now let me know, how many of you read Mark 17 in preparation for the message this morning? And every hand went up To which he then said, I want you to know that Mark only has sixteen chapters. I'm now going to speak to you online. I just saw that this week. This last couple of weeks we've been looking through Ephesians chapter 4, looking at the foundation that Paul lays for a holy life. A life he says that you and I who profess Jesus Christ must live that looks different From our neighbors, from our co-workers, from people in our family that do not claim Jesus as Savior and Lord And as you go through that, as Lauren read that, the thing that I told you is one of the most prominent features of this foundation that Paul lays is the contrast between d deceit and truth. Again, look at verse 17 So I tell you this and insist on in the Lord that you must no longer live as the Gentiles, the unbelievers do, in the futility of their thinking. They are darkened in their understanding, separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that's in them, due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they've given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. They're out of touch with reality. deceiving themselves, they are darkened, ignorant about what truth is, and they live in increasing degradation because of that darkness and hardening. Contrast, verse 20. You, however, did not come to know Christ, or you did not learn Christ literally that way. Surely you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth. That is in Jesus. You want to know truth? You start by looking at Jesus. All truth is finally focused in him as the person who brings and reveals truth. You were taught, he says, with regard to your former way of life, put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. Here it is again. To be made new in the attitude of your minds, to put on a new self, created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. So you see, Paul is saying here that you and I have lived before we knew Jesus Christ. In a kind of hall of distorting mirrors, of illusions that present reality deceitfully to us We've lived with a mindset, a spirit of a mind that has not understood truth and reality, where temporal values are vastly more important than eternal values. Where a car that will last ten years is more important to us than a soul that lasts for eternity. So it is in this context that you read in verse 25 the first application now to your life and to my life. Therefore Each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are all members of one body. Paul says, the first obvious application of this is that you and I put off falsehood and put on truth as we speak to one another. You see falsehood is so rampant, is so commonplace to us That we barely notice it anymore because it's just part of the air that we breathe. Take, for instance, the inflated language of sales. Uh I was talking to a copier salesman, a very worthy profession. But when he showed me his card, it didn't say copier salesman. It said account executive. You know, everything that we do is intended to inflate our image In fact, if you any of you get or look at consumer reports, you'll notice that each month they have on the back page a section called Selling It. And there is no better illustration. In fact, I could have gone on for another half hour giving you illustrations of the deceitfulness of contemporary marketing. Let me give you just two picked almost at random, only selected because they're succinct and get the point very quickly. They talked a couple months ago about an ad campaign that was sent around household to household. And you were notified that you have won, you are the recipient of a 1997, this was back in the fall, 1997 model car. And then you check which one of six that you want. And it says, just submit $21. 95, and you will receive delivery. Of a 1997 model car, do not fail to respond, or you'll lose your chance for the car. Now, what's that saying? You look down in well it doesn't even say it in the fine print, but if you send in the twenty-one ninety-five, what you get is in fact a 1997 model car, 139th scale, uh you know, car worth a couple of bucks, and a chance out of one out of 16 million to win a real car. And you know, you could say, well, technically they didn't lie, you see. But the whole point of it is to deceive you to get your money. Or you take uh you know these uh guarantees. Uh one that's I think one of the most amusing to me is East Pack backpack carriers. If you buy an East Pack backpack carrier, on the little slip inside, it says in large letters, lifetime guarantee. And so here's a backpack. You know, no matter how long I live, whatever happened, this thing is guaranteed for life. Then you read in the small print underneath, it said except for misuse and abuse or normal wear and tear. In other words, it's going to last until it wears out. Now, we are so used to this kind of thing that we become cynical and truth becomes devalued. Of course, there's no better example of this than the current scandal involving the president. What was interesting to me was not only to hear what President Clinton said after the Monica Lewinsky revelations, but how a couple of weeks later the news played clips of all of his statements of the past two weeks and looked ex at exactly what he said analyzing for what he didn't say, interpreting it purely in terms of legalese, knowing That what he said would probably be able to be defended as technically true, but each word crafted so as to give you an entirely false impression While still being able to stand up in court. And the news knew this, and they just simply said, this is life. As long as his ratings are high, this is all we'll get. What's even more insidious, perhaps, is that at about the same time the president is also saying that we now this year have a balanced budget. Zero deficit. What he doesn't tell you in that is that that is only possible by borrowing or taking $174 billion out of Social Security and other trust funds that are supposed to be for the future. Those are being emptied so that he can say we have a balanced budget. Now it's no wonder that when people are polled they find that there's no great shock because people don't believe in fact Kathy and I saw a birthday card in the store just Friday. There's a picture of Bill Clinton on the front. It says, Happy birthday. Bill Clinton saying, you don't look nearly your age. You open up on the inside and it says, Have I ever lied to you? You know, we live in a day where people don't expect to hear from public officials or even our president the truth. So it's no wonder the truth is devalued in our common everyday exchanges. Perhaps the best uh revelation of this that I've seen in recent months was uh Jim Carrey's uh film, Liar Liar. I don't know if any of you saw that, of course. I didn't want to see it, but I had to see it because I was preaching on this and so I had to get some material, you know. Um but let me say that that film is non-trivial, okay? It's a rather humorous illustration of how radical life would be if someone could only tell the truth for simply 24 hours in all of their work and all of their relationships, particularly if that person happened to be a lawyer Humor, of course, comes from incongruity, and of course there's a lot of material for a defense lawyer only being able to tell the truth, not implying that if any of you out there are lawyers that you lie. simply saying that this is the image today that has certainly some backing to it. Well, what goes through with this Is of course, his life is radically changed from this. And there's one scene in where he's talking to his son, about seven or eight years old, and he is talking about the fix that he is in. And his um how he's caught because he can only tell the truth and the son's wondering why is this a problem? Dad, you've always told me I should tell the truth. And then Jim Carrey says, but son, adults have to lie. And the sun then exposes in very uh very uh wise ways, just it's very brilliantly written, how the sun exposes the shallowness of all his excuses for having to lie. And then comes the big scene in the courtroom Where he's defending this sleazy woman who's trying to keep her husband, ex-husband, from get having custody over their son. And of course he's about to lose the case because he can't lie. And the whole case depended on his being able to distort and twist the truth. But he can't do it. Everything he says has to be true for these 24 hours. He then, just as he's about to lose the case, thinks of a brilliant move by which he is able to technically tell all the truth and still win the case on some technicalities. And so he does that and wins the case. The son is removed from the father who loves him, given to the sleazy woman who really wants to abuse him. And everyone is congratulating Jim Carrey for such a brilliant performance, the peak of his career, and he's absolutely miserable. Because at that point he realizes truth is not simply technically saying something that you can defend. Truth is a bigger picture of the intent to convey what is really true and right. It's a non-trivial film. And you go away from it realizing what a rare and precious commodity truth actually is. And how different our world would be if we had to abide by truth, so radically different. In fact, this week, just in thinking about this message, I happen to notice that in either Time or U. S. News, take a look at it, there is a two-page, full pages ad from United Airlines. The one point that that ad makes, how much does it cost to put two full pages in Time or U. S. News full color, makes one single point. Fly with us because we tell you the truth. If you're going to have delays, we're going to tell you, we're going to be honest with you about those delays. Now you see, it's so rare that here is a major corporation that's going to take out a two-page ad to simply convince you That the reason you should fly with them is because they alone of all the airlines will tell you the truth about what's going on. Morton Lloyd Jones, in commenting on this passage said that lying is almost universally condemned by almost every culture throughout the world. And yet there is no sin more universally and daily practiced as that of deceit. All of us have difficulty here. If we're honest with ourselves, we see that. Look at what this verse is saying and see how it is a classic example of what we've been talking about in the last couple of weeks. It has four parts to it. First of all, do you see the command there to put off? Each of you must put off falsehood. A command to put off Then there is the command to put on and speak truthfully to his neighbor. And of course that is a command to put on truth. These two commands are, in terms of gospel grammar, you see the little blank over there. Those are the what? What do you call those? The Louder. The imperatives. Alright? Those are the imperatives. Remember Ephesians 4 to 6 is all the imperatives, the commands, how to live. Then point three is that it is based on the reason we are members of one another. That's from chapter 2. uh telling us you are joint citizens, joint members of one household, joint stones in one living temple, elaborates that in chapter four, verses one to sixteen. That's the imperative which is based on the what's the other part? The what? Boldness. Say it. Alright. Imperatives are based on the indicatives. That's the next point. Number three. You see, he's saying there, do this because you are this. You've got to put off falsehood, put on truth because you are members of one another Rather strange reason. We'll look at that in a couple of minutes. Why is that the reason? Fourthly, then, notice that he gives the power to do this. Begins again with that word, therefore. Therefore, it takes you back not simply to the contrast between truth and deception, but also to the nature Your new nature in Christ, which you're putting on, which comes from the gospel in chapters 1 to 3. Now that's basically the verse. That's what it's about. I want to spend the rest of the time Helping us to apply it. Because this verse is so crucial. Paul begins with this verse in terms of your and my living as new, remade, transformed creatures in Jesus. This is so basic to your and my living differently from the world that this is where Paul purposely begins. And it's very easy for us to hear a verse like this and assent to it and say, yeah, I need to be aware of that, but never really apply it. How do we apply it? Let me offer to you then Six seven steps of application. First of all, be honest. In recognizing the obvious and subtle ways that you deal in falsehood. Who, me? Well, let me tell you, if you deny that you ever lie, you're simply deceiving yourself. Have you ever created a false impression about something you did or who you know or what you're like? And you knew the person had a false impression about what you said, but you let it lay there because it made you look better than you are. Take for example Ananias and Sapphira. In Acts chapter 5, it's clear that when they sold their property, They could have kept all of the proceeds themselves. They were under no obligation to give it to the church. They certainly weren't any under obligation to give all of it to the church. But they gave the impression, it doesn't say quite how, but it they gave the impression to the church that they were so spiritual that they were giving all the proceeds of what they had sold To bring to the apostles for the general distribution to their brothers and sisters. And Peter confronts them: You have lied not to men, but to God. You have tried to give to your brothers and sisters the impression you are more spiritual than you really are. And as a result, we read that God struck Ananias and Sapphira dead on the spot. He's a God of truth. Now, you say, I'm glad God's not in the business of doing that today. You know, we talk about problems of church growth. We'd be a lot thinner than we would now if every time somebody tried to give the impression they were more spiritual than they were, flat out on the floor, we carry them out on a stretcher, and that's the end. Church wouldn't grow at all. Or would it? The result we see in Acts chapter 5 was that the holiness of the church caused such regard by the outsiders that there was an attraction. To Jesus Christ because these people were so obviously different. Integrity so marked them. What would it mean today if people looked at the Church of Jesus Christ and said, those are people you can trust? I may not believe their Bible, I may not worship their God, but you can trust them. Or are there times when you and I have exaggerated to make a point, or told a half-truth rather than the whole truth, conveying a definite wrong impression? Or indulged in insincere flattery. Or have you ever said to somebody, you know, we really want to have you over. We're going to have to get together. We'd love to have you over for dinner. So give us a call and we'll get together. What are you conveying? I'm hospitable, I'm friendly, I really like you. But if that person called you next week and said, fine, I'm just following up on what you said, let's set up the time, you'd faint on the floor, wouldn't you? Because it is a cultural thing that we do that says, I'd really like to do this, and I'm a nice person, but we'll probably never get around to it because it's really not that high on my priorities. But it conveys to you that I'd really like to. Or have you ever been in a situation where some loved one of a friend of yours has died? And you say to that person I really feel terrible for you and your loss. If there's anything that I can do for you, please let me know. I really want to help. Please, if there's anything. And what are we doing? If we really intended that, we would offer something specific. But the vague offer of if there's anything I can do, let me know, conveys I'm a really nice, caring person. But I really don't expect you to call, because how many people would call back in such a situation? How many times do you and I try to convey that we're nicer, kinder, more compassionate than we really are or intend to be? Or do we even lie to ourselves about the things that we do and say, I really didn't mean to be so thoughtless. I was just under stress. And if you really understood what I was going through, you'd understand that I'm really a nice person, but I just was stressed out that time when I snarled at you or was nasty. Well, you tell yourself, it really wasn't my fault that that happened, in all the ways that you and I blame shift And deceive ourselves that we're really nice people, but it's others who caused us to get angry, to sin, to react the way that we did. The first step in applying this verse, put off falsehood, is for you and me to be honest with ourselves That we are in fact full of falsehood. That in little ways, in a truth-deflated society, you and I convey falsehoods Often without even realizing it, even to ourselves. Second step. See and value God as the God of truth See and value God as the God of truth. To see that the one of the basic distinctions between God and Satan is that Satan is the deceiver. And God is the God of truth. You see on the back side of your bulletin outline there, I've listed just some of the scriptures that contrast Satan's nature. With God's in terms of truth and deception. In John 8:44, Satan is called the deceiver who is the father of lies. 2 Corinthians 11, 3, Paul speaks of how he deceived Eve in the garden and is out to deceive you also. The Book of Revelation, in large part, is a play on the theme of Satan as the one who deceives the nations through the false prophet. and other means whiles in contrast to Jesus who is the revealer of truth. The book of Revelation is called that because it is the revelation of truth in contrast to the deceptions and appearances that Satan would have us to believe. In John 17, 17, Jesus says, Your word is truth. Psalm 31:5, God is spoken of as the God of truth, who in Isaiah 45, 19 can only speak truth. In John 1. 14, Jesus, we're told, is full of grace and truth. Did you ever stop to realize Then when it all comes down to the bottom line, there is only there are only three persons in all the universe that you can trust The Father, the Son, and the Spirit. There is no one else in your life that you can trust like Jesus. Because he will never, not only will he never tell you a lie, it's one thing to intend to convey truth But to mislead out of ignorance. But Jesus will never deceive you because he knows all things and speaks absolute truth in his word to you. He will never break a promise. He can never go back on his word. And so, of all the other things that you love him for, when's the last time you've just come before him and said, Lord Jesus, I love you because I can trust you? And of all the people in my life who intentionally or out of their weakness deceive me and mislead me, you never have and you never will. I can trust you. Against all my experience, against all my feelings, what I read in this your word, I can trust. Absolutely. Now you see, as you and I begin to value truth and God as the God of truth and see that He has remade us. That he is transforming us. We will love truth and begin to hate deception more. That leads to the third point. See the destructive effects of falsehood in the body. Interesting verse. Therefore each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor. The reason is not because God is a God of truth, or because you were called to truth. All those he could have said. But what does he say? For we are all members of one body. Why is that the reason? Because falsehood destroys fellowship, because falsehood destroys trust. Where you break trust, you divide the body. If I can't trust you, I can't really fellowship with you and open myself to you. And this is the image of the body, you see. He says we're all members of one body. So think of that. Suppose, for instance that you're walking along and the foot consults the eye and says, how is it ahead? No problem. Keep going. Bam! Right into a wall. Because the eye deceived the foot. The foot would think twice before asking the eye again about how quick can I proceed? Because the last time I asked you, I smashed my toe. But of course, the way God's constituted the body, where one suffers, we all suffer. And so the body might have gotten a black eye, too. Because when I deceive you, it affects me. Trust is broken, and that's precious. Again, the world should be able to look to the church and say, I don't believe their God, I don't believe their Bible, but I have to admit of all the people I know, they're the ones I can trust. Somebody said just this week to somebody in our congregation who's moved away and long been gone, of all the churches that I've been part of, Columbia Presbyterian, I've seen to be one of the healthiest churches I was ever a part of. That was very encouraging to me. And I thought about that, and I thought in terms of what I'm speaking on here, I think by God's grace alone, one of the reasons for that is because I have seen very little deceit or breaking of trust between the members of our body through all the years that we've existed Now we are full of falsehood, brothers and sisters. And that is a testimony to the power of Jesus in our lives, isn't it? I mean, isn't it true that you can look and basically say, I can trust the other members of this congregation. They will not purposely deceive me. Where there is falsehood, there is lack of trust, and where there is lack of trust, fellowship breaks down. Put off falsehood and speak truth in love to one another, because you are members of one body, and that oneness depends on the trust. That is so easily broken by any deception. Before we congratulate ourselves, how true that is and how God has blessed us through that. We need to continue to examine our hearts for those little in-roots, those little cracks that Satan would want to penetrate in temptations to deceive. And so therefore, point four. Repent of whatever falsehood the Spirit is showing you right now, where you have deceived someone. I find that in cases where I deal with adultery, that what breaks the relationship As much as the original unfaithfulness is the continuing deceit that is necessary to cover that. And it breaks trust. And it breaks the union, the closeness between the man and the wife. Where there is any area that you see that you've done something wrong and you cover it. You continue to deceive because you don't want to face the consequences of truth where it needs to be known May God grant the grace to be honest with Him and to confess it. Point five, put it off Don't just think about it. No more excuses. Put off the falsehood. Bill Hybel says, Recently I preached on telling the truth, and afterwards a man came up and he said, You don't understand what you're saying. What don't I understand? I asked him. Now you're just up there doing what pastors are supposed to do, talk about truth. But my job requires my violating about five of the things you just talked about. It's part of the job description I can't be on the level and keep my position. You're not asking me to adopt some value system. You're asking me to give up my salary and abandon my career Let's face it. Verse 25 doesn't say much when it's convenient for us to tell the truth. Where it's a test of faith is where everything in you cries out, I can't tell the truth in this situation. I refuse to face the consequences of what it will mean if I am honest in this situation. And then trust God and go ahead and do it. Obedience requires faith. Putting off the falsehood and putting on point six truth telling Focusing on speaking truth even when it is so hard. And I can think of situations in my own life. You sweat, you pray. And then you say, God, I'm going to trust you and I'm going to speak the truth. And when you see what God does, you grow about that much as a Christian, don't you? Because you've seen God sustain you. Maybe He didn't sustain you by keeping the job or whatever it is that would have been the positive consequence, the thing that you feared maybe happened, but you saw God take care of you through that situation. And you're not able to do that in your own strength. So point seven is you do this all by faith in the power of Jesus Christ in you. Therefore, because of the power of the gospel and because of the provision of the body It's difficult in situations, and that's why we need to wrestle in our small groups, in ourselves, to be able to say, here's what I'm facing Help me to know what is the honest thing to do here? What can I do in this situation? Maybe you can't solve it yourself. That's why God has given us the body. But he's given us his spirit to enable us to do what at the bottom line we know is right. Let's pray. Lord, in each of our cases we can think now of ways that we get caught up in falsehood, deception. And we devalue truth because it's devalued all around us. It's no big deal. Lord our God, we pray. Make us a people of truth, to value you as the God who never deceives us. And to come before you this day and to confess our deceptions. To know you, Lord Jesus, died for liars like us. That you forgive us, and you're able to transform us and to renew us. So we ask you to do that That you will be glorified through a people who reflect your truth and can be trusted for Jesus' sake. Amen.