Paul is teaching us how to live according to the resurrection power of Jesus Christ. He's been teaching us how to put off the old, self-centered, and yet self-destructive nature and put on by faith The new way of living after the example of Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 4. We've been going through this passage. The foundations of it in verses 17 to 24. Then he begins to apply that. We saw a while back in verse 25. To lying and speaking the truth. Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are all members of one body. And now he is dealing with the matter of anger. We looked at it last week, conclude it this week, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 26 and 27, the text for this morning. Hear God's word. In your anger, do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, and do not give the devil a foothold. Recall that Paul's calling our attention to at least two things here we've been looking at. First of all, last week, the importance of distinguishing between anger and sin. Verse 26, literally, be angry, be wrathful, and do not sin. There's a distinction. Not all anger is sinful. Sometimes we should be more angry, righteously angered. And so we saw that there are two kinds of anger. There is righteous anger, and there is sinful anger. And for us, it's generally mixed. Even in our most righteous anger, there's generally some elements of sinful anger. Unfortunately, sometimes the sinful anger isn't mixed with a whole lot of righteous anger, but usually there is even some of that. The problem is that when I do not repent of my sinful anger Then I tend to blunt my righteous anger because I'm always trying to press down and not act out on my anger that I feel. I'm so aware that when I'm angry, that I'm going to sin or that my anger is not justified or it's self-righteous or whatever else that I tend to just try to press all my anger down. And when I do, then unfortunately it will tend to be expressed toward the wrong people and in the wrong way. Often my family gets it because it's safer. At least for most of us in our families, than for somebody else. And it comes out in the wrong way, rather than constructively Remember, we said that God's purpose for anger is to energize us to do what we would not otherwise do Because we wouldn't take the trouble or take the risk to do what is very uncomfortable to do. But anger energizes us to do what is necessary against wrong. But if I am not repenting of my sinful anger, then the anger that I'm always trying to keep down comes out in spite It leaks out inappropriately, destructively, and very harmfully. So today I want to focus on this second point. I'll tell you, I have thought about And if you sense a difference in my attitude, I have agonized over this message more than most. Because I think this is a real problem for many of us And I want to focus, expecting that God will do some great deliverance this morning in some of our lives from the burden of anger. The danger, secondly, of prolonged anger, it gives the devil a foothold You see the connection? Verse 26-27? In your anger, do not sin, do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, and do not give the devil a foothold. So I want to share with you what I call the ABCs of anger. Basic principles. The ABCs of anger. A. Anger, prolonged, always decays into bitterness. Anger prolonged always decays into bitterness. I believe that God has shown me that many of you here in this room, part of Columbia Presbyterian. are angry people. Some of us are angry people and we carry around a prolonged anger. It's an angle we've been carrying around for years. It began very focused and fixed, perhaps on a particular incident or experience. It was something that perhaps was a thoughtless, insensitive remark when we needed support. Somebody failed you. Somebody betrayed you. Someone has deeply hurt you. Who was it? You can think about that person right now, can't you? You can think about the experiences. And they're still so vivid. You're still a turning in your stomach as you think about that person that's hurt you. About those things that have burrowed down deep into your soul, of people who have offended you, who have failed you Maybe it's difficult for you at this point to even remember how it started. You don't remember that gradual deterioration in the relationship. But all you know now is that when you think of that person, you simply want to protect yourself and you would like to punish them And that has gripped you. It's something you can't escape. You try to ignore it for much of the time. But what turned what began as a specific incident has now because that anger has festered, it's continued with you, rather than seeing you were thoughtless. You failed me in this particular situation. It's now you're generally thoughtless. And you generally fail me. There's become a generalization, and anger that's prolonged is like food that's left out, becomes rotten, decays. Anger which might be pure, which could be holy, which could be used by God to bring about change and constructive building up of that other person in any relationship. has instead decayed and become putrid. You relive and you replay the offenses in your mind in order to justify your continuing to be angry at that person. In some cases to hate them. You wonder how you can try to have any kind of relationship with them and If it's in a marriage relationship between husbands and wives, there's a distancing, a sense of failure And you don't know what to do in order to make it right again. Perhaps in some instance, there's a secret deep-down delight. That you feel so right in a relationship where they're so obviously wrong. And of all the things that you feel guilty about, and all the things that you failed At least in this situation, you know they're wrong and you're right. And it feels good to look good by comparison And so you nurse that and you protect it. And you blame them for your life not being what it should be If only they hadn't done, if only they weren't like this, if only your husband wasn't like this, if only your wife was more supportive. If only your husband took more leadership and accepted responsibilities, if only your kids would mature and not always fight If only your brother or your sister could be reasonable, could act like a human being, rather than subhuman Whatever else it could be, there's somebody that you're blaming because of the misery in your own life. That's A. B is that bitterness is the devil's foothold into your life because it undercuts the gospel. Anger, when it's prolonged, leads to bitterness. Bitterness gives the devil a foothold because it undercuts the gospel. A couple of hundred years ago, Jonathan Edwards wrote, Contention and true religion, by which he meant biblical Christianity, cannot live together. Contention and true religion cannot live together. Because you see, bitterness thrives only by the law. And the law and the gospel are antithetical. That anger that you have and that you nurse against that other person has given the devil a foothold in your life because he is driving grace and the gospel out of your life You no longer cherish the cross as that place where you can come and simply delight in the grace of God for you. Because you're nurturing a superior, self-righteous anger against somebody that you blame for the wrongs in your life. You're afraid if you go to the cross and really come to the foot of the cross, you may have to give up your superiority. Maybe you wish that you could forgive that person this morning. Maybe you realize that this burden of anger that has been upon you for months or years. Is something that you so long to get rid of. You recognize it robs you of enjoyment, it robs you of an intimacy with the Lord Jesus Life simply isn't fun. There's a heaviness that you carry around. Perhaps this morning you wish that you could get rid of that. Do you? Ask yourself, if you could, by the end of this service, before you go home, if you could be rid of that bitterness, would you choose to? If you could have two buttons before you and one would say destroy the person, the other would say, or three buttons, let's say, one would say destroy that person, the second would say, continue to live in anger against them. The third one would say be entirely free from that anger. Which one would you push? Well if you would decide that you wish that you could be free of it, how can you do it? Let's see. The corrective steps to deal with sinful anger. How can you deal with this problem? How could you get rid of that anger that's robbing you of the joy, the faith, the effectiveness for the Lord Jesus that you wish could be restored? Let me be absolutely clear here. I can offer to you a number of psychological techniques that would be helpful in coping with anger. You can read books and articles on this, and they will be very helpful in talking about emotional maturity and various things that you can do that will help you to cope with that feeling. But only the gospel of Jesus Christ can remove the anger. Absolute radical distinction. The gospel doesn't help you to cope with the anger The gospel, brothers and sisters in Jesus, is what will remove the anger from your life. How does it do it? Have to be very simple. These are the kind of things that an application to our lives could take hours to discuss and to apply, but let me state as briefly as I can and as succinctly Three steps in how this process takes place. Number one, recognize the anger and deal with it quickly. Verse 26 and 27. Paul says, God speaking to us. In your anger do not sin, do not let. He goes on, you see, this is what he's talking about particularly. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry. And do not give the devil a foothold. Now, don't read that woodenly to say the Bible is saying that if I ever go to bed angry, then I'm sinning. That would be like the man who said, My wife and I have practiced this all through our marriage. We have never gone to bed angry. One time, however, we stayed up for three months. It's not a matter of willingly applying Don't go to bed being angry. Do whatever you need to do, peace at all costs, whatever, but just don't go to bed angry. The point is, recognize the anger and deal with it quickly. Because if you don't, the devil's going to get a foothold in your life. Some of you have been angry for years and justifying it. And you spend a lot of energy, a lot of emotional energy justifying that anger. So the first thing to do is to recognize it, don't minimize it. Don't try to excuse the other person. Don't say it doesn't really matter. I'm probably making too big a deal out of it. Maybe they didn't mean it, whatever else. That's not the way to deal with it. If you were hurt, if somebody failed you or betrayed you, look it in the eye. I believe they were wrong. This has hurt profoundly at the core of my being. It hurts. You don't know how it hurts. No, I don't. Recognize that. But determine I'm not going to continue to not deal with it and to just let it fester and to continue in my life. I want God to remove this. Secondly, search your heart. Search your heart in this process. You see, Paul is actually quoting from a passage in the Old Testament when he says this, he's quoting from Psalm 4. In Psalm 4, David is praying about those who would like to destroy him. He's praying about his enemies. Who want to turn uh all of his glory into shame, verse two. They want to uh gossip against him, they want to tell things that are false about him. And David is wrestling with this. He's struggling with it. And God's word comes to him in verse 4 of Psalm 4. In your anger, do not sin. Same idea. That's what Paul's quoting from. When you are on your beds, search your hearts and be silent. That's the first thing. Not often an immediate reaction. And that may require going to bed, you see. It may require thinking for a little bit And what you want to do is you search your heart is to ask yourself a couple of questions. You want to go through a process that you see there on the outline, a threefold process. First of all, you want to ask yourself, why am I so angry at this? Why am I so angry? Why has this had me so infuriated? I told you last week something happened that kept me up for two hours, and I began to think about that. I thought I was doing this, you know, the things I had number things in mind that I thought were loving. Why am I then so angry? rather than simply sad and disappointed. It's because things didn't turn out the way I wanted them to turn out. It was an issue of control So you need to look and realize that anger is the most obvious emotion, but behind anger there are always other emotions. Often it's fear. It could be a fear of what this person could do to me. It's an insecurity, feeling vulnerable. Perhaps it's the fear that the nasty, accusatory things that they said to me. uh the ways that they thought they had pinpointed the essence of my character in ways that weren't very edifying to me, maybe they're right. Or at least a little bit right. And so there's fear. There's defensiveness. And the first thing that you and I need to do is realize that anger is a signal. It's telling me something. Why am I so angry? And after you say, well, because blah blah blah blah blah blah, then say, no, no. Really, behind that, why am I so angry? And then secondly Repent the beam that is in your own eye. Do you remember Matthew 7? Jesus says, before you go to take that speck out of your brother's eye Recognize the log, the beam, the two by four that's blinding your own vision. The things that are in your life. What is the Holy Spirit trying to say to you? From those things that were hurtful? What is he saying to you about your own character? What is he saying to you about patience? About your own joy, about your own security in the Lord Jesus, your own understanding of our identity in Him What is he trying to get through to you? And he said, Well he can't be getting into anything through to me. This is my boss and this person's not even a believer and they're you know they live such a perverted, gross life, and there's nothing they would have to offer to me. Listen God spoke to Balaam through an ass. He can speak to you through your boss, through your co-workers. Through somebody now don't go around quoting and saying, Oh here. Get me in trouble with your boss if I meet him. God can use anything to get through by his Holy Spirit to something he wants to say to you and to me. And often those things that he wants to say that are going to most change my life are things that are going to hurt at first. And they don't usually come from the people I would choose them to come from. So you and I need to be willing to say, Lord, what is it that you're trying to say to me through this? What do you want me to see before I'll have the perspective to be able to know how to address Whatever is the wrong in that person's life or in the relationship, because I may, after thinking about this, not know is it him or her or me But at least if I'm willing to see what God is saying to me, I'll be more open to see what that is. Finally, thirdly Recognize the gospel dynamic of grace to the undeserved. Grace to the undeserving. The gospel dynamic of grace to the undeserving. Do you remember that classic passage in Matthew 18 of the debtor? You remember that parable of the debtor was prompted by Peter in his question to the Lord Jesus. Lord, I have a practical question for you. Here's a guy that's really ticked me off. Now, Lord, how many times do I need to forgive him? Now you see, implicit in that is how many times do I have to forgive him? before I let 'em have it. Seven times, Lord? I mean, you know, the first six and then seven and then the eighth one. Bang! I just want to know, Lord, how many, you know, how many times will I got to do this before I am justified in being able to let Him have it? In my anger And of course, Jesus responds, multiplying the seven by seven, and on and on, seven times seventy was not exactly what Peter wanted to hear. And then he tells the story, do you remember about a fellow who had owed something like $10 billion. And there's a bit of humor in this that we may miss just reading it at face value because Jesus is saying this guy owed something like ten billion dollars and he goes to the master, whoever knows how he got in $10 billion debt. But this guy was a big spender, and however it happened, here he is. Ten billion dollars in debt goes to the person, and what he says is, just be patient, I'll pay it all. Now you see what that's saying? It's living by the law. I can do it. I'm justified. Just give me time, give me the opportunity, and I'll show you. But Jesus says the master had pity on him. And he forgave him the debt. The entire thing. Wrote it off, tore up the paper. That's it. You're free. You owe me nothing. Then the guy goes out, and somebody owes him something like a thousand dollars. Let's not minimize it. What Jesus is saying there was not he owed him a few coins, you know, or Ten bucks, fifty bucks. He owed him something like a thousand dollars. So it's significant. But this guy has just been forgiven ten billion dollars. And he goes and he rattles this guy's cage, takes a hold on him, and says, Give me that thousand bucks that you owe me And of course he shows by doing that that he's still living by the law. He's never understood forgiveness. It's like if you were for me, you know, I got this thing, you probably got it. Maybe I don't know. No, I guess you couldn't have gotten it, because it was just to me. It had my name on it. It said, Alan Harris, you have won. The publisher's clearinghouse sweeps this I checked it out. It said it had my name, had my address on there. Had even a coupon on the side. Says, all you have to do is turn this in and you have one. It was something like $8. 76 million, you know. Forget the change, but it was, you know, it was somewhere there about eight and three quarter million dollars. Well now let's suppose that those people who make me angry because they didn't deliver on my nearly nine million dollars, and let's suppose that they had And then I go to you, who owe me about two hundred bucks, and I kick down your door and I say, Give me that two hundred bucks. Does that make sense? And if you had just heard you had one to publishers clearinghouse and it was no joke, you actually got that check. What would you care But you see, Jesus is saying, if we continue to live by the law, and law means blame because of the standard of perfection. I'm trying to live by it. You can't live by it. You're without excuse. And then what happens? I live under guilt. Because since I'm living by the law and I know in my heart I'm not attaining to that, in order to justify my blame of you, I can't go to the cross. So I live under guilt, the bondage of guilt. And it's a twofold bondage of guilt and blame. Blaming you. Feeling shame, blaming you, never making it. The gospel has been undercut. Satan has gotten a foothold in my life. The grace of the gospel has been removed. I've said that all of these passages in Ephesians 4-6 are the imperatives based on the indicatives. They're the commands based on the statement of fact, who you are, what you have in Jesus in chapter 1 to 3. How does that work here? What Paul is saying in chapter 4, verse 26 and 27 is based on what he said in chapter 2, verses 1 to 5, particularly. Do you remember in chapter 2 of Ephesians, Paul said, As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world? And the ruler of the kingdom of the air. You were willingly living, so totally yourself and under the control and the dominion of Satan. He didn't have a foothold in your life, he had control of it The Spirit was now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following his desires and thoughts. Now get this. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of what? Wrath You were an object of God's wrath. Because of the deadness Of your spirit living self-centeredly in your own sin, your own perfectionism, your own world that revolved around you and your values and setting yourself up as judge on everyone else. You were by nature an object of God's wrath. And then verse 4. But But because you decided that you could fulfill this standard and you could change and you could in fact turn around and live for God, no. Because you could demonstrate to him that you were worthy of his love? No. But simply because of his great love for us. Demonstrated when we were yet sinners. God, who is rich in mercy Made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in our transgressions. Before we had said we were sorry Before we recognized our sin, Christ died for us. The reconciliation took place when we recognized Him by the power of His Spirit. It is by grace you have been saved. So you say to me, You have no idea how much this person hurt me. I say, you're absolutely right. I don't. But Paul goes on to say in chapter four and verse thirty-two Be kind, therefore, and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other Just as in Christ God forgave you Don't deny that sin against you. Don't minimize it. All I'm asking you to do is to look for once at how you offended God. Look at the Niagara Falls of his wrath that was hanging over your head, and how he diverted every drop of that and poured it out on his own son. Go to the cross and recognize this basic principle of life. The more you have been sinned against The closer you will come to the cross in order to forgive. If you've just had little thoughtless things done to you in your life, You can look at the cross from 10, 20, 30 yards. Maybe that's enough to forgive. But if you've been profoundly sinned against, you have got to cleave to the cross. You have got to come to those blood-stained hands and feet of Jesus and grasp him and say, Lord, Jesus, help me to understand your forgiveness of me at the cross. And I'll tell you something. If he opens your eyes to see that, you will forgive. You will not be able to hold that anger against that other person. Let's pray. Lord, some of us here have been hanging that anger around our necks for a long time. And I sense, Lord, in just seeing In the sense of the attentiveness, the seriousness of those that hear, that your spirit is speaking to a number of us, we want now to be rid of that. Lord, we pray that you would grant the grace by seeing Jesus in his death for each of us, freely paying for our sin. That you would put in the hearts of these people, those here particularly, Lord, who have been carrying around bitterness against someone. To decide to not hold that against them any longer. To, as it were, bring it here and to see visually the foot of the cross. Right here and to be able to come and to lay that burden, the burden of that anger. Lord, I pray that you would speak Right now in the hearts of these people to release them as they release the other From the bondage of the anger that they've held against them. Lord, in some cases, reconciliation will be possible and wonderful In other cases, it may be someone that's dead. Something one won't be able to get a hold of, and someone who will want nothing to do with reconciliation. That won't be possible. But Lord, you can still remove the anger from the hearts of everyone here. My heart. And others, and Lord, more than all the structures and strategies that we could employ as a church, to have a people freed from anger would release the power of your spirit in our midst. Beyond what we could probably even imagine now. We want you to do that work, beginning with me