We are studying Ephesians chapter 4 to see how Paul is teaching us how you and I can live or walk according to the gospel presented in chapters 1 to 3. We're in the living section, the application section now. Chapter 4, verse 25. Paul has begun to apply that basic principle of putting off. the old deceptive destructive sin nature that you and I were born with, and then to put on by faith the new nature of Jesus Christ that he's described. In chapter 4, verses 20 to 24. First application was in terms of truth-telling, the matter of lying, putting off lying, putting on telling the truth. The second was the matter of sinful anger. Not all anger. Some anger is righteous, but sinful anger. We've covered that the last two weeks. I mentioned to you that I became particularly burdened these last couple weeks about a number of people that or in our congregation that I sensed were burdened with sinful anger. And I want to just give praise to the Lord with you and share with you some of the joy I know some of you are feeling in what God has done in the last couple of weeks. There has been a powerful demonstration of the Spirit of God in our congregation over these last couple of weeks And last Sunday in particular, you remember I invited uh those who wanted particularly to pray with any of the elders, hadn't warned the elders, uh, had some just come back uh right away and Pray and we were here till three o'clock in the afternoon yesterday last Sunday, praying with people who were confessing anger that they had been carrying for years. Uh asking God to take that. I'm not kidding. By the uh by three o'clock we picked up a pile of Kleenexes and napkins. We were going through everything we could find Um because of the the weeping and the confession that was going on there, had a bag full of Kleenexes and paper napkins because God had done a powerful work. And I've heard through this last week. A number of you have uh shared with me what God has continued to do in these last days One person sharing how she has experienced years of anger that has just disappeared. God has taken it uh freedom that she just experienced uh in and the anger that she has felt uh for so long and I know because we had talked about that and uh God has delivered her. Another person was sharing how Uh last week a a relative of theirs had spurned them and hurt them and uh that God had convicted them to go to that person, to not hold that anger, to confess. And be reconciled with that person. And so God has begun to do a work. You know, we don't just hear this stuff as theoretical and you know you hear it Sunday morning and that's it. But God is doing a work in our midst and we praise Him for that. Amen. Well, now we go on. What's next? Let me also say, by the way, for those of you who perhaps felt you were holding back a bit last Sunday, it's not too late. If God is still speaking to you about anger and you thought, okay, well, I guess I slipped through those two messages and didn't have to deal with anything dramatically, uh Let me urge you, the Spirit of God is still here, and He is still striving, and He still wants to deliver you if you are still being convicted of that, to come by the gospel and to receive His Word. It's been really encouraging to me. To see how you as a congregation do receive God's word. Now, Lord, what do you have for us this week? Well, the third application is in chapter 4, verse 28. And now we deal with stealing. And so a number of you are probably saying, stealing. Well, at least I think I can get through this one. Don't be so sure. He says in verse twenty-eight, Ephesians chapter four, he who has been stealing must steal no longer but must work doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share with those in need. The first thing that I notice as I read this verse is that Christianity is not just for nice people. Do you notice as you read through these applications the kinds of things that Paul is dealing with in the church? Sometimes we have visitors that will come to Columbia Presbyterian and I will talk to them afterwards and the person may not be in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. You may be in that kind of situation yourself this morning. And what I'll often hear from such people is, well, you know, I'm afraid that I don't relate to the people at CPC because Those people seem to have it all together and they don't carry around all the kind of baggage and the stuff that I have. Uh they you know, these people don't have the kind of problems. It's all shaking his head over there. That's what I do too. We got you pulled. You know, we think sometimes that Christians are people who have been so radically changed that their lives have all been transformed and are cleaned up. rather than recognizing we are sinners who are forgiven, who are in the process of God transforming us. And you see that by noticing what Paul writes to one of the strongest churches in the first century. The church in Ephesus was not known as a problematical church. And when he begins to apply the gospel, what does he say? He doesn't say, well now make sure you use more Bible verses in your conversation together. He says, stop lying. He doesn't go on to say, now of course I know that none of you guys ever lose your temper and bear grudges and are bitter toward one another, but just make sure that you forgive quickly He says, Don't let the sun go down on your anger and let the devil get a foothold in your life by prolonged bitterness. And then he doesn't say, now of course, I know that none of you have any problem with stealing in this church, because you're Christians. And of course, we don't deal with that here. He says, you, the brothers and the sisters of the of me and the Lord Jesus Christ, if you've got a problem with stealing, put it off. Let him here in the congregation of Jesus Christ, who has a problem of stealing, steal no more You see, Christianity is very practical and deals with life where we are as we live it. There is nothing romantic about Christianity out of touch with daily living. But I want for us to notice that the issue that he's dealing with here is not simply a matter of stealers versus non-stealers. That is not the issue. That is negative. You know, if you've got a problem with stealing, well just stop stealing. That's not what he says. The issue, I want you to notice three things about this verse, and the first is what the contrast actually is. The contrast you see is actually between takers and givers. That's the issue in verse 28. Let him who has been stealing steal no longer, but he must work doing something useful with his own hands, that he may have something to share with those in need. Takers versus givers. You see, a simple way that you can sum up this verse is to say that you can divide everybody in general into one of two categories, either takers or givers. And you look at the people you know, people in your family, look at yourself, takers. are people who want to get the maximum and give the minimum. Takers are people who want to give as much as they can and take as little as they can. Proverbs chapter 30 verse 15 says, The leech has two daughters. Give, give, they cry. Kind of vivid, huh? The issue isn't here between stop taking big pens in the office and can you defend your income tax form in a court of law that you just filled out the last couple of months. That's not the issue. It's the issue of the heart. Proverbs chapter 21, verse 25 and 26. Fascinating contrast. He says there, the sluggard's craving will be the death of him, because his hands refuse to work. All day long he craves for more. But The righteous give without sparing. Interesting contrast. There's some people who are saying, I want to do as little as I can and get as much as I can. And there's other people who say, I want to gain what I can in order to be able to give because I enjoy helping and distributing to other people. Best example I can think of of a taker and the seriousness of that is if you look at the life of Judas Iscariot. If you think what we're dealing with here is some small matter, what we've dealt with before and the lying and the anger, well those are biggies, you know, but this one is kind of a peripheral issue for you. Look at Judas Iscariot in John chapter twelve. You remember when Mary, who loved Jesus so much poured out something like thirty thousand dollars worth of perfume on his body in worship. We talk an act of giving, devotion. A year's wages of perfume out of pure devotion, love for the Lord Jesus. John tells us that Judas Iscariot objected to that. He said, oh, what a waste. That money could have been given to the poor. And then verse 6 says, he didn't say that because he cared for the poor, but because he was the treasurer of the disciples, and he used to help himself to the purse. For his own greed. I'm sure that Judas started doing that one day when he just needed to borrow, you know, cash flow problem. Just take a little bit. Put it back sometime. Besides we're all a community, we all share together. Rationalized, one thing led to another, and pretty soon he's pretty regularly doing it. Continuing to justify it. But the outcome of it was that he finally was willing to sell the Lord Jesus Christ for thirty pieces of silver. Don't let any of the contemporary interpretations of Judas fool you. It was nothing heroic or political. Or misunderstanding about his motives, the Bible's clear. He sold Jesus for money What about you kids? Do you ever find some loose change laying around the house and decide mom and dad aren't going to notice? If you take it and decides, hey, it's all family, right? Why bother to ask and inconvenience them? After all, they're never going to miss a couple bucks, quarters, and change So you justify it, you rationalize it. I knew one kid that did that And after a few years, they were stealing hundreds of dollars from their parents, continuing to justify it. You see, the attitude of taking is like a cancer, continues to grow as we justify that I deserve more than I'm getting. In contrast to that, the Bible presents Paul as an example of many of a giver. I choose Paul because he describes this in Acts chapter 20. In his final words to the Ephesians. So this is kind of like an appendix to the book of Ephesians. It's the words to the same church. Do you remember in Acts chapter 20 when he was leaving them, he said in Acts 20, 32, Now I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which can build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. I have not coveted any one's silver or gold or clothing. You yourselves know that these hands of mine have supplied my own needs, and the needs of my companions, who is making tents, you may recall, from other passages. And everything I did, I showed you that by this kind of hard work we must help the weak. Remembering the words the Lord Jesus Himself said. It is more blessed to give than to receive. So lest we read Ephesians 4. 28 and think that, well, it's easy for you to say, Paul. That after all, I mean you were dependent on everybody else to give to you. Paul says to that same church, you remember when I was with you, I worked for what I had. And I, like you, was sharing with those in need, because I have found that what Jesus said is true. It in fact is more blessed to give than to receive. Do you believe that? You believe that there is more satisfaction, more joy in what you can give, and simply in what you can get Secondly, notice the command that he gives to us here. There's first of all the basic contrast of the hard attitude. But the command that he gives is also very interesting. It's the command, of course, to put off and to put on. The putting off is quite clear. Stealing. Do not, he says, uh let him who has been stealing, he must steal no longer. That is, stop taking what doesn't belong to you Stop borrowing and forgetting to return it. Tools, books, whatever. Stop abusing the privilege of personal phone calls at work, particularly the long-distance ones that go on a company's bill. Or get ready for this one, pirating software. How many of us We're involved in companies where there is one license, one use software. We say, hey, thing looks good to me. I like to recycle. So I'll just take it home. I'll install it on my own computer. It's the same thing. Who cares? They put these things out by the zillions. They're rich And we can justify multiple use of software that has only been issued for single-use authorization. The ways that we as Christians can fuzzy the lines. I've got a friend who actually was punished in his company for refusing to use software that hadn't been authorized and paid for by the company. And we live in a time where I recognize that phone calls and time and those things are very fuzzy within many of our companies. There's a lot of discretion allowed because there's a honor system of, you know, we know you put in extra time and so that's okay. You need to take some time for personal calls, that's all right. The question is, is what we're doing that which we could say to those in authority, this is how I spent my time, here is how I used the equipment, and they would be able to approve it and say, that's alright. Are we doing things that are above board? Or is that secret rationalization justifying that I deserve more than I'm getting? But what is it that Paul tells us to put on here? Notice it's not one thing, it's two things. Notice first of all, he doesn't just say put off the ceiling, stop that, and then that's okay. But it's again the twofold idea. It's the putting off and then the putting on. Two things he says to put on. First of all, put on useful work. Put on useful work. He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his own hands. You see, the trouble with the taker is that he dislikes work. He wants to get the maximum by doing the minimum. He's lazy. He's trying to beat the system, trying to be clever, to get a steal. This, of course, I believe is the root problem of gambling. This is not a message on gambling. I just interject a couple of comments. But I believe that this really gets to the root problem. You see, gambling involves my seeking to get something without doing anything useful in return for it. In gambling, I am trying to simply benefit from other people's money who they were foolish enough to put in, but I'm going to benefit from it. Of course, in most cases, I don't But the idea, the mentality behind it is that work is a nuisance. And if I can get money in a shortcut some other way at other people's expense, I will do it. Even though it's legal. The irony of gambling is that so much of it is promoted by the state. And the state doesn't seem to realize it's shooting itself in the foot because it's undermining the work ethic which is necessary for the economy to continue in health. It's propagating the idea of getting rich quick without doing anything useful. And that is exactly what Paul says here that every Christian must find satisfaction in doing something useful, being able to make a contribution with my skills, talents, gifts, interests. to society in the work that I have. It could be complicated, could be simple, it could be mental, it could be physical, whatever it is. It's all honorable before the Lord. If it is useful. And so you should be able to see some intrinsic value in the work that you did this last week You know, you're tired from it, you put in a lot of time, but you can say, apart from what I got paid for it, I felt like what I did had some intrinsic value. If you don't, you may need to talk to somebody about either whether that's your attitude or something about God leading you in terms of the fit and the job or what you're doing. But anything that is honorable work has intrinsic value. And Paul says that that's the shift of the mindset from a taker to a giver. It starts with the what I do to gain my money is something useful, and I find satisfaction in that. But he goes beyond that. Secondly, he says to put on giving to the needy. Giving to the needy. You see, the thief, the greedy person, is ultimately self-centered. He doesn't think of the needs of others. Paul says, he who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share, to give, with those who are in need. The taker says, let everybody else fend for themselves. I'm doing what I need to do, and I resent it, but I do it. And so if they're not if they don't have enough, it's probably because they haven't done what they need to do to get it. That's not what Paul says. That is not a biblical attitude. He t honors and speaks of those who are in need with whom we should share. Somebody gave to me a promotional piece from our congregation here called The Black Book of Executive Politics. Has anybody seen that one stone up to it? This thing was written anonymously. The Black Book of Executive Politics. Here's how it's described. The In Fighter's Guide to the Dark Underside of Corporate Life. How to defend yourself. How to get an edge on adversaries. How to win allies. How to work the system. How to lead. How to make it big. It goes on and on in the chapters. The whole tone of the book is that you are out there in a cutthroat world and you're going to get them before they get you. You see, this is just, you know, there there obviously is certain realities to political corporate life as well as other work that we're in. But the fact is that the mentality that is promoted in our day is simply look out for yourself. Let the other guy look out for himself. You see, Paul undercuts that whole attitude by saying, do something that's useful. And as John Wesley said, gain all you can, save all you can, give all you can. Do it that you might be productive in terms of the blessedness of giving that the Lord Jesus Himself taught and demonstrated. How do you do that? Three ways, simple ways to give. First of all, we give each Sunday morning in our offerings, the first fruits. So we demonstrate by doing that that the simplest way to deal with bondage of greed is to give. If you find that you're in bondage to greed, the simplest way to break that is to start giving. And as a principle, as Christians, every Sunday morning we set aside, or according to how often we're paid, if you're paid once a month, you don't have to divide it into quarters. It's better to just do it the first fruits. Give according to your pay the first fruits of that in trust, in love, and in principle to the Lord Jesus as an offering of worship, which we'll do after this message. That's the first and most basic way. The B, I don't know why there's a B there at the bottom, but that refers to the top on the back side. Give also to the deacons. His particular reference here is to give to those Who are in need. And a portion of undesignated giving Sunday morning goes to that, but a very small portion. What we give at the Lord's Supper tonight 100% of that gives to those to share with those who are in need. And so we do that in response to the Lord's death that we celebrate at that table. And that's very purposeful. But then thirdly, there is also the need, I think, to give individually. I find that my mentality is if I see a need, I'll think, well, you know, what is a way I can do this and get the tax deduction? And uh my wife is good at reminding me that that's probably not how the Lord looks at it. And I was uh reminded of this when recently a friend of mine uh was talking to me, I hadn't seen him for a while, about some difficulties and this was a uh a man of integrity who I've known for a long time, but just talked about how difficult things had been And I found myself thinking, well, you know, I hope you have some deacons to go to, hope there's somebody to take care of. And it didn't work. The Lord simply prompted me that I needed to just give this brother some money. just as an encouragement in his own life for some things that he needed. And so we have to beware, I think, of always thinking of giving officially. I think it's good at times to give anonymously to the other person. You can do that in various ways within the body. But to be able to give personally and not only, although primarily that's the way we do it, to give to the body for the distribution of it. But finally, then notice the reason. Why is it that we do this? When I say the reason, I mean not the so that reason that you see in verse 28. uh work, doing something useful so that uh you will have something to share with others. That has to do with the future, the purpose. But I mean the because reason. You know, we think of reason in terms of purpose and we think of reason in terms of because. The because reason is not stated in verse 28, but it's clear that this is what Paul has in mind in the context of the book of Ephesians. The because reason is what he has talked about in chapters 1 to 3. It's because you and I have received so much from God. So much, first of all, from Jesus. Again, back to Acts chapter 20. Remember there verse 35. Paul said, In everything I did I showed you that by this kind of hard work we must help the weak, remembering the words of the Lord Jesus Himself, who said it is more blessed to give than to receive And who, of course, gave more than the Lord Jesus? 2 Corinthians 8:9, Paul tells us that he became poor so that you and I through his poverty might become rich. What did he give? Again, back in Acts chapter 20, verse 28 He talks to the elders there, tells them to be shepherds of the church of God, which he bought with his own blood. Jesus gave his blood for you and for me. He didn't simply give a pint of blood. He didn't give his kidney. He didn't give some disposable part. He gave his life. Give everything that he had, becoming human And giving up glory and that transcendent incorporal glory of a spirit to take on a body And give his life for you and for me. And that's very closely connected to what Paul talks about in Ephesians chapter 1 to 3, that you and I have received. From the Father. You see, in Acts chapter 20, in verse 32, Paul says, I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which can build you up and give you an inheritance. Among those that are sanctified. It's that inheritance that Paul picks up on in chapter 1 of Ephesians, where he talks about the inheritance that you and I have received. that by love, verse five, he predestined us to be adopted as his own sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given. To you and to me, in the one that he loves. The Father gave his son as that sacrifice. So that in him you and I, verse 7, could have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on you. With all wisdom and understanding. It's that inheritance that he prays that you will know in verse 18. I pray that you will know him and the hope that he's called you to, the riches of his inheritance that is given to you, his saints. Blessed are you, brother and sister, if you know your spiritual poverty, your bankruptcy, for yours is the kingdom of heaven. And so put off the attitude of the taker. Be freed by the Spirit of God and the gospel to put on the attitude of generosity. My wife, who's far more generous than I am, whether by the spirit or by nature, I'm not sure, but says that one of the great shames is to see cheap Christians. For she says, we as Christians should be the most generous of all people. We have a heavenly Father to take care of us. And he has given us all things. Should we not be a people who are free to give? Giving is not only out of love, it's out of trust. In one of the classic missionary biographies of all time, Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret, he speaks of a time when he was trying to grow in his faith. And he determined that he would work for this fellow that was rather absent-minded, but that he would not remind him of his need to be paid, but simply trust God to remind his employer to pay him. One particular time the time had passed when he should have been paid and the employer gave no indication of remembering to pay him, and Taylor was down to one half crown uh was all he had left and enough food for this was on a Sunday enough food for Monday morning and Monday evening and that was it. He had nothing else. On Sunday, he generally would go after church down to the poor section of London and he would minister the gospel there. That evening a man came up to him. after the last service, about ten o'clock at night, and he said, Would you please come with me to my home and pray for my wife? She's dying. Taylor said he'd be glad to do it, and he went off with the man, and the man obviously was in poverty, took him to his uh the room which was up in the slum, and there he saw four uh starving kids, hollow cheeks. Uh sickly, the wife laying on bed with a 36-hour old baby that was moaning pitifully. And Taylor said that he tried to minister comfort to them, but he found it impossible because he kept thinking of that half-crown that was in his pocket. And he said there was no way in the world I was going to part with that half crown. That's all I had. He said, I sure wish I had two shillings and sixpence, which would be the equivalent amount of money, because I'd have been glad to give them a shilling, but I wasn't about to give them the half crown. After he saw the wife and prayed, he said, I'd have been glad to give him a shilling and sixpence and just keep a shilling for myself. But I wasn't about to give him that whole half-crown. And then he said, Let's pray together. And as he began to pray, he thought, this is a way of getting out of my uncomfortable position. But he said, the words choked within me. I started our father, and a voice within me said, You hypocrite, you teach these people that you have a heavenly father, and you're not willing to trust me without that half crown in your pocket. After he had finished praying, the man cried out, If you can help us, for God's sake do. And he said, immediately I remembered the verse that says, Give to him who asks of you. And he says, There is power in the word of a king. Slowly I put my hand in my pocket and I drew out everything I had, that one half crown, and I said, This is all I can give you. It may not seem like much, but it's all that I have. He said immediately the joy was restored in a flood to his soul and to his spirit. Not only, he says, was the wife's life saved, But he said I felt that in that giving I had saved my own life as well. I went home and I ate my porridge the next morning, and he said I wouldn't have traded it for a prince's meal Because of the lightness and the joy in my heart. Before I finished the meal, he said, the postman came to the door, and I wasn't used to getting mail on Monday, so I was surprised And the landlady held an envelope, and there was nothing on there that was legible, but I opened it up, and inside was simply a blank piece of paper, a pair of hid gloves, and a half sovereign. And I said, praise the Lord, 400% interest on a 12-hour loan. Even the bankers of London would be glad for such an investment. He concludes by saying, I cannot tell you how often my mind has recurred to this incident, or all the help that it has been me in circumstances of difficulty. If we are faithful to God in little things, we shall gain experience and strength that will be helpful to us in the more serious trials of life. I leave with you the questions that are on the back to ask yourself this afternoon, to search your heart in a quiet place. That you might come before the Lord and have Him minister to you. Let's pray. Father, search our hearts And if there's those things that we're grasping, those things that we find that when we look at ourselves, that we want to Take rather than to give. It may be out of fear, it may be out of insecurity, it may be out of pure greed, whatever it is, Lord, reveal that we pray to us. And that we might put off the attitude of the taker, which inevitably leads to the rationalization of taking what doesn't belong to us. And to put on that delight to be useful for you and to be able to share with those in need. And have that freedom and joy of trusting you for provision. Hear us, Lord. Speak to our hearts Because you, Lord Jesus, have given everything for us. We are motivated not by moralism or guilt But simply out of the gratitude for all that you have done for us, thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.