Go to Ephesians and you can particularly apply this uh verse to mom's and uh you'll see how that uh works out today. But uh As we've been looking through Ephesians, perhaps you're beginning to see now, after the last few messages that have gotten a lot of comments, Why it is that Paul sets up his book this way. Why it is that he has given this in terms of the four postures that we've talked about? You remember that in chapters 1 to 3, he began by helping us to understand what it is to be seated with Christ in his finished work. Not depending on those things that we do, how well we live, or how well we are able to follow what the Bible teaches. We live in Christ by faith. We then kneel in order that we might by prayer Seek to comprehend the gospel better. That's the particular focus of the kneeling. That you might know the gospel, that you might know the love of Christ. That which all depends on him, nothing that you've done to earn that, nothing that you have done to gain it by your obedience By your being able to follow all the things that he talks about in chapter 4, it simply rests on Christ's finished work. It's only after that that he begins then to talk about how to walk after the pattern, after the teaching, after the example of Jesus, again by faith. Not simply by discipline for you overachievers. Okay, this is a challenge. Put away the lie. Knock off that bitter attitude. Learn how to be a giver rather than a taker. You see, some of us can take this as kind of a challenge as Christians, that this is how I need to shape up. And so we become superficial Pharisees, focusing on behavior. And so the whole point of the way Paul has Put these verses. And see, the problem is that you know you preach Ephesians over years, and you may forget chapters 1 to 3 by the time we're focusing here on 4, 24, 5, 6, 7, 8, and all through there. But you've got to keep the gospel in mind. Because what Paul's talking about when he's talking about the attitude, uh when he's talking about uh handling lying, when he's talking about uh unresolved anger and bitterness, when he's talking about the attitude of giving rather than taking. is that he's talking about a heart change, not simply something you can discipline. Let me give you an example. Uh I remember still being shocked a few years ago when I got a phone call and heard that a pastor in our presbytery had been arrested for stealing. The circumstances were that he had a church in which there was a fair amount of stress going on. And in order to escape the stress He retreated to his computer. Now I know that none of you can identify with that, but nevertheless, that was how this guy coped. He retreated to his computer And withdrew more and more. And he found that there was a particular piece of software that he had to have. And he went to Sears just looked and, you know, considered what what was the price and what would it put him back to get this thing, and he found it utterly irresistible And before he knew it, he found himself taking it off the shelf and sticking it in his pocket. Unfortunately, one of the store security saw him do that. As he was exiting the store, they tried to stop him. He panicked and tried to escape, and so they wrestled him to the floor. And arrested him. And it was in the headlines of that town the next day. Pastor arrested for shoplifting. He lost his church as a result of that. He is back in pastoral ministry now. But the thing he would say if you asked him, what did you learn from that incident? Was not that I can't believe that I couldn't just keep my hands off that stuff. What he would say is I didn't know my heart. I was out of touch with my heart. I thought it was a matter of just, you know, I you know what's right, you know what's wrong, you just do it. And he said, that more than anything else in my life revealed to me how out of touch with our hearts we can be. Now that's what Paul's talking about as he introduces this material to us, the things that we're going through now. So I hope that you can see that what what we're doing in going through the application points of this is not simply a matter, it's not a checklist Okay? Check off lying. Check off the stealing. Check off the bitterness and the anger. It's a matter of you and me becoming more in touch with our hearts. And I praise God I see that happening with a number of you. I see it happening in my life as I look at this And as we're more in touch with our hearts, we learn more deeply to sit with Christ in His finished work, you see. The gospel becomes more precious to us. Amen? Those that are mumbling amen are those who probably have been experiencing some of this a little bit. You see, it's as we begin to get in touch with our hearts that Christ becomes more precious to us. Well, having said that, we move on now to the fourth application. The fourth application is our speech. And if by chance the first three have not forced you to look at your heart and to be humbled and to recognize your need to walk by faith Surely this one will. James chapter 3, verse 2 tells us we all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. And so as we talk about speech now, if you are able to get through this and to say, well, you know, I've got some problems, but you know, it's nothing I can't just teach myself to learn how to do better and correct. And then congratulations. James says you're perfect. You're either perfect or you're blind. And so let us be honest as we look at what God's saying to us from this verse. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs. That it may benefit those who listen. We read that again slowly. Notice the different parts and how they're related. The negative. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths. The positive. But only what is helpful For building others up. That's the purpose. According to their needs. So that It may benefit, literally, minister grace to those who listen. This is so important. I've thought about this a lot. It's convicted me for years in my own life that we're going to spend three weeks on this verse Even though I'm trying to get through Ephesians, I really am, but I think we need to give this one some serious attention. Three points that I want to cover today in the first of the three messages on it. First of all, notice the contrast. between two kinds of speech. Notice the contrast. First of all, there's the negative. It talks about unwholesome speech. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths. By the way, part of the benefit of spending three weeks on this verse is anybody that's not here today thinking they'll skip verse 29 will find out next week they're in for a surprise. You get down to the nitty-gritty next week. Some principles today. Don't let a unwholesome talk come out of your mouth. Literally the Greek word means Something which is rotten. So nothing rotten. Put it off. It means that which is decayed or spoiled. For instance, in Matthew 13, 48, it's used concerning rotten fish. Catch fish, it said separated the good fish from the spoiled fish In Matthew 12, 33, it's refers to spoiled or rotten fruit on a tree. So it's Speech which is corrupt, which is rotten, which is decayed, it doesn't nourish those who hear it, it doesn't benefit them, it's spoiled. You're to put it off, Paul says. That idea is very interesting the way he says it. Don't let it come out of your mouth. I get the picture, as I think of that, of thoughts, words that are rising up from within me. And just as I'm about to utter them, a buzzer goes off, and this little sign flashes in my mind, Ephesians 4. 29, Ephesians 4. 29, doesn't square, you know. You know, and and I'm just ready to say it. And then I think, oh, oh, but it would have been so good. It would have felt so good to say that I mean I could just see the person withering in front of me right now as I said it. What a point. And Ephesians 4. 29 comes to me to say, that is exactly the point. Your speech is not to wither people, it's to build them up. Don't let it come out of your mouth. Let there be a censor, a screen of the spirit, that when you find rising in you that rotten, decayed, spoiled words that are ready to reduce the person. You don't let them come out. But positively, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs. So, the positive is only what builds up. That is, what advances the Spirit's work. in them to either draw them to Christ or to build them up in Christ, to become more like Christ. Not necessarily what they want to hear It isn't something which is just flattering or positive, but it is that which builds them up. In order to understand what Paul means by this, We need to look at the second point. Notice the context of the indicative imperative. Because this is a good case where we need to understand Paul's flow of thought from the book of Ephesians in order to understand what he's saying here. Notice the indicative imperative. That's the two blanks, the context. Now again, remember, the key verse of Ephesians is chapter 4, verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. And we've gone over many times how that is the picture of a scale, a balance. And what he's saying there is that I urge you that you will bring your living into equilibrium with your calling. that you will be what you are. The imperative command is to be what indicative statement of fact you are, what you have in Christ. Who you are, your new identity in Jesus, chapters 4, 5, and 6 are simply saying, work that out in your experience by faith. Now, what does that mean in terms of verse 429? Chapter 4, verse 29? The indicative in this case is that you are being built up By the words of the gospel through the work of the Spirit. This is what Sandy was helping us to see and to experience. The words of the gospel, wonderful words of life that are building you and me up. You recall back in chapter two in verse one. How Paul was trying to put us in touch with who we are and what we're like. Without Jesus Christ, he says, without him you were dead in your transgressions and your sins. In which you used to live. You were living as one verse three, in which everything centered around you, all of us, also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desire. desires and thoughts. I mean it's the most natural thing in the world that the world exists to satisfy me. You know, well what else would the world exist for I'm the center of it. I'm the center of the universe. And it it doesn't particularly seem strange to me that I ought to live that way. You can try to live that way. I'll try not to tread on your turf You stay out of my turf and we can get along. But that's the way the world basically lives. God's word comes and he shows you That that not only is wrong, it's reprehensible. The end of verse 3. That we were then by nature objects of wrath. God says, I didn't make you to live for yourself. I meant you and created you that you would be a giving creature, not a taker, but one who is centered around me, your creator. and around your neighbor in order that you might give to that other person and and receive so that you and I are living in a symbiotic relationship, a give and take relationship with one another. The word came and it said, you're wrong to live this way. God hates the way you're living to yourself. In fact, God's wrath is upon you for that. Now that word is not a welcome word, but it is a word to build up by first tearing down. It's like somebody that says, your house is on fire. You don't like to hear it, but you'd rather hear it and get out than to perish in the house. I remember when I was in seminary that one day I noticed in the classroom building some smoke coming out of the second floor. And so I knew there was a class going on in there, and I thought it might be considerate if I went in and suggested that they might want to consider ending the class a bit early that day, uh before the roof fell in on the second floor on top of the class. And so I excused myself. I walked into the class And this class happened to be taught by a philosophy professor. Now this particular philosophy professor lived in his own world, I want to tell you. I mean, this guy His thoughts were so exalted and so in another world that I was never sure in all the years I knew this guy whether we were ever communicating. He was talking to the class about some philosophical concept. And I went in and I said, excuse me, but the building's on fire, and you might want to consider letting out early today. And he thanked me for my information and continued to lecture. The students looked a little nervous, and I'm not sure if they were following his thoughts before, if they were following them any better after that I went back outside, somebody called a fire company, about ten minutes later they were still in there. So I wondered if he had really gotten the message. I went back in and I said, Excuse me, sir But the building really is on fire and you know there's a lot of smoke right above you and you know you might really want to consider letting out today. He thanked me again for the information and continued. At this point, the students got the point. They all left. I think when the fire trucks came, he was still lecturing to the chairs in there Uh but you know, the the message we hear may not be what we want to hear. You got a choice to either ignore it and get out Or you can continue and say, thank you, but that's not convenient to me. I don't really particularly want to hear that right now. Now, if you're willing to hear that That you are under God's wrath because of your life centering around yourself, then the good news comes when you're willing to hear the bad news And the good news is in verse 4, but because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy made us alive in Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions. It's by grace that you've been saved. He goes on to verse 8. It's by grace you've been saved, through faith. That not of yourselves, but it's the gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast. For we are God's workmanship. We're being created in Christ to do good works, which God's prepared. He has made you. He's remade you. If you are walking in faith in Jesus Christ this morning, if you've received the gospel and you've received Jesus, God has made you a new creature. Now that new creature he's made you, he goes on to describe in the end of chapter two in a number of images, and the last one is that of a building. In verse 20, he talks about us being built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ the chief cornerstone. In him, verse 21, the whole building is joined together and is rising to become a holy temple in which God lives. His presence is living in you. Individually, corporately. Verse 22, and in him, you two are being built up together. To become a dwelling in which God lives by a spirit. That's an indicative that is happening. If you are a Christian, You are being built up by the gospel and by God's Spirit using that gospel in your life to transform you. The process by which he does that he describes in chapter 4, where he talks about how God has given various officers in the church, among those pastors and teachers, we voted on Friday evening. for a youth and family pastor teacher, not to do the ministry for us, but in order to equip us, verse 12, to prepare God's people. more works of ministry, so that the body of Christ will be built up to reach unity in the faith, that is our convictions. the intimate knowledge of the Son of God, our affections, and to become mature attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ in our character. How do we do that? Verse 15. We speak the truth in love to one another in order to build each other up in this. Growing up into him who is the head, that is Christ, the whole body joined and held together, with every part doing this, building itself up in love as each part does its work. Therefore you come to the imperative finally of all of that foundation he's laid in chapter 4, verse 29. In chapter 4, verse 29, he says, Now you have a choice. Choose to build each other up with your words. You see that? You are being built up by the Spirit through the gospel. Therefore, build each other up in your conversation, in your speech to one another. Therefore, finally, the third point. We need to have, I believe, a more constructive vision for our speech. A constructive vision for our speech. Let's face it, so much of our speech is thoughtless, isn't it? We talk because it feels good. You say, yeah, you take 35 minutes every Sunday morning and do that with us. But so much of the time when we talk, we just talk. Because just, you know, it presses others. I like to have people listen to me But I think rarely about the effect of it. What's the effect of what I'm saying on you? I know what I feel and what I want to communicate, but how much do I think about what you are going to hear? We we talk before we think. I still remember the time when there was a funeral and Kathy's family and I wanted to be Mr. Cool and impress people with what I knew, and so we went on to this reception afterwards and I said to her brother-in-law, Oh, this must be your mom It was his sister. She never talked to me after that. I mean when you say something like that, what do you do? Oh I didn't think it was you. Oh, that was a dumb thing to say. You've said it, you know. Proverbs 12:18 says, thoughtless words are like a spear. But the words of the wise bring healing. Proverbs 10. 19 says, if you talk too much, it's inevitable you're going to sin. If we just talk without thinking, if we have no vision for the purpose of our speech, we will inevitably say things that we will deeply regret. and grieve the Spirit of God, as we'll go on to see in verse 30. In Matthew chapter 12, in verse 36, We read, I tell you that men will have to give an account on the day of judgment of every careless word that they have spoken. For by your words you will be acquitted, and by your words you will be condemned, because your words reveal your heart. Studies show that men and women have different purposes, a different understanding of the function of speech. For a man, speech is more to convey information. For a woman, speech is more to make a connection in a relationship. And so with these different understandings, you know, the Mars-Venus thing and all the rest of that, uh, nevertheless, Each of us in our thoughtless ways can abuse the positive effects of speech which are to make connections and to import information. Women can gossip in order to build a bond. You and me together, she's on the outs And that's communicated by gossip, isn't it? There's a bond between you and me, and she doesn't fit. She clearly is on the out Or for a man, it can be to criticize someone else so that I look superior. I want you to respect me, to look up to me, to show I'm the top dog. So speech has subtle functions in our minds. It is not simply the communicating of information or expressing feelings or those kinds of things. A lot of things are going on inside us. that motivate what we say and how we say it. I enjoy criticizing someone I don't like In order to justify to myself that they're a scumbag and they deserve the bitterness that I feel toward them. Or I may criticize someone that I envy as a way of rationalizing to myself that I'm really not so bad and try to put them down. Neither of those things benefits in any way the person who listens to it. Or often I will express my fears and my anxieties by putting you down. Not really in touch with why I'm saying what I'm saying, speaking harshly or even maliciously. Being sarcastic to my wife because I'm stinging under some comment that she made yesterday. And I'm not fully aware of it, but something's grading in me. Or to my kids, communicating, you screwed up again. And what I'm really saying is, I'm fearful that you're going to make poor choices. You're not going to turn out the way I think you should turn out. And that fear, that anxiety becomes communicated in put-downs, in sarcastic comments that do not build up, but only express my own fears and anxieties. I recall expressing recently to my oldest daughter some concerns I had about a pattern that she was developing in her marriage with her husband. And afterwards she told me that that really discouraged her. And she felt like I was taking my fear and projecting it onto her And it led to a very profitable conversation about how many times I expressed my fears by unhelpful comments. to her or to my kids, because of what I'm afraid of. It's not spoken out of faith, out of concern, out of love, it's spoken out of anxiety and fear. And I don't know how to express it. And so it comes across. As some dire warning or you screwed up again or some of these things that we as parents can do. Projecting fears, so much that we say is corrupt. Because of our fears, our anxieties, our unresolved anger, the things that are in our hearts. You see, that's why when you look at verse 29, it's not simply a matter of screening it. It's a matter of going back to your heart. It's a matter of going back to the gospel. Rather, my vision should be to build you up because Jesus has built me up as his new creature. The more I'm in touch with my heart, you see, and understand the grace of God to me, the more my speech comes out of a sense of well-being. Out of faith, out of security, out of anger that's been resolved, rather than out of those things that are unresolved. My desire should be simply to draw you either toward Jesus, or if you are a believer, brother and sister in Christ. To think how can I build you up in Jesus? We'll talk more about the hows next week. But let me leave you with one last verse that I think helps to shed some light on How to understand is Colossians chapter 4 verse 6. In Colossians 4, 6 Paul says, let your conversation, your speeches, by the way, remember Colossians is the parallel book to Ephesians, so this is the parallel thought. Let your conversation be always full of grace. Seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer everyone. You see, Paul says in Ephesians, let not your season Speech be corrupt and spoiled. In Colossians, he puts it the positive way. Let it be seasoned with salt that prevents the corruption. Now you notice that it's your conversation I believe that Ephesians and Colossians are talking about everyday conversation. It's not talking about the deep Bible study talk or prayer meeting or in Sunday school or that. It's talking about daily Tuesday morning, Wednesday evening, morning through evening, talk with everybody that we're in touch with. Believer, unbeliever, whatever. I remember I was meditating on this verse. Back when um after my mom had died and uh I had just uh was in the process of putting her house up for sale and a very aggressive realtor, you know, how this well I'd say, you know, I guess they got some sort of intuition, you know, because I hadn't even said anything and this realtor contacted me and she said, Would you be interested in listening with me? Now I didn't know anybody else, so I thought, yeah, okay, fine. And so we negotiated and talked about what to do. Simply a business transaction. And I thought after that, I was convicted by this verse. I read this verse that night. And I was convicted there was nothing of grace or salt in the conversation. It was simply, here's what you can do for me, and here's what you can do for me. And so I decided the next day when she was bringing the contract over for me to sign that I would seek to apply this verse in the conversation with her. So when she came over, she gave me the contract, here it is, let's get ready, and I thought, you know, I need to see this woman as a creature made in God's image. She is not simply a real estate agent to do my business and I'll pay her. She's a creature made in God's image. So I said, uh I'm a Christian and as we do this, I would like to pray that God will work in this transaction and who he brings here and the price and the whole thing how it works out. And so if you'd be interested, I'd pray for you that God will use you to do that. I had no, I'd never seen this woman before in my life. She broke down and she wept She began to tell me how she got into the business because her husband had recently died and left her a widow with kids. That she was struggling to do this, that she had been brought up as a Roman Catholic and she knew uh that God said in his word to trust him. And so as she poured out her heart to me, we just we wept there and we prayed. That God would work through that. It transformed the entire relationship. She wrote me for a long time after the house was sold. And it was a lesson to me about the function of speech. Not just to communicate information for what I can get or vent my feelings or this or that, but to see that other person as one made in God's image. Now lest you think, oh yeah, boy, you're so spiritual. Let me tell you how I blew it just recently. I was talking to a neighbor, and we got into a conversation. Only second or third talk I had had with this guy, I'd moved in just recently, and he began to talk about his father-in-law and how he died of cancer And how it had been a grueling situation. Really tough. I don't know if he knows I'm a pastor or not. But in the conversation After telling this and pouring out his heart and I just listening to him, he said, Well, you know, he said, I don't know what you do in situations like that. I guess all you do is, you know, life just goes on and you just keep functioning. And I said, Yeah. And I just kept listening. And in my mind there was the thought, well, you know I'm gonna live with this guy. I don't want to, you know, just jump in with the gospel and you know here's my chance, you know. But I thought that was such an insensitive overreaction. The guy might have been hoping that I would say something, and I blew it. And I need to go back to him and tell him that. That the Holy Spirit would work through our speech out of the reservoir of our heart So that we would see that person as one made in God's image, to build that person up rather than to tear down. One last suggestion. I suggest you take Ephesians 4. 29, memorize it this week. Say it to yourself several times a day. Hourly if you can even do that. And then that what you will do is that you will take that verse and in your conversation keep reminding yourself what that verse says. Pray that the Lord will put you in touch with your heart, in touch with the person you're speaking to, and simply see what God does through that. Let's pray for just a moment. We'll continue in a little bit. Lord, speak to our hearts. That as we examine our speech in the light of this verse this week, should put us more in touch with our hearts and with the gospel. And with the people that we speak to to think of the effect of our words, that they would build up and not tear down. That they would please you who build us up through your gracious words to us. In Jesus' name. Amen.