Did you um find yourself memorizing Ephesians 429 this week, saying it to yourself several times a day? I won't ask for show of hands, but let's do it together to just reinforce in our own thinking the verse that we are meditating on for these couple of weeks, Ephesians 4. 29. Let me do it in the it is written style. I will say it phrase by phrase. You say it back and then we'll say it all together. So let's see if I can do it now. I haven't looked at it uh here for since last night I guess. So do not let any unwholesome word Come out of your mouth, but only that which is helpful for building others up According to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. Now let's do it together. Do not let any unwholesome word come out of your mouth, but only that which is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. He did a little better on the first time too that a second time But I encourage you, you have another chance this week, to continue, look at that, and um remind yourself of it a number of times during the day, see what the Lord does through that. We're looking now then at the fourth application. Of how to walk after the example of Jesus in the new life that He has planted in you in Ephesians chapter 4, Paul's teaching. We're seeing that the more we seek to do this, the more we discover our hearts and what they're really like. The more that we then see that this walk can only be by faith. The fourth application is to our speech, verse 29. Once again, let me say it this time. Don't say it with me. Just think about it as I say the words. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only that which is helpful for building others up according to their needs. That it may benefit those who listen. The Bible tells us that words have the power of life and death In 1899, four reporters from Denver, four different newspapers, happened to meet at the train station in Denver to see if some celebrity was coming into town on which they could write a story. No celebrity came in on the train. They were disappointed. They decided that they were out of a story. They went to a nearby saloon for a few beers to discuss discuss what they would do After a couple of rounds, one fellow said in joking, why don't we just make up a story? And they all laughed, but then thought, well Played along with it for a little while. They said, well, if we were to do that, what would we do? Well, we couldn't say something outlandish that would be local. Everybody'd know it's false. Why don't we write some outlandish story about something far away? So they picked China And they said, okay, well what do we write about China? When one guy came up and you know after all the brainstorming, this is what came out will say that China has decided to demolish the Great Wall in order as a gesture of goodwill and to open free trade. And that a number of Americans are going to go over and bid on the project of the the destroying the Great Wall. And so that in fact came out the next day on four Denver newspapers front page headlines that said Great Chinese Wall Doomed Peking Sikhs World Trade. Well, unfortunately the story got picked up by a number of other newspapers around the country and pretty soon it was um being stated all over the country, uh didn't go over as such a joke in China. Uh there a secret society that was already pretty hostile to Westerners. Invaded the U. S. Embassy, killed the people there, and then killed hundreds of innocent missionaries. 12,000 troops from six countries retaliated and invaded China to defend those people in what is to this day known as the Boxer Rebellion. In which hundreds and thousands of people were killed, violence and bloodshed, from words. Simply a made-up story. A number of us can look back over our years and say, there's something someone said to me when I was a kid that I'll never forget. It changed my life. It might have been a word of encouragement, a word of support that was needed, something that somebody said to you that you'll always remember. Or, sadly, in many cases, it was something that somebody said to you that you'll never forget because it pierced you and hurt you so much. Just this week I was talking to a woman who said that when she was in school as a kid, her dad didn't notice a whole lot of what she did. She came home one day and said, Guess what, Dad? I was elected the secretary of my class today. He barely looked up and said, They must like fat thighs. Now after all these years, many, many years later, she still remembers that. Off-handed comments. That we can make so thoughtlessly, and yet someone who hears them may never forget. Paul says that there are two kinds of speech. There is corrupt speech and there is constructive speech. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouth, that which tears down. We saw last week that the word means rotten, decayed, garbage talk is what it is. Don't let any garbage talk come out of your mouth But only that which is helpful for building others up according to their needs, because words are so powerful. We are a people of the Word as Christians. And we saw last week that God has communicated to you through His Word the gospel. And that gospel has the power by God's Spirit to change your life. You have been built up by the gospel. Therefore choose to build one another up. Two kinds of speech, corrupt and constructive. So first of all, look at the first point, what kind of speech to avoid. What kind of speech to put off? Paul says, put off the corrupt speech. Now I believe that he's not speaking here in this verse about any kind of corrupt speech. I believe he has two kinds of speech particularly in mind because of the context. Two kinds that he goes on to speak about. And I call those critical speech and crude speech. First of all, there is critical talk. You see that in verses 31 and 32, after he's talked about the unwholesome talk in verse 26 and 27, he had talked about anger, and so this is in that context, uh unresolved anger that we've talked about. And then in verse 31, get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling, slander, which is, of course, critical talk, along with every form of malice, critical speaking. Rather be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. Critical talk that comes out of unresolved anger. There's a study done a few years ago on predictive factors on whether marriages will succeed or fail. They found that they could predict with remarkable accuracy within the first year or so after a marriage, uh almost how long the marriage would last, but particularly whether it would succeed or whether it would fail. One of the most reliable indicators they found of this was the percentage of critical talk that the spouses directed toward one another. If out of a hundred comments, five comments or less were critical, the marriage had a decent chance of succeeding. If that number rose to ten out of a hundred, they said there is almost a certainty the marriage will not succeed over the years. Ten percent of comments, critical, tearing down your husband or your wife. And they said the marriage will very likely not succeed. Critical talk, unwholesome, garbage talk. But then, secondly, there's also crude talk that he says to put off. In chapter 5, he begins to get into this. We'll talk about that more later, but particularly notice verse 4. Nor should there be any obscenity Foolish talk or coarse joking, which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving. That's talk which is negative, not directed at you, but simply talking about what you saw in Jerry Springer or some other garbage TV. It's so easy for us as Christians to slip into this kind of garbage talk without thinking. Our standards have slipped so low in our society in general that we can speak about crude and immoral things. and hardly notice that we're doing it because it's so common. Found it very interesting that uh last month uh there was an article in US News and World Report called a small plea to delete a ubiquitous expletive. And it was a plea to delete from common parlance what they called the F-word. I found this was interesting to see this in a non-Christian secular uh news uh magazine. They said that uh the F-word is kind of the verbal counterpart to broken windows in a neighborhood. Uh it just simply promotes further decay of civility and of the safety and security of living there This woman went on to say that we have as a society come to see as intolerable racist slurs or feminist slurs Why not simply draw the line and say that crude speech, obscene speech using the F word is simply off bounds. It's not something to laugh at, to tolerate, something to look at with disapproval and she said what would happen in our society and civility in general if we were to simply adopt this? The time has come. That's kind of interesting. Particularly when many of us as Christians feel like this is just inevitable and we need to tolerate it. Nothing we can really do. Uh is it time for us as Christians to begin to speak out a bit more when we hear such crude talk all about us and not simply accept it as inevitable? crude garbage talk. I would suggest that Paul has these two things in mind, not simply because of what I've said in the Verses that follow. But if you look in Colossians chapter three, the parallel passage. In fact, don't turn to it. I'll just read it. But the parallel passage in Colossians On this subject in Colossians 3. 8, Paul says, But now you must rid yourselves of all such things as these: anger, rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips. So the unwholesome kind of garbage talk, I think he has particularly in mind, is talk which is both critical and crude. What kind of speech then should we cultivate or put on? It's described in three phrases, you see there in verse 29. First of all, it's constructive talk It's that which is helpful for building others up. Do not let any unwholesome garbage talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up. Why is that so hard to do? Why is it so hard for us to build one another up? Some of us seem to think that we're on a divinely appointed mission to humble others and point out all their faults, don't we? We seem to think that people don't need encouragement and praise, or they'll get a swelled head. What they need is to see their faults and their problems. And yet all of us need encouragement and praise from others. I've been amazed at times when I have written notes of encouragement or praise or appreciation to someone, and the very emotional response I will sometimes get back, something like, you don't realize what your note meant to me and the time that it came and how much I needed to hear something like that. I used to think that when people were good at something, that it was kind of obvious to them that that was a strength and that they were good at that. Until I began to realize that whenever I would point it out, feeling almost foolish, it was kind of awkward for me to do it, to say, you know, you're really good at this. um that often the person would not seem to be aware that that was a strength. They were surprised. And it wasn't just a I don't think a false kind of email oh me. But it was genuinely, you really think so? I I I've never really seen that. How often we're quick to point out the weaknesses, the faults But we feel awkward. It it feels like it's something that is difficult for us to do. It's artificial to point out to somebody something that they're strong in. Something we appreciate, something we're thankful for. Or kind of like that Vermonter who said to his wife, Mabel When I think how much I love you, sometimes it's all I can do to keep from telling you. Now I think of um There's another illustration on how important that is, but uh I think I'll hold that off till next week when we give some more examples of uh the positive. But you know, have you ever been with somebody who freely affirms you? Somebody who tells you that you have insights, that you're witty. What happens? You become more insightful. You become wittier, don't you? You relax with that person. You become more alive And and it's interesting how I find that when I'm with certain people, I've noticed this through the years with me, certain people, I will just not be at ease and I will feel like I will say dumb things and I will do dumb things. because I feel like these people are critically looking at what I do. But when somebody I feel just fully accepts me and the things they say to me are the things that are encouraging and building up. I seem to feel freer and say things that are more insightful and say things that yeah that you know that was pretty good, you know. And we seem to think, but you shouldn't do that. That's going to minister to their pride. Paul says, scripture Don't let the unwholesome tearing down words come out of your mouth, but rather you and I should speak those things which build each other up. That is not wrong to do. Secondly, you notice he says, according to their needs. That's the second phrase. According to their needs. How important it is that you and I know what somebody's need is at the time we're speaking to them. Timing is so important. And the only way you and I are going to know that is by listening. So that you have here inferentially, indirectly in this verse, Paul saying, when you speak, if you're going to build someone up, You've got to listen to them in order to know their needs so that you can build them up. Proverbs chapter 18, verse 2 Someone finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions. Now I said someone What kind of person, does Proverbs say, finds no pleasure in understanding what the other person is saying, but only looking for a chance to delight in airing his own opinions? The verse says, a fool. It's a fool who finds no pleasure in understanding the other person, but only delighting in airing his own opinions. Verse 13 says, He who answers before listening, that is his folly and his shame. How many times I have been shamed by realizing that what I said was not appropriate, not helpful, because I mouthed off before I really heard what the needs of the other person was. Again, more on that next week. Third phrase that you see here to describe what the constructive talk is. Is that it may benefit those who listen. Literally, the Greek is that it may minister grace to those who listen. Sometimes grace brings comfort. Sometimes grace brings repentance. More often, grace brings to believers comfort. To remind one another of the gospel, my vision for speech, as we saw last week, to minister grace to you. And yet so often we do just the opposite, don't we? I thought of uh this week, I thought of a number of personal illustrations that I can give. But if I gave them I probably wouldn't be allowed back in my home when I came home for lunch today. So I've decided probably this is not one of those Sundays to give a lot of homey personal illustrations. Let me borrow one from Susan Maychinnick. who uh writes for discipleship journal, reflecting on a conversation that she was involved in. She was having lunch with some friends and somebody said, Whatever happened to, and named an author group of friends and I were talking about her and I had read her latest book and found it disappointing, but instead of merely mentioning that I thought her earlier books had been better I found myself launching into harsh criticism of the new book and the woman who had written it. I related incidents from the book that showed how shallow and out of touch she was Told my friends it'd seen that her husband and children had replaced God as the love of her life, and that she no longer had anything helpful to say. Suddenly realizing how unkind and unnecessary my comments were, I stopped myself. I even came up with a few words of praise for the now maligned author I even apologized for my negativity, but it was too late. I had already damaged the reputation of a sister in Christ, and I could never take back those words. Then, where did that all come from? She says the conversation continued. She found herself pondering that. Why did I say that? Why did I need to say that? Where did that come from? That leads us to the third point you see on the back. Recognize that my speech comes from my heart. She goes on to say. Why do we so often end up uttering words that make us sorry? Why do we find ourselves partially criticizing someone from church or grumbling bitterly over some minor annoyance? Spitting out words intended to wound the people that we love. Passing on information that makes someone look bad. Exaggerating in order to prove a point. Repeating confidences, perhaps rationalizing this person won't tell anyone. We know in our spirits these things are destructive, garbage talk, and wrong So why do we do them again and again, no matter how many times we resolve to do better the next time? All too often we can relate to James's assessment No one can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. For as Jesus said in Luke chapter 6, verses 44 and 45. The good man brings good things out of the good stored up in his heart. The evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in his heart. For out of the overflow of his heart, his mouth speaks. Susan Machinick goes on to say, the problem is not simply that I need to curb my tongue. The problem is with my heart. As Tim Stafford put it, paraphrasing something he wrote, you open your mouth and out pops your heart. And so you and I need to realize that in order to obey what Paul says in Ephesians 4. 29, it is not a discipline issue, it's a heart issue. My speech comes from my heart. Look again at those three phrases. I tear down because I am critical. I tear somebody down rather than build them up because of the critical heart that I have. I simply can't guard my tongue. It's like killing a few termites rather than gunning at the root of the problem in the nest. Why am I critical? Verse 31. Get rid of all bitterness, you see, rage, anger, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. He goes right to the gospel. It's the gospel that cures the tongue. Ignoring my heart and simply going to discipline of the tongue will make me pharisaical. You see, when I look at my relationships, your sins against me are inexcusable. My sins against you Need understanding and mercy. When you're late for me, that's inconsiderate. Why don't you just simply watch your time? If I'm late for you, I hope you can understand that I tried my best and circumstances prevented me. And so we live by these double standards. They produce a criticalness because we don't look at our own hearts honestly. Secondly, He says, according to their needs. I don't notice needs because I am self-centered. I don't listen to what you're saying because I'm looking for my turn. While you're talking, I'm not thinking about what I can understand about you I'm thinking about some point of connection so that when you pause for a breath, I can jump in with something that will impress you or get my turn I'm thinking about me when you talk. If I think about you, if I think about your needs I will more likely respond with a question, perhaps a question that reflects back what you're saying, in order that I might understand it on a deeper level and draw you out. That's the only way I can build you up according to your needs, is if I probe what the needs are. That's what Paul's talking about here. And so I need to recognize that I am an idol in my life And I want the attention and the spotlight to center on me. In order to obey what Paul's talking about here, I need to search my heart and the self-centeredness of it. C. I do not minister grace. That's remember the literal translation of third part of verse 29, that it may minister grace to those who listen. I do not minister grace because I lack grace. Grace. Grace is something you and I never have inherently You are not built with grace. Grace is something by its very definition that you receive. Look back at chapter 1 of Ephesians. Paul says in verse 2: Grace and peace to you, from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Then he goes on to say, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons. Plug in what Tom said in that section, you see. He adopted us to be his sons Through Jesus Christ in accordance with His pleasure and will to the praise of His glorious grace, which He has freely given us in the one that He loves And you see, when I feel the criticeness of unresolved anger, when I am aware of that self-centeredness that wants to focus on what I say and what I want to reveal. Then I need to go back to the gospel. I need to see again what God has given to me. I need to realize that that third phrase that it may minister grace to those who listen is saying you and I become channels of the Holy Spirit to minister the grace of Jesus Christ in our talk to other people. And as we do that We find that God uses us to build up rather than to tear down. There is nothing like your mouth to reveal your heart. If you're willing to listen. And so God may want to use your words this week as He speaks to you through His Word, as He's been speaking to me. to show you and to show me more deeply our need for Jesus. Let me therefore suggest to you an exercise this week, a very practical exercise you see there on the back side of your bulletin to help you to do that. This week I would suggest to you that you determine that you will not do the four things on the left side, but instead that you will do the four things on the right side. That you will not criticize someone else or tear them down, but rather that you will choose to affirm and to encourage them. That you will not complain. Think you can do that? Maybe a lot of silence at dinner time. Jack and Rosemary Miller said once they determined that they were going to do this They found that when they sat down to dinner they didn't have anything else to say. Pass me the peas. No So it was a long time before they could rebuild the patterns. Rather, learn to express thanks and praise Determined not to gossip or to spread something that's negative. How why is it that we feel that we're on a messianic mission to spread negative information? Who really needs to hear it? But rather to keep the negative to yourself. Some of us may come in with bloody tongues next Sunday But determined. I don't really need to say this. Now let me say that I I have been amazed at the grace of God in our church, how little that is done in any way that brings about real harm to other people, but all of us find that we do that too much. Finally, that we will not blame shift or make excuses, but rather to apologize and admit when I'm wrong. Can I do that? Can you do that? No, you can't. And that's what will drive us to Jesus You see, it says you and I seek to do that, that we will find a new realization for the gospel, the righteousness of Jesus, and the power of his Spirit. So as you do it, first of all, get more in touch with your heart. And as you do it, don't say to yourself, that's not really me. I slipped up. No, Lord, that really is me. That's what I'm like. Repent as you see the ugly stuff revealed. And then claim the righteousness of Jesus Christ in his record in deeper ways. Lord, I am so glad that you do not judge me. Your verdict on me is not according to what my mouth says. It's according to what Jesus said. You look at me as if I had spoken his gracious words my whole life. Because I have his righteousness, and that means I have the record of his words. Therefore, I can seek the Spirit's power in greater humility. It's not me, Lord, it's by faith. Is that beginning to make more sense now? I keep saying we walk by faith just as we sit by faith. We walk by faith. In obedience to what Paul has said here In conclusion, let me read something I wrote in reflecting on this in my own life this week. The gospel calms my spirit. So that I can build you up rather than critically tear you down or crudely introduce garbage into the conversation. The gospel means that I do not have to be right. The gospel means I don't have to prove my point. I don't have to defend myself. I don't have to fear that your errors spell you doom. I don't have to have you agree with me to feel safe. I don't have to feel superior. I don't have to impress you. I don't have to correct you to make you be like me. The gospel means that rather I can relax and let God be God and let Him be in control. The Holy Spirit can change you and keep the world safe. I simply need to concentrate on what are your needs and how to minister grace. Let's pray. Lord, we want to come before you now and confess these four things that we are critical people. Who too often tear down. We're so at ease with that. So much that, Lord, we find, and I have found, uh, that sometimes it feels artificial. It's almost awkward to simply say something that is totally positive without qualifications to someone that I deeply appreciate and see so many strengths. Lord, we are a people who complain so easily. We need to express our complaints. We want sympathy. We want people to agree with how rough the world is on us. We're so slow to praise and to give thanks. We so easily spread gossip which is like choice morsels that go down deep into the soul. We feel a compulsion to spread negative information. Oh Lord, forgive us. Lord, we so easily blame shift and make excuses We recognize, Lord, and confess to you, these are not simply slip-ups. This is the expression of our hearts. Cause us to see, Lord, anew the gospel. Grace and peace from you to us who have made us blameless and adopted us as your children, according to the riches of your glorious grace to us. May that gospel take hold of us this week so that when we speak and out pops our heart, it is a blessing to those who hear. In Jesus' name.