Enjoying this morning. Let me ask you also, as a family of the Lord Jesus, did you practice the exercise from Ephesians 429 this last week? Do you remember we've been looking the last two weeks at Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29, Paul's instruction to us. Let's see if we can say it together. Alright? And try it one more time. Do not let any unwholesome word come out of your mouth. but only that which is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. Some of you had it there. I heard that. Kind of like with the same zeal that some of you say, Amen, at a strong point of the gospel, you know, but it came through I hope you've been looking at that and trying the things that we talked about, refusing to complain, to talk about uh negative, but rather to determine to speak praise, to give thanks, to speak of those things which are good, to not tear down, rather to encourage, to build up. To not gossip or pass on the negative, but rather to keep that which is negative to yourself. Nobody else needs it, usually anyway And also to determine that you will not blame shift, make excuses, but to admit when you're wrong and to own up Did you do that? If you tried to do that, did you learn some things about your heart? I find I am. I find that as I seek to be aware of those tendencies to tear down, to speak of the negative And how that continues to press, to gush out of me. There is a new awareness of my own heart. See, for many of us as Christians, the gospel isn't very precious because we're not very aware of our hearts. And one of the best ways to get in touch with your heart because our hearts are so deceptive that we often miss what our hearts are like is to simply notice what comes out of my mouth. That's the clue to what's in my heart. One person uh commented to me this past week how different going through verse 29 is in terms of the gospel than simply the command to obey verse 29. They said, if you told me just to obey verse 29, I'd rise to the challenge and discipline myself. But when you say use verse 29 as a clue to what's in your heart, then he says, I've got to examine myself on a deeper level, and the gospel becomes more precious. And so the whole point of this is that you and I understand more wholly what Paul's talking about in Ephesians Where he says in chapter 4, verse 1, that you and I are to bring into equilibrium our experience with our sitting in Christ. You see And as I as I seek to bring that into experience, I learn how I'm not sitting and resting in Christ. And as I do, then my life begins to change. Or more specifically, remember what he said in chapter four, verse twenty-three, where he said that you and I are to be made new in the attitude of your mind. You see, it's not something you and I can just do. You're being made new by the Spirit of God in the attitude of your mind, putting on the new self, created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. So if you're a little discouraged by verse 29 and your attempts to obey it this week, I hope that it has pushed you more deeply to Jesus. So that as you're doing that, you are discovering more about your heart, you are repenting more deeply, you are believing the gospel more fully, you are treasuring Jesus more affectionately. And as a result of that, by faith, you begin to change. Don't lose hold of that dynamic. Otherwise, everything will be very, very discouraging. So now we finish third message on Ephesians 4. 29. Some of you are probably very glad to move on from this, but I thought I would finish with a positive What I'd like to do this morning is to focus on one little word that you see there in verse 429. Actually, if you have an NIV, that word's not there. If you have a new American Standard, it is. If you have a new King James, it is. But it's the word good. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is, and NIV says, helpful for building others up. Literally it is the word good, but only that which is good for building others up. What Paul is saying here is to speak good words, words that are good for building other people up. What I'd like to do is to give some examples of such good words. I don't want to give my opinion. Here's what I think are good words to do it. That's what a lot of people would do. But since my job and my calling is to open up scripture to you, I want to give you six examples from Scripture. About what God says are good words. So let's go through them and continue to examine our hearts and believe the gospel. First example is attentive words. Attentive words. In Proverbs 1019, you remember where there is a multitude of words, there's no lack of sin. 1528, the wise person weighs his answers before he gives them. That's because you want to know the needs, Paul says, to speak that which is helpful. For building up according to their needs, in order to know the needs, I need to listen. Therefore, Proverbs 18, verse 2, a fool finds no pleasure in understanding hearing the other person, but delights in airing his own opinions. Verse thirteen, he who answers before listening is folly and shame to him. This week I I experienced the irony of this whole thing. Uh somebody was sharing with me how God had been using verse twenty-nine in their lives. An example of this And God had just been speaking to me about something of that this morning, and I interrupted them in sharing their example to talk about my example. And I thought afterwards, how silly this is Here I am violating verse 29 to talk about how God is speaking verse 29 to me. But that's the way our hearts are, aren't they? I mean, we you know coming and going. You just if you're looking for it, there is always that need to get my turn in. You know? Finish here, you know, you finished yet? Can I can I jump in and tell you what I'm thinking? We need to practice what is sometimes called the art of reflective listening. Attentive listening is keeping the focus on the other person before you kind of take the ball into your court to speak a bit. Reflective listening is simply the art of turning back what the person has said to you to reflect back to them what you're hearing. It can be as simple as simply changing the pronoun. The person says, uh, I'm feeling very discouraged. You simply say You sound like you're feeling discouraged. Or you're you're feeling discouraged. And it just it's a way of just reflecting back. It's an invitation to go further. I mean it sounds silly, but Believe me, nobody ever objects when you do that. That's a dumb thing for you to say. No, no, no. They think and they say, Yeah, I am. And furthermore, because it's an invitation. Go ahead, I'm still listening. Tell me more. Or you may rephrase what the person is saying. The person goes on, da-da-da, all these things that people have done to beat up on me, you know, and you just say something at the end like, it sounds like you're feeling very taken for granted. Yeah, and you know, yeah I am or no not quite that. It's just it's a way of clarifying, helping the person to understand what they're saying before you and I give our gems of wisdom for how to speak to their situation. Or sometimes it's a matter of just reflecting the emotion you're hearing when they're not saying that They're going on and they're complaining about this and that rascal and this, you know, on and on and on. You say, You're sounding pretty angry. And then they can reflect on that. Yeah I am, or no, I'm not angry. Well you sound angry. You know. You know, it's a way of just helping in the conversation To listen attentively. Proverbs 18, 2 and 13. Those are good words. Our words are more helpful. after we then speak after reflecting for a while because we can help the person that's to the point. In fact, I've been amazed how many times when I haven't really known what to say and I just keep trying to reflect back And the person leaves and says, Boy, that was a big help. And I'm thinking, I didn't say anything. You know, but they feel, of course, really great, you know, like that that was really helpful to talk to you And a lot of times what we need is somebody to just actively listen to us so that we can go through some of the things and God will speak as we just simply listen to ourselves. Second example of this, second example of good words are encouraging words. Encouraging words Very meaningful verse to me of one of the descriptions of Messiah in Isaiah chapter 50 in verse 4 is that Jesus Messiah is Referred to by saying the sovereign Lord has given me, talking about Messiah, an instructed tongue to know the word that sustains the weary. To know the word that sustains the weary. How to sustain someone who's down, discouraged. One of the best things that Job's friends said to him in all the time that he was suffering was a comment that Eliphaz made to him. When he was trying to encourage Job by what he was uh by reflecting on to Job what he was had been doing, and he talks about how Job had encouraged others, uh, strengthening their feeble knees, and how he had been an encouragement to others. And that was an encouragement to Job, I'm sure, at that point, to hear Eliphaz recognize. something of Job's integrity. Hebrews chapter ten tells us that we are to encourage one another, to spur one another on to love and to good works, meeting together for that. Proverbs 12, 18 talks about the tongue of the foolish person. It's like a spear to hurt, but the tongue of the wise, it says, brings healing. Your words, my words, can bring healing. We talked last week about the power of words. If you ever think about how powerful your words are, some examples that I give there. To just reflect to a person, the evidence you see of God's grace in them, uh not just the things that need to still change, but Here's what I see God doing in your life. What a great thing to hear, boy. If anybody tells me, here's what I see. I see you changing. I see Your life is not the same as it was five years ago. Those are words that go down deep and encourage. What I like about you. Simply that you're fun to be with, or I can always depend on you, or something that is an honest statement of something that you particularly appreciate about another person. Great encouragement, or just to cheer them on uh to just, you know, hang in there. Uh Dean used to run cross country and I would go to the meets and run toward the end, you know, and cheer him on down the Last stretch, come on, you know it's only and I like he couldn't see the finish line, but I had to tell him, you know, there it is, come on. One last burst of speed, you know, and keep challenging and cher encouraging one another as we're discouraged and afraid that uh we're gonna fail or give up. An example of this I think uh that moved me as I read it was from Larry Crab. He talks about early in his own life. Larry Crabbe, who has written and spoken, written many books that have ministered to a number of us, and also speaks all over the world. uh had a terrible problem of stuttering when he was uh in uh elementary and junior high school. And when he was in ninth grade, he was elected uh president of the student body. And to be inducted, he had to be called up on the stage And there the principal of the uh student of the uh school said uh, you know, told him uh I, Larry Crab, uh um of Plymouth White Marsh Junior High School, hereby promise, but of course the way it came out with him was more like, you know, I lala lala Larry could crab uh of Plymouth Whitemore and he said he was doing this, you know, some people were sort of snickering, some people were just burring their heads who cared for him and others just didn't know what to do. And he determined right then and there, I am never going to speak in public. Well, a couple of weeks later in his church there was a prayer meeting, and it was the custom in their church to have young people uh sometimes come up and to lead in prayer. And so He said, feeling more the pressure of the saints than the prompting of the Spirit, he was called forth to lead in some prayer. He said then, let me give it to you, and his words are more effective. He says, filled less with worship than with nervousness. I found my theology becoming confused to the point of heresy. I remember thanking the Father for hanging on the cross and praising Christ for triumphantly bringing the Spirit from the grave Stuttering throughout, I finally thought of the word amen, perhaps the first evidence of the Spirit's leading, said it, and finally sat down. I recall staring at the floor, too embarrassed to look around and solemnly vowing never again to pray or to speak aloud in front of a group. Two strikes were enough When the service was over, I darted toward the door, not wishing to encounter an elder who might feel obliged to correct my twisted theology. But I was not quick enough. An older Christian man named Jim Dunbar intercepted me, put his arm on my shoulder, and cleared his throat to speak. I remember thinking to myself, uh-oh, here it comes. Well just endure it and then get to the car And then listen to this godly gentleman speak words that I can repeat verbatim today, more than twenty years later. Larry, he said, there's one thing I want you to know. Whatever you do for the Lord, I'm behind you 1,000%. And then he walked away. Even as I write these words, my eyes are filled with tears. I have yet to tell that story to an audience without at least mildly choking. Those words were life words to me. They had power. They reached deep into my being. My resolve never again to speak publicly weakened instantly. God intends that we be people who use words to encourage one another. A well-timed word has the power to urge a runner to finish the race. To rekindle hope when despair is set in, to spark a bit of warmth in an otherwise cold life, to trigger healthful evaluation, self-evaluation in someone who doesn't think much about his shortcomings. Or to renew confidence when problems have the upper hand. Life-giving words, words of encouragement Thirdly, good words are gentle words. Third example are gentle words. Remember chapter 4, verse 2, this whole section began with Paul saying, Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Proverbs fifteen, verse one: a gentle answer turns away wrath. I think of an example of that that someone gave me a couple of weeks ago. Let me pass this on as an example of the power of gentle words. The person writes, The people in our little community have to rely on a woman who runs the neighborhood hardware store to get to their local mail. Everyone complains about her sour disposition and intimidation. Knowing how I want to break out into resentment every time I see her, I usually give up the right to do so before walking in and then hold my peace. But the other day she baited me again. And instead of saying nothing, I challenged her, with some heat behind my words. And of course she promptly read me off Before she had gotten the last word out, I got loud, told her that was the last time I wanted to hear from her big mouth, and I stomped out. I hadn't really lost control, I thought, and I knew I was fully justified, feeling pretty smug about the whole thing, until three days later. when the incident kept playing back in my mind. Each time it came up I'd replay the scene as though I were in a court pleading my case before a judge, and I was winning every time But it persisted until I was willing to ask for willingness to look at it honestly. I concluded that my disturbance indicated something was wrong with me Then over and above whatever she had said, I had done something wrong. I had retaliated, trying to hit back. I could have challenged her without doing so I had found a pretext to reject her and to push her away, that old pattern that has plagued me all my life. And so only I knew that I was wrong and that the cause of my disturbance was me. I had been binging on food and television ever since it happened for no apparent reason. I couldn't even pray without the scene coming back. What I discovered was that I could not get rid of that memory, and that if it didn't I didn't make it right, I'd have to keep on covering it, coating it over, or drowning it out with something. See, our words revealing our hearts. I asked for courage. I surrendered my fear and my pride, and I went back to the store, and I told the woman that I had been wrong in yelling at her. Unexpectedly, she looked at me with pained eyes and tried to explain. Instead of becoming angry, defensive, or abusive as I had feared, she was broken and vulnerable. And I was moved to compassion. Since I can seldom express this emotion because I'm a love cripple, I knew that for my sake I had to take the action despite my natural inhibition Thank God I had been taught what to do that did not come naturally by those who had gone before me in the program. And so I put my hand on her arm, and that connection drew me to her. It broke the impasse of fear and anger and pride within me. I even wanted to embrace her. Tears welled in her eyes as she glanced at me shamefully, hung her head, then looked up again as though she was just as surprised as I at the gift of life flowing between us. In that timeless moment where we looked at each other, each knowing that he or she and she had been wrong, each forgiving the other. There was spiritual union, a most marvelous and transcendent experience, a fullness of glory and great joy. I left the store feeling transformed. full of light and a great liberating energy. I heard just recently of a woman married to a man who has a vile temper And uh this would often break out while he was driving. They went on a trip to visit his relatives and He was losing his temper as he usually did, and what would be the general pattern is he would lose his temper. Uh she would become very anxious at that, be sucked into his temper and the vileness of his rage, and they'd be often at each other. She had seen that her reactions like that was revealing her own heart and her lack of calmness of spirit before the Lord. As she repented of that and came before the Lord for the calmness of her own spirit with him, as he lost his temper, she was able to neither retaliate nor to alienate Later on, as they were in a motel, he once again lost his temper. And this time Instead of the usual alienation or retaliation, she continued in that pattern of calmness and simply said, You seem like you're very upset. I'm going to take the kids to the pool. Come on and join us if you can enjoy us or if you want to stay here, stay here. Left him with the decision. Went with the kids. In a little while he joined them. His demeanor entirely changed Later on visiting with his folks, his father lost it at their kids. Again, she didn't react. Alienate or retaliate. And afterwards, his response to her was, I s I got a glimpse of what I must look like when I lose my temper by seeing my dad. It's pretty ugly, isn't it? Now I understand a little better how you feel when I lose my temper. I really need to change that She could have preached at him, could have argued with him, gone on and on and on and on. But it was the gentleness of her demeanor in holding up the mirror to simply let him see himself It was far more effective by the work of the Spirit. Fourthly, challenging words. It's not always just that we are gentle, non-confrontative. Ephesians 4. 15 tells us That we are to speak the truth in love. And that sometimes means admonishing one another, as Colossians 3. 16 tells us. We have to of course beware to remove the plank or the two by four from our own eye before we speak to the other person in their need, but there are times when we do need to speak. Jesus often used questions for this. He said to the Pharisees in a theological debate about who he was, How can you believe when all you care about is the opinions of men? You see? Using that question to show them. Remember the time he was with another Pharisee. who was not uh showing him particular affection and was very upset about a woman who was wiping his feet with her hair and washing them with her t with his tears and he said Well now there were two debtors, one owed fifty denarii and the other owed five hundred. They were both forgiven. Who's going to love the more? The Pharisees, well, of course the guy was forgiven the five hundred And Jesus used that to show him his own lack of a sense of forgiveness and therefore lack of love for Jesus. Again and again, Jesus would use questions to help people to think about what they were like, what their own sin was. You remember the man at the pool of Bethesda? He comes and he says, Do you want me to heal you? To Peter, he says after his threefold denial after the resurrection, Peter, do you love me? Questions in order to cause a person to reflect and think about themselves. Person says, this person in my life, my husband, my wife, or someone else, is making me absolutely miserable. Instead of simply commiserating, you ask, why do you give them the power to do that? A question to reflect, to think. Where a person who's got screwed-up priorities is always complaining about the pressures in their life. Ask the question. If you were to write your obituary, what would you write? Well then, when you think about that, what would you need to change in your life to make that obituary true? A helpful question for a person to reflect on their priorities, to think about how they're investing their life. when I had gone to seminary I was not very theologically sophisticated. In fact uh I was pretty dumb. Um when I got out of seminary I was known as Harris the Heresy hunter because I was able to spot an Arminian at forty yards and get him dead in his tracks. Uh went to see a friend who had been very influential in my early Christian life in discipling me and Kathy and I went to see this person. Hadn't seen him for a couple of years And I was uh showing off all my newfound theological sophistication, correcting a few of his errors and going on with some of my insights. And finally this man simply stopped and he said, Harris I don't know what's happened to you, but you've become obnoxious. After 30 years, I can still remember those words vividly. He could not have shocked me more if he had slapped me in the face. I thought I was a big shot. And here's a guy who I respected saying, you're obnoxious. Nothing would have been more effective than his words at that time to make me back up and to look at myself. As a result, I did a months of study in Proverbs on the tongue, its foolishness, its wisdom. It was one of the things God used to begin to change me It's still working on me in that area. Fifthly, good words are words that are properly timed. Properly timed words. Proverbs chapter 15, verse 23. Read, a man finds joy in giving an apt reply. Apt is an appropriate reply. How good is a timely word! The word is right on time, you see. Verse 29, building them up according to their need. What is the need right now? Someone has observed that a slap on a back and a kick in the pants is about two feet apart, but they make quite a bit of difference in the effect. We all need both of them at different times Which does that person need that you're talking to? The slap on the back, the word of encouragement? Or maybe they need the kick in the pants? Stop simply uh whining. Uh stop simply uh blaming your problems on someone else. Uh it's the timing you see. And that timing comes from the sensitivity of the grace of God in my heart. I don't need to make a point. I don't need to establish something, to be right, to win, to impress you. And so the Spirit can use me as I sense, this is what I want to say. But is that really helpful right now? Maybe it is. Maybe it isn't. Proverbs chapter 25 Verse eleven. And a word aptly spoken is like apples of gold. in settings of silver. Actually it's probably speaking of golden fruit. In other words, what it's talking about is something which is nourishing, presented in an artful way. I think sometimes as Christians we neglect the fact that it's not simply enough to say the right thing. Sometimes we need to say it in an artful way. We need to be creative about how we build someone up. Maybe it's not going to be helpful to say this now in this way at this time. You see, it's my vision for speech that we talked about two weeks ago. My vision is not simply to get you to listen to me, to impress you. To be heard, to have attention. The vision is to build you up, become more like the Lord Jesus, or if you don't know him, to draw you closer to him. Artful caring Is presenting the right thing at the right time in a way that is most helpful for the person to hear it. Finally, the last example of good words are gospel words. Gospel words. Remember, the gospel simply means good news The gospel is the good news of what God has done for sinners. And I believe firmly that you and I do not remind ourselves or one another of the gospel enough. We need to do this creatively. It's not simply enough to quote John 3. 16 to each other a couple times a week. The point is rather that there are many aspects of the gospel that we need to be reminded of. In Proverbs, excuse me, Psalm forty, verse ten, the psalmist speaks of not hiding God's wisdom, God's truth. But rather uh let me in fact read it. Uh but you Lord No, here we go, verse 10. I do not hide your righteousness in my heart. I speak of your faithfulness and your salvation. I do not conceal your love and your truth from the Great Assembly, that is, from the body of believers. So I We need to be reflecting on the gospel, meditating on it, so that it's entering more deeply into our lives. We're able, as Psalm 71. 8 says, to praise the Lord, declaring his splendor in some specific way. Something I've been thinking about. And it's been an encouragement to me. Let me share it with you. For instance, recently I was thinking about how God never learns anything God never increases in knowledge, nor does he ever learn. Therefore, he is never going to discover anything about me that will change his opinion of me. He knows all things at a single glance. And therefore, I'm secure in the relationship of one who not only knows me as I've been and am, but also will ever be. And as you reflect on something of God's character, to pass that on to another person, not in a preachy way, but simply as something that this has meant something to me, or as you see a need in a person's life, here's something God has shown me. Psalm 89, written in times of great distress and trouble, begins: I will make known your faithfulness. I will speak of your goodness. We need to remind one another of God's power, his wisdom, his love, and his faithfulness. To remember that The gospel, as it enters into our hearts, is what flows out of our lips to build others up. This is Matthew chapter 12, verse 34. Um Now, verse, yeah, 1234. Doesn't look like it. Here we go. I was looking at verse 35. Out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. The good man brings good things out of the good, the grace that's stored up in him. And the evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in him. So if you're not speaking good words, is if in these last couple of weeks God's been speaking to your heart about certain speech patterns that need to change. Again, I plead with you, don't just try to discipline yourself to change what you say. Rather, it's a matter of getting the gospel more firmly rooted into your own heart and being. So that out of that it will well up, so that you go back to Ephesians one to three. You read those truths of How's the grace and peace that's from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ to you? In that one who's chosen us. Before the creation of the world, to be holy and blameless in his sight, He's chosen you, He's adopted you. To be his own son, generically, that one who's the heir of his inheritance and has all the rights and privileges of the firstborn To the praise of his glorious grace, which he's freely given to you in the one that he loves. And so he goes on in verse 18 to say that he longs for you and for me to have our eyes open. That we'd know the hope to which he's called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and his incomparably great power that's at work in you, that power which raised Jesus from the dead. So that when you go over to chapter three and verse twenty. You read at the end of his prayer, now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine. according to his power that is at work within us. After you meditate on 429, all of a sudden you realize That that verse, 320, is not talking about the dramatic missionary request. There we were, standing with our backs to the walls, with a hundred cannibals around us. And God set a wall of protection and delivered us, or how God provided a million dollars when we were just about to go bankrupt, and all those other things which may be great and honor the Lord, but you and I look at those things and we say, But how am I seeing his power? You see, you come to verse 429 and you say, Lord, I can't change my speech patterns. And he says, but the Spirit who's at work in you to do exceeding abundantly beyond all you ask or think by the power of the gospel is able to change your heart, even your heart, even my heart. Let's pray. Father, we offer ourselves to you now that you would do that work in us to make the gospel come alive. That we would be a people who are able to speak attentive words, give us ears that hear, encouraging words. That you would make us people who are gentle, who are able to speak boldly that word of challenge or correction. properly timed in the context of the gospel because it is at work in us This we ask you to do, which we cannot do. In Jesus' name. Amen.