Let's begin this morning by reading from God's Word the section that we have been looking at from Ephesians chapter 4. And uh, you know, we've been looking verse by verse, phrase by phrase, and you get to do that, and as a result you can miss the bigger picture of the flow of Paul's thought. So I want to back up, begin They're at Ephesians chapter 4, verse 17, and read to verse 30 that we consider today so that you get the drift of Paul's thought and why verse 30 is so important and how it fits in the context. The principles that Paul lays down for our living are in verses 17 to 24 Then the application from verses 25 to 29, and then the punch at verse 30. So hear God's word as he now addresses you. So I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live as the Gentiles, the unbelievers do In the futility of their thinking. They are darkened in their understanding, separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that's in them, due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. Insatiable. You, however, contrast, did not come to know Christ that way. You did not learn Christ that way. Surely, you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by itself. deceitful desires, and to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are all members of one body. Secondly, in your anger, do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you're still angry, and do not give the devil a foothold. Thirdly, he who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with his own hands, that he may have something to share with those in need. Fourthly, do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. You see how that fits now at the end. After four applications What Paul's doing is he's reminding you and me that these are not abstract principles. Abstract laws, right, wrong, and so make sure that you do the right thing and avoid the wrong thing. But he brings it right back into a personal relationship. He brings us back to the gospel, you see. Paul can never get very far from the gospel Whenever he begins to talk to us about how we should live, what we put off and put on, very soon he's going to come back to the gospel because he knows that we need to be constantly reminded of that as the dynamic for our new living. So, what Paul's reminding us of here is that we are now in a new relationship with God. In James chapter 4, verse 5, we read that the Spirit of God in us longs jealously for our devotion. Here we're told that we're to not grieve him by our lying, by our sinful anger, by our stealing, by our garbage talk. And so you see from this that the Spirit is a person. If anyone tells you that uh the Bible doesn't teach that the Spirit is a person, the third person of the Trinity, but he's it's rather a force or something like that, that here is a very clear verse that indicates the personhood of the Spirit of God. You don't grieve a force The Spirit has feelings. He can be grieved. He can be saddened by the way that you and I live. Do you see by the way you and I live We are now in a relationship of love rather than law. The impetus that Paul uses, the motivation, to remind us again about the need to put off the sinful behavior and put on the behavior after Jesus is a relationship of love. You don't want to grieve the spirit by whom you're sealed for the day of redemption. See, that's a whole new perspective. And for many of us, I know because a lot of you have been talking to me about it, in these last weeks God has been revealing some things to your heart. He's been revealing things to me in my heart, about my heart. As we've sought to obey verses twenty-six to twenty verse twenty-five to twenty-nine, we've had a new glimpse Of just how corrupt our hearts are, how unable we are to do the right thing. Haven't you seen that? Has that been made clear to you through these weeks? I hope so But you see, now what Paul wants to do is lest you lose heart, lest in these last weeks Of seeking to control your tongue and realizing that you don't simply tear down rather than build up because it's a slip of the tongue. You open your mouth and out pops your heart. That after a while you can get pretty discouraged, can't you? In fact, the more you try, the more you may be even tempted to wonder, am I even a Christian? I I've been trying to obey this stuff of these last few weeks that you've been talking about and I feel more defeat than victory I begin to see my heart and I wonder, has that heart ever been changed? Why do I seem so helpless, dragged down into the same old patterns? And it's at this point that we see the pastoral heart of Paul. Paul knows that that's the experience you're going to have. And so he slips into here before he continues on the applications, and he's going to get to some really heavy ones in the next couple verses, but he slips in here for your encouragement and for my encouragement. The fact that the impetus is that we don't want to grieve the Spirit, because by Him you've been sealed for the day of redemption. Now, he's not only a good pastor because he's reminding you and encouraging you of the ceiling of your life for the day of redemption. Your security in Jesus Christ. But he's also a good pastor, he's a good preacher because he uses an illustration And we all love illustrations, don't we? I always know. When I see uh beginning to nod, you know, and people sort of slouching down or looking around, you know and You know, say, well, you know, let me illustrate that. You know, everybody kind of looks up, you know. Let me tell you a story, you know, and everybody kind of gets interested and re-engaged, you see. And that's what Paul's doing here The problem is, for most of us, it doesn't make much impact because we don't understand the illustration. Look what he says. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. You know, and and you read that and you can get all excited and say, wow. Except for most of it. It's one of those gems in the Bible where we read that and we say, it probably means something about the fact that I'm secure to the day when everything's gonna be judged and I probably oughta really feel good about that and maybe I would if I knew what he was talking about, but I had this vague sense of what it's about, so I don't know what he now I go on to verse thirty one and talk that one off as Someday maybe I'll see something on it that will help me understand it. Well, it's my privilege this morning, because of my calling, to open that up to you So that you and I can together rejoice in this image, this illustration that Paul's using. So I want to do that. In fact, I'm going to take two weeks I do want to move on, but I'm going to take two weeks to illustrate this, to talk about it, what this sealing of the spirit is. And then there have been questions raised, and I want to address those questions. about how this relates to Psalm 51. Because in Psalm 51 you have the question raised about can a believer lose their salvation David prays, take not your Holy Spirit from me, cast me not away from your presence. So we're going to take two weeks to look at Psalm 51 and to address that question. So we got four weeks before we're able to get back to some of the heavy stuff at the end of the chapter. Big questions that we're going to have to deal with here. Quite an assignment. But let's see what it is that Paul has for us. Let me remind you as we look at this that he's saying this to you, not just to the Ephesians. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you Not simply the Ephesians, not other Christians or Christians in general with whom you, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, were sealed. What does this sealing of the Spirit signify? Archaeologists have recovered a ring. in the ancient site of Megiddo, from which we get our term Armageddon, the Battle of Armageddon. The site of Megiddo along that valley was a place where a fellow by the name of Shema lived. Shema was an official of King Jeroboam II, who was king of Israel from 785 to 743 BC. Now they have found this little ring, and the ring has a jasper stone in it, and on that jasper stone there is engraved a roaring lion. This little roaring lion on this jasper stone set in this ring is a seal. Shema would have used that roaring lion engraved in the Jasper to when he had a jar of wine that was sealed with clay, and he would press that roaring lion into the stopper of the jar to show that was his wine. Or he would take that ring and he would press it into fresh wax on a marriage certificate, and that would authenticate the marriage certificate. The seal would signify authority. It would signify that something was official And it would signify particularly possession. This was Shema's authority or his possession that was being sealed in whatever he pressed that roaring lion into. It marked ownership and authenticity, signifying possession. Or you have, remember the story of Esther. Esther lived as queen, wife of King Xerxes. And do you remember that king of Persia was approached by Haman who wanted to obliterate the Jewish race? Esther boldly petitioned the king to reveal the plot against the Jews and to plead with the king to reverse his edict. And in Esther chapter 8, you read how King Xerxes listened to her by God's grace, had Haman hanged. And then he said these words to Esther in chapter 8, in verse 8. He said, Esther, now write another decree in the king's name. on behalf of the Jews as seems best to you, and seal it with a king's signet ring For no document written in the king's name and sealed with his ring can be revoked. He says, if I have my ring, my signet ring, sealing that decree, nobody can touch the Jews. Because the authority of King Xerxes stands behind that decree. I possess the authority to protect them. Now, what does this mean when Paul writes in Ephesians chapter 4 in verse 30? This is what he has in mind when he says to you and to me, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. You have been sealed Not by Shema, not by King Xerxes, but by Almighty God. You have been sealed for the day of redemption. Now what does that mean? It means two things. The first of them we'll look at this morning Dr. Edmund Clowney, commenting on this verse, says that there are two sides to what Paul is saying here. The first is that the Spirit is God's seal. The Spirit is God's seal, sealing our security. The second part to that You have to come back next week to find out. We'll look this morning at this first part. The Spirit is God's seal, sealing us for the day of redemption. You see, chapter 4, verse 30 of Ephesians, Paul is in kind of shorthand referring us back to what he said in chapter 1, verse 13 and 14. So turn to that because It's really that that opens up the meaning of what he's briefly referring to in verse 30 of chapter 4. In chapter 1 and verse 13, Paul had said, And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit. Who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory? Do you see that idea there again? Possession? The seal marks with authority the possession of the one who owns the seal. Or in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, in verse 21, Paul had said it this way. Now it's God who makes both us and you stand firm in Christ. Not yourself, not your own intentions, not your own discipline. God who makes us stand firm in Christ. He anointed us, set his feel of ownership. On us and put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. So prominent in this idea of sealing is the fact that you are God's possession. Do you remember when God brought Israel out of Egypt? He brought those two million or so men, women, children, slaves. across the sea of reeds and out through that hot, dry, barren desert to the forbidding Mount Sinai And at the base of that mountain, God established a covenant with Israel. And do you remember what he said in Exodus chapter 19? Where he says in verse 4 that he had brought i Israel on eagle's wings to himself. And then in verse 5 Now, if you will obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations you will be my treasured possession. There's that idea again, see? Possession. You are God's possession. Israel is God's possession. He says, although the whole earth is mine, of course, I made it In a particular and unique way, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy. The word holy means set apart, a set apart nation. These are the words that you're to speak to the Israelites. Now he's referring there to something that he had told Israel on the eve of their redemption, just at the point when God was about to confront Pharaoh with the command to let his people go because they belong to him, to God. And I'll remind you again, as I've said a number of times before, I know of no better statement of the gospel. If you asked me, give me the most succinct but full statement of the gospel in all the Bible It wouldn't be John 3. 16. It wouldn't be something from Romans. It wouldn't even be from Isaiah 53 or someplace like that. The only place I'd pick Exodus chapter six, verses six to eight. And I've spoken on it before, but let's look back to it for just a moment because you see the three elements of the gospel There that are all important that we keep all three elements in mind whenever we think about redemption God had said to Israel on that day, before he was about to bring them out, he said, Now let me basically say, let me preach the gospel to you. Let me tell you what I'm going to do. And he takes the rest of all the Bible to unfold these three verses, all the way to Revelation 22. In verse 6 of Exodus 6 He speaks of redemption. You and I have been redeemed. Therefore, say to the Israelites: I am Yahweh, the Lord. I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being. Being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. The first element of the gospel is the redemption, freedom from slavery, freedom from bondage. And God is saying there, that's the first thing you need to understand about what I'm going to do. You are a slave, you are in bondage, and I am going to free you from that bondage. But it's not simply so that you and I can say, Hallelujah, I'm free. That's great. He has called us from that slavery into a relationship. So we are redeemed into a relationship, verse 7. And I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God, and then you will know that I am Yahweh, the Lord, your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. You see the emphasis on the relationship in verse 7. Twice he says, I will be your God. But he also says, you are going to be my people. There it is again, that idea of possession. God says, you're mine. I'm purchasing you. The redemption was done at the purchased blood of the Passover lamb. God bought his people, but he bought them for himself. You are my people But as glorious as that is, then I am going to purchase you by blood, a blood sacrifice out of slavery, into freedom, into a relationship with myself. He even goes on, verse 8, redemption, we're redeemed into a relationship with a reward. Those three R's we've gone over many times before. The reward. And I will bring you, verse 8, to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And I will give it to you as a possession. I am Daway. My authority seals this. You see, that land, of course, talking about the land of Canaan, that promised land, the inheritance. That Israel was going to have that place where they would be safe and secure. There would be peace and there would be prosperity. And this is what God has promised. But now you go back to Exodus chapter 19, and do you remember that there is a condition? He said in 195, began affirming the possession, but how did he begin it? Now, if you obey me fully. And keep my covenant. And of course that's exactly what Israel did not do. Israel did not keep the stipulations of the covenant And so you look back over these last weeks about the lying, trying to tell the truth scrupulously. You look back at uh the attitudes, the anger, uh that sinful anger. the unresolved anger, the grasping rather than the giving, the garbage talk rather than the constructive talk. And you look at Israel and you remember, yeah, Israel lied, and Israel did not keep the covenant, and Israel grasped and grumbled, and Israel was unfaithful again and again and again to God. Israel committed spiritual adultery and was unfaithful. And so if you were to look at a passage They would depict this broken relationship of the possession of God. What would you pick As I thought about it, my mind went to Ezekiel chapter 16. Now if you want to, you can turn to it there. That's, you know, Ezekiel comes after Isaiah and Jeremiah But if you come to Ezekiel in chapter 16, why do I have Isaiah here? You come to Ezekiel chapter 16. God pictures there a um it's kind of a parable, kind of an allegory, it's a story of his relationship with Israel. And uh there's a lot of verses there. Because uh, how many sixty-three verses? So I'm not gonna read all sixty-three verses. Let me sum up most of it to you What God pictures there is he says, Israel, you were like a little baby that somebody had, and they threw the baby out in the field. I don't know if you saw in the news a few nights ago about a little baby that had been found half buried, uh, was still alive, but somebody had thrown it out in the field. and had half covered it with dirt and left it there to die. Somebody found it, they took it to a hospital, and the news said it was expected to recover. That's exactly how God pictures Israel. Look at verse 5. No one looked on you with any pity or had compassion enough to do any of these things. That is, he talks about how you take care of baby. Or rather, you were thrown into an open field for on the day that you were born, you were despised. Can we relate to that? Now God says, I took you, I saw you, I had compassion on you, I rescued you. So I cleaned you up, I fed you, I nurtured you, and you grew up. And then the the scene fasts forward to her, Israel, as a young woman, a teenager. God says, I saw you in verse 8 And you were old enough for love. And so I spread my garment over you. This one that I had raised up, I saw you eligible for marriage. And in verse 8, he says, I spread my garment over you, covered your nakedness, I gave you my solemn oath, and entered into a covenant with you, declares the sovereign Lord. And you became what? Mine. You're mine, possession. But then he says, how did you treat this marriage relationship? And he goes on to describe Israel as not simply an adulteress wife, unfaithful to him, the loving husband. But as a promiscuous wife, a prostitute. In fact, he goes on to say: most prostitutes do it for money. You didn't even have the decency to do it for money. You paid your lovers. You went after them and sold your body and sold our relationship. You utterly destroyed the sanctity of the union that we had together, the mutual possession. God is speaking here, if you can believe it, like a jilted lover. He says in verse thirty-two You adulterous wife, you prefer strangers to your own husband. Prostitutes receive a fee, but you give gifts to your lovers. You get payment. You run off. I remember back in the 70s, there was a late around 1970, I think it was Kenny Rogers had a song, remember Ruby? Don't take your love to town. It's a very sad song about a Vietnam vet who's in a wheelchair. And his wife is um goes every Saturday night into town for her lovers. And he's crying out in that song. Ruby, there's nothing I can do to stop you. Here I am in this wheelchair. For God's sake, Ruby, turn around. Don't just go off and leave me like this to all your lovers. Ever stop to think? That's what Ezekiel 16, God is saying. He's saying, I am that jilted lover. Here is the sovereign of the universe who has made the world, given you the breath and the life that you have. Says, I've called you into relationship with myself. And you've spurned that love. You've gone off, given your heart to idols. You've gone off in spiritual adultery and abandoned me. But God's not impotent. And so he goes on to speak in verse 35 of his jealous anger. Therefore, he says, you prostitute. Hear the word of the Lord. This is what the sovereign Lord says: because you poured out your wealth and exposed your nakedness and your promiscuity with your lovers, and because of all your detestable idols. Because you gave them their children's blood, child sacrifice. Therefore, I'm going to gather all your lovers with all whom you found your pleasure. Those you loved as well as those you hated, and I'm going to gather them against you from all around, and I will strip you in front of them, and they will see all your nakedness, and I will sentence you to the punishment of women. Who commit adultery and who shed blood. And I will bring upon you the blood vengeance of my wrath and jealous anger That I will hand you over to your lovers, and they will tear down your mounds and destroy your lofty shrines They will strip you of your clothes and take your fine jewelry and leave you naked and bare. They will bring a mob against you, who will stone you, hack you to pieces with their swords. They will burn down your houses and inflict punishment on you in the sight of many women. I will put a stop to your prostitution, and you will no longer pay your lovers. And then my wrath against you will subside, and my jealous anger will turn away from you. I will be calm and no longer angry. You say that's not a whole lot of comfort because you're calm because we're destroyed He goes on in verse 59. He says, This is what the sovereign Lord says: I will deal with you as you deserve, because you have despised my oath by breaking the covenant. See, that's the idea of Exodus 19. I bought you for myself. You despised my possession, my relationship. And so I will destroy you. Unless we turn away in utter hopelessness He adds a yet in verse 60. In verse 60, when all seems lost, God says, yet Yeah, there is a remnant. Yet I will remember the covenant that I made with you in the days of your youth. And I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. And then you will remember your ways, and you will be ashamed When you receive your sisters, both those who are older than you and those who are younger, I will give them to you as daughters, but not on the basis of my covenant with you. So I will establish my covenant with you, and you will know that I am the Lord. Then I, when I make atonement for you. For all that you have done, you will remember and be ashamed and never again open your mouth because of your humiliation, declares the Sovereign Lord. And what God goes on to unfold is that he says, I'm going to take my own son. And my own son I will send in the seed of David to become an Israelite. And he will be that second Adam. He is the one who will keep all the stipulations and terms of the covenant. And then I will make atonement for you. Atonement means to cover sin. And so the way God is going to do it is that He is going to pour all that sin that you and I are lying. and our anger, our bitterness, all of our grasping, all of our garbage talk, all that that reveals what our hearts are really like, and all that is poured on Jesus And God says, in him I will make atonement for you. And because he will suffer all of that All of my judgment poured out on him that you deserve. You are in him redeemed, not by the blood of a lamb. but by the blood of my own son, so that I call you into a relationship, not simply as my people, but as my sons adopted into my family. giving to you an inheritance not simply of Canaan, but of heaven, my kingdom, forever and ever. Amen. And what does God do to seal that? Because you and I haven't kept the stipulations of the covenant. Because Jesus has kept this for us. It is objective. That's what that next thing, that blank. See, the seal is objective. God seals you not with a ring But what does he say in verse thirty? He seals you with himself. The seal is objective It is not what you or I do. God says the work is finished. You are given the record of Jesus. As if you had kept verse 25 to 29 perfectly. And in order for you to know that I have sealed you with my spirit. You were not sealed by the Spirit. You notice in verse 30. And that's even clearer in ver one chapter 1, verse 13. We are sealed By the Spirit. God Himself is our seal. And so in those times when you look at what you have done and your heart is revealed, and you look and feel hopeless. You claim the objective work of Jesus. And you say, God Spirit whispers to me, you are my child. The Father possesses you. And you see, it is out of the overflow of the gratitude Of the fact that I am sealed by the Spirit because the work of Jesus is finished. In Song of Solomon, chapter 8, verse 6. The lover says to the beloved, Set me, at that point the the beloved is saying to the lover, set me as a seal on your arm. And so the lover is speaking, excuse me, I'm confusing here because I'm confused myself. It's the lover speaking to the beloved who says to her, set me as a seal on your arm. For love is as strong as death. And you see, what he's doing is that he's telling us there is a mutual possession. That nothing in heaven or earth can destroy because it is sealed by God Himself. Have you ever recognized your need of that ceiling in your life? Chapter 1, verse 13 says, He who has believed in Jesus is marked with that seal. Resting in Him this morning. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would seal in our hearts the realization that you, Holy Spirit. Are the seal of our security for eternity. And when we recognize what you have done, Lord Jesus, for us, we do not want to grieve you. Oh Lord, how we love you. Give to us a renewed sense of that love for you as the one who has sealed us for eternity in that day of redemption. Oh, speak to us of that love. In Jesus' name. Amen.