I have good news for you. You have been saved by grace through faith. And that faith is not of yourselves, but it is the gift of God, not by works, lest any of us should boost. For you are God's workmanship, his masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God has prepared beforehand prepared. For you to do. You are God's masterpiece. By grace Why don't you say to somebody next to you right now, you are God's masterpiece by grace? Just say that to someone. You are God's masterpiece by grace. You said that very silently. Do you believe that? Some of you said that What a truth. By God's grace, you and I are his masterpiece. And it's because of that, the fact that that work is not completed. It's still in process. But it is going on that he says in chapter 4 and verse 17, so I tell you, and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live as the Gentiles, the unbelievers, do, in the futility of their thinking. You're a new creature. Therefore, verse 22. He says you were taught with regard regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, shed it like an old skin It's no good. It's dragging you down. Hate that way. Shed it. Put it off, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. And to be laid new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. And so he begins to apply that, to show us how you and I need to change our thinking about the things that we do. You and I play with truth. We use truth as it suits our means as to whether we'll be telling the whole truth accurately or hiding. We're distorting for our own ends. And so he says in verse 25, put off falsehood and speak truth to one another, because you're members of one another. You and I nurse our grudges when we have been inflicted hurt. We continue to do that nursing it and justifying our bitterness against someone else. But he comes and he says In your anger, do not sin. Don't let the sun go down while you're still angry. And don't give the devil a foothold in your life. Don't let that unresolved anger continue. Put it off. Put on that new masterpiece of a person who's freed from anger. You and I think that we don't get as much as we deserve And so sometimes we need to help ourselves and maybe help God along in some of the blessings by taking, grasping, scheming. But His word comes to us in verse 28. He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to give, to share with those who are in need. You and I love to criticize, to gossip, to complain, to blame shift. But his word comes to us. Don't let that garbage talk continue to come out of your mouth. But only that which is Helpful for building others up according to their needs, so that it may benefit those who listen to you. The lifestyle of a masterpiece of grace that God is making you and me. And yet as you seek to apply those things, what do you think? I can't do it. That's just not like me. It reveals my heart every time I open my mouth, and you and I come to realize that our hearts continue evil. The gospel seems sometimes dry and irrelevant to us until we look at our hearts in the way that Paul has been speaking to us from these last few verses to do. And when we do, all of a sudden, what he has said in chapter two and verse three that you and I have just been walking like the world indulging in our own desires and our thoughts, like the rest, were by nature objects of God's wrath, because what our hearts are really like The more you've been trying to apply these verses in chapter 4, verse 25 to 29, the more you see. By nature, you and I are objects of wrath. And so then when the gospel comes in verse 4, but because of his great love. God, who is rich in mercy, made you and me alive in Christ. Even when we were dead in our transgressions, it's by grace you've been saved. And he's raised you up in Christ, with him, seated with him, in the heavenly realms, in order that in the coming ages he might show you the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to you in Christ Jesus. And then you come down to verse 30 of Ephesians chapter 4. And you see it's all brought together in full circle, for he says, Do not grieve the Spirit of God, whereby You have been sealed for that day of redemption. That day, the chapter 2, verse 6 and 7 is looking forward to. That time when you will not be simply seated with Jesus. in your position, but in your experience, knowing the fullness of his grace revealed in your life. So he said in chapter one, in verse thirteen, concerning the sealing of the Spirit, that we looked at last week. And that you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. And having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit. You've been sealed by that Spirit. The first point that we looked at last week is that the Spirit is God's seal, sealing your security for that day of redemption. Because where he sent to his people when he gathered them together before Mount Sinai, if you keep my commandments, you will be to me my own treasured possession. And that seal we saw is An authentication of possession. It is saying, hands off, you're mine. This piece of property is mine. This document bears my authority. Authenticating it. And so God has sealed you. Why has He sealed you? Because you and I look at our hearts and we say, if you keep my commands, we can't do it. But Jesus has come. And he has lived the life that you should have lived. 100%. Never one flaw in any word or deed or thought. And since his life is finished on earth, the record is complete. His probation is over. And God has declared his own son to have fully completed the work which he sent him to do, fully kept the law. And therefore, those who are in Jesus Christ, he says, you have his record, and you have no more probation, because his life has been lived. You see, it can't be messed up. It's already done. And therefore you are sealed. And how does he seal you? Not with the stamp of a ring, but with himself. God has sealed you with himself, his own presence, his Holy Spirit. Ensuring that you are sealed and protected and secure for that day of redemption. That day when you and I will be gathered to him in that place where there will be no more lying, where there will be no more anger There'll be nothing to get angry at. There'll be no more grasping and taking, for we'll have every desire of our hearts and thoughts completely fulfilled. And there will be no more garbage talk, no more complaining or criticizing, or gossiping, or blame shifting. But all that we hear will be praised and encouraging, building up. That's the day of redemption for which you're sealed. It's a guarantee. You are as masterpiece. He's moving you in your experience toward that day. You can hardly wait for it, can't you? That day when you and I will be gathered together with him and know that we will hear welcome into my kingdom. You are sealed because of the work of Jesus Christ on your behalf. But now this morning what I want to look at is the other side of this. It is not simply a matter of our waiting for that day for which we are sealed. But chapter 1, verse 13, when it says that having believed you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit. He goes on to say, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possessions to the praise of his glory? And so when we look at that verse, we're considering these two weeks, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. That sealing is not simply God's seal, that seal is also our seal. The second point is that the Spirit is our seal. Not only does God possess you, you also possess Him. This is a prominent theme in the book of the Song of Songs, that love song. the lover and the beloved that we looked at many years ago. Do you remember any of you who were around at that time? Chapter 2 Verse 16, you have that statement. My lover is mine and I am his. He belongs to me, I belong to him. He browses among the lilies until the day breaks and the shadows flee. Turn, my lover, and be like a gazelle, or like a young stag on the rugged hills Erotic imagery of passion in the mutual possession of the lover of the beloved. Chapter six Verse 2: My lover has gone down to his garden, to the beds of spices, to browse in the gardens and to gather lilies. I am my lovers, and my lover is mine. He browses among the lilies. Sweet sensuality of mutual possession. Chapter 7, verse 10. I belong to my lover, and his desire is for me. Come, my lover, let us go to the countryside. Let us spend the night in the villages. As we looked at when we were going through that, the beloved of course is the church as well as speaking of human, erotic, sensual, pure love, but also spiritually speaking of you and me as the bride of Christ. And He is our lover. We are His beloved. And so we come and spend the days, the afternoons, the evenings, the mornings. The sweet smell and the fragrance of his presence. And his desire is toward you and toward me. And so he climaxes this in chapter 8 and verse 6, when he says to us, place me like a seal, a seal over your heart. Like a seal on your arm or on your hand. For love, my love, is as strong as death Its jealousy unyielding is the grave. It burns like a blazing fire and like a mighty flame. Many waters cannot quench love. Rivers cannot wash away. The love of Jesus Christ for you. So do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you have been sealed for the day of redemption. For he is the lover of your soul and ministers the love of Jesus Christ to you in that mutual possession. Not only are you sealed with him, but he is your seal. You see, the Spirit is not only a seal to certify your promise of salvation, he is also a down payment of that salvation. Of the experience of that salvation. He doesn't just certify the promise that you will be in heaven. He is that promise. The picture that is given in chapter 1, verse 14, is of a down payment. And if you've ever bought a house or a car Maybe something of much lesser value, you know, you make often a down payment if you can't afford the whole thing. And the down payment is always made in the same currency as the full payment will be. You don't buy a $15,000 car With fifteen thousand dollars and of that you have a certain amount of that that is in cash, but the down payment is in beans The down payment is in the same currency, money, as the full payment. And so when we think of heaven and what God is going to do, we need to realize the spirit presence in your life and in my life right now is to minister to us a genuine foretaste of heaven, of what it is that you and I are going to experience in that day of redemption. And so when you look at the that statement of the gospel in Exodus chapter six that we saw last week, verses six to eight. The promise that what God was going to do in calling out his people was to redeem them into a relationship with a reward. Those three ideas. That when he promises that to his people What he is doing in Exodus chapter 6 and the Exodus of Israel out of Egypt is kind of like the kindergarten of the day of redemption. What God is doing there is He is saying, now come on kids, I wanted you to understand basic arithmetic. We're going to go over 2 plus 2 equals 4 of redemption. That's what the Exodus is out of Egypt. It was basic, simple, basic principles of what redemption is, purchase out of bondage Of what the relationship was, I'm your God, you're my people, and what the reward would be, that beautiful land of Canaan beyond the wilderness. Now when God comes to the New Testament in Ephesians, he is bringing us up to graduate level math. He's now saying, now I want to give you the fuller, deeper unfolding of those basic principles and all that they lead to. Unfortunately, you and I still have secondary level minds. And so what we're doing is as we apply and believe Ephesians, we are growing into deeper understanding of what the pictures are depicting. And so when you look at Exodus chapter 6 and verse 6, and he says, I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians, I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. And you see how God did that in the plagues against Egypt, the parting of the Sea of Reeds, and the drowning of the oppressors, the Egyptians, and the freeing of God's people out of that bondage. Then he brings us into Ephesians. And what does he say in chapter one and verse seven? He says, In him we have redemption. See it, same idea. Now, what is this redemption? This is a redemption not through the blood of the Passover lamb. This is we have redemption through his Jesus blood And what is that redemption from? It is the forgiveness of our sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace, which He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. Fully forgiving your life, holding nothing against you. And so he says in chapter 1, verse 14: the Spirit is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption. Of those who are God's possession. That redemption is still to come, you see. It's in the future there. In chapter 4, verse 30, it's in the future Don't grieve the Spirit of God until the day of redemption. You've been sealed to that day. You have been purchased, but there's coming a day. When we will stand before the face of Jesus Christ, and all the nations and all our hearts will be laid bare in all the things that we've done. And at that point, God will say, once and for all, you are freed from the presence, from the guilt and the power of that sin. No more. Will it in any way afflict you or plague you? That day of redemption is beginning to be experienced by the Spirit's power in your life and in my life. And so he goes on in chapter 3 to speak in verse 16. I pray that out of his glorious riches he will strengthen you with power through his spirit. In your inner being. He goes on to say in verse 21 that that power is immeasurably more than you could even ask or think that's at work in you To free you from the lying, the grasping, the need to get back, to gossip, to blame shift, and all the other things that plague your life. And that power is at work in you. And so tonight at the Lord's Supper, before we receive the seal of those elements to us, there's going to be an opportunity for us to share what has God been doing in these last weeks To free us from sin in certain simple ways, to show us the gospel in deeper ways, to just simply express to one another: here's what God's been doing, here's what He's been teaching me, here's how He's been freeing me. To encourage one another and challenge one another. And I'm looking forward to that tonight. Hope you pray about whether there's something the Lord would have you to share of what He's been doing in your life. Not only is there that redemption, but Exodus talked about being redeemed into a relationship. Into a relationship in which we call him our God, and he says, You are my people. And so what does Ephesians say? In chapter one and verse seventeen, Paul says, Now you're seeing the unfolding of this. You're seeing a further advance toward that day of redemption and understanding by the Spirit what that means. So he says in chapter 1, verse 17, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him more intimately. That word better means a full experiential knowledge. The Spirit of wisdom ministers to you the intimacy of the knowledge of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And so God is calling you into that relationship and wants to reveal to you more and more of the love of Christ. And so he prays in chapter 3. In verse 17, so that Christ will dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may with have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and how long and high and deep is the love of Christ. And to know, same word, full experiential knowledge, this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. That is ministered to you by the Spirit as a down payment of the intimacy that you will experience in heaven. And as you seek him, he reveals to you more and more of the intimacy of this love. How good it is to have a friend who's kind. How much better it is to have a father who is kind to us. And even better than that would be a father who would be always kind and never selfish. Even better than that would be a father who is always kind and never selfish and who would never die and never leave us. And even better than that would be a father who was always kind and never selfish and not only did never die or leave us, but would continue to unfold fuller and fuller displays of that kindness in a way that would never bore us. in a way that we would never take for granted and in a way that our love for him would continue to grow more trusting, more secure More at home, more appreciative, and more lost in wonder of that kindness and love forever and ever. That is exactly what Paul says in chapter 2, verse 7: that in the ages to come, he will delight to continue to unfold to you greater and greater displays of the kindness of his riches. In grace to you in Christ Jesus. A million years. Ten million years. 100 million years from now, you and I will continue to be exploring the vast reaches of the space and time of the love of Jesus Christ. And the Spirit is ministering to you right now the down payment of exactly that love. Often experienced in times of discouragement, times of difficulty. But it's exactly those times when not only does his love appear more precious, but also The reward, that third element, redeemed into a relationship with a reward, the reward of the promised land beyond the wilderness. That hope which is yours in Jesus Christ. And so he says in chapter 1 and verse 14, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance That picks up that idea of Exodus chapter 6 and verse 8. God says, I'm going to call you out of Egypt into a relationship with myself, and I'm giving to you an inheritance. Canaan. That's kindergarten. That's two plus two equals four. Paul says in one fourteen, he's a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession. Revealed in that day of redemption in Jesus Christ in the fullness of his kingdom. That's the fullness of the display of all that he's just laying out in simple pictorial terms in Exodus. And you and I have that hope of heaven and all the wonders of the glory of that lie ahead. Kathy and I have the privilege in the next 11 days to spend time in England. And we look forward to seeing uh the glories of Buckingham Palace and maybe Windsor Castle and some of these other things, but to realize in any of those displays of all the opulence of royalty That the hope that's before us, the wonder of the heavenly Jerusalem, so infinitely far surpasses anything. That our hearts could be set on and look forward to seeing or owning or possessing in this world that there is no comparison. Except to contrast the delights of glory with anything that's on earth. The Spirit ministers that hope to you The Spirit fills you in those times of darkness, those times of discouragement. That is one person has said recently, wherever you are, it's only half time. And the rest of the game is still to be played out. And the Spirit is showing to you that there is a hope in the victory of Jesus Christ when in that last quarter he will be vindicated. And whether it's anything like uh the games of the Bulls and the Lake uh and uh Utah, or anything uh like any exciting games or series you could look at on television here. There is the fullness of the expectation of what God is going to be doing, bringing to you the fullness of the reward of His kingdom. Therefore, he says, don't grieve the Spirit. Whereby you've been sealed for that day of redemption. You see, point one is that my security is that I will stand on that day of redemption That's God's seal for me. I have no fear. But point two is that I will experience a foretaste of that day of redemption. His power And his intimacy and his hope. What's robbing you of that today? You experiencing that As I describe these things, do you find yes? Yes, that's what God's doing. I see it, and my heart jumps to recognize that that's what's going on in the work that He's doing in me. Or do you say Man, I don't know a whole lot of what you're talking about. I wish I knew more of that, but it's not very real in my own life at the present time You see, the sealing of God in your life is objective. That cannot change because it depends on Christ's obedience. But the experience of that sealing is subjective. The fact that the Spirit is your seal, the down payment. That relates to his command in verse 30: don't grieve the Spirit. And that has to do with your obedience. That has to do with choices you make. How are you grieving the Spirit in your life and driving away the experience of His presence? In chapters and verses 25 to 29, the immediate context of this, we're told those things that grieve the Spirit. And I believe there's two ways that you and I grieve the Spirit and therefore don't experience what he's talking about here. The first is in disobedience to his word. For example, if you read verses 25 to 29. Don't lie. Don't nurse unresolved anger, bitterness. Don't grasp claiming a right to things that aren't yours. Don't indulge in garbage talk, which tears down instead of building up. And you say, well, yeah, that's what it says, but I don't take it very seriously. That's grieving the spirit And you will not experience the foretaste, the down payment of heaven on a day-to-day basis. But there's another way that I think is even more subtle That we can miss. And that is the disobedience to his promptings. The disobedience to the promptings of the Spirit. In verse 29, he said, Don't let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, so that it may benefit those who listen. Then he says, Don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you've been sealed for that day of redemption. There's a positive side to that in chapter 5 and verse 18. Where he talks about don't get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, but instead be filled with the spirit. And then the positive side of the speaking: speak to one another with psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. Singing, making melody, music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God and the Father of everything for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. The flip side of verse 29. I believe that there's a danger among us Reformed Presbyterians in reacting to charismatic teaching. That can supplant the objective word of God with feelings and say that's the leading of the Spirit. And we react to that and ignore the genuine promptings of the Spirit. Because the Spirit does prompt us in ways that are beyond simply what we read in Scripture. You're speaking to someone, and there's a prompting in your spirit to speak truth to that person that's going to be uncomfortable. And you feel like they need to hear this, and you know that you care for them. But you draw back because of the risk. That's grieving the Spirit in His promptings. Or there's a desire in a person that you're alienated with Something in you says, why am I just defending myself? Why don't I just admit that at least I know I'm wrong in this? And tell the person I want to be reconciled. And inside something says, are you kidding? Not me, they're gonna go first. That's grieving the Spirit's promptings of his work in you Or there's a need that you hear, missions, a personal friend or something, and there's a prompting in you that says, give. Respond to that need, and you say, Ah, better not, I may need it myself. As grieving the Spirit in his promptings. Where there's the desire to encourage someone to say that, which will simply build them up and show them how much you appreciate, and you feel embarrassed and awkward, and you let it go. And that's ignoring the promptings of his spirit. The more you and I ignore those day-by-day promptings That sensitivity to how the Spirit is leading in the application of this word in immediate, moment-by-moment situations, the more the sense of his presence is removed from us. Until he becomes a theoretical construct. What difference would you notice if the Holy Spirit were simply taken out of your life? Would you immediately notice that which is absent? Or would it take some of us maybe days or weeks before we notice anything different? Because we function simply by the external. Max Ducato has said: trying to live the Christian life without the Spirit. is like trying to dance without music. Even if you get the steps right, you still miss the point, which is the dance The point is the relationship. The point is that moment by moment responding to the promptings and the leading of his spirit So that as he draws you to himself the fuller trust and obedience, he's revealing to you his power in your weakness. His intimacy in your loneliness, and the hope of the day of redemption as you fight the battle. Maybe it's time for some of us here to come back to that awareness of the Spirit and His presence in our lives which we've lost. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, we acknowledge that some of us have simply lost any awareness of your presence in us. We live by principles and precepts, but we have forgotten the relationship. We have forgotten that you are that precious down payment resident in us. To minister the power of Christ in redemption, freeing us from our sin, ministering that intimacy whereby we can cry, Abba Daddy, and no, use. Spirit whispered to us, You are mine. We have forgotten that hope Which makes all the struggle and the battle so worthwhile while our eyes are set on glory. Lord, draw us back to yourself, and in those ways that we are grieving you. Cause us to hate and to forsake. That we would have a new awareness of you in our lives And to this day, we will once again be more attuned to your promptings and your presence and your power that is in us. In Jesus' name, Amen