To one of the densest passages in all of Scripture in terms of the richness of its content in showing us The relationship between the gospel and how you and I live day to day. I know of no more practical, life-changing text in all of Scripture. To transform your relationships. I live with this text. There's perhaps no text that I find myself reciting, quoting, praying, using. than these verses from Ephesians chapter 4, verse 31 to chapter 5, verse 2. And I believe it's significant That the problem that prompts Paul to give one of the most glorious explanations of the gospel in terms of how it relates to our daily living is not the problem of a poor self-image, it's not the problem of low self-esteem, as so much of contemporary writing and education would suggest is the basic human problem. But the problem that Paul deals with is the problem of anger. He sees that as one of the basic human problems. And be honest. Is that not one of the problems that most separates you from your intimacy with the Lord? That most robs you of the freedom of the Spirit in your life? And it drags you down? The problem of anger. I find that my own life and with people that I talk to that basically there are two problems that get us down. One is anger and one is fear. If you took away all the anger and all the fear out of your life, how different would your life be? And in this passage, with more help than any other place I know, Paul deals with one of the two basic problems that we have in life: the problem of anger and its effect on human relationships. Having said all that, let us look at what he says. Hopefully got your interest enough here to be able to look at it. Ephesians chapter 4. Now you remember that we've been dealing with this chapter, and so let me back up to verse 29 to see how it fits in the context of the things that we have been considering in previous weeks. Ephesians chapter four, beginning verse twenty nine, up to chapter five, verse two. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs. that it may benefit those who listen. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. Be in a Life of love, just as Christ gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Amazing. Amazing all that is packed in there. In fact, we're going to take five weeks. to just try and uh do really the the minimum that I can justifiably try to pull from these verses before we move on. Let me suggest That you memorize these verses during those five weeks. I urge you to do it. I cannot imagine. I give you any kind of money-back guarantee here. If I could restore the minutes it would take, you know, I would Time to do it. Because I know that you will not be sorry that you took the time to memorize these if you'll do it And in the weeks that go by, I will be unpacking it in a way slightly different from the NIV. Let me share with you how I memorize it And I find when you're memorizing something like this that it's helpful to personalize it, put it in the first person singular. So I will justify my more literal translation later as I go, but just listen to it. You may find it helpful to actually read in the NIV or whatever Bible you have as I'm going along to notice the differences. But this is just helpful to remind yourself that sometime during the day and pray it and say it, internalize it. Let it be removed from you. Let it be removed from me. All bitterness, rage. Anger, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice, but rather be kind Tender-hearted, compassionate, forgiving that other person or persons, just as God has forgiven me in Christ. Be imitators of God, therefore, and walk in love, just as Christ loved me and gave himself up for me. As an offering and a sacrifice that is fragrant to God. That's amazing. I mean, look at all that's in there. Every phrase is packed. with meaning and why it's related the way that it is. What we're going to do is today I want to do an overview of this. And I think this is going to work, so I'm going to put this along here so I don't I'll just move it. Great, thanks, Ken. We're going to do an overview of this just to so you can see the the larger picture. The basic pattern that Paul uses, as we've talked about at the second part of Ephesians, all through, the idea of first what you put off, then what you put on, and then the reason. The command, the imperative, based on the indicative. That's the same basic pattern we've seen all through Ephesians, and that's what we'll look at again today. Then the next three weeks, I want to take a look more closely at this idea of anger and forgiveness. Paul uses here six descriptions of anger, and he uses one word for forgiveness that sums up six words that are used in the Bible, four in the Old Testament, two in the New Testament, that describe forgiveness. And so we're going to be taking a look at those in pairs. Two words on anger and two words of forgiveness. in the next three weeks and then conclude the fifth week with seven observations on chapter five, verse one and two that'll tie everything together. Let me tell you, I would not choose to do this in July and August. This is where, you know, we come up on Ephesians. But, you know, how many of you are going to be here for the next five weeks straight, right? So I mentioned at the first service that there are tapes available and somebody that's a member and been around for a long time never knew that. So I'll mention it again. In case you do miss a week, there are always tapes in the box back there that you can sign out. in order to be able to keep up on it. But we're going to do the best we can, July and August, and make what you can. But uh I do believe that this is some of the most important material that I'll be covering in the book of Ephesians in terms of the practical value on your life and my life. In fact, in The first week that we met, uh first year that we met as a church back in nineteen seventy nine, we began in seventy eight, but the first full year is first year as a organized church My first major series was on the topic of forgiveness. Twenty-seven messages I gave on forgiveness. How many were here when I preached this? Ken May Bass Nokies were here. Oh, you were here back there, I remember. And uh that was the uh that was the first one that I uh preached because I thought the subject was so important. Uh anger is a major problem. in the Church of Christ today. Sometimes that's not acknowledged, but broken relationships People that don't want to deal with other people, who want to avoid, who do not want to be reconciled, are like a series of holes out of which the power of the Holy Spirit leaks from the church. The church lacks the power that it should be demonstrating to the world, much in part because people can't get along with other sinners. And so this is not a minor thing. This is a a matter that uh for Columbia Presbyterian as well as any other church Is something that we need to face honestly and ask God to show his power. The gospel becomes unreal. Almost as if it's irrelevant to you and to me if we are not practicing forgiveness on a daily basis Forgiveness is not something that you pull out on that rare occasion where you need to forgive someone. Forgiveness, I believe, as Paul's presenting it here, is something that is done daily. It's a lifestyle. It's an attitude. Because forgiveness and love go together. The chapter division here is not inspired, and I believe that it's unfortunate Most chapter divisions are pretty perceptive. But this I believe is one of those that is not helpful. I believe that chapter 5, verse 1 and 2 are really the climax of what Paul's saying in the previous verses and need to be seen that way. You cannot love without forgiving often. And you cannot forgive without loving deeply. So how do we do it? Three steps that Paul gives to us here, the overview this morning. First of all, he says, put off anger. Put off Anger, verse 31. He says, get rid of it. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, slander. along with every form of malice. I'd like to make four observations on that command in verse thirty-one. First of all, do not deny It do not deny that you are angry. Do not deny the anger that you have Some Christians deny they have a problem with anger. Knew me? Angry? This seems to be especially a problem with men uh who think of themselves as not angry. Uh recently I read about a fellow whose name was Al who was admitted to a mental hospital because of uncontrolled explosive rage. It had gotten to such a point where it intervals without any uh warning when someone would do something that um they made a mistake or somebody slipped up, he would explode with rage, even against his family, probably particularly against his family. In fact his children were terrified of him until he finally was admitted to this hospital and in the therapy he admitted that he hated his father. But that because he was a Christian, he wasn't supposed to hate his father, so he pretended that he didn't hate his father. He simply s stuffed it down and denied that there were these feelings that he had toward his father. And though he could try to deny it and pretend he was a nice Christian who didn't lose his temper, at certain times it simply was beyond his control. But he was never able to deal with it because he was denying that he had the problem. And there are many of us, we talked about anger back in verse 27 and 28, that have problems with anger, and God reveals that to us. First step then is to not deny the anger that you have in your life. Some of that anger is good. We've talked about that When you see someone who's weak being mistreated, you hear hear God dishonored and blasphemed, then it's good that there is that anger that is in response to that Often, more often, by far, certainly, our anger is bad. When I am threatened with loss of control or loss of face or image, my pride is being threatened. Anger is about something that's important to you, whether it's good or whether it's bad. It's a signal that you're feeling something and being threatened with something that you may lose. It's like a light on the dashboard. You can put a piece of tape over it and try to ignore it, but the problem's not going to go away. You and I have to acknowledge our anger and see it for what it is. often is the case when I preach on these things, the Lord gives to me personal examples that are all too meaningful. This morning I was uh wanting to get out and go over the message one more time just as I was having breakfast a uh I opened the garage door and a barn swallow flew in from our garage into the house. Now But that didn't uh particularly bother me, but it was quite a bit of excitement for our cat who thought this was quite a jolly diversion to the morning routine Uh the bird, of course, wasn't very interested in entertaining the cat, and so it flew up into our bedroom. Uh so I was trying to get the bird out of the bedroom, closed off all the other exits and spent about ten minutes trying to get this thing out and finally got it out of the bedroom to find out that another family member had just opened another bedroom door where it flew into that bedroom and I lost it Inappropriate, but I was frustrated. You know, I was not this was not something that I gave to the Lord and said, Lord, you know, what are you gonna do with this thing? I mean all I was interested in is getting that bird out of there so I can get on my way and do my thing. And so uh after about ten more minutes I finally got the bird out. I was just brushing my teeth and leaving and I heard that familiar chirp of the porn swallow and thought, isn't that nice? The barn swallow is enjoying the outdoors and its freedom once again. Walked out into the bedroom and there's the barn swallow right back in the bedroom. Now it's I don't believe it's the same barn swallow. The I think its mate came in because they are very loyal to each other and so the mate had come in uh to try and rescue it or something. And uh I want to tell you that barn barn swallow is still in our bedroom. Fortunately barn swallows are cleaner than most birds, but uh we'll deal with that when I get home. Well, as a reminder to me, you know, how we get frustrated when we lose control of things. Something intrudes on our schedule. I remember one time in my life When and you know after the barn swallow, then I come here. Now you guys have it pretty good. In the first service, people couldn't hear me because the whole time I was talking, uh the mic was kind of growling. It was sounding like, you know, there was something going on and uh the background was so noticeable that it was very distracting to people and poor Henry comes up and he tries something and John tries something and They're all trying to analyze technically change batteries, change whatever it is, what is it that's causing this thing? Turns out after the service, that the mic had slipped down between my shirt and my undershirt And so everybody's looking for this thing and the mic's not even there and it's rubbing against my chest, you know, and that's all people are hearing. I'm surprised they didn't hear my heartbeat, you know, it got a pump boom boom boom might have been Well, you know, I mean birds and mica we are full in life of things and people that don't cooperate, aren't you? I mean, really? And so we we want to get control of these things And I was saying I I remember one time in my life it was something I had planned to do and I was interacting with somebody and I got so furious that something they said and they did that without thinking I put my fus fist right through the wall. I mean all the way through in one side and out the other I was only glad that I didn't hit the stud. I would have broken my hand. Went right through. And of course, as soon as I did that, I thought, that's dumb. Now I gotta fix the wall. And as well as the other problem. There's a cost to anger. That cost was a few hours of work repairing the wall. Sometimes our explosive anger can cost us a lot more. And we would wish there would only be something that could be fixed in a couple of hours. But we have potential of rage and anger in hearts that want to be able to control our lives. And people and things don't cooperate. Don't deny that you have anger. Examine it. Secondly, don't be vague about it. It's the second observation here. Don't just say, well, yeah, sometimes I lose it, don't we all? You know, whatever it is. Paul wants you to be very specific. Verse 31, he describes six kinds of anger. He doesn't simply say, put off your anger. Six descriptions. And those descriptions Talk about different kinds of anger. What I want for us to do is over the next weeks, particularly the next three weeks, To examine as we look at these different words to see, is that a particular manifestation of anger that I see in my life? And what is God saying to me by recognizing that kind of anger? Be very specific. Don't be vague. Thirdly, notice that this is a command to obey. It is not something that is erased automatically when you become a Christian. Paul's writing to a mature church and he says Put off your brawling, your slander, your bitterness. This is something that's true of Christians and even mature Christians It is not something that is automatically removed or, nor is it passively removed by praying. Just pray about it. Paul doesn't say here in verse 31 Pray about your anger, and God will take care of it. He tells you to do something, he tells you to put it off. But specifically the way he says it is very significant, and that's the fourth observation. The command is in the passive. The command is in the passive. Literally, what verse 31 says in the Greek is, let it be removed from you, all bitterness, rage, anger, slander, brawling. So there's two things that are going on here. Very significant and insightful the balance. Paul saying you need to take the initiative. There's something you need to do. But you can't do it yourself. So you respond in obedience to what this says, but it is God the Father, the Son, and the Spirit operating all together, all three named within these verses. In order to accomplish the removal of the anger by means of the gospel. That's the means So, verse 30, he talks about not grieving the Spirit who sealed you. Verse 32, he talks about the Father who has forgiven you. Chapter 5, verse 2, he talks about the Son who has loved you. And chapter 5, verse 1, he talks about being beloved of the Father. So all this is happening. We need to unpack this to see what is going on here. But notice, and I That's why I say it whenever I tell myself, let it be removed from me. You see, that is a prayer, but I am taking the initiative in bringing myself under the control of the gospel to deal with my anger. Now Second thing to notice here is that he commands, the positive command is to put on love. And I'm just going to briefly mention here, there's four things that he states about this. First of all, he says verse 32, be kind. The word literally means to be useful or to be helpful. 1 Corinthians 13, 4. Love is kind. Speaks of God's kindness to us in chapter 2. The second thing he says in verse 32 is to be compassionate. The word literally means uh good guts. It's uh talks about its bowels with the word good placed before it. We would say be tenderhearted Uh the ancient Greeks thought of the bowels as the seat of the emotions. And so what he's saying is be affectionate, be tenderhearted. That's the idea, in contrast to what he had said In verse 18, talking about those who were hardened in their hearts and lost all sensitivity, he's talking here about tenderness of heart. You hear something of someone else's pain and you are drawn to that. Well you can't do that to somebody you like. You can't do that to somebody you hope who's going to get pain. And so he moves right on to the third thing, which is so important here, and that is the forgiveness. He says, forgiving each other even as God in Christ has forgiven you. The word there to forgive is a word in the Greek which literally means to act graciously towards And it is the word that uh kind of puts together a number of specifics. It's a the general New Testament Greek word that puts together a number of specific ideas that the Bible uses about forgiveness. So we'll be looking get those in the next three weeks. But let me just sum up the meaning by saying here that for by forgiveness what Paul means is to no longer hold against the person What they did to wrong you. You no longer hold that against them. You don't ignore it. You don't pretend that they didn't bother you, that they didn't wrong you, they didn't sin against you. But there's a cost involved. You forgive them. You decide to no longer hold it against them and work that decision out in a process that may take days, months, or years. The other thing that you do in the climax of this is the loving. Love them. Imitate God in his forgiveness and in his love. Chapter five, verses one and two. Live a life of love. The words the phrase there is literally again, walk in love. It's that idea, that word, keyword, walk that we've seen so many times in the book of Ephesians. Now notice that these last two steps have after each of them the phrase just ass. And that leads us to the third point, the final point, which is that this is all based on a new motive and a new measure. This is the command, put off the anger, put on the love, is because of something that is already true, you see. It's the indicative that we keep talking about. Do this because this is true. Now, what is it that is true? You are forgiven and you are loved. So what Paul is saying here is forgive, verse 32, just as God forgave you in Christ. Then chapter 5, verse 1 and 2, love just as Christ loved you in death. And so the measure is God's love, God's forgiveness of us in Christ, and Christ's love measured in his death. The Paul you see here is connecting forgiveness and love. Again, ignore the chapter division. It should be after verse 2, in my judgment. We like to think that we can love without dealing with forgiveness. Love is a positive thing. It's kind of the warm fuzzies. You want to love someone, you want to be loved. Forgiveness, on the other hand, reminds us of hurt. It reminds us of negative feelings and failure. But the Bible never separates love and forgiveness. Amazing how the Bible always joins those together. Wherever you read about the love of God, you always see somewhere in that context something of His forgiveness. But have everlasting life, forgiveness. He goes on in verses seventeen and eighteen to talk about how we're not condemned because of the sacrifice of Christ, but forgiven. Dan Allender, in his uh excellent book, Bold Love, that deals with this matter of how to love in difficult situations talks in the very first chapter about the inextricable connection between forgiveness and love. Let me quote just a part. He says, love is dependent on forgiveness. A formula can almost be structured from this concept. The extent to which someone truly loves will be positively correlated, that is, it will be related to the degree that the person is stunned and silenced by the wonder that his huge debt has been canceled. Let me read that again. The extent to which you and I can truly love is related directly to the degree That you and I are stunned and silenced by the wonder that your huge debt has been canceled. Perhaps another way to say it is that gratitude for forgiveness is the foundation for other-centered love. A hint may now be offered as to why grace is so demanding in its free offer. All that's required in response is stunned silence and overwhelmed gratitude. A stunned and grateful heart is free to love because it has been captured with a hilarious paradox that we are unlovely but loved, unable to love, but free to try without condemnation. And all our efforts to love are made lovely and useful by a great lover Who superintends all our bumbling efforts and turns the dross of mixed emotions, mixed motives, to the gold of eternal intentions. Love and forgiveness. From scripture and from personal experience, let me tell you and assure you, you will never learn to love until you first learn to forgive. Because it is sinners. Who you're called to love. People who fail you. And you will never learn to forgive until you first acknowledge your anger We'll be exploring this in the weeks to come, but let me tell you right now, this is supernaturally transforming. This is the power of the gospel in its deepest manifestation. Forgiveness is unnatural. It is grace that causes us to truly forgive. A classic novel that was so popular it was made into one of the most successful Broadway plays and recently made also into a movie. Is devoted simply to exploring this theme. Victor Hugo's novel, Les Miserables, that explores the Power of forgiveness to transform a life. You may remember the story of a fellow by the name of Jean Valjean. who, as a young man in desperate straits, steals a loaf of bread. And he is sentenced to prison, winds up spending nineteen years. in a filthy prison for stealing a loaf of bread. He goes in like any other guy with some good and some bad. But he comes out nineteen years later, a hardened, bitter, cynical convict, a man who will snarl and beat some woman up at the slightest provocation. When he's released from prison, his miseries don't end, his bitterness only deepens because he's branded as a convict with a card that he must display. No one will hire him for work. No one will even give him lodging. Because of the attitudes of nineteenth century France against convicts. He goes four days without even being able to get a place to sleep. Finally goes to the home of a bishop. The bishop shows him kindness, invites him in, and uh invites him to stay overnight, feeds him And as the house is quiet and everyone goes to bed, the bitter cynical heart of Jean Valjean sees this simply as an opportunity He'll steal all of their goods and get out of here. And so while everyone sleeps, he takes a bag and fills it with as much of the silver and valuables as he can from the house and takes off in the middle of the night But the police capture him the next morning. And they bring him back to the house in chains. They're ready now to put him away for life, this filthy convict. But when the bishop sees him, he says something that Jean Valjean can't believe that he hears. He welcomes him back and he says, Jean, good to see you again. Jean, you forgot the candlesticks also. They're silver, and we'll get a good fee. Take those as well, and explains to the police that this has all been his gift to Jean Valjean. He is stunned. He expected nothing but wrath and brutality. That's all he's ever known. And here for something totally inexplicable is kindness and naked forgiveness After the police go, the bishop looks at him directly and he says, Jean, I bought your soul with these goods from darkness to light. Go be an honest man. The rest of the book describes the transforming power of that act of forgiveness. Javer, his worst enemy, a detective who's hounded him for years and hounds him over the next over fifteen years. Knows nothing of grace but only revenge. In every opportunity, Jean Valjean returns kindness For his maliciousness, at one point even sparing his life, until Javert, with no grace and only bitterness left in his own life, throws himself into the sin and commits suicide. Jean Valjean Adopts an orphaned girl as his own daughter and raises her lovingly. A young fella Is in mortal danger, and Jean Valjean risks his own life to save the life of this young man who later becomes his son-in-law. At every opportunity where there's maliciousness and hatred, he's able to return love. Why? Because they deserved it now. Because he remembers the forgiveness that he's received. He never sells the candlesticks, but he keeps them simply as a precious memory of what forgiveness does to change a life. You and I look at this and we can't miss that Victor Hugo is, of course, describing the power of the gospel in that novel You and I haven't stolen from God is silver or is gold. For God could simply instantly with a word create all the silver and gold that He wanted. We've taken from God what cannot be replaced We've robbed him of his honor. We've robbed him of his rightful place in the lives of the creatures that he made in his image. We've run our lives as if he doesn't matter. We've stolen from him. All of his glory and that which we can seize. And God, at infinite cost to himself, looks at you and me. Not with wrath and revenge, but in the gospel he tells us he has given the blood of his own son as payment for your sin and mine. We look into kind eyes of a heavenly father, and we're his beloved children. And he says, understand the gospel. And out of that understanding, live in response to the sinners about you a life that is transformed. Have you ever experienced that transformation in your own life by faith? It's not offered as an automatic operation. You must respond acknowledging your own need for Jesus Christ and the finished work which He's accomplished on the cross to receive that forgiveness. Have you ever done that? Have you ever let that gospel work down into your life to transform the bitterness, the resentment, the sense of wrong So that God can work the gospel out in you and through you as a demonstration of its power. Are you ready for God to be doing that in these next four weeks? Let's pray. Father, at this moment we simply want to come before you and recognize that we deserve far worse than Jean Valjean ever received. We deserve the eternity of hell for what we have done in robbing you of your glory. If you have looked at us With eyes of love and forgiveness at a far infinitely greater cost than that bishop paid. The cost of the life of your son To redeem us not only from physical prison, but spiritually, to call us into your family and into heaven. Oh Lord, may that forgiveness transform us as we think of what it means that we in all our evil, wretchedness, selfishness Have been forgiven by you and so loved. Lord, make our hearts teachable and open over these next weeks. To see what that means and how it works out in specific ways, that we would be transformed by the power of the gospel in Jesus Christ. Amen.