We've been looking especially at the Ephesians chapter four, the very rich passage from verses thirty-one to chapter five, verse two. Noticing how Paul brings to a climax the difference that the gospel makes in our practical day-to-day living. And he does it by drawing your attention and my attention to the problem of our anger. Verse 31, remember, is written to Christians. He says, get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. Does that surprise you that Paul would write that to Christians? He'd say, well, Christians shouldn't be like that. I agree. But Christians can be like that. And if you have been to a number of churches in your lifetime, then sad to say you've probably experienced some congregational meetings that were battlegrounds some divisions, some power struggles, some bitterness, some people who simply could not get along with others in the congregation I heard just this week as our pastors were meeting together to pray for the renewal and revival of this area. of a pastor who just the day before, this week, uh resigned from his congregation out of discouragement. I heard also this week of a congregation in Howard County who recently fired their pastor. Didn't get any ideas, but uh I felt uh a pang. I thought, uh what did things come to? Um This is for Christians. This is for those of us who name the name of Christ that Paul says can be like that. And so we're looking at these verses to see how Paul takes the gospel and applies it to the problem of anger in Christians' lives. Let me read again God's word from Ephesians 431 through chapter 5, verse 2 Get rid, he says, of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other. Just as in Christ God forgave you. Be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Now I won't ask for a show of hands, but I hope some of you have begun to memorize that. Because I promise you there is a rich blessing in store for you if you just do nothing, if you don't hear any of the messages, but you just memorize those verses And as I mentioned last week, as we began this five weeks that we're devoting to these verses, uh that as I have memorized it and say it to myself frequently and pray it, just internalizing the truth of it that there's a couple of changes I make that they're just a little bit more literal rendering that brings out the force of it. Remember that the command in verse 31 is let it be removed from you. That's a very interesting command because it's a command in the passive. How can you command something in the passive? Of course what Paul's saying in that is you take the initiative You don't just wait around for God to do something. You take initiative to put off the anger, put on the kindness, the compassion, the forgiveness, the love. But God must do it. You can't do it. He works by his power through the gospel into your life. So I say to myself when I begin this, let it be removed from you, Alan. All bitterness. Wrath and anger, brawling, slander, with every form of malice or maliciousness, and become be rather kind. Compassionate. Just as in Christ, forgiving, forgiving that other person, forgiving those people. Just as in Christ God forgave you, me. And be imitators of him, therefore, as his dearly loved child. And remember, walk in love. First three chapters. You are seated in Christ in the heavenly realms, in the forgiveness He's given to you. Now walk by faith, walk actively in it. That's what verse 1 says. Walk in love. Just as Christ loved you, loved me, and gave himself up as an offering and sacrifice that is fragrant to God. Notice all the every phrase and how he puts it together there. And what we're doing is these three weeks, beginning this week, we're taking verse 31 and 32 and noticing the contrast. There's an either-or there. You're either finding you're holding things against people or you are forgiving them and learning how to be kind. And so we're taking those two verses and looking. There are six references to anger in verse 31. We're taking two a week. Then we're looking at the ver the word forgiveness in verse 32, and that has five words that that are a kind of a complex of words, biblical words on forgiveness. Four from the Old Testament and another word in the New Testament. And we're taking two words on forgiveness each week To see how it is that God intends for us to be able to put off anger, to put on kindness and love, and to experience the freedom Of being free from the bitterness and the bondage of anger that keeps us as Christians from enjoying the fullness of the Spirit. So, first two words about anger. First this morning, put off your anger. The first word is bitterness. Now this morning I'm going to look at the first and the last words in verse 31. Why am I doing that? Because if you look at verse 31, the middle two pairs, rage and anger, brawling and slander. uh seem to go together. That is, uh I will show you the next couple of weeks that rage and anger are linked together and brawling and slander are linked together. When you see that kind of construction in the Bible, you often see it in the Psalms then it generally means that what's at the beginning and the end is like a frame that goes around it. So it seems like bitterness and every form of malice are kind of around these other two pairs of anger. And that's what I'm considering this morning. So first of all, Get rid of, let it be removed from you all bitterness in your life. That anger which in verse 26 and 27 You continue to maintain. You haven't put it off. The devil's gotten a foothold. The word means refusal to be reconciled. It's a smoldering resentment in your heart. A sour, cynical spirit. The word used a number of times in the Bible, actually. And in my study of this, I'm I've come up with a tentative conclusion About what I think is the major thrust of this word, the way it is used in the New Testament, this word bitterness, hycria. It seems generally to refer to professing believers. Who have some idol in their life that is blinding them and causing them to become bitter For example, do you remember in Acts chapter 8, we talked a couple of weeks ago when we talked about Psalm 51 about Simon the magician? Remember the guy who had practiced uh occultic arts? And he he was involved in the occult sum and he came, it seems, to Christ. So the Bible says he believed, was baptized And then he saw John and Peter going around laying hands on people, praying for them, and he'd see these strange, miraculous things going. They would speak in other languages and These signs and wonders would occur and he said, Hey, you know, that sounds pretty good. He goes up to Peter and he says, How much would it cost for you to give me that power? Here, what do you want? You know, fifty, hundred? And you remember Peter was outraged and in Acts 80 says, May your money perish with you because you thought you could buy the gift of God with money You have no part or share in this ministry because your heart is not right before God. Repent of this wickedness and pray to the Lord, perhaps he'll forgive you for having such a thought in your heart. For I see that you are full of bitterness and captive to sin. That word bitterness is the same word in Ephesians 4. 31. Now I don't know about you, but when I read that It's kind of a little bit of a jolt. And because I wouldn't expect that you'd use the word bitterness there, would you? I mean, wouldn't you expect he'd say something like, For I see that you're full of greed Whether they see you're full of a lust for power or something, I mean, why does he say you're full of bitterness because you want this power and want to pay for it? I think what Peter's doing, F. F. Bruce, in his uh scholarly commentary on the book of Acts, says that you could translate that construction there by in this way. For in the gall of bitterness and the bond of unrighteousness I see you being. And Bruce makes the point that the bitterness there is not so much the source of the problem as the result of the problem. That what Peter is saying is, because of this idol, this greed in your life, this lust for power I see you becoming a bitter person. Why do I say that? Because it would seem that Peter has in mind Deuteronomy 29, 18, which uses the same word, the Greek translation. And what was that saying? Deuteronomy 29 is a warning to God's people as they go into the land of the seduction of all the False religions, the uh aberrations, those things that uh this is a worship of God, but you know it this is something that meets your need. And so it's it's an idol rather than a true God And God warns his people in verse 18 saying, Make sure there is no man or woman, clan or tribe among you today whose heart turns away from the Lord our God to go and worship the gods of those nations. Make sure there is no root among you that produces such bitter poison. In other words, instead of following the Lord, trusting him, finding your rest and your joy in him, you say, there's something else I gotta have. It's Jesus plus, Christianity plus, Bible plus. And I gotta have this thing. And if that becomes what you must have, that's an idol. And it will produce bitterness because you won't get it. Idols never deliver. This is exactly what James talks about. You remember in James chapter 4, when he says, What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desires that are battling within you? You want something, but you don't get it. You kill and you covet because you can't have what you want. You quarrel and you fight you don't have because you don't ask God And when you ask, you don't receive, because you ask with the wrong motives that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. And so James is saying, you look at the body, you look at this the divisions, the bitterness And so much of the time it's people who have their agendas. They're professing believers, but they've got their hearts set on some idol. May not be a thing It may be the need for power, the need to control, the need to dominate, the need for the church to go my direction, to be the way I think it ought to be. And that produces quarrels and divisions. It's exactly the same word and the same warning that Hebrews chapter 12 gives to us in verse 14 and 15. Where it says, make every effort to live in peace with all men and to be holy. Without holiness, no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one misses the grace of God. Okay, again, it's to believers, it's to people who profess the part of the church. But he says, be careful. That you don't actually miss the grace of God, and that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and to defile many. Notice, the peace is related to the holiness. The holiness is related to the truth, grace of God operative in your life. If you are kidding yourself, you're here for another reason. You're not here ultimately because you want to love and to serve Jesus Christ as the center of your life. You're here because you're religious. You're here because it's in your background. You're here because church is a safe place. You're here because church is a place where you can get some control or some power. There's some idol, there's something you're looking for, some reason why you're part of a church that is aside from Jesus Christ. Hebrews says, if that's the case. There will be a bitterness in your heart, because the idol will not deliver. And what you say will happen, it will defile many. Churches in the United States around the world are full of bitter people who are there for the wrong reasons. Who find within the church that there's something that they want and it doesn't deliver? And so they turn. They say Uh the pastor's not feeding us anymore. We need the church to go in this direction, and its leaders are taking it in that direction. And what's the matter with them? I remember reading about a fellow by the name of Fred. Fred was a the charter member of a congregation that started, had given a lot of money and a lot of time and sacrifice to that church. And then they got a new pastor. And a number of people started becoming Christians. And the church began to change. And the pastor tried to initiate some new ministries and some different ways of doing things. And Fred opposed them at every point. Every elder meeting, Fred would emotionally intimidate the rest of the elders because they were trying to change things, and it wasn't the way things had been done, it wasn't the way he had been used to it. And what are they doing to our church? And if they don't like our church the way it is, then let them go somewhere else. Finally stood in a congregational meeting and he accused the pastor of lack of integrity. And someone stood up and confronted him. That's not often done. But in this case, somebody stood to this man who had such stature in that congregation. And they confronted him with his bitterness and his attitude. Fred stomped out of the meeting. Came back to the next congregational meeting, seized the microphone at the front. And began a whole list, a tirade of accusations against the el the leaders of that church. And it was a church like ours where if you somebody leads and prays, you just they lead and the rest of you just are quiet and join in. But the pastor didn't know what else to do. He just said, I call us to pray. And as he began to pray, he said, everyone began to pray together, all at the same time. And so there's Fred up there yelling louder and louder, and there's a couple hundred people and they're out there praying and they're all just praying and nobody can hear Fred because everybody's just praying. And he finally got so frustrated he yelled and screamed and stomped out and never came back. The bitterness of the spirit. People spoke to him. They tried to plead with him what was happening. Would not listen. Bitterness of spirit. Because I want something and it's not being delivered. And I praise God that we've never had the division, we've never had anything like that, Columbia Presbyterian. But let us not presume. Particularly any point where there is a change, Satan wants to get a foothold, an opportunity to divide. And so as we talk about change of our schedule in the morning and change of worship and the fall and things like this, please come to the home fellowship meetings today. Let's discuss this. Let's pray together. Seek the Lord. What does he want? His church. But beware. Satan will be looking for an opportunity in this as well as anything else that we're doing. For any kind of bitter spirit to rise up and force him to get a foothold in this. Paul says, get rid of, let it be removed from you. Any form of bitterness, every form of malice is the way he ends it in that same verse. Malice, the maliciousness, is the desire or the determination to do harm to someone. I want to punish them for what they've done to me. What they've done is without excuse. But of course I murder them in my heart. The desire that I have that harm would come to them. And none of us are here going to probably acknowledge that, yes, there's people I'd really like to kill But we in fact, if God gives us the grace of honesty, we'll see that there are people that probably pretty hard for us to imagine something good about. If I said the person's name And he said, tell me five things or strengths and their character. It's hard for me to come up with one. Person's devious. They've betrayed me. They're not trustworthy. Um they've been thoughtless, hurtful. And so we Are mental murderers of these people. We wish they'd dropped dead. We wish there was some way that we could show them how much that they've hurt us. Things that we would do that would lash back and we either do it or we think it. But there is within us now that desire to be malicious. As Christians, we need to justify that. So we go to our friends and we say, you know what this person did? And let me just tell you. And we talk about, you know, it's kind of like a struggle. I'm struggling with this. I'm struggling with my attitude, you know. What comes out is tell me that I'm justified in hating that person. You as my friend, we've seen this again and again. We appeal to that person for support, and the support comes at the cost of criticizing that other person behind their back. Tell me that I'm justified. And so we all are drawn into that. You know, there's that strong temptation to support this person who's been so hurt. But we do it and inadvertently many times are justifying to them their bitterness and their maliciousness by saying, giving them sympathy and saying that yes, we can't understand how they could have been hurt so bad. I remember hearing about a pastor, Josh, who had led a fellow, Tony, to Christ out of a background of drugs It was a rather dramatic conversion and uh Tony was independently wealthy and wanted to spend time with the pastor being discipled. And they began to spend some time together, but it began to consume more time than the pastor was able to give. And so he tried to sidestep Tony in this, which was not a very wise thing to do. He didn't come out directly and simply say I can't keep the schedule you won, could we work something out? But rather he tried to, you know, sort of graciously make the appointments further apart and pretty soon Tony got the message that he was being sidestepped. and became very angry at this. In fact, uh he became incredibly angry. The first thing he did was he began to debate the pastor and his theology. Began to criticize him. I said that he was a uh an incipient Unitarian. You know, he really wasn't preaching the gospel. There were some flaws in his theology They began to pick and pick and they would debate this, spiritual gifts and all kinds of things. Uh one time at the end of the service Tony stood in the back of the congregation and accused the pastor of lack of integrity and of heresy. Nobody supported Tony, and so he stomped out of the congregation, shaking the dust off his sandals, went to another congregation across town. In fact, he went to two other congregations, went through them. unsatisfied, bitter spirit. But he never forgot this pastor, Josh. Came back and began to come to the services again. He would talk to those who were visitors, and he would warn them against this pastor. Began to write pamphlets, pass them out. In front of the in the back of the church when people would come in, finally the elders had to get a restraining order against them to forbid him to set foot on the property. That didn't stop him. He got a group of people to picket around the borders of the property. One day the pastor came to church, found 34 signs assaulting his integrity, leadership as a pastor all around the property. Well, for ten years this fella attacked him, took out a full page ad in the newspaper, vilifying the pastor. One time the pastor went to Seoul Korea to speak at a conference. There in front of the conference center was Tony handing out pamphlets to the Koreans warning them against this pastor and his heresy and lack of integrity This was a man whose bitterness knew no bounds. Now, you may not have ever done anything like that. I don't know anybody here who has. But let me ask you, in all honesty Is there somebody who if I told you their name right now, you'd find your blood pressure would rise a little? You'd find it very hard to think anything good about that person. And you would find that if you're really honest with yourself, you're bitter toward them. You feel malicious toward them. God's bringing that to your mind right now. Before we go on and finish, let's just pause for a moment and bring that person. And your heart and your feelings about that person to them right now. Lord, we want to be very honest with you. We like to think that we're kind people and never want to hurt anyone And Lord, we we want to be honest. We have hearts that are malicious. And there's somebody, maybe a group of people, maybe a a few that we think of through the years. Maybe there's one particular person that comes to mind. We confess to you, Lord, we're bitter toward that person. They have deeply hurt us and wronged us. They've never asked forgiveness, they've never shown a bit of sorrow. In some case, maybe Lord, they're still being thoughtless, mean, critical. And it's just very hard, Lord, for us to get around that. We confess that before you now and bring that person. Out. We want your spirit to come and apply the gospel, to do something, because we're tired of living with this bitterness. Speak to us now. Amen. What does Paul say? Verse 32, he says to that person, Be kind. Be kind. I wish they'd drop off the face of the earth. He says, be kind to them. The contrast, kindness is the next point, which is a desire to be useful and helpful. That's what the word means. How can I be useful to this person? How can I be helpful to them? It's either or. Either you're going to be bitter towards them or you're going to do them good. You can't be neutral. There's an entropy to all human relationships. They all tend to run downhill unless you decide by the grace of the gospel to not hold against them the things that they have done. that have hurt you. How do you do that? The third point, forgive. To forgive as God forgave you. Verse 32 Be kind, useful, helpful, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. What is forgiveness? The word that is used there, forgive each other, as God forgave you, is a word which means be gracious to. And it has a number of words, biblical words, in the background of that word, which are used in the Old Testament and New Testament. We've spent some time this morning worshiping from Psalm 32 because two of those words appear in verse 1 of Psalm 32. Blessed is he. whose transgressions are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Two things you're told there are true of you if you are forgiven in Jesus Christ this morning. Two things that are word pictures that the Bible uses. First of all, in the end of verse 1, it says, your sins are covered. So your sin, when it's forgiven, means that it is covered. That's the picture of sin as defilement. What we read in Ephesians chapter 2 in verse 3, all of us lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature, and following the desires and thoughts. By like the rest of the world, we were by nature objects of wrath. We were defiled in our thinking. And so the Bible says that to be forgiven is to have that sin covered. The picture is of the high priest on the Day of Atonement. This word cover, kafar, is the word that we translate atone, but the root meaning of it is to cover something. When the high priest went into the temple in Leviticus 16, he took the blood of the goat or the lamb, and he took that blood and he sprinkled it on the cover of the ark. And when he covered the ark with that, he was covering the sin of Israel. Inside that ark were the tables of the law, which had been broken. Uh when you and I disobey God and that's a defilement. And so sin covers it. It's not only covering it with the blood, but the same word is used in Leviticus sixteen ten, talking about the scapegoat. When the scapegoat is sent into the wilderness. He is covering our sin in that, makes atonement, the NIV says. But the word is to cover. He's covering the sin. And so when Jesus Christ died for you, he was the fulfillment. Of that picture in the Day of Atonement in covering your sin. Your sin has defiled you, and that sin needs to be covered in order for you to be right with God. Only Jesus on the cross and his shed blood can cover the defilement of your disobedience to God and your living to yourself and your bitterness against those who have wronged you. The second word that is used here is the word to lift. So your sin is not only covered, but be there. It is lifted. The word is Nassa in verse 1 again of Psalm 32. Blessed is he whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. And so when he says whose sin transgressions are forgiven, literally it means lifted up and taken away. They're borne away. The word means to to bear something and take it away to you know if if I'm bearing the burden and you take the burden off of me and take it on yourself, that's Nasa. You're lifting it off of me. You're relieving me of that burden When Jehoiakim was released from prison, the word that's used there of his release is Nasa. He was lifted of the burden of his chains. In Isaiah 53, we read of the substitute Lamb of God for his people. In verse 4, his work is described. Surely he took up our infirmities. That's the same word. He took it up, he lifted it off of us and took it on himself. In verse 12, he bore the sin of many. It's the same word. He bore it, taking it off of you and taking it on to himself. And so Psalm 32 uses this play of words. Notice what he says in verse 4. Well, and even verse 3. He says, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning. I was denying my sin. Me, I'm not a nasty person. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. Do you see? The burden of sin And so that burden was sapping my strength. Just like going out this afternoon, 90 degrees, running five miles. I felt weak. I couldn't do it. My strength was sapped in the heat Then I acknowledged my sin to you. I did not cover it. When I did not cover it, you covered it. When I acknowledged the burden of it and I brought it to you, you released me of that burden. It's the picture that John Bunyan gives in his classic Pilgrim's Progress. Pilgrim, you remember, is going to the celestial cities looking for uh Mount Zion. He's he's looking for um the place where he can relieve, be relieved of his burden And Mr. Worldlywise says, well, what you want to do is go to this mountain, morality. Talk to Mr. Legality there. He'll help you out. And he says he goes up to that mountain, and the more his conscience becomes sensitized, the more the burden becomes heavier and heavier and heavier until it's intolerable. And then Bunyan describes in that classic passage, now in my soul in my dream, that the highway up which Christian was to go was fenced on either side with a wall, and that wall was called salvation. Up this way therefore did burdened Christian run, but not without great difficulty because of the load on his back. He ran thus until he came at a place somewhat ascending, and upon that place stood a cross. And a little below in the bottom there was a sepulchre. And so I saw in my dream that just as Christian came up with a cross, his burden loosed from off his shoulders. And fell from off his back, and began to tumble, and so continued to do until it came to the mouth of the sepulchre, where it fell in, and I saw it no more Then was Christian glad and light-hearted, and said with a merry heart, He has given me rest by his sorrow and life by his death. And then he stood awhile to look in wonder, for it was very surprising to him that the sight of the cross should thus ease him of his burden. He looked therefore and looked and looked until the springs that were in his head sent waters down his cheeks. And now, as he stood looking and weeping, three shining ones came up to him With peace be to thee. And the first said, Your sins are forgiven. The second, strip them of his filthy rags, and put on clean new garments And the third put a mark on his forehead, and gave him a roll with a seal upon it, and bade him to give it at the celestial gate When your sin is forgiven through Jesus Christ, your defilement is covered. The burden is lifted. And you cannot look at that person who has wronged you in the same way again. Because you have been freed from your guilt. Have you really taken that burden to Jesus Christ? And known the freedom of his relieving that from your shoulders, that your sins are gone, that the defilement is covered, that you are freed. If you are, you can no longer look at those who have wronged you in the same way ever again. Let's pray. Though Lord our God, we're a people who want to make excuses for our sin. Like David, we need to stop covering them. So that when we uncover them, we see what our hearts are really like. We're ready to receive the covering of the blood of Jesus. The removal of the burden of our guilt, and to know that you who have forgiven us of so much Lord, how can we go around holding against those other people those little things, hurtful as they are, in comparison with what we have done to wrong you? Lord, work in our hearts to believe the gospel and to see it work in us. A fresh new freeness A delight in you, Lord, that is able to forgive even those who have betrayed us. Because you are so kind and merciful to us. Do that we pray for Jesus' sake. Amen