Chapter four, verse thirty-one to chapter five, verse two, about anger and forgiveness, seeing that the gospel is so powerful that it can even wash away hatred and bitterness that weighs on us. Let us see again then God's word from Ephesians chapter four. Let me give to you the way that I have suggested that I memorized it uh simply because the more literal is actually I think more powerful in what Paul's actually saying. Let it be removed from you All bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, and slander. But rather, be kind Compassionate, tender-hearted toward one another, forgiving one another, just as in Christ God has forgiven you Be imitators of God, therefore, as his dearly loved children, just as Christ has loved us. And walk in love, excuse me, walk in love, just as Christ has loved us and given himself up for us as an offering and sacrifice which is fragrant to God. And so we're looking in three weeks at verse 31 and 32, this contrast of the anger and the forgiveness. That we can have in Jesus Christ. Six descriptions of anger you see there in verse 31: bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice. I think I might have left that one out when I said that, along with every form of malice. Last week we looked at the first and the last. The bitterness, that is, the refusal to be reconciled. Broken relationships, broken marriages, broken congregations, because the devil has gotten a foothold in people that hold a grudge. Secondly, the last part of that verse, every form of malice, the malicious desire to get even, to punish the one who has hurt me. to criticize them to other people so that they will justify my bitterness. Then there are four words, two sets of pairs that are in between that frame of the first and the last. The first of those two sets of pairs you see in verse 31 are what we're looking at this morning: rage and anger. First of all, rage. And I'm asking you as we look at each of these to examine your own heart to see what is it that particularly characterizes the anger that I find myself most burdened with. What about rage? Rage is that explosive and uncontrolled temper. Even a violent rage. Interesting, the word comes from the root which means to boil up. It's kind of a boiling within side. And so for the blank that you see there, I call this the blowing up response. To blow up. Proverbs has much to say about this person who has an uncontrolled temper, who blows up, maybe at the slightest provocation, maybe it takes a while, but sooner or later they do something that they regret. And so you see some listing of references there about the person who stirs up strife, warning to not have this person as a friend because rage is contagious, the Bible says. Recklessness. This person can be violent. America has been described as a violent and rage-filled nation. Interesting. Crimes of violence in America are far far surpassed crimes of violence in almost every other country. And alarmingly, it is increasing exponentially among young people. Got a lot of angry kids, teenagers. Which is very ironic when you stop to think about it. Because we're growing up in a generation which has not seen depression or much deprivation of any kind. Rather secure economically, downright affluent for many, no war or threat of war or invasion And yet, kids that are very angry. Why is that? We've seen this highlighted in the rash of school children shooting their classmates. At least six incidents that I recall in the last eight months or eight months of the last school year. Two of them in the same week of May seventeenth. We become desensitized to it. Do you remember how much was written about Junesboro? And all the analysis, the discussion about how terrible that was And by May, the week of May 17, there were two shootings, and it was reported another shooting. And so it's something that, you know, he kinda get used to as part of the violent culture, the rage filled culture that we live in. Interesting that in every case of the six shootings that were reported, there had been signs of anger and a predisposition to violence before the shootings occurred. They did not come out of nowhere. People that are filled with rage and anger and generally demonstrate that in some way before it explodes. We're not here to analyze America and to look at the culture this morning. I ask you to look at your own heart. What about the rage that has sometime surprised you? Have you ever done something that you were shocked that you did it? And said, I can't believe that I did that. I didn't know that was in me. And you explode in some situation, and someone is hurt by that, perhaps physically, but perhaps simply deeply emotionally. And you're filled with shame, aren't you? There's a shame that grips you as you say to yourself I didn't know that I had the capacity to treat the people I love like I've just done Some of the most shameful memories that I have in my own life are of the times when I did lose my temper When I was filled with rage and did s something that I deeply regretted. Rage can expose the pit of the horror of your sin and what you are capable of as almost nothing else can do, can it? You look this morning in your own heart and see the shame of the rage that has characterized you at certain unguarded moments There's the other kind of response that Paul talks about here. Well, I got one more sheet and then it's over. Okay. That one's gonna hang on, just you know. Thanks, Charlie. Good. The next to go's the hymnal. Anger, Paul speaks of here also. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger. The word anger is different from that word rage. Rage comes from a root which means to boil up. The word anger that's used here has as its root a word which means to swell up like a bud in the springtime. It refers rather to an internal and sullen hostility, smoldering resentment, a swelling up Whereas rage refers to a passionate outburst of temper, this word refers to internal hostility. That sullen pouting. And so whereas the first means to blow up, this word means to clam up. Put that in the blank. To clam up, to withdraw, to pout, to be sullen, to not talk for hours, or maybe days, or maybe weeks. Now this is particularly effective if you happen to be a distancer, that is a person who withdraws in conflict. And your partner is a pursuer. A person that hates alienation and wants to settle at all costs Very effective punishment to withdraw and to seal up your spirit against that person to not communicate. That's the kind of anger that Paul's talking about here, which is your tendency, when you feel angry, to blow up Or to clama. Take a look at them there. You might want to put a little check mark. Look at yourself and say, my tendency, each of us tends toward one or the other. Which is yours? Paul's saying, look at your heart. The honest, the grace of honesty to search your heart in this. In contrast to that, he talks about tender-hearted compassion in verse 32. He says be kind and compassionate. That word compassion is a word in the Greek Which literally is the prefix good plus the word for intestines or enterils. So it's literally, as I said before, good guts. Paul saying, put on good guts. Now why does he say that? Because the Greeks thought of the intestines, the entrals, the guts, as the seat of the emotions. And we still have vestiges of that in our own talking, don't we say sometimes that Don't you how do you feel in your gut? Give me your gut reaction. See, that's talking about your feelings. Or we may say, I felt a wrenching in the pit of my stomach. See, it's again, that's talking about your deep emotions. It's in contrast to what he said in verses eighteen and nineteen of those who were hardened of heart and desensitized The person who has tender-hearted compassion, who's affectionate, another way you could translate this, is somebody who is able to feel the pain of someone else. You're moved by their pain. You can't feel that when you're angry. When you're bitter towards somebody. You don't care how they feel. In fact, the more miserable they are, the better. So you see, this is the opposite. It is rather saying, put off that hard-heartedness against your enemy, the one who's wounded you. And put on a heart that's able to feel their pain, that's tender hearted toward them. It feels their pain so that it hurts you. Have you ever had someone you communicated with and you knew that they felt Your pain, what they were feeling, communicated it. I know some people like that. I cherish them. Think of my good friend Dick Ellis, who's an intern here, his pastor out at Frederick. Sometime just recently I was we happened to be on the phone together and he asked about how things were going and he pushed a little further on something and I Don't remember why, but I remember I shared with him uh this thing that was going on in my life. Uh it was something that was happening and I was involved and And I shared that because right at that time, I think just before he called, something had happened. And as I shared that with him After I shared it, he just listened. There was a moment of silence, and then he simply said one sentence, and I treasure it, so I remember every single word. He said I'm so sorry you're going through that. I mean, how much is that But it communicated he felt my pain. The way he said it, the simplicity of it Not trying to give me advice and everything else. It was simply the tender-hearted compassion. Now, at the risk of embarrassment Let me mention another example, Martha Castle. We worked together in the office, and one day, this was a while ago, I don't even remember the incident. But something had happened. It was painful news to me. Something I again I don't even recall what it was. Because whatever it was was overshadowed by the fact that I remember I came into the office and I happened to mention it to Martha. She said something about how you doing or something and I I mentioned this. And she just began to weep. And her weeping freed me up to weep about what was going on. It was that empathetic compassion that simply said, I'm hurting for you. That's what Paul's talking about here. Tender-hearted compassion. Lorda Sharp also works in the office and mentioned that Friday so many people called because of the word about the the Marys losing their eighteen year old son Peter in an auto accident. midnight, Thursday night. Such a devastating, tragic thing. Uh actually it was a Wednesday night, I believe, that he was killed. And to hear that and then All the people that called because they cared, because they were feeling for Fani, Yerta, tender-hearted compassion. Now how is it? That we develop this. You don't develop it if you're bitter and angry. And so Paul says in the third place here: how is it that we do it? We forgive as God forgave you. Forgive as God forgave you, he says in verse 32. Just as In Christ, God forgave you. The word interesting, the root of that word compassion that you have there is used in Matthew 18, 27 concerning the forgiving master, saying That he took pity on, he had compassion on the servant, and so he forgave him his debt. But of course, it's the forgiveness that is that precedes the compassion. It's the forgiveness that opens the way to the compassion in what Paul's saying here. What is this forgiveness that he's talking about? We've looked at the fact that there's four Hebrew words that are in the background of this word in Ephesians 4. 32, which literally means to be gracious toward. And uh we've looked at two of those words last week. The first one, seeing sin as defilement, and the word that means to cover. First Hebrew word to forgive, which means to cover sin, covering it by the blood of the sacrifice. The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ shed instead of your blood to cover the defilement of your sin before God. That's what forgiveness does. It covers the defilement. Secondly, the Bible speaks of sin as a weight, a burden. And the second Hebrew word for forgiveness is a word which means to bear up and to lift, to carry it away, to burden which Jesus bore for you. And carried it away so that it would not have to weigh down on you anymore. The burden is lifted and gone. Your guilt is gone. That's what forgiveness means. To lift the weight of the guilt. The heart of it is that God is no longer angry at you for your sin because of your wrongs against him. He has shown grace to you. How can you receive that grace and still want to punish, want to get that pound of flesh out of your opponent who has wronged you? Thirdly, we see sin as a criminal record. The Bible speaks of sin as a criminal record. And the word to forgive, the third word in the Old Testament, is a word which means to erase the record. Your sin is erased. That's the word salach. Now we're getting to the heart of the matter. This word is used several times in the Old Testament, in Psalm 130, which John read before, verses 3 and 4. Notice how he states it. If you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, Salach. Therefore you're feared. Do you see the contrast? If you kept a record, all of us would be condemned. But with you there is an erasing of the record. You've destroyed the record. Therefore, we come before you in that Reverential fear, desire to love and to serve you. Jeremiah chapter 31, in verse 34, Jeremiah It says, no longer will a man teach his neighbor or a man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive. There it is again that word salach. I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more. The parallel idea to this word forgiveness is to remember them no more. Or as Isaiah chapter 43 and verse 25 states, that I, even I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake and remembers your sins no more. And so in Hebrews chapter 10, we read that there are no more sacrifices for sin, for he says, I will remember your sins no more. Forgiveness then is remembering your sins no more against you. It is an absolute pardon and it is unique to the gospel. Let me illustrate In 2 Chronicles chapter 24, you have a story about King Joash. Joash was never intended to live. Queen Atheliah wanted to kill off all the heirs to the throne to secure her own position. But there was a priest by the name of Jehoshabhat who rescued Joash as a little boy, hid him for six years, preserved his life, and established him on the throne. This priest Jehoshaphat had a son, his name was Zechariah. Zechariah grew up to be a priest. A prophet who denounced sin and called Israel, including Joash, to repentance. By that time the Bible says Joash's heart had gotten very hard And so Joash, instead of repenting, conspired to stone Zachariah to death. called a group of of his uh followers together, and as they stoned this godly prophet Zechariah, the Bible says in 2 Chronicles chapter 24, verse 22, King Joash did not remember the kindness that Zechariah's father, Jehoiada, had shown him, but had killed, but killed his son, who said as he lay dying May the Lord see this and call you to account. Zechariah As he dies is saying, May God hold you accountable for the wicked deed that you're doing now, as they threw rocks at his body and killed him with the stones. Nearly 850 years later, another prophet appears on the scene by the name of Stephen. And Stephen Appears before the Sanhedrin and in exactly the same way prophesies against the sins of Israel and calls them to repent. Once again the response is exactly the same as it was with Zechariah. They pick up stones, they take them out to the courtyard. And they start hurling rocks at his head and his body. And as his body is bruised and bloody and bleeding, The Bible says in Acts chapter 7 and verse 60 that he fell to his knees as the rocks were hitting him. And he knows that it's his dying moments. He can feel as his body goes into shock that these are fatal wounds that he's receiving. And he also prays, just as Zachariah had prayed 850 years before. But notice the prayer that he prays in Acts 7, verse 60. Then he fell on his knees and he cried out, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he said this, he died. Did you get that? A striking parallel of the circumstances, right up to the prayer. Zachariah said, Remember this, O Lord, and hold them accountable. Stephen praised, Lord, do not remember this against them, or hold them accountable for. Why the difference? The difference is only in the gospel. Stephen had a savior and knew of a savior. Who had his own body bloodied, whipped and beaten and tormented, hung on a cross. And he knew that his own Savior prayed as among his last words on that cross, Father, forgive them. Do not hold this against them. For they don't know what they're doing. And so in the gospel, Stephen is able to pray, Lord, do not hold this against my enemies. Is your suffering? Match the suffering of Stephen? Have you ever been able to pray by the Spirit of God, Lord? I want to release my enemy from the guilt, from the Anger of what I hold against them for what they have done to me. You see your pain As with Stephen, is an opportunity to enter in more deeply to what it cost your Savior to forgive you. To draw you near to his heart in a fellowship that is unique and sweet as you share with him what it means to forgive. You've received His free forgiveness. By His grace, you're able to reflect that To those that have stoned your soul. Sin is not only erasing the record, but finally sin Is seen as a sickness and forgiveness is healing. So D, the last of the Old Testament words, Rapha means forgiveness means Sin is healed. To forgive is to heal. Forgiveness brings healing. Spiritual healing, emotional healing, physical healing, relational healing. In Psalm 38, particularly in verses 6 to 8 You see the psalmist describing the physical illness that he's suffering because of the guilt of his sin. Our bodies were built to cope with many kinds of stress, but they're never built to cope with the stress of guilt. And so guilt is always destructive to our bodies. And you see that in Psalm 38. Where there is forgiveness, there is healing. And sometimes for some people, as in James 5, it is physical healing. Confessing of sins and the one who is ill will be raised up. And that has happened on many occasions. It's also an emotional healing. And sometimes it has the effect of healing relationships, broken relationships. We read in Isaiah chapter 53, verses 4 to 6, by his stripes we are healed. We're healed. Sometimes it's physical, it's always spiritual and emotional. And sometimes it's in terms of relationships. I think of a couple who I heard of who argued over a bar of soap. In their household, it was the wife's job to make sure that the towels and washcloths and the soap were always out and prepared, and one time she forgot. And her husband very sarcastically reminded her of how he had been bathing without soap for a week, exaggerating, of course, and she reacted defensively And he attacked and she defended. And for seven months they slept in separate rooms And years later, they could barely speak of the subject without opening the wounds again of the bar of soap incident. Such trivial things in life to break relationships. And so often I've seen a pattern in marriages. Couple gets married. There's all the love and devotion. But the husband, as many men, myself included, can be, rather obtuse in sensitivities about loving. Rather blind to how to love our wives, selfish, and weak as leaders. Sometimes the wife has very high standards about what it means for this husband to be the leader he should and to love her. Bit of a perfectionist, perhaps. He's let her down, and she's gonna let him know it. And so she attacks and he defends. And maybe because of his desire for peace, he'll say, well, just what do you want me to do? And he begins to try and move into a conditioned response sort of mood. Just show me what it is. And she picks up that it's not his heart. He just wants to perform so he'll be approved and get what he wants out of the relationship And she despises him in her heart. And her spirit withdraws. And he's broken and maybe retreats to his work or to something else. And their lives become separate, lonely. Hopeless, bitter. She becomes more demanding and perfectionistic. He's weaker and backs off and totally abdicates. The pursuit of loving and leading his wife and perhaps his family. What is it that is ever going to break that devastating cycle? Paul gives it to you right here in Ephesians chapter 30, chapter 4, verse 31 and 32. Put away. That bitterness, that rage, that anger, that brawling, the slander, the maliciousness, and put on The kindness, the tender-heartedness, forgiving. Forgiving. You see, it's the forgiveness that breaks the cycle. It's the forgiveness, that determination to say, I am not going to hold this against you anymore. That's what breaks the cycle. You see, in the gospel, you are not dependent on the other person to change. In this verse, there is nothing about what the other person does. That's very important. This has only to do with what's going on in your heart. That's between you and the Lord. You can decide as you receive and as you fully enter into going to the Lord Jesus What it meant for him to forgive you, you say, how can I forgive this person for the years that they have failed me For the bitter memories that I have in this marriage or in this relationship. How can I forgive them? How can I just let them off? As simple as that I read something from a quote from a book by Craig Barnes, pastor down at National Presbyterian. He has a book called Yearnings. In that there's a very profound statement, one sentence, it goes like this: Forgiveness. Is giving up all hope of having a better past. Forgiveness is giving up all hope of having a better past. And so many of us are punishing our mate because we're saying, you have taken away happy memories. The best years of my life, and I can never recover them. And I resent you for that. You owe me, and I'm gonna punish you Withdrawing, rage, whatever it is, the cycle of blame and attack and defense and withdrawal. And it continues. Until you finally say to yourself, What right has this person to think that I will just let them off? It would be wrong to just forgive them. And then you look at the face of Jesus Christ and you ask, how is that any different from what God did to me? Didn't he simply just let me off? Wasn't his forgiveness to me Without punishing me or making me pay or learn my lesson, my forgiveness was by grace. Now let me be very clear here. Forgiveness is not the same as reconciliation. Reconciliation takes two people. What Paul's talking about here has only to do with what you do. To be reconciled, the other person needs To ask for forgiveness so the two of you can grant and receive forgiveness. But this is talking about what is happening in your heart. And the other thing to notice as I close is that forgiveness also has two stages. What I call the definitive and the progressive. Those are the blanks there Definitive forgiveness and progressive forgiveness. Definitive forgiveness is the decision to forgive that other person. It can happen in a moment, it can happen right now. You decide you will no longer hold against them those things that they have done to hurt and wrong you. Progressive forgiveness is the applying that over the next days and weeks and months and years as the memories come back. And you once again need to say, I have decided to not hold that against them. I'm not going to indulge in the anger that I'm feeling now. I feel the anger. I again affirm the forgiveness. Definitive, a decision, the progressive, the working it out, as the emotions subside, as you determine by the grace of Jesus Christ to forgive. I'm gonna ask you to do something. Think of that person who has so wronged you And I would like you to write out this week all those things that you're angry at them about. Put them all out. Put that before the Lord. And by the grace of Jesus Christ, decide you're not going to hold that against them anymore. Then bring that list next Sunday. And after next Sunday service, the first one we're going to have together is the whole congregation, one service at 9. 30. So we'll all be together. After 11 o'clock, about quarter after 11, anybody who wants to, we're going to go outside to the back parking lot, and we're going to burn our lists. A ceremonial burning of the things we hold against. Anybody who wants to, no pressure, just if you want to do it, I'll join you back there. We're going to burn the lists As a decision by the grace of Jesus Christ to destroy the record. Let's pray. God, we see the forgiveness that you have given to us in Jesus, and we pray that you would grant to us the grace. As those who have received infinite erasure of all of the record of our wrongs against you To Lord, see that other person who has robbed us of happiness, perhaps in one grand act or in petty acts for months or years. Decide to be freed of that anger, to no longer hold it against them. By the grace of Jesus Christ. Work in us this week the application of your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.