To the third and the final message on anger and forgiveness from Ephesians chapter four, verses thirty-one and thirty-two from our larger study of Ephesians Let us give heed to God's word. And again, I I don't know how many of you have been memorizing that Um I'm tempted to see if anybody says it along with me, but uh I'll just leave that to you. But it's tremendous blessing to know those words and to be able to preach the gospel to yourself as you say it. Let it be removed from you. All bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, and slander, with all kinds of maliciousness. Rather be kind, tender-hearted, compassionate, forgiving one another, just as in Christ God forgave you. Be imitators, therefore, of God as his dearly loved children. And walk in love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. As an offering and sacrifice that is fragrant to God. Let's pray. This time when God brings to a conclusion some of the things that He has been doing, that His Spirit will be working in our lives. Feel a need to do that this morning. Let's pray. Lord God Some of us have been thinking deeply about our own anger, our bitterness. We want in this service, and perhaps in the one that follows. To be able to offer up to you our grievances, our bitterness, our anger. That you, Lord, would set free those who are in bondage to that. We pray in Jesus' name, give to us, Lord Teachable and open, unresistant hearts to your word as it comes to us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. We've looked at anger. You see in verse 31, six descriptions of anger that Paul says there. Notice again with the command is let it be removed from you. A command that's in the passive. We take initiative, but God must do the work. We've seen that he's talked about getting rid of bitterness, where the devil gets a foothold in your life because you refuse to let go of anger and to reconcile. He on the other end of that verse, kind of as a frame, talks about letting go of all kinds of malice, your maliciousness, that wanting to get back at, to punish the person who's hurt you. And between those two, the first and last statements, we saw that there are two sets of pairs. The first set of pairs focuses on our actions. Rage, he says. That's blowing up. Losing your temper. Something snaps at some point. You can't get control of yourself. You become dangerous to yourself and to those around you. Road rage. An example of people who are a threat because they can't control their temper. Violence. The losing of one's temper, rage. But then the other side of that he speaks of as anger, which is clamming up, internal, the opposite, to withdraw, to not talk. uh to just uh simply uh pout to go away. It's much more subtle You say, me angry? No. I'm just not interested in sex with my spouse anymore. That's anger. Ways that we can punish our husband, our wife, our friend, our children, our parents. But it's a passive-aggressive kind of expression of the anger. The other set of pairs has to do with our speech. That is an expression of our anger. And so he says there in verse 31, uh brawling. That's the first of the pair. I you know, I don't I can't prove this, but I tend to incline to think that Paul is relating the first pair to the second pair in that the brawling comes from blowing up. Now the second, the first of the second pair is related to the first of the first pair, and the second of the second pair is related to the second of the first pair. So the brolling is the expression of rage. That's the blowing up. It's the loud quarreling, the shouting without listening. For instance, that word is used in Acts chapter twenty-three, where Paul in Jerusalem was taken before the Sanhedrin. And he was taken before the chief priests who were the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin to give a defense of his proclaiming the risen Messiah. And as he began to proclaim that You remember that the Pharisees believed in the resurrection. The Sadducees did not believe that there would be a literal, physical resurrection. And I always wondered what exactly Paul's motive was, whether it was simply straightforward or whether he had some idea what would happen when he would mention that he is here because of the resurrection. The Messiah has been raised from the dead And in Acts 23, verses 9 and 10, you read that immediately there was a great uproar. And that word uproar that is used in 23-9 is the same word for brawling you have in Ephesians 4. 31. It means they started yelling and screaming at each other and nobody was listening. In fact, finally the Roman guards had to intervene before it says they tore Paul to pieces. But it was this yelling and screaming because they were so concerned to make their point, they were so angry, they couldn't listen to what the other person was saying Do you find that there's some person in your life that whenever you begin to get into a discussion with that person turns into an argument? Or maybe there's some subject. And whenever it comes up, you find that you no longer can listen. You get so upset. You just gotta make your point. It's just so hard. You're not even quite sure why it is. It may be very helpful to you to think about why is it that this person or this topic gets me so angry? That I can't listen. That I get so upset my blood pressure rises. That person threatened me in some way? Why is that? When we find that we communicate in this brawling that Paul's talking about here, there's a reason for that. Paul says, put that off. Examine it. Don't excuse it. The other expression that he gives there in verse 31 is, along with brawling, he says slander. Rage and anger, brawling and slander. Slander is from claming up It's from the word, the Greek word that's used there is blasphemia, from which we get, of course, blasphemy. It's used in Revelation 13, 5, and 6 and a number of other places in Revelation and New Testament to speak of blaspheming God. It refers, however, more generally to the defamation of character, especially behind the person's back, can be used either of God or of other people. It's that kind of uh slander that rises from bitterness. You don't want to deal with it directly, so you talk about the person. You get back at them. And somebody says to you, how is your visit with your family? Or how'd things go in your how's things going in your cell or your small group? And you say, well There's this person in the group and really upsets me. Now it you know if you're a friend, of course, you respond to somebody that's upset and say, oh yeah, too bad. Why are you upset? But my answer to why I'm upset simply focuses on what a rotten crud they are, how thoughtless, how inconsiderate, how selfish. The things that they've done. And pretty soon I'm giving you all my grievances about their per that person. They're not there to defend themselves. But what have I done? I've sucked you into sympathy for my grievance. And as a friend, you feel a tremendous pull, don't you, to support that person. Saying, boy, that's really rough. That's tough, man. That must really hurt. Wow. Now it's one thing to talk about how you're feeling. But we generally go beyond that, don't we? We move into joining in the criticism. Or I don't know how you put up with that. That's terrible. I can't imagine she did that. Whoa, who does she think she is? And that person's reputation is cut to shreds, and they're not even there to defend themselves. When I find that I'm tempted to do that, I always try to ask myself two questions First of all, would I be saying that if this person was here, I'd be unfair to them? And secondly If this person were to find out what I said, would they say, that's okay? Or would they be upset? Should I be talking to them instead of talking to this other person? So often it's a matter where we should be practicing Matthew 18. It's so much easier to criticize them, to slander them, as Paul's saying here, rather than to go to the person and say, I'm having difficulty with what you did. We don't want to do that. We're not sure if we're right. All we know is that we're feeling pretty negative and critical. And it's so good to have somebody else justify us. The other side of that is to be careful that we don't listen to or encourage someone coming to us with that. But to say, you know, I don't think this is helpful. I really think you need to go to her, to him, to tell them about this. And I'll pray with you now about that. But I I really am uncomfortable. I'm uncomfortable listening to this because they're not here. And Proverbs says, the first to prevent it Proverbs 18, the first to present his case always seems right until another comes and questions him. There's always another side And it's just not fair for me to listen to your grievance. How much would the body of Christ benefit if we practice that consistently? Brawling, blowing up, slander, from clamming up, indirect, passive-aggressive punishment. How is it we're to respond? Paul says, put that off, get rid of it, but rather to forgive as God forgave you. To forgive as God forgave you. We've been looking And four Hebrew words that are in the background of this word in verse 32 to see what is forgiveness. The four Hebrew words we've seen in the background of that present sin in terms of four pictures. First of all, sin is defilement, in which forgiveness is the covering of that defilement. That was the first Hebrew word used, the covering of the defilement of our sin by the blood of the sacrifice. Picturing the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that covers the defilement of your sin before a holy God who cannot look upon that defilement. Secondly, we saw that sin is pictured in the Old Testament as a weight, as a burden. And the word for forgiveness that's used is a word which means to lift and to bear it away. Another removes the burden and takes it upon himself. And so in Isaiah 53 we read that he has borne our transgressions. He's removed them from us. And thirdly, we've seen that the Old Testament presents sin as a criminal record. We're guilty before the judge. Sin is to erase the record, to remember it no more against you. And fourthly, that sin is presented as a sickness, leprosy, the classic Old Testament picture of sin. Forgiveness is described in terms of healing. Again, Isaiah 53, by his wounds we are healed spiritually. Physically, sometimes in the physical manifestations of guilt, relationally Remember that we talked about sin as both a decision as well as a process. The decision that I will from this point on no longer hold against that person. The wrongs that they have done to me. And then as the memories and as the pain come back, I bring those rather than before someone else or before the person, I bring it before the Lord. And I say, Lord. I've given this to you. I pray now. Take away the anger, the pain. I have given it to you. Covered it. I'm determined to no longer hold this against that person. You don't hold my sin against me. And I am doing likewise with that to experience a little bit of what it means in your heart to forgive a wretch like me. To experience that grace, and so you bring it to the cross. And over a period of days, weeks, months, sometimes years. The pain subsides and the bitterness drains away from your life, and you experience the healing of forgiveness. Now very briefly, let's look at the two New Testament words for forgiveness. First of all, sin described in the New Testament as bondage to a debt. And the New Testament word, a fiimi, that is used for that means to release someone. To release someone from any debt or legal obligation, to cancel the debt. Of course, the classic illustration of this in the Bible is from Matthew chapter 18, where you read of that fellow who owed the king about 10 million dollars. Do you remember that was prompted by Peter's question to the Lord Jesus? Lord, how many times do we have to forgive someone? Up to seven times? Now you and I know the parable and we say, hey, seven. Boy, Peter's, mm-hmm, boy, you're going to get it, Peter. You think seven. Hey, that's pretty gracious. Let me ask you, how many people have you forgiven seven times for the same thing that they've done? You know what the rabbi said was the limit that God expected Three, the rabbis taught, he sins once, you forgive him. Sins the second time, you forgive him. He sins a third time, you forgive him. He sins the fourth time, bam! You got your chance, you see. We obligated up to three times. Four, he's run out, man. Three strikes, you're out And Peter's saying, Now Lord, I know you're more gracious than the Pharisees. You'd probably go up to seven. And you remember Jesus says, Oh, Peter, afraid you don't understand yet. Not seven, Peter. But 77. And of course, by the time you've gotten up to 77, you're not even counting anymore, so it really doesn't matter. It can be 777 for all that matters. And it tells the story about the servant who owed $10 million. to the king. Had no means of paying it. What are you gonna do? I once read about a fighter pilot. He was flying, I think it was about a $10 million jet Did you ever wonder what fighter pilots do when they're up, you know, 30,000, 40,000 feet up, and all of a sudden they gotta go to the bathroom? I mean, maybe that never crossed your mind. Crossed this guy's mind because that's what happened. Now there's a provision actually for that. And he went through the process, but he messed up And as a result of messing up, the plane went out of control in an uncontrollable dive. And he had a bailout And somewhere in some desert, there is a smash-to-smitherine $10 million jet plane as a monument to an uncontrollable urge on the part of that fighter pilot. Can you imagine his facing his commander and saying, well, you know, it's just one of those days Now, you know, taxpayers will take care of it, you know, I mean just, you know, take it out of my pay on a monthly basis, you know, I can finally that's what this guy's saying He's saying, Well, have mercy with me. Take it out of my pay. I'll make it up to you. But the king knows that that's absolutely impossible. And so he forgives him the debt. The words it's used in Matthew 18, verse 27, is that word a fehem? The servant's master took pity on him, canceled the debt, and let him go. The word canceled debt is the same word That is used in Ephesians chapter 1. Not Ephesians 4, but Ephesians chapter 1. Take a look at that. Just page or two back. We read in Ephesians chapter 1, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. And that word there, forgiveness of sins, is this same word in Matthew 18, the canceling of a debt. In him we have redemption through his blood, the canceling of the debt of our sins, literally. In accordance with the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. You see that in accordance with the riches of his grace. The king, when he canceled the debt of the $10 million, had to eat that debt. He took the loss. And what Paul is saying is that you and I have a debt to God. Could you ever imagine each of your sins? And imagine them having some sort of worth. You know, that was a hundred dollar sin. Boy, that was, you know, that was really pretty wretched. That was a thousand dollar sin, you know, or you know, and you can just imagine taking those sins Placing them in terms of monetary debt, what would you owe the Lord for the years that you've lived? And what God is saying here is, I've taken the loss of that debt. I took it out of the life of my own son. His blood, you see, sin cannot be translated into monetary terms. So the debt is the debt of life. And what Paul is saying is that through the riches of God's grace, he took out that debt on his own son. And Jesus shed his blood to cover the defilement, to cancel the payment, in order to erase the record, so that you and I go out debt-free. Your debt has been canceled through Jesus Christ of all that you've owed God. Amen. That's what Paul wants us to see. But there's one other word that's used. And it's this word of fee of this word that you have here in Ephesians 4. 32 Where sin is pictured as a failure under the law that is dealt with by grace. The word is charizmai. You see In that word charizami, the little word caris, which is the word grace, so it means to deal graciously with someone. And it has to do with all five ways that the other words for forgiveness picture. Forgiving each other, dealing graciously with each other, just as God dealt graciously with you. Understand then that forgiveness is always an act of grace. You can never demand forgiveness. You can never say to someone, you ought to forgive me. It's an oxymoron, just to make sense. You can't say you ought to forgive me. Forgiveness, by its definition, is always an act of grace. It's never deserved. You can undo the wrong. That old story, well known of the gossip. Who destroyed the reputation of the fine man of the town and went back and said, I'm so sorry for what I've said. Please forgive me. Is there anything I can do to make it up for you? And you remember in that story how he says, Go up onto the highest hill beyond the town, and take a pillow and shake out all the feathers. So he said, all right, goes out, shakes out the pillow, all the feathers all over the town, the wind carries them hither and yon. And the man then offended says, Now go gather up all the feathers Because I can't do it. Neither can you restore my reputation. Neither can you undo the hurt that you've done another person by simply saying, I'm sorry, would you forgive me? The forgiveness is always an act of grace. Never expect that I will forgive this person when they show they deserve it. They never will. If you're going to forgive that person who has hurt and offended you, it's going to be an act of grace, or you're not going to do it at all. And that's what God did for him. You see, forgiveness absorbs the sin rather than to pass it on. It stops the cycle by absorbing it within yourself, and that costs. That always costs dearly. But God's forgiveness for your inexcusable sins and minds against him was not grudging or reluctant, but rather was lavish and free. Ephesians 1 7, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished on us in Christ. And so as Colossians 2 says, he forgave all of our sins, nailing them to the cross. He holds them no longer against you. As Romans 8 says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for you, will he not then graciously give you all things? And so he commands you. And me to forgive in exactly the same way, by grace. Forgive. Deal graciously with that person who's offended you, just as God dealt graciously with you. And that becomes a supernatural means of personal and corporate renewal. There is so much power in forgiveness. Let me give you two illustrations in closing. One is a personal, personal renewal. And uh in that case I think of a man by the name of Rusty Woomer. Rusty Woomer grew up in South Carolina in the 70s. As a teenager he went through a cycle of drugs, drinking, stealing, time in jail, out of jail, drugs, drinking, stealing. During his time in jail, he began to get to know some of the ex-cons there, older men who he looked at as father figures, began to hang around one fella, Eugene Scar. One February day in 1979, he and Eugene Scar took some guns, some whiskey, some drugs, got high, drunk. Went to a coin collector, broke into his house, shot the coin collector dead, and took his coin collection. They then went on to a house down the road, picked it at random, had no idea who was in it. Went into that house. Shot the father, shot the mother, dead, shot their daughter, wounded her. Took more guns. Took some money, took off down the road, still high, stopped at a convenience store, robbed a convenience store. In this case, they took the two clerks, women, Della Louise Sellers and Wanda Summers. Threw him in the car at gunpoint, took them out to a woods, abused them, raped them, and then Rusty Woomer shot them He killed Della Sellers instantly and shot off the lower half of Wanda's face. She survived. They took off. Shortly after that, the police trapped them. Eugene Scar, rather than go to jail, killed himself. Rusty was too drugged to resist. He was sentenced to death by execution in South Carolina, was thrown into the death cell. But there was a Christian by the name of Bob McAllister, a man who had tasted richly of grace, from the other end of the social spectrum, a man who Associated with celebrities and politicians who came to know Jesus Christ and began a cell ministry, a jail ministry there And one night after he had visited some of the other inmates, he walked past Rusty Woomer's cell. He couldn't believe his eyes The cells stank. Rusty sat there, looking like a dead man, his eyes fixed, pornography, half eaten sandwiches scattered around him, roaches crawling all over his body. No sign of any movement, recognition, or life. He called out to him, Rusty. Rusty, can you hear me? No sign of recognition. He said, Rusty. He said afterwards he said he had never felt the sense of physical evil like he felt in that cell. He said it was so scary it made his hair stand on end. He called out to him again, Rusty, Rusty, just say the name Jesus. He saw his lips began to move. Soon Rusty mumbled and said, Jesus. Bob called to him again. He said, Rusty, look, look around you. Look in the cell. Do you see what you're living in? You're a dead man, Rusty. But Jesus can give you something better. Why don't you give your life to him? Cry out to him, Rusty. Cry out to him now that he'd save you. And Rusty began to pray. He began to weep for the first time in 15 years. And he cried out, Jesus. Jesus, I know I don't deserve for you to hear me. I've messed up and I've hurt a lot of people. But Jesus, forgive me. Please, I just ask you to forgive me. Weeping and weeping. Bob left a cell that night. Went home still with a sense of evil that he had to pray through for deliverance. That was Friday. He went back Monday to see what had happened. Again he couldn't believe his eyes This time it was because the cell was spotless. The roaches were history and all you could smell was disinfecting. And Rusty stood there in his right mind and he said, Jesus has saved me. And I thought he'd want me to clean up my cell. And Bob and Rusty began to meet on a regular basis for discipleship. Rusty wrote to the people, the families, of those that he had shot and killed, and he asked for their forgiveness. He wasn't very surprised. when he received an indignant and resounding no. For ten years he appealed through the courts for a say of his execution. Finally his appeals ran out in nineteen eighty nine. But it was at that time that he received a letter from a fellow by the name of Lee Hewitt. Lee Hewitt was the other younger brother of Della Summers, the woman whom he had shot. Let me read to you from part of that letter. It said, For years I hated you with all my heart. I could have blown your brains out for what you did to my sister. I only regretted that you were in prison where I couldn't get to you. But I've spent time in jail myself 56 different times over the years. I felt like a failure. But then I became a Christian. I received Jesus. And the more that I learned about being a Christian, the more that I knew I had to forgive you. I didn't want to. But it got to where I couldn't even pray the Lord's Prayer. Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespassed against us. It may be so mad, but now I had to forgive you. Now the ball was in my court. I prayed about it, and God has done a miracle in my heart. Rusty. I forgive you. We are brothers in Christ. I love you. Before Very long, Rusty was given, I mean uh Lee was given permission to visit Rusty in his cell. They met The murderer and the brother of the one of the people he had murdered. At the end of their visit, Rusty turned to Lee, his voice thick with tears. But his blue eyes shining, reading from the account. He said, Your forgiving me has done more for me than anybody has ever done. I know that I've done these things. The day of that murder is like two minutes to me, just there and gone. But even with God and people's forgiveness, I've never got the hurt out of my heart. I prayed and I prayed But when I got that letter from you, I can't explain how I felt. Is my faith strong enough to do what you're doing? I'd like to think I could, but I'm not sure Man, I can't do nothing without Jesus, said Lee. I have to draw from him. But I see him hanging on the cross for me, saying, Father, forgive him It's amazing, isn't it? said Rusty. I believe that all my heart in the Bible, and sometimes I'd like to see an ocean parting, but God's already given me a miracle I'd never dreamed of. What God can do, people can't comprehend, they nodded. I don't have any hurt or anger I wouldn't want to walk around like that for nothing. I don't have no anger because God has taken it away. He's done with it, and he threw it into the sea of his forgetfulness. He loves you. And he don't want us to remember. They held hands, they prayed together in the name of Jesus who had saved both of them and forgiven them. A couple of wretched sinners and made them brothers. And they knew they'd never see each other again, this side of heaven. Shortly after that, Rusty was taken to the electric chair and his last words, were I'm sorry. I claim Jesus Christ as my Savior, and my only wish is that everyone in the world could feel his love as I feel it. He shot two thousand bolts through him, and he went with his Lord. Have you ever seen your sin as God sees it? Rather than simply seeing it by comparing yourself with other people To see what he has done for you, and then to think of what that person that you're so angry at has done in comparison Are you ready to go out as I asked you last week and said after this service, take your list, take the list of grievances that you've written up this week. We're going to go to the back parking lot, and there we're going to take those lists and we're going to give them to the Lord. We're going to have a bonfire. A bonfire of bitterness. And we're going to take all those things, we're going to light it as an expression of the fact that we are deciding to no longer hold against the other person what they have done to us. Are you ready to do that? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we want to see ourselves. With the same heart as a rusty woomer. Not a heart that appears to be good and appears like our sin is so little in comparison with the Things that of others have done to us. Right now to bring before you those things that we have done, recognizing all the stench and the vileness. The offense that they have been to you, and to see right here and right now, that you have come to meet us with open arms. You do not hold our sins against us. Oh, hallelujah, Lord. Fill our lives and our hearts and our minds now with a sense of the forgiveness that has been given to us through Jesus Christ. And if there's someone here who does not know that forgiveness Lord, cause them to cry out to you, to no longer make excuses and to blame shift, but to offer up to you their sin and all of its ugliness to receive Jesus. In what he has done to cancel the debt. Hear us, Lord, as in our own hearts we confess and repent of the sins that we have committed so vilely against you. And Lord, we pray that you will now give us grace as we seek a number of us to bring those lists and after this service. To come and offer them up to you, to no longer hold those things against those who have hurt us, some ways cruelly, thoughtlessly, evilly. But to offer them up to you and to be rid of the burden of the bitterness. Do that work, Holy Spirit, by your supernatural power. In Jesus' name. Amen.