But while God and I shall be, I am his, and he is mine, and now I'm going to talk about sex. Maybe you say, hey, that's not something you're supposed to talk about in church. Not something you talk about in the worship service And that's just the problem, isn't it? The church is not talking about sex enough while everybody else is talking about it too much. There's a survey done recently on teenage boys aged 15 to 20. Conclusion of the survey was on how much they think about sex. The conclusion of the survey was that they admit they think about sex four out of every five minutes, and they're lying about the fifth minute. Sex is much more on our minds than as Christians we would like to admit, isn't it? If you don't believe that's true, just think about what you were thinking when the Ken Starr report came out. I mean, were you thinking, I don't really need to see that? I mean, I this is political and you know, I mean, I know enough, I really don't need to know any of the details. But there's a curiosity, there's an absorption. What about this area? It's an area of mystery for many of us. It's an area that that we feel uncomfortable with. In fact, sex is a little bit like anger, isn't it, for many of us? You know, it's like when we looked at that earlier in Ephesians and we saw that anger in itself is neither good nor bad. Anger can be either. And it's the same thing with sex. But we feel like ninety-nine percent of our preoccupation with it is on the bad side rather than the good side, right? So we're uncomfortable with this topic. Perhaps uncomfortable thinking about it in a worship service. Let me tell you right up front, I didn't decide that it was time to talk about sex. This wasn't my choice. I find that the speaking on sex, a very delicate topic to do in a worship service, is something that most my pastor friends tend to avoid. It's sort of like money. You know, it's something you think Someday I need to speak about that, but not next week. Sometime. But of course, the problem is that Ephesians is a very practical book And Paul takes the first seven verses of chapter five to hit this topic head on. And then, in fact, he covers in the first fourteen verses of chapter five, it at least broadly and indirectly. So the fact is that Paul deals with it And therefore, in being honest to Scripture, I would not be faithful as a minister of the gospel and of the Word of God if I skipped over this. And so we must follow where the scripture takes us, and we must address ourselves to this topic. And of course, Paul spoke about it since he was writing to the Ephesians. Because sexual immorality was a major problem in the city of Ephesus. Do you remember that Ephesus was the home of Diana of the Ephesians, that multi-breasted bile goddess of fertility and the hunt, whose worship involved ritual prostitution. Therefore those who lived in Ephesus lived in a climate where it was understood that everybody does it and it's no big deal. It was a moral cesspool in that city. They were familiar with orgies. And so Paul, writing to the church, the new church of the Lord Jesus Christ, is not prudish in this to tiptoe around it. He deals with this matter head on. Again, let us look at those verses that Ken read and think of the flow of his thought in Ephesians chapter 5, reading now to verse 7 from chapter 5, verse 1. This, remember, is God's word to you. Be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children. And live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality or of any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. Nor should there be obscenity foolish talk or coarse joking, which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving. For of this you can be sure, no immoral, impure, or greedy person, such a man as an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of such things God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. Therefore, do not be partners with them. Now it's important for us to understand how this fits in the flow of Paul's thought. Do you remember that after having laid out to us in chapters 1 to 3 who we are, what we have as new creatures in Jesus Christ, seated in the heavenly realms, with him and all the blessings he gives to us, kneeling in order that we might know those blessings in our hearts and minds. He moves on in chapter four to talk about how to live this out in your daily experience. Spends the first tick 16 verses talking about body life and how we need one another in order to experience this. Verse 17, you remember he began, so I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live. as the Gentiles, the unbelievers, do in the futility of their thinking. That he talks about how we are to put on a new nature, a new life that we have in Jesus Christ, verse 22. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, and to be made new in the attitude of your minds. And to put on the new self created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth Then he talked in verse 28 in applying this. He applies this in a number of areas, you remember, as he's going through this now. Take this area, this area, and this area, in verse 28. He says the people basically can be b divided into two categories, takers and givers. He said the He who has been stealing must steal no longer. Mentality of a taker. But he must work, doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share, to give with those who are in need. He talked in verse 32 about being kind and compassionate. You remember that word kind is a word which means to be useful. to be helpful to someone, to be giving to them. It talks about being compassionate, tenderhearted. And then Climaxes this whole section with the example of Jesus, the ultimate giver. Verse 1 of chapter 5, the imitators of God, therefore his dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ. Loved us and gave himself up for us. Didn't simply give what he had for you and for me. He gave himself. He gave his life for us. And he calls us to follow in his pattern of giving. Love gives. That's the point that he's making here. You and I in our lostness. And our helplessness, we're in utter desperate need for someone to give what we could never gain. You could never gain God's favor in your life. The things that you have done that have ignored his claims upon you, the way that you have lived ignoring his standards, his commands, his requirements, you never make up for that. You deserve his just wrath, as he says in verse 7 and 8, that chapter. And you and I were helpless and hopeless. And Jesus Christ came from heaven and he gave himself. He gave himself by taking on a body. He gave himself by fulfilling the law in your place and my place. He gave himself. by dying under the curse of his father, the vile punishment of crucifixion. And he gave himself because he loved you. Because he loved you, he couldn't keep himself aloof from you. He was constrained by his compassion for you in your lostness to give his own life for you. Now, what's what's amazing about the Bible, the Bible is just a brilliant book Because you come to these two verses, and scholars write a good deal about whether chapter 5, verse 1 and 2 is connected with what went previous in chapter four or whether it should be connected with what follows in the rest of chapter five. And that's always kind of intriguing to me when I read that because to me it's obvious that it's connected to both That what Paul does here is in a brilliant way he's talking about the uh destructiveness of anger, revenge, bitterness in chapter 40. Remember that. Put that off. Put on what is constructive, kind, helpful, forgiving one another. As God for Christ's sake forgave you, He gave Himself for you when you deserve nothing but His wrath. He gave Himself in love for you. Then it's as if there leaks to Paul's mind In contrast to love that gives, the counterfeit lust that grabs that he sees in Ephesus. And so he immediately comes to apply that in the following verses in order to draw out the implications of that. And so what Paul does is that he is giving to us here a contrast between genuine biblical love that gives And the worldly lust that grabs for itself. Now, girls, I want to address you for a moment very directly When a boy says to you, I love you, now give me your body, there ought to go off all kinds of sirens and bells and whistles, and I don't mean of excitement. Of warning. Love does not say, give me what I want from you Love says, I will discipline myself in order to do what is best for you. Do I sound hopelessly old-fashioned if I say to you that God has given to you a priceless treasure in your virginity? That God intends for you to guard and to protect for that man who will pay for having you as his own by the vow of lifelong love to you. And that that then becomes celebrated mutually in the giving of yourselves to one another in the precious security of marriage. God has given to you, girls, a priceless treasure in that. If that treasure has been forfeited. He speaks to you of the love of Jesus Christ who gave himself for you. None of us here in this room are pure and innocent, whether it is by action or thoughts or motives or opportunities or lack of opportunities. But the amazing thing today is that you hear of so many teenagers And of people in their twenties who claim to say, I didn't even know that the Bible said that all sex outside of marriage is wrong. Did it even forbid that? Is Ephesians 5 3 in your Bible? It's in my Bible. And it is absolutely clear. Among you there must not be even a hint. Of sexual immorality, or of any kind of impurity, or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. You can't get around that. It's absolutely clear. And the Bible doesn't say that because it wants to spoil our fun. The Bible is a very passionate book. Just read the Song of Solomon. And someday after I finish Ephesians, if I ever get through this, we're going to revisit the Song of Solomon. And look at the beautiful, wonderful passion, a passion that can far outstrip anything that Hollywood could ever offer you. The depiction of erotic sensual love in that book. The Bible rather wants to protect you and to protect that treasure that God has given to you. And so once again, wrapping this up, look at that, look at the diagrams you see in your bulletin outline. In order to understand what it is that Paul's saying here to you, he's talking about sex. And he does it in two ways. He talks about behavior in verses in verse 3. And then he talks about your speech and thoughts in verse 4. This morning we're just talking about verse 3. In terms of each one of those, behavior and your speech and thoughts, he has the same pattern that we've seen follow through the entire book: the put-on and the put off. Put on love. That's the pattern. As Jesus loved you. Put off lust. Verse three Then he goes on to your speech in the way that you think. Put off, you see the pattern is put on, put off, put off, put on. He's continuing in the talking about sex. put off lewd talk. He talks about that in terms of um What he says there in verse 4, obscenity, foolish talk, coarse joking. Talk about that next week, if anybody comes back. Then he talks about the end of verse 4, put on, rather, thanksgiving. It's not just a matter of a vacuum, take it out. There's something to replace. You notice I didn't force the meaning of the last one by making it another L. That was tempting, but fact is, Paul's talking about Thanksgiving. There's no way around it. And so you've got to deal with that and remember it as it is. He begins by saying, put on love, that pattern after Jesus, sacrificial love that gives. Not looking for someone to gratify you, but rather a person that you're attracted to and find that you are willing to give yourself to. Person that you can identify with, that you can find that you can serve Jesus together with. Person with whom you're comfortable, who brings out the best in you, and you bring out the best in them, and you desire the best for them. And you do that by disciplining yourself, by turning down the temptations that will short circuit for self-gratification. That means that before marriage you have no right to that other person's body. Thinking about this, I thought about how in my own situation, totally by God's grace. And I can document that, and I mean this absolutely. I mean utterly by God's grace in my life. I could need any husband of a girl that I've dated and feel like I have not defrauded him Guys, you think about a girl that you're dating and spending time with. What if 10 years from now? You don't marry her. But you meet the guy who did marry her. Can you look him in the eye? Can you say, I treated your wife the way I would have wanted you to treat my wife if you had been dating her ten years ago? You see, love thinks about the good of the other person. It doesn't defraud them, it doesn't tempt them, it doesn't push to see how far it can go for its own desires. The pattern here is of Jesus Christ who gave himself for you And if Jesus Christ gave himself for you, you belong to him, and you want to love that person And once again I stated that love of Christ and his sacrifice covers before God. Those things that many of you sitting here now look back on in your life and you feel such utter shame and regret and remorse. But if you have also repented of that and brought it to Jesus Christ, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 23 and 24 says, He has washed your body as well as your conscience. with the pure water that is depicted in baptism that cleanses you from all sin. That's available to you in Jesus Christ. What's very difficult about this is to portray both sides, the compassion that comes, but the warnings of the scars of the violation in our own lives. Put on love, put off immor put off the lust And he speaks of that in three terms, gratifying lust that grabs. Three terms. First of all, he speaks of it in terms of immorality. Now again, let me be absolutely clear, because I know how guys' minds work. Some people look at pastors as asexual. Let me remind you, I'm not only a pastor, I'm a man. Guys, I know how our minds work. We will try to rationalize anything for what we want to do. Well, what does that word immorality really mean? I mean, you know, fornication, adultery, okay, all right, you know, I'll I'll I'll stay away from that. It doesn't just mean that. Let me be clear, guys. It means petting to arouse. Okay? That word pornea is talking about any kind of sexual sin That is outside, that is the use of sex and arousal outside of the sanctity of the bonds of marriage. Is that clear enough? If that's not clear enough, he goes on to a second term, impurity. And the word impurity here is talking about The things in our minds, anything that is unclean or filthy. The word is used eleven times in the New Testament. One time it's used of decaying rotten bones. The other ten times it's used of sexual impurity. Anything sexual that wrongly arouses the passions and fantasies. That clear enough? If you have any questions about what these two terms mean in specific ways in your own life, just ask Tim Flora. No, no, no, no. You have any questions on that? You can ask Steve too. You can even ask me. I mean that. For some of you you may say, but you know, Pastor, you've you've raised a number of questions with me now, or you've stirred up a bunch of stuff that I I've tried to put down and not look at. Don't do that. Speak to one of us so that you can see the gospel's application to your life in freedom. This word impurity is talking about movies. Videos, it's talking about magazines, it's talking about the internet. Many of you guys are having serious problems. Promise Keepers has estimated that between one-third and one-half of the men involved in its movement have serious problems with pornography. You know what a serious problem is? A serious problem with pornography means it is not something that you're simply tempted by when you see it. It means you have an addiction. It means that you can't get free of it. There's certain stuff you're going back to. Starts with curiosity. You get hooked, and then you say, I just want to look again I just want to think about this a little bit more. That's what verse 3 is talking about. Impurity. I still remember Diane Brown writing an article several years ago about a pastor who had seduced a number of women, both in his congregation and out And how she had come in contact with him and he had tried to seduce her. And she wrote an article and didn't name him, say she's really tempted to name him, but she didn't name him. And then the next week or two weeks later, she wrote another article and she said, since that time I wrote that article, three women in Colombia have come up to me and said, I know the pastor you're talking about. She said, all three named different pastors, and none of them were the ones she was talking about. Let me say it again. A number of you women are suffering or have suffered terrific pain. Because of some guy who indulged in impurity and then sought to gratify himself with your body. He might have been a stepfather. He might have been an older boyfriend. He might have been a peer. There's all kinds, and Ken was talking about this, all kinds of heartbreaking stories in this area. Christ loved us. And he gave himself for you. He knew that. He knew that's the kind of world. He knows your life. He was not absent or on vacation or distracted when that happened to you. It's part of the sin-sick brokenness. That involves death and destruction and maiming and torture and death at the end of this world. Paul says, this should not even be named in the Christian community. The third word that he uses there, greed. It amazes me when I read certain commentators that speak of this word as saying, you know, he's talking about i uh immorality and impurity and of greed. And then he talks about you know greed which is idolatry, talks about later on and talk about you know wanting too much money and this and that kind of thing has nothing to do with that. The word that he's talking about here is the same word, but clearly it's used twice in this context. What he's talking about is the tenth commandment. Do you remember in the tenth commandment, God says, you shall not covet. And among the things you don't covet is your neighbor's wife. You don't covet somebody else who doesn't belong to you. That's greed. That's saying, it's not enough for me to have what God would say is rightly mine if I am willing to commit myself to a person who is willing to reciprocate in that and we celebrate that together. With our bodies in sexual, sensual love. That's not enough for me. I want somebody else. I want somebody in addition. I'm tired of this person. I'm going to move on. I compare this person with that person. They don't measure up. I want something better. On and on and on. It's greed, you see. That's what he's talking about. Now, let me also make one other observation on this that I think is very important for us as Christians to see. You have here, under point A, I listed, that there is a whole new view of women that is radical in this verse. Very easy for us to miss it from our perspective. You see, if Paul had said here in verse 3 that there is to be no pornea, no immorality, or no impurity. Among women, nobody in Ephesus would have raised an eyebrow. Say, that's right, Paul. He told those women to keep pure. We want our women pure But that's not what Paul says. He says, among you, plural, the Christian community, there is to be no impurity. As great a man as Cicero wrote at that time, that it is entirely right and proper For a man to use women for his own sexual gratification, that's what they're for. I mean, this wasn't some sleaze, you know. This was commonly accepted in Ephesus. Women existed for the sexual gratification of men. And when Paul comes along following in Jesus who honored women as they had never been honored before, And Paul comes and he says, Not just you women, but you men must not practice immorality or impurity or sexual greed. That was radical. That shook the foundations. That set the Christians entirely apart. From the rest of the society. No one had ever honored women in that place before New Testament Christianity. And in a day when Christianity is seen as chauvinistic and sexist, it is important for us as Christians to not feel defensive. Certainly, many chauvinistic sexist things have been practiced in the name of Christianity. And we'll get to some of that in the rest of chapter 5 about the headship and the rest of that in marriage. But be absolutely clear that a verse, like verse 3 of Ephesians 5, is a radical statement of the equality of the sexes. Stating that purity and fidelity are for both sexes to practice. Take comfort in not only the inerrancy of Scripture so far ahead of its time revealed in that, but of the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for you women in protecting you. from the sexual greed of men in a whole new community. You notice he says in the beginning there There must not be even a hint. The Greek literally says, let it not be named. That's on the back side of your outline there. Put off. Let it not be named among you. That's what he's talking about. He's saying this Whatever goes on outside the Christian community, this should not go on within the Christian community. Why? You see Look at that verse again. Let me read it now as as literally as possible. Alright? And if you have your Bible, follow along verse 3 as I'm giving you the literal, the Harris literal translation here. But among you, let there not be named any sexual immorality or any kind of impurity or sexual greed Because these are not proper, they are not fitting, they are not appropriate for God's holy people. Paul is saying that impurity, immorality are not fitting for holy ones. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are holy. You don't become holy. It's not that you kind of make yourself holy. You are holy. By virtue of your union with Jesus Christ, the Holy One, you are holy in Him. That's chapters 1 to 3. See, you're seated with Him in holiness. Now therefore, be holy. It is inappropriate, it is improper for you to justify and rationalize and say Well, it doesn't really matter, you know, grace just kind of covers this, and so God really doesn't, you know, and all the standards that are around, I'm still living better than, you know, and all the rest of this kind of stuff. Paul says absolutely clear, no immorality, no impurity, no sexual greed. That's improper for one who is holy and belongs to Jesus Christ. Lust does not fit one who was so loved by the Savior that he died for you. Alexander the Great one time came to one of his men who was also called Alexander, and who had acted cowardly in a battle. He confronted him with these words. Either renounce your name or renounce your cowardice. I will not have someone bearing my name who acts the coward. Christian, you bear the name of Jesus Christ, the Holy One. You either renounce His name or you renounce your impurity. You either renounce his name or you renounce your immorality. You either renounce his name or you stop playing around with sin and rationalizing it. That's what the Bible is saying. You see And so in very practical terms, it means guys you need to throw out those magazines. You need to throw out the videos. You need to block yourself from the internet. You need to ask somebody to hold you accountable, and I've had that with a number of people. Al ask me what I've been looking at on the internet If you travel, you need to keep off the TV in your motel room and those channels that you'd like to look at just because you're curious. You need help. We have Columbia Presbyterian, a support group of guys for exactly this kind of thing. And if you're interested in that, you say, God is convicting me this morning, I want to be delivered from the bondage of this. Let me tell you, one time when I was young, I found a bunch of dirty magazines in the trash. And I took them because they you know they were just you know curiosity, just ones, whoa, woo, what is all you know, took it home, and so I hid it, hid them in the closet. Every once in a while I'd look at these things. And one day, in all this turmoil, I you know knew as a Christian I shouldn't be doing this, but I didn't have the power, and I finally one day said, I'm just gonna look at this and I'm going to now take it out and I am going to destroy it. I'm going to take them out, I'm going to burn them so nobody else gets them. And it was, you know, it was a tearing in me. I didn't want to do it. I can still remember, I don't know how many years ago that was, I can still remember when I came back from Burning News magazines. I felt like somebody had let me out of prison I was released from the bondage of what had been pulling, pulling, pulling. Guys, if Jesus Christ is speaking to you this morning. Don't hesitate. Don't put it off. If you're interested in that group, see Steve or me. We'll tell you how to get in touch with the people that are involved in that. It is an anonymous group. This is a group of great confidentiality. You get into this group, I will not know it. No one else outside of that group will know it. But you will have guys who will take you seriously, developing real intimacy. Maybe there's a relationship you need to stop. If you're a teenager and you're just growing into this, have you determined that you will save your body? For marriage. None of us are perfect. Jesus has died to give himself for you, to forgive you, to transform you And to give you the very best. Let's pray. Lord, we come now as sinners who are broken in our our own impurities. We recognize, Lord, do we need to come to you. Every one of us have guilty consciences in one way or another in this area. Lord, we thank you for the forgiveness that you have offered through Jesus. We pray for those who need to decide to flee to you today to escape from the bondage that you would free them from the bondage of sexual addiction And playing around and rationalizing, toying with wrong relationships. Lord, show your power to each of us in this congregation. We need you, and we ask you to do that. I ask you on behalf of these people, give them victory in the power and the name, the mighty name of Jesus Christ.