We sing how high and how wide, how deep and how long is his love, and then we give thanks and If you're like me, you find it easy to sing that, but then you think, well, what is it my heart is really thankful for this morning? What can I really say spontaneously, just because I want to? Thank you, Lord, for this. You know, it's so so easy to just have that distance secondhand. Remember last week Probably if you were here, you remember what I spoke on. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 3 Among you, there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality or of any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. That message got your attention. I got a lot of response, several strong reactions, mostly all positive. Some people were concerned about what I was speaking about in a morning worship service. And as I continue to speak on that, let me just say this Remember that Ephesians was written to the whole body of believers. And that chapter 6, verse 1 says, children. Obey your parents. Watch out, kid. That one's coming down the road there. Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. So Paul was intending to address kids in all that he said. I also was made aware this week of how much, how very important it is for us to address this as an entire congregation. I read of two accounts, separate, totally separate accounts, of guys who had become addicted to pornography. And how that had gripped their lives and brought them to ruin. In both cases, the Lord Jesus delivered them and turned them around. In one case, he said, I began my addiction to pornography at the time I was nine years old. The other one said, I was addicted by the time I was eight years old. Brothers and sisters, let's not kid ourselves. This is something we've got to address as an entire congregation. Time magazine, just um back in uh when was it, June. Some of you may remember this cover. Everything your kids already know about sex Bet you're afraid to ask. It's taken off of the book from 1969, Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex, but Were Afraid to Ask. And time goes on to describe how sophisticated kids are in their knowledge of this stuff today. What are the interesting statistics they came up with in this um was how the uh the source of information for kids is changing and how right now uh To this question, from what sources do teenagers today mainly learn about sex? The number one source, 45% number one source, was friends. In second place, at 29% was television. That's interesting because uh from 1986 to 1998, 1986, 11% of kids, teenagers said Television was my main source of learning about sex. Nineteen ninety eight it's twenty-nine percent. That is a huge shift. Parents were seven percent And the sex education courses that are being promoted to be the main source of information was 3%. We must address this from Scripture. I try to be sensitive in my language and the examples I use, but we must deal with what Scripture deals with. Once again, Let me read from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 to 4, what Paul is saying to us and what God through this is saying to you and to me. This is his word. Be imitators of God, therefore, dearly as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us. And gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But among you there must not be even a hint Of sexual immorality, or of any kind of impurity, or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. Nor should there be any obscenity, foolish talk, or coarse joking, which are out of place But rather thanksgiving. Do you remember the flow of this thought that I put on the bulletin there What Paul is doing here is he is dividing his his uh instruction on sex into two parts. First of all, behavior in verses 1 to 3, and then talk in verse 4 It's the same pattern he uses through the rest of chapters 4, 5, and 6 about how to live the Christian life. Put off, put on. In this case, the pattern is put on, put off, put off, put on. He's saying what to put on, and that is love. Put off the counterfeit, lust. And continuing in the discussion about sex, put off lewd talk and then put on what Hey, I heard Thanksgiving. You got it. Alright? Three L's and a T. If you want to say talk, you know you got two T's, but it's up to you Put on love, the sacrificial love that gives. Put off lust, the sacr self-gratifying lust that grabs. And that was described we saw in verse 3. in three terms. He describes it in terms of immorality. That refers not simply to fornication or adultery, but any sexual intimacy outside of marriage that is inappropriate in any other context than a life commitment between a man and a woman. Immorality. Impurity, we saw, refers to anything that arouses lust, the desire to grab and to use someone for your own gratification, even fantasizing in pictures. It is that which is inappropriate arousal of passion. And then thirdly he talked about greed. We saw that that refers to sexual greed, not just greed for things. Verse 6 talks about this greedy person as an idolater. Why is that? Because the nature of sexual greed is that it substitutes That passion that God intends for us to have toward Himself and that giving of ourselves in relationship to other people, and substitutes that with a cheap idol of self-gratification, an imitation, that quick, self-gratifying, self-centered fulfillment of my desires. The word lust in the Bible is a word which can be used either positively or negatively. When Jesus said, you remember in Luke 22, 15, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you. The word he uses is the word lust. Jesus says, I have lusted to eat this Passover with you. The word has to do with a strong, passionate desire, you see. And the nature of sexual greed, which is idolatry, is that it twists that holy passion, that desire for a relationship with God, for which I was built and wired. uh to to know him and to have him as the center of my passions and my being and from that to give myself to other people and it counterfeits that it substitutes something which is the gratification without the giving. It's that which seeks for the intimacy without any sense of the giving of myself To cultivate and develop that. It's a short circuit which is utterly self-centered Passion without giving is idolatry. It's focused on myself rather than on the God who made me. Paul says Put these things off. Verse 3 literally is let it not be named among you. Let it not be named among you any sexual immorality, any kind of impurity or sexual greed, because these are not fitting. They're just not appropriate for God's holy ones. Now, you know, whatever you think of this combination I put it together so it would fit. My wife said it's a little busy, but you know, we can deal with that. Gives you something to look at up here. But there's a certain coordination to it But now let's suppose that this morning I had chosen this tie instead. Alright? And I put this one on and I came up here. You know, I dare say that Some of the more sensitive of you women, the guys might have thought that's fine. I don't see anything wrong with it. But some of you women probably would have been distracted the whole message because you would have said, that thing doesn't fit It just doesn't go and I can't even listen to the guy because I wish he would have taken that tie and done. I wish he'd rip it off, you know. It doesn't go What do you see? That's what Paul's saying about immorality, impurity in a Christian's life. He says, you have been built. You've been redeemed by Jesus Christ. You've been formed with his image. You are holy. Now, that practice of sexual idolatry, that self-gratification, that cheap substitute that you give yourself to rather than Seeking by the Holy Spirit true intimacy with another person, just saying, you know, I'm gonna please myself, I'm gonna I'm going to fantasize, I'm going to arouse passions because There's a there's an emptiness, there's a hole in me, and this fills it. Quick dirty fix. But I feel okay while I'm doing it afterwards crummy, but I can't give it up. Paul says it just doesn't fit. It doesn't fit. Why is that? Because your basic identity is a holy one More basic. Better take this off, you're not going to be able to listen to me, right? More basic Then your identity as one who is a porn addict, who is immoral, who is impure Who idolizes sex? If you belong to Jesus Christ, if you have come to Him by faith, more basic to your identity Is that you are holy. Your passions ultimately are centered on Him. And Paul is appealing to that. You see, you have to remember again, every time we say some command in chapter 4, 5, and 6, it's rooted in the facts of your identity. In chapters 1, 2, and 3. You are holy. Therefore, be holy. And yet the church today doesn't take that very seriously, does it? In a recent survey, less than 51% A people who identified themselves as conservative Protestants was not a Christian survey, and so it didn't say born-again Christian or anything like that. Closest category was conservative Protestants opposed to mainline and other kinds of uh ideologies, religions, and things were put there. Conservative Protestants, less than 51% said premarital or extramarital sex are always wrong. 50. 5%, actually. Currently, only 36% of women do not live with their mate before they're married. Only 36% of the women in America today do not live with the guy that they marry before they're married. Forty-one percent of men in this survey done in the last couple of years, 41% of men admitted to being involved in hardcore pornography. That did not include the internet. That talked about things that were more acting out. Forty-one percent of men in this country surveyed said that in the last year I have been involved in one of four categories, and I don't need to name them, but one of four categories of hardcore pornography. I think one of the saddest aspects of the affair concerning President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky has hardly even been mentioned in the press. And of course you wouldn't expect it in the press, but has not been mentioned. in most of the discussions that I've ever heard. And it is simply this. Far more important than the fact That Bill Clinton is the President of the United States is the fact that he is a professing Christian. And therefore, Ephesians 5:3 pertains to him. And yet, where has in his involvement as part of the professing church There have been any kind of discipline, any kind of pastoring, other than his choosing two men to meet with And that certainly is a positive step. But where has there been any sense of his being held accountable to the church in what he did in a violation of Ephesians 5. 3? And we wonder why people don't even raise an eyebrow at that. Because nobody particularly expects the church to take seriously. That Christians, those who call themselves Christians in this country, will follow Ephesians 5:3. You hear me speak of it on Sunday morning. Among you, there must not even be a hint of sexual immorality. Or any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper. They don't fit. They're utterly in discord with God's holy people. And yet this coming week, well you you can't argue against it. You can say, well, that's wrong, I don't agree with your interpretation of it. But do you take it seriously You know, do you teenagers, when you're out together, do you say, that that is over my life? That applies to you and to me. We name Jesus in our lives. And therefore, I'm committed that I will not engage in sexual activity before marriage. Have you made that commitment? Because you are a person who lives under the authority of Ephesians 5:3 in your life. We don't take it seriously because we don't see other people taking it seriously. But that doesn't change God's truth. That doesn't change the fact that God says that this is not only For his holiness, and that's the primary thing, don't miss that. It's very significant that Paul does not appeal in verse 3 to any benefits that you get out of this. He doesn't say there, among you there must not be any hint of sexual immorality, any kind of impurity, or sexual greed, because these are not helpful for God's people. That's not what he says, is it? He says, because it's not appropriate, it doesn't fit because of God's holiness. Because if you name his name, you reflect his nature. And what you do reflects upon his reputation However, that's not to say that it doesn't work in terms of benefits. The same survey that was given that I just quoted from those statistics. Also, again, this was not a Christian survey. But those that wrote it said that the idea of evangelical Christians being people who are hung up and against sex was utterly disproved by that survey. The category of women who found the greatest satisfaction In sexual activity were those who were committed to one mate and had, it said, traditional convictions about that. Those were those who, far and away, 10% beyond the closest other category of women, found the greatest satisfaction and fulfillment in their sexual lives. But that's not what Paul appeals to. You see, following God and his ways always brings the greatest benefit and blessing to our lives. But it's important that we don't do it simply for our benefits and blessings. We do it because Holiness is appropriate for God's people because we belong to Him. And when we do it for Him, we find ourselves blessed. See that that's the way God's principles work in our lives. And so Paul, we'll we'll talk more uh next week about the consequences, the uh practical consequences of following or not following God's ways in this. But I think it's important in terms of what I just used in the illustration about President Clinton That every one of you in this congregation feel that protection that we as a body take seriously that we name the name of Christ and therefore are held accountable in our own activities to following Ephesians 5. 3. Paul says, this must not be named among you. And we take that seriously and hope that you feel, as part of the congregation, a protection, a hedging about in a positive way. not in a condemnatory way, not in some rigid judgmental way, but simply because we are God's holy people as fellow sinners The elders are not people who are above in holiness, but simply because as sinners God intends that when he says, let it not be named among you That means that we take that seriously and cannot violate that without consequences in terms of our relationship with the body. That's for your own good. It's for my own good. Because there are times when the temptation is so great that the bottom line is the immediate consequence. in terms of what I will feel in pain, in terms of the relationships with my brothers and sisters. Notice then Paul's concern is for the honor of Jesus Christ. But he speaks of the fact that There is an immediate sense of consequence. He goes on to that next week. Well, he goes on to it in the next verse, which I'll cover next week. But I I just want to say one one more thing on that. There were times when I must admit that as a teenager, I resisted temptation Not simply because I had an ideological sense that this is wrong, I shouldn't do it, it's not for my benefit, please the Lord. I was just at a point where I was just becoming a Christian at the end of high school. And I did not come up from a Christian home, but I'll tell you, my relationship with my mother was such that I knew if I were to be involved in an activity that would bring shame. upon my family and upon her. That was a powerful deterrent. How could I face my mom and she say, You did what? And you know, you might say, that's not the most exalted motive, but what is it? It's our connections, right? It's our relationships. And those are powerful. And God uses those for our protection. So kids, you know, realize when you think, yeah, but you know, it's because of what mom or dad or this or that, you know, God uses that for your protection. It's not appropriate. It doesn't fit with God's holy people. And there's a sense of community, you see, that is positive in the protection of that. Well, moving on to verse 4. He says, Nor should there be any obscenity, foolish talk, or coarse joking. Which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving. Maybe you say, well, you know, I'm not involved in this stuff you're talking about in verse 3 But what verse 4 does is it presses us further in the examination of our hearts to look at our speech as it reveals our hearts. Beyond immorality, there is the seemingly harmless vulgarity, which is the topic of verse 4. Now it's not immorality, it's vulgarity. And again, he uses three terms to describe it. Obscenity, foolish talk, coarse joking. What's that talking about? Obscenity, very simply, has to do with filthy and degrading talk about sex. The verb, interestingly enough, means to disfigure something or to make it ugly. If you take a beautiful picture, beautiful Rembrandt up here, and you take crayon and scroll all over it You've done what this verb is talking about in verse 4. The verb obscenity. You've disfigured it. It has to do with four-letter words to describe sex. You know, I used to think as a teenager that the Bible forbids cursing and taking God's name in vain, but doesn't doesn't forbid the four-letter words that we used as guys Well, that's not true. Ephesians 5. 4 specifically is referring to four-letter word descriptions of sexual activity. It disfigures it, you see. It cheapens the awesome mystery of two people coming together and whose lives are fused in the ecstatic physical expression of what God has intended. It robs us and it robs God by cheapening that. And so God forbids that. There should not be that kind of language, he says, among Christians. The second term is foolish talk. What does that refer to? Well, the Greek word for that is morologia. Now can anybody think of an English word that comes from morologia? Moron, you got it. That's the word that's from what we get our word morons, moronic talk Empty-headed attention-getting chatter is the way I describe it. Empty-headed attention-getting chatter. Proverbs 15, verse 2 says, The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouth of the fool gushes out folly. See, that's the picture. Just the pouring forth. I want to dominate the conversation. And so I'll get your attention by talking cruder than you do. Clever put-downs. Why? To cover up my insecurity. I can't just engage in a conversation with you and try to just interact with ideas, build you up. I've got to be cool. And so I want to look sophisticated by acting cynical. Gunter talk, to fit in with my friends. That's the idea of this foolish talking Uh see if I can outdo you. I remember as a teenager trying to outdo my friends. In fact, I hung around a bunch of non-Christian guys and I remember one time Uh that at this point I was becoming very interested in the gospel and considering seriously Christianity, and I talked so foul that my friends were offended. My non-Christian friends, they said, Harris, knock it off. You know, geez, you're grossing us out. You know, and I realized, why am I doing this? Well, it's not because I particularly enjoy it, it's just I wanted to fit in, I wanted to outdo them. That's so much the motivation, isn't it? Coarse joking he talks about there Horse joking, the root of that word means to twist something or to turn it. The idea is the using of double meanings. To twist or to turn the conversation in an unwholesome direction. Suggestive humor to elicit a snicker. Where you laugh and then feel dirty afterwards that you laughed at it. Turning and twisting the conversation to look cool. The idea of Coarse, twisted joking. And again, what does he say at the end of verse 4? These are out of place, you see. For the believer. Again, it's like that tithe. They don't fit. It just it jars you. Here's a person who on Sunday morning praises Jesus Christ and then on Monday afternoons telling dirty jokes. Crude put-downs. It doesn't fit, you see. Out of that same fountain, James says, there can't come those that sweet water and that foul, salty, poisonous water. It doesn't fit. Your most basic identity is that you are a holy one. And therefore, Paul appeals to that. Your basic passion, your basic desire is to praise Jesus. To build up, as he says in chapter 4, verse 29, not to put down. And therefore the put-downs, the cynicism. The critical, uh, crude disc uh conversation doesn't fit with a believer. That does not mean there's no sense of humor It does not mean that at all. It's just at a conference the last three days with Larry Crab. And uh we were laughing and laughing and that guy's got a very rich, rich sense of humor. But there was nothing coarse or crude about it. And uh some of the people that I've enjoyed most and the humor that I've enjoyed most has been with Christians where you can just laugh, not but somebody else's expense not as something that's crude and twisted, but just the silly incongruities of life that help us to enjoy and take ourselves a little less seriously. Rather, he says, put on thanksgiving. Now it's very important, did you notice that in verse 4? You notice neither should there be obscenity, foolish talk, coarse joking, which are out of place, don't fit, but rather thanksgiving. Why is that important? Because it is necessary that there be a positive alternative. For every put-off, there must be a put-on. You can't simply stop talking crude, cynical, dirty, and say, I'll just gonna stop that talk. Because you're gonna talk. And something's gonna drive that conversation. All of us. Nobody's just gonna say, well, I'm just gonna stop that. It's just like my saying to you, okay now Don't think of the color blue. Ah, you're doing it. No, stop. Don't think of the color blue. Don't You know? Doesn't help, does it? But what if I say, now instead of thinking of the color blue, think of your favorite shade of green. Picture it in your mind. You see You can replace, but you just can't stop. And that's what Paul's saying here. And there's two principles in his talking about replacing crude talk with thankful talk. You see it in your outline. The first is these two kinds of speech are utterly incompatible. Picture at work You guys, there's a crude put-down conversation going on about Clinton and Lewinsky and what's going on with all of that, what's been happening And in that conversation, you say, well, man, I just want you to really thankful for my wife because she satisfies me totally. What kind of reaction are you gonna get? You introduce a positive, thankful statement in a crude, cynical conversation, and just watch what happens It just it's jarring. And you will get, in almost every case, a negative reaction. They're incompatible. It's the other way around. Try speaking in terms of things you're thankful for, things that are positive, things that are good, and then introduce a critical, crude statement. It doesn't fit And so what happens? The second principle. You choose which one is going to set the tone of your conversation. Paul says you have a choice. You choose which one. For instance, after the prayer before the meal, which we call grace, Try saying, what is anybody thankful for that you've experienced today to the family? You kids, mom, dad, what's what's anything that any of you guys are thankful for today? What's it going to do to the tone of the conversation? Going to start it off in a positive direction, it'll probably move in a positive direction. If the first thing after giving thanks is complaining about somebody, putting somebody down That will set the tone for the entire dinner conversation, won't it? Practical application, how you start your dinner conversations will set the tone for the rest of the meal. Recently, Kathy and I were on a walk. We started getting negative, criticizing one thing after another. I began to notice the pattern. You know, just one critical comment led to another critical complaining comment. Finally I said, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait. We we just gotta turn this. We just stop. What are some things, and I'm in the area we were talking about, is what are some things that we're thankful for in that area? Kathy began to mention a couple things, she meant three or four, and I did And I was amazed at how it changed the whole tone of the walk. So we're a walk that was going to be kind of a crummy walk, you know, you finish and you said, geez, you know, that wasn't very refreshing. We came back and by the end of the time we were feeling really good, positive, and encouraged. It's a choice that you make. And that choice is based on What you as a Christian see that you're thankful for. You see, the kingdom language is a new language. The new language of the kingdom is praise. I love the little ad I see in the Washington Post each Sunday. There's in the magazine section. It's a military academy. Have you ever seen it? You know, it's this cadet. And he's saying, Yes, sir. And it says there at the bottom, we require all cadets to learn this foreign language. Very effective, right? You know all the parents sign up, you know. Get my kid in med school. Yeah. Like out kids. Off to the military academy to learn to say, yes, sir, foreign language to kids today. Well you see praise is the foreign language of the kingdom. When the Holy Spirit comes into our lives, he teaches us a foreign language, not the crude critical talk which is to build me up and to put others down. To twist and to distort, but it is the language of thanksgiving. That's why Paul uses it here He says you need to begin at the beginning of this book, where it says that you are God's holy people, chapter 1, verse 4. To be holy. We have been chosen to be holy and blameless in his sight. And you say, thank you, Lord. I am so unholy. I am so full of blame. But you haven't held that against me. You sent your own son to die for me. So that as he says in chapter 1, you've blessed me in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. And then he goes on in chapter 2 to describe how you are his masterpiece. Lord, I am your masterpiece. Chapter 2 verse 10. Thank you for what you're doing in recreating in me a new heart, in cleaning up my life, and changing it and transforming it. Chapter 3, the infinite love we sang about of Jesus Christ for us, you see, as you get in touch with those passions. They control your conversation, and your conversation controls your thinking, and your life experience lines up with the purity of the holy ones that belong to Jesus. Examine your language and examine your heart and ask God to give you that new heart and a new language of the kingdom. Let's pray. Lord, we confess to you this morning that our mouths speak what is in our hearts. And out of the heart, Matthew says, comes immorality and impurity. And Lord, we can't just stop that. We have to confess to you, we need either this morning, because we've never come into that relationship with Jesus, we need you to give us a new heart. And to change, Lord, that vile heart that is twisted and so self-centered. Lord, for some of us we need you to do that. Lord, for others of us, we need to be put in touch with those deepest passions of that new heart that you've given to us That we would work out of that new heart by the power of your Spirit the purity of Jesus Christ to cleanse our language and our thoughts. And so we consecrate ourselves to you now. That you would do that in us. Do what we cannot do. Give to us in our hearts the new language of the kingdom. Thanksgiving and praise and building up because we want to see your power at work in us. In Jesus name. Amen