We have considered Ephesians chapter 5, verses 3 and 4 for the last two weeks, which is some of the most direct and straightforward teaching in all of the Bible on the subject of sex And you kids hear a lot about that from your friends. You see it all the time on television. We adults, many of us or most of us, maybe all of us, are uncomfortable talking about this topic. We are aware of shame. in our own lives, for thoughts, for actions, for relationships, for things that we've done That we wish we hadn't, none of us is innocent in this area. And I've gotten a lot of reactions to these messages. Boy, if I'm looking for feedback, I I know what to preach on now. Uh not only lots of comments Most of which have been positive. I've also noticed the office has said that more tapes have been ordered and copied these last couple of weeks than they can recall for a long time. Clearly this is a need. It is important for us to consider from God's Word what He has to say about this And I'm praying that God will be working in our hearts on this, not simply that we are discussing it or saying, I know somebody who needs to listen to this, but examining my heart and having healthy discussions. Parents and kids, about what you're hearing here on Sunday morning. Remember that the context Of Ephesians 5, verses 3 and 4 is what Paul says in verses 1 and 2 about the sacrificial love that gives. He begins, be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us. And gave himself. Love gives, gave himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice which was fragrant. In contrast to that, verses three and four speak about the self-gratifying lust that grabs But among you there must not even be a hint, let it not be named literally, among you, sexual immorality for any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper. For God's holy people. Nor should there be obscenity. We saw last week that that refers To the four-letter words that disfigure and reduce sex to an animal level, or of uh vain uh foolish talk foolish talk in the NIV referring to uh remember that word has the Root from which we get our word moron refers to empty-headed chatter to draw attention to myself at whatever the cost. crude talk, put downs, or thirdly, coarse joking, referring to the root of that meaning to twist or to turn something, give it a double meaning, to be clever and cool. but to twist something into uh ugliness. But rather, he says, which are out of place, totally out of place for the Christian, but rather thanksgiving. The new language of the kingdom. Thanksgiving, which occupies and sets the tone of my conversation. And I uh have found uh mentioned this before, I'll mention it again, that personally, what is Particularly helpful to me in that is to begin each day by looking at just a verse or two of Ephesians 1 to 3, because that's the gospel. And to just take that verse, and if I've uh got it clear in my mind to refresh or maybe to fix it again, to memorize that verse. And just use that verse to begin the day by thanking God for the truth of that, praising Him, applying it to myself. I am blameless and holy in love. He predestinated me before the creation of the world to be his son. through the one that he loves in his good pleasure and his will for me. You know, just go through those things. Set the tone of thanksgiving. Best antidote for a dirty mind, Paul says Fixing praise, thanksgiving in your mind on the Lord Jesus. Verses 3 and 4 are Paul's instruction to us. But he doesn't leave it there. He goes on in verses 5 to 7 to some incentives to buttress the instruction. And that's what I want to consider this morning. The incentives that he gives begins, you see, in verse 5, with the word for. That's the link. He gives you, tells you about sexual activity, sexual talk and thinking, and then he says, for, because So the idea here is, because this is true, and what he does for incentives is you'll notice that he gives two words of instruction, further instruction. It's four warnings basically in verses five to seven. Two of those warnings are in terms of consequences of the disobedience to what he has said in verses three and four. And two of those are in terms of instruction warnings for how to do it. And so what he does here is to say, if you look in your uh outline, your bulletin outline, you'll see it in the italics. The pattern is consequence, then so do this. Consequence, so do this. Okay? And that's the thread of his thought. Keep that in mind as we're looking at verses 5 to 7 here now. He gives you the consequence. If you don't do what he says, then therefore, I warn you, do this. And again, the consequence. And again, therefore, make sure that you do this. What is it? that he's telling us to do. Well look again now at verses five to seven. Four. Of this you can be sure. No immoral, impure, or greedy person, simply quoting again from verse three. No such person, such a man is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Now the so-do. Let no one deceive you with empty words, because, consequence, of such things, God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. Second, so do, therefore, do not be partners with them. Now what's that about? First consequence. The first consequences, these are all in terms of D's to help you. Remembering, first consequence is the disqualification of the impure for the kingdom. Look again at verse 5. For of this you can be sure. No immoral, impure, or greedy person, such a man as an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Now I said before that Paul does not appeal to benefits and consequences when he tells us to avoid immorality and purity and sexual greed. That's in terms of temporal consequences. But he does here tell you that there are eternal consequences. What's interesting to me, and I hope you don't miss it, some of these little things that Paul just tucks in there that are very easy to overlook. You notice how he begins the verse. For of this you can be sure. You know, I don't know about you, but when I read that, I thought, Lord, in a day when Christianity is seen as offensive simply because it claims to be truth. Because it claims absolutes. It claims that there are some things of which we can be sure. Don't miss. That Paul's telling you there's a lot of things about God's word you may be not totally clear about. There are a lot of values, a lot of decisions, many things in your life. Did you say, I wish I had this nailed down, but I can't be absolutely sure. Paul says, here's something, mark it down, here's something of which you can be absolutely sure. No immoral, impure, or sexually greedy person who makes an idol out of sex will inherit the kingdom of God. That's a pretty strong statement. And he makes that statement in such strong terms because this is exactly the area where many of us want to be unsure. This is the area where people say today, well, I don't really know what the Bible says about that. It's really not clear exactly what is meant. Paul says not what of this you can be sure You don't have to debate this one. You can obey it, you can disobey it, you can ignore it, or you can follow it, but don't say that it's unclear Now, what is it that he says? He says, if you disobey what he's just talked about in verse 3, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. That is a pretty serious radical statement. Whose kingdom is he talking about? Notice that he doesn't say the kingdom of God He doesn't say the kingdom of Messiah. What does he say? The kingdom of Messiah and of God And the Greek form of that, the way the article is used, links Messiah and God in co-equal relationship. Don't miss that. You're talking to a Jehovah's Witness or somebody that denies the deity of Christ, this is just one more of those verses, of which there are many, where the Bible speaks clearly of the deity of Jesus Christ. It is saying two things here. First of all, it is saying that that kingdom, the kingdom of Messiah, is the kingdom of God. They are both the rulers jointly. Two persons of the three persons of the Trinity jointly are spoken of as the possessors, the rulers of this kingdom. There is no way in the world. that any Jew could speak of Messiah and God as rulers of this kingdom and not blaspheme if Messiah is not God. He is making Messiah coequal with God in this kingdom. But in particular, why does he use that here? I think it's because every Jew who anyone who had the Old Testament was absolutely clear that the kingdom of God was the place of holiness. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 35, you have the picture of the desert wasteland That Messiah is going to come to, and God is going to bring his kingdom through Messiah, and that kingdom is going to be going to transform the desert into a garden. A lush, beautiful garden of streams and fountains and greenery. And then he says in Isaiah chapter, you can read the whole chapter yourself later, but just get time for just one verse to point out what I'm uh driving at here from Ephesians. He then says after this beautiful picture of the garden transformed out of a desert Isaiah 35, 8, and a highway will be there, and it will be called the way of holiness. The unclean will not journey on it. It will be for those who walk in that way. Wicked fools will not go about on it. Now, Paul's saying, you understand, of course, it's clear that the kingdom of God is for those who have been made holy. I want you to make sure, he says here, that when you talk about Messiah, who loved us and gave himself for us That you don't compromise that to mean that, oh, well, that's okay. That's the God of the Old Testament. But the God of the New Testament in Jesus Well, you know, he's got a different standard. He allows people who fool around and play with sex and are impure, characterized by impurity. He allows such people in his kingdom because he's the God of grace. So Paul brings these two together. Will not inherit the kingdom of Messiah and of God. For Messiah's kingdom is the holy kingdom of God. Don't ever separate them. Now having said that, who then is disqualified? Well, he says, those who don't fit in such a kingdom. Those who wouldn't be comfortable in such a kingdom, namely the immoral, those who play at sex. outside of marriage, the impure, those who arouse passions by what they watch or do, the greedy, the idolaters, who substitute immediate relief of pornography or sex for their deep needs instead of the God who calls us to place the passions of our heart squarely upon Him. And to find healthy relationships where giving is a central part of it, not simply grasping for my own gratification. Paul says people who don't fit that won't inherit the kingdom. Now be absolutely clear, he's not saying if you have ever been immoral, impure, or have had sex as an idol, that you cannot inherit the kingdom. He's speaking in present tense, if this morning that characterizes you. Sex is an idol. You are in bondage to pornography. There is some relationship you are involved in that simply transgresses the biblical grounds. Of sexual intimacy, and you refuse to give that up, then Paul says you are in peril of not inheriting the kingdom of Messiah that is God's holy kingdom. But you say I heard uh the pastor at the memorial service just uh a couple of months ago Swiss Air 111 that went down off of Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia. And I remember when I listened to the news About the deaths of those 229 folks tragically died in that. And at the memorial service, the pastor said, They are all now with God And what happens? We say, all right, preacher, that's what you say here. But I'll tell you, when I go to a funeral, I go to a memorial service I'm always comforted by the fact that the bottom line is, we're all going to be with God. That's a lie. Because it simply contradicts what God says here in Ephesians 5, verse 3. He doesn't say we're all going to be with God, that we're all going to inherit his kingdom. Is that person saying, I know there was not one of those 229 people who had an idol of sex and who were living in immorality and impurity? Now be absolutely clear also and don't mistake what I'm saying. God doesn't pick on sex as the one thing that disqualifies you. That is simply what Paul's talking about here. In the same context of speaking about sex in 1 Corinthians 6 or in Galatians 5 or other places, he also speaks of those who are deceitful, those who are hateful, those who are gossips. Those who have idols of any other thing that substitutes for God, the creation around which my affections are centrally set. Sex is simply the topic here. That's all I'm talking about. Because that's what Paul's speaking of here. But there are many things that disqualify us for the kingdom of God. But Paul here is focusing on the fact that God's kingdom is a holy kingdom, and therefore there will not be impurity or people using one another for their own gratification. in that kingdom. If that is characteristic of you this morning, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. He goes on. So do. Is there any hope? So do, he says. Disregard deceitful words that minimize impurity. You see, Paul anticipates in his time, just as today, that there's going to be people who are going to say, oh, come on. You know, you're really pushing it. You are intolerably rigidly strict. The Bible can't mean that literally. That's the goal we hear today. You know, it's interpretation. It can't mean that literally. So what's Paul do? He said, I know what you're thinking. What's the loophole? How do I get out of this? Verse six, therefore, so let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of such things, God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. Paul saying here There are lots of ways that people are going to tell you that the Bible really doesn't mean that. Now there's two ways That people with empty words that he says will deceive you. Lots of ways that this happens. But let me just focus on just one from a non-Christian point of view and one from a Christian, so-called Christian point of view. From the non-Christian point of view, the message is that the Bible is unrealistically restrictive. Yeah, the Bible may teach that But the Bible's out of touch. The Bible was written by people who were afraid that somebody somewhere was going to have a good time. The Bible was written by people whose mentality of life was: don't do that, don't look at this, and for heaven's sake, don't even think about that. That's the Bible. And so you hear what I say here from the Bible on Sunday, and then you go home tonight and you turn on the TV and you see some affair or somebody that's involved in immoral, impure activities. And along with that comes a scorning of those who are restrictive. How many times do you see that on television? This idea that, you know, well of course there's these fundamentalists, you know, there's these right-wingers that want to tell you that this isn't normal. But anything that feels this good has got to be normal. Sex with several people is normal. No matter what those religious people tell you And so the empty words that Paul's speaking about is those that really want to twist your mind to say it really isn't in your best interest to follow what the Bible says. It goes against the grain. It's unrealistically restrictive. And yet we see again and again the sad, painful consequences. of people who play at sex outside of marriage, who find that they are drawn into an ir irresistible relationship. Listen, Kathy and I have both had serious temptations. Nobody here doesn't have temptation. But it's The consequences of whether you resist or don't resist that demonstrate in hindsight the wisdom of God's Word, right? And so Paul's saying, beware of those who are going to say, but that's what the Bible says, but you know, you really can't take that seriously today. Or even more subtle, the message from people who call themselves Christians, who would say basically, God won't condemn you for that. The Bible really isn't meant to speak a warning in the context of grace. Against people who do these kind of things. I mean, God is a God of grace, God is a God of unconditional love. Therefore, if you have accepted Jesus, if you have made a decision for Christ or whatever, then you really are forgiven for any of these things. That's what the Bible says, right? That's the gospel. And the gospel does say that we're forgiven for all of our sins But the Bible never allows us to presume upon that forgiveness to continue in immoral behavior Chapter 5, 4. You remember in verse 17 he said, So I tell you and insist on it, you must no longer walk and live, as you did when you were an unbeliever. Verse 19 He speaks of those who, having lost all sensitivity, have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, with a continual lust for more. Those, he says, are those separated from God. Then verse 20. You, however, did not come to know Christ Messiah that way. So verse 22, he's saying you are putting off the flesh with its deceitful desires that says it really is more fun to live outside of God's boundaries. And then you find afterwards, through tears and heartache, disappointment, disillusionment, broken heart, that was a lie. God is seeking to protect you. He's seeking to surround you with his wisdom and his truth and his love. Of this you can be sure. You don't have to second guess. But the one who made your body and made sex, God invented it. The devil didn't invent it. God invented it. And God protects it. And so God says that those who tell you That this really is something that's just all under grace, don't worry about it. He says in verse 6, because of such things, God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. God's wrath is coming on that. So that's the third point, the consequence. Destruction of the disobedient. Destruction, his wrath. Now this is speaking of what today is the forbidden topic, the wrath of God. I have no delight to talk to you about the wrath of God. But I can't claim to be honest and care for you and not warn you of the truth. Paul says of this you can be sure. I read just this week of a woman who was under conviction during the first Great Awakening. And remonstrated with a person who had shared the gospel with her because she said, You didn't warn me of the wrath that was inevitable for sin. And so I don't want to be guilty of that. Paul said in chapter 2 and verse 3 that you and I When we follow our desires and our own thoughts, like the rest, we're by nature objects of his wrath. Nowhere does modern secularistic psychological thinking so attack and scoff at biblical truth. than in this matter of the wrath of God. Do you find yourself embarrassed, honestly, as I read verse 6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of such things God's wrath comes on the disobedient. If you had or have brought a friend here this morning who's not a believer. And you hear me reading that verse, you find yourself thinking, I wish you didn't hit that one today. I mean you're front I I want this person to know God is a God of love and grace and Geez, of all the verses yesterday today. I mean really, doesn't it embarrass us? Let's be honest. We say that that is, again, part of that outmoded hellfire brimstone, manipulate people by fear, kind of psychology of the old days, but it doesn't work today. G We're not afraid of that. Oh yeah? I wonder. You know, those folks in Swiss Air 111, they say had about 15 minutes. of warning before they went down. Do you think that those people on that plane as it was spiraling down toward the ocean were simply sad that their lives were going to be shortened and come to an end? That all that was on their mind was, I hope it goes quickly, and I hope I don't have a lot of pain. But other than that, and the fact that my life's going to end, I really have no further concerns That's not what the accounts of survivors in such situations tell us. One of the most poignant images In that whole matter back in August, or early September, actually, first couple days of September, one of the most uh poignant images I remember on the TV screen was a shot they had of a Bible floating in the ocean. Some of you may have seen that. Is it possible that that was all of a sudden the most important possession on that whole plane for those 15 minutes? I'm going to face God. And all of a sudden I'm terrified. All the college courses and all the things that I've read that said this really is nothing, all of a sudden, it is the most overwhelming reality in my life. I'm reminded of an incident that happened in Manegua, Nicaragua, December 23, 1972. Monegro, Nicaragua, at that time was a city that was a very irreligious city, a lot of Catholic churches, but only 5% of the population of Manegua had any interest in religious services. In fact it was December the twenty second. That evening there were a lot of parties going on, a lot of sexual celebration of the holiday season. But nobody's in church and nobody's thinking about church. But at 1225 a. m. , the early morning of December the twenty-third, nineteen seventy-two, Three violent tremors shook the city of Manegua, Nicaragua. Three severe earthquakes, one right after another, that within a period of three minutes utterly destroyed a city of four hundred thousand. Within three minutes, six to seven thousand people were destroyed. Some disappeared and were never seen again. Hundreds. People simply disappeared into the bowels of the earth. Over forty thousand people injured. The result was that in the hours to come, in the center of Nicaragua, Was an evangelical church that was known for preaching Christ in the Bible. That church was scoffed and mocked and ridiculed. But in the early morning of December 23, 1972, though that building stood, it looked like it was going to collapse at any point Wide fissures, cracks up and down the wall, ceiling looked like it was just ready to come in, and people flocked by the hundreds and the thousands into that building, at the risk of their life, to hear the gospel. People who could care less about it a few hours before said I'd rather die hearing God's word than die out on the street. And the clamor was let us in, let us in, let us in, let us in. Let me quote to you from one account of that time. One of the most moving scenes on that terrible night was the people kneeling in the streets praying to God as they had never prayed before. Their homes were gone, their possessions were lost, some of their loved ones were trapped beneath the rubble. Many thought that the end of the world had come and in a city in which ninety five percent of the population had no connection or interest in gospel preaching churches, Only a few had shown an interest in religion at all. More praying took place that night than the city had ever seen before. Do you see the favor that God is doing to you and to me this morning? He's saying, while we're sitting here comfortable, I want you to know the reality is that there is a God who is holy and who judges sin. And that sexual idolatry is just one manifestation of the way we substitute the creation for the Creator. And so he says. There is hope only in Jesus Christ. Remember the context of this is verses 1 and 2. The whole point, the beginning of this is imitate him who loved you and gave himself up for you. Jesus gave himself as an offering and a sacrifice for the immoral, the impure, those who have made an idol out of sex. When Jesus Christ hung upon the cross, he hung upon the cross as a pornographer, as a sex addict, as an abuser As one who had committed adultery and fornication, who was the vilest of the vile in God's eyes. All of those things that you have done for which you feel the profoundest shame, Jesus Bore exactly that. Don't let his bearing of sin be some vague image. It was your impurity and immorality that Jesus came to bear. If you are looking to him. It is exactly that. Some of you Some of you women may be, as I tell you, this feeling shame of sexual abuse that you've experienced Jesus Christ came to bear that shame, that you would be cleansed in him. If you are hearing this defensively, resistant, you are shutting out the one hope that you have. If you are hearing this with shame and a desire to not offer to God any better sense of intentions for the future. But simply the shameful recognition, I need the cleansing work of Jesus. He offers it to you. And he offers it to you right now, at this very instant, if you look to him. And so Paul says, out of this, The final word of warning is to dissociate yourself from any impure practices with those who do them. Verse 7. Therefore do not be partners with them. You notice he doesn't say don't dissociate with the people. Don't have friends who are immoral. He doesn't say that. He says the the Greek is to co-participate. Don't be participating with them in it. You and I as Christians have to be careful that we don't say, well it's safer just to hang around Christians, then I'm not tempted with that stuff. That's not what Paul's saying. In fact, we'll go into that more later. But he's saying you and I must must live within a world of immorality and impurity and have friends who are like that. But because of the cleansing of Jesus Christ in our lives, we understand that God's intention in sex is for us to live according to what He has said, of the intimacy of that within marriage. And in the purity of that, to enjoy and delight in his wisdom, in his purification of us, and the life that he holds out to us. What's God been saying to you these three weeks? Is he telling you about a relationship you need to put away? Some things you need to get rid of in your home Some people that you need to be in touch with to help you in that? Let me offer again the men's support group that we have here. You don't have to contact anybody If you are a man who says, I need help, I want this to come out of the dark and into the open in my life. You show up here this Thursday, 8. 45 in the library. I will not be there. This is a ministry of our church, totally anonymous. You come 8. 45 library here Thursday evening and gather with a group of guys that can give you some help We're going to come now, we're going to pray. We're going to offer ourselves to the Lord in examining, Lord, what are you saying to me? From all of this, the shame, but the hope that is in Jesus Christ who's cleansed me from all sin.