We are uh looking at Ephesians chapter five, and as we move on from uh where we've been the last couple of weeks, let me uh call attention to what I believe is a very important principle of Bible study. It's what I call the up close step back principle, sometimes called the whole parts and whole. The idea that When you're studying a book of the Bible, it's important to see the whole thing, kind of to see a big picture of where it's going. Then you get up real close and you look at it verse by verse Get a magnifying glass, you're thinking, meditating on all the comparisons, contrasts, all the little parts of the verse. But then occasionally you've got to step back, you've got to see the big picture again in order to understand where you're going. And so as we have looked at chapter 5 of Ephesians, verses 3 to 7 on sex in the last three weeks, we now move on to some delight and others chagrin, on to verses 8 to 14. And as we do that, we need to step back for a moment And understand the big picture of where Paul is going in the book of Ephesians in order to make sense of what he's saying in verses 8 to 14. So you remember again that the book of Ephesians can be divided into two basic halves, chapters 1 to 3 and 4 to 6. In chapters 1 to 3 are the facts of the gospel, who you are and what you have in Jesus, how to rest in Jesus Christ and his finished work. The posture of sitting, being seated with Christ. Chapter 2, verse 6. And then he goes on to how to kneel and enter into that more fully in chapter 3. That's the first part. Sitting and kneeling by faith in the finished work of Christ. All the facts of the gospel. Chapter 4, 5, and 6, he begins to move into the commands. He begins to tell you how to walk in the gospel, how to walk in the new freedom that you have in Jesus Christ. And so in chapter 4, 5, and 6, you have a number of commands for living out the gospel, how to walk, how to stand. Again, by faith. Do you remember in chapter four and verse seventeen? He said, So I tell you and I insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer walk. as the Gentiles, the nations, the unbelievers do in the futility of their thinking. And then he talked to you verses 22 to 24 about putting off the old nature, putting on the new nature. In righteousness and holiness of truth. Then he began to apply that to some specific areas in our lives. Remember, he talked about lying. stealing, attitudes about work. He talked about anger, bitterness, and how we need to forgive, as Christ has forgiven us, and use our tongues to build up rather than to tear down. And this whole thing is climaxed in chapter 5, verse 1 and 2, where he says, Therefore be imitators of God, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love. Just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. From that point, Paul then introduced a contrast. Excuse me, third hour. You get the weakest part. And the contrast is between the sacrificial love that gives of Jesus Christ And the self-gratifying lust that grabs that we see in sexual relationships that are out of the bounds of what God says there to be. And so he said in chapter 5 and verse 3, Among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality, or of any kind of impurity, or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. Nor should there be obscenity, four-letter words to describe sex, foolish talk and empty-headed chatter, or coarse joking. The double meanings, the twisted nature of conversation, to be clever, which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving, reviewing Chapters one to three, giving thanks to God for the truth of that in your life daily. For of this you can be sure that no immoral, impure, or greedy person, such a man as an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no one deceive you with empty words. Because of such things God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. Therefore, do not be partners with them. Now it's in that context. That Paul in verse 8 of chapter 5 comes back to remind you of the radical new nature that you have in Jesus Christ. After these commands and these warnings and all the particular applications, he comes right back again to say, you are radically different. And therefore you are able, you are in fact impelled to live in a radically different manner. And so verse 8 he says, For, you see, you do this because you were once darkness. But now you are a light in the Lord. That's the fact. You see the contrast? Something that you were Now something that you are. And you notice the contrast is stated in the strongest possible terms. Darkness and light. Utterly incompatible. You were darkness, now you're light. You notice that the one's a fact. You were darkness, now you're light, which is followed then by a command. Just what he's been doing, this pattern of the whole book. Therefore he says, live, walk. Again it's the word walk. Walk as children of light Now, he then develops that. So let's hear God's word, as I read to you, verses eight to fourteen And see how that flows from chapter five, verse three to seven. Thank you, Sandy. That's very helpful. Very thoughtful. Also saves your ears a little bit here. Thank you. Okay. Let's hear God's word beginning in verse 8. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light, for the fruit of light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, and find out what pleases the Lord. Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret. But everything exposed by the light becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. This is why it is said, Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Chapter 5, verse 2, he had said, walk in love. Chapter 5, verse 8, walk in light. John tells us that God is light and God is love. Paul says, because that's God's nature, walk in light, walk in love. And so that's the pattern that he's giving to us here. Walk in love and now walk in light. Now what I want to do today is to briefly just give an overview of these verses 8 to 14. And then believe it or not, next week we are going to begin our holiday series. Now you complain that bring Christmas earlier and earlier every year to the stores and it's terrible and all that. And you think, boy, now Al's just getting like Kmart, you know, he's bringing Christmas into beginning of November here. But last year, as I was looking at our next messianic prophecy, Isaiah 42, I realized it was so full and so rich. that either I'd have to take two years to cover it or else I'd have to start early and figure figure you wanted to do it all when you can remember it, you know, the beginning from the end. It only made sense to start it a little early this year before Thanksgiving, and then we'll have a Thanksgiving message and move right on, continuing in Isaiah and other Christmas messages. So what we're going to do is cover this in an overview this morning, and then in January we will go back and revisit. looking at verses 8 to 14 in two more messages, verse 8 to 10 and then verses 11 to 14, to break it down a little bit more. So this morning's the overview of that, and then just keep it in mind when we get to January and pull it out again. We'll continue from there. Alright? The basic idea is very easy to grasp. 8 to 14 is saying you are radically different. If you're a Christian, the Christian and the unbeliever have radically different natures. You do not add Jesus Christ to your life. You do not walk along living in a way that has some good and some bad, and then you hear about how there is a heaven and there is a hell. And that God judges sin, and that you would like to make sure that you're going to heaven. You hear that Jesus died for sinners, and so you say, That sounds good. I don't see a problem with that. I agree with that. I accept Jesus. I believe that. And you simply add Jesus into your life, kind of like a fire insurance policy that you take out, to make sure that when you die, that the pastor will be able to say some words of consolation to the family that you're in heaven. That's not the way it works. Paul says, rather, when you're moving down this road and Jesus Christ comes into your life, you turn around and you go back 180 degrees in a different direction. You are radically different. You were once darkness, but now you are light. And that makes all the difference. And the rest of the verses unpack how radically different your life is because of Jesus Christ. Everything is different. You have a different nature. Your relationships are different. Your desires are different. Your effect on other people is different. You feel now a new peace because of your reconciliation with God, but you now feel a new tension because you don't fit in the world. And that's what this is about. First point then, you are utterly different. That's the first blank. And that difference is described in terms of darkness and light. Those are not arbitrary. It's not that he could have said, you were once light, now you're darkness. Darkness has a particular meaning in the Bible. It has three ideas that are developed in chapter 4 and verses 17 to 19 and many other places. The first is the idea of ignorance. We say, I'm in the dark. Now the office is transitioning all of our computer software, computers, everything else, and some of us feel like we're really in the dark. And so we have Jerry and Todd and they come in to give us some light on what we're doing So we speak of darkness as ignorance. And in terms of the gospel, of course, the darkness is talking about we don't know God. We don't know what He's like. We all have opinions But our opinions are darkness. We don't know ourselves. We don't know who made us, why we exist, what our purpose is. We don't understand life and how to live it The darkness refers to ignorance. It also refers to death, going down into the darkness of the grave. Darkness speaks of death as opposed to life. And darkness also speaks of evil as opposed to goodness. In fact, Halloween's original origins were that when the Druids saw that this time of the year things got dark. That reminded them of the overcoming of darkness. You know, they thought of the sun god as the god of light. And with that became associated the evil spirits of darkness. And so the idea is that darkness speaks of evil, wrong. And what Paul is saying here is that you were once darkness But you have been radically changed because of Jesus Christ. Look again at verse 8. You were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. That light that you have become, that new nature you're given, is only because of your relationship with Jesus Christ. And the result of that is that you are light, which he defines in verse 9 as goodness, righteousness, and truth. That's the fruit of the light. Now this radical distinction that's so basic to the gospel came home to me again this week in particularly compelling force. Monday I was uh given the opportunity to share the gospel with two women whom I've known for some time. Neither of them have anything to do with this congregation, so don't worry that I might be revealing anything that could possibly reflect on anybody that would ever hear about it here. In the first case, as I began to talk to the person about the gospel, this woman had been going to a Bible study for a couple of years. Was very interested in the gospel, wanted to come into a relationship with Jesus Christ. Nobody had invited her to the Bible study. In fact, it was some insights on how an unbeliever perceives a lot of our Bible studies, you know, when people tell you to turn to a reference and you don't know where in the Bible it is and you don't even have a friend there to to help you out. But she persevered. She wanted to know spiritual truth. And the second case, for years this this woman had been wondering, would she go to heaven? Was afraid she'd go to hell, and she wanted to talk to me about that. As I explained the gospel and I was struggling to make Christ's claims and his offer and his substitutionary sacrifice clear, it was dawning on me, this isn't coming through And I realized in both cases, I believe it was for exactly the same reason, it's exactly what Paul's talking about here. In each case, and I said this to them, I said, your problem is you view yourself as basically a good person. Who has done some very shameful things, and you're wondering how can God ever forgive you for those things? But as you look at those things, you say, How could I have done that? That's not me. I'm a good person. How could I have done that? And how can God ever forgive me for that? So I'm basically light, and I've got these little patches of darkness. And the gospel comes in order to eliminate those patches of darkness so I can be reconciled with God. I said, rather what you should do is when you look at those most shameful parts of your life, see those rather as accurate indicators of what your heart is really like. Those are not the exceptions. The exceptions are when you do the good things. That's what's out of character. What is in character are the most shameful things because the Bible says our hearts are darkness. You notice he doesn't say in verse 8, for you were once in darkness. Notice that He says, For you were once darkness. You were the darkness. Your heart was the darkness. And the encouraging thing to meet is in both cases, the women did not deny that In fact, it seemed like a new breakthrough in their understanding that, so that's why the gospel doesn't make sense. And in fact, in one case We prayed together, and the second woman said, I feel, she was weeping, and she said, I feel greatly relieved. Isn't that the amazing thing about the gospel? A person's striving so hard. Some of us, some of you perhaps there are striving so hard to believe that you're good. And the gospel comes and says, no, no, no, no. You're kidding yourself. You are darkness. And you say, wow, that's relief. Man, thanks. Why? Because you see, Christ came for sinners. As long as you and I blame shift and make excuses Then we will never see the gospel as it comes to meet us in our radical darkness. And that's who Jesus has come for. And so Paul says you are now light in the Lord. It's not because you have become a person who is now in touch with this better part of yourself. You've been radically transformed, but only by virtue of your relationship, your union with Jesus, you see. Therefore, he says, since you are different, live differently. Second point, therefore, live differently. Not to prove that you're good, but really simply as the outworking of this new nature that Jesus Christ has given you. Verse 8 You were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light. See it again? Indicative, imperative, the fact, the command. Live what you are. Simply be what you are, which is, you see, he says, the fruit of the light. And that fruit indicates it's not of yourself. It's the fruit of the Spirit. It's what God is doing in you. That fruit of the light, fruit of the Spirit, consists In all goodness, righteousness, and truth. In other words, doing what is good, what is right, and what is true. And then Having characterized that, notice how precise the Bible is. This is amazing. He wants to make sure that you understand you were darkness, now you're light, therefore live light, goodness, truth, righteousness, righteousness, truth. But that that's not an instantaneous process. It's not, you look back and you say, well this week I've screwed up here and here and here. I must be darkness. I guess I really haven't become light. You know, and and you go in despair thinking, since I haven't had that new nature radically evident in my life, there must be something wrong with me And so Paul moves on to verse 10. And he says, now the NIV says, and find out what pleases the Lord. Better translation, more accurate to the Greek, would be, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out, you see, the ongoing process discovering, proving, finding out what it is that pleases the Lord. In other words, what you do is you wake up tomorrow morning and you say, here's the stresses today. Here's the temptations I'm going to be facing. Here's all the difficulties of the battle that I'm in. Now, Lord, I don't know how to handle all this. But I do believe, as I read your word, that this would please you. That's clear. That returning this good for evil or or not gossiping or doing something that I that's going to please you So because I am light, now Lord, enable me to walk as a child of the light in this one area. And as you do that and you discover what pleases the Lord, the process continues of a sensitization. More and more about what is good, what is right, and what is true, and you grow in that. So your encouragement, brother and sister, is not where you are But where you're moving, whether you're seeing that process taking place in your life. Now, Satan gets us coming and going. And so for the unbeliever, the problem is that if you are sitting here this morning without Jesus Christ, you're trying valiantly and desperately to talk yourself into the fact that you're basically a good person with a few blotches of darkness. And that, you know, you if you could just take care of those and somehow Christianity and the Bible and Jesus could could just remove that, then you would be able to flourish in your goodness. And the Bible comes and says, no, no, no. You are radically and utterly darkness and need to be radically and utterly forgiven and transformed. But then the opposite occurs. For many of us as Christians, we are in touch with the darkness. But then for us, our problem is to see and to believe that we are light. For some of us, we find it very hard to believe that there is anything good in us. Now, when I say that, I don't mean inherently I mean by virtue of our union with Christ, but that there resides in you the Holy Spirit and his fruit, which is good. Let me illustrate that. This week in our men's group from our cell, we were meeting for breakfast and we were talking about Some of the relationships at work and interacting with unbelievers. And I was asking a man, I happened to be leading this week, and I said What are those things that were you feel any of the tensions that you're feeling in that situation? And immediately the men began to talk about all the ways that they had failed in all the relationships at work. You know, here's a person, I don't know what to do with this person, and boy, you know, I I talked to 'em and I just I just totally blew it and you know, what a wretch I am and another person goes on, you know, and I'm so confused and I'm a coward and We had just unending stories of confusion and cowardice, you know, for about ten minutes. We finally said, well, let's you know, let's pray about what God wants us to do in these situations And as we were praying, you know, I all of a sudden I just got this vision, I would, you know, not one like mystical thing, but I just had this sense that these guys' hearts were not what they were perceiving. All they were doing was focusing on the failure in the darkness. And I began to thank God that He had given them a heart that really did want to love these people at work, wanted to share Christ with them. that in fact they were doing a lot better than they were even talking about as we discussed the situations, but all they could see was the failure Now as I began to thank God for that and began to talk about empowering them and clearing the confusion and helping them to not be ashamed of the gospel and all this They began to pray, and I noticed the entire atmosphere of the discussion changed to where we're when we finished, we had moved from gloom and failure and despair to a sense of hope and expectation. God has made me light. And He has given me by His Spirit the power to walk as light. And therefore, we finished with them saying, let's see what the Lord will do in this next week as we believe Him to help us to simply relate to these people in a way that is more bringing the light of the gospel. It was it was a rather dramatic to me illustration of the need for us as Christians to also see that God has made us light and not only dwell. on the darkness part. Having said that, he then goes on in the last point, fourth point to describe the process more specifically in how that is to work out. Specifically then backside, how do you live differently in your contact with the world? He's made you different. He's made you light. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 in verse 6. The Bible tells us, God who said, Let light shine out in darkness, made his light to shine in our hearts. To give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. He says right in that same context that we are transformed from one degree of glory as we contemplate the glory of Jesus. Some of us need to focus more on the glory and the light of Jesus than simply dwelling on our sin and our failure. When you do that, you all of a sudden begin to realize that you are in a hostile environment. You're not in a world that is going to encourage that. And so he states three things about living in that tension. How to live. The first is a negative. In verse 11, he says, escape from the sin. Look again at verse 11. have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness. Now you notice there that he does not say have nothing to do with sinners. What he says is have nothing to do with sin. Big difference. The Bible never encourages a Pharisaic. Separationism. We are always called to stay aloof from the sinful activities When our friends in school, the things that we see them doing that we know are wrong, the Bible never says that, well, you know, you're just living in that situation. You know, you the darkness is still there, so you just, you know, who you know, w just gotta be realistic. And we know that there's gonna be times when you're going to simply blow it Well, we will blow it. But what Paul says here is that you never have to blow it. You never have to sin. have nothing to do, he says, with the fruitless deeds of darkness, because you are light. It's messy to continue to relate to unbelievers, isn't it? It's so much easier to just kind of withdraw and have all our relationships that are close to you with Christians. We're on the same wavelength, basically, same values. We can say things and we know that the other person's going to understand. It's just so much easier you can relax around your brothers and sisters, right? When you're with the unbelievers, you never know what's going to come up. And you know, while do I make an issue of this? Um well do I speak to that? Do I really state what I think here or do I just let it go? We're going to go see this. Well, do I really want to go see that? Do I want to be there? Do I want to do it? You know, all the ethical issues that come up with unbelievers. And yet, Paul says, that's what we're called to do. Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness. But he goes on the rest of the verses to talk about exposing it, bringing the gospel to them. assuming that we continue in those relationships. And sometimes God places us in particular relationships because we are his means to bring the gospel in that person's life. Again, this week that's been rather forcefully impressed on Kathy and me She's been taking some courses, and in one course, she's gotten to know a woman who's taking that course with her. And the woman is from a very pagan background. I don't know if she's ever gone to a church. She is on her third marriage, by the way. This is somebody not around here, so you don't have to worry about me telling somebody that you're gonna identify. But this person uh comes from a a background that is utterly in lifestyle as well as beliefs, is about as far from the gospel as you can get. But they've hit it off in the course and they joke about the professor and they talk about, you know, the things that women sharing a class will talk about together. And in the process of this, this woman has said to Kathy, as the trust began to be built, that, you know, you know what my lifestyle is like, and she's not particularly proud of it, but you know, that's where it is. But you know, my daughter She's gone and got religion. Now, you know, she started going to church. She started reading her Bible, and I'll tell you it's downright obnoxious. All she does is preach to me. Now she's going to marry this guy and she's going to submit to him, you know, and they read the Bible together and they pray together and they do all that. Well, you know, it becomes pretty apparent to Kathy what happened is her daughter became a Christian. Yeah. So finally, you know, Cathy comes out with it. Well, yeah, it's sounds like his daughter's become a Christian and I'm a Christian. Oh Okay, well, relationship survived that. So they continued on and she shares a little more and they talk about it, you know. But then a little further down the road in the next week or two, she says, but you know what really bugs me is pastors. I cannot stand relating to pastors. Those guys, bunch of hypocrites, and uh Well, by the way, I happen to be married to a pastor. Oh. Well not only did the relationship survive that She had some extra tickets to the Van Gogh exhibit and she said, why don't we all go together? So we did, and we had a great time, and I must say She did not look like she was, you know, like I was from another planet. No, you're one of those guys. He's very gracious, very nice, had a great time. In fact, they decided to go out to dinner after. We went out to dinner, had a great time together Just relating as people, as image bearers of God. And believe me, you talk about the gospel in Van Gogh. I mean, if you know anything of Van Gogh, his father was a pastor, he became a pastor, he rejected the faith, and so We're not talking something here that is apart from spiritual things. So we had a great time talking. Then this week, my wife comes home and she says, Guess what, honey? We're sitting in class tonight. And this person says to me, you know, I just found out where my daughter and her fiance are going to church. She said, it is some group called Orthodox Presbyterians. She said Can you imagine an aim like Orthodox Presbyterian? She says it sounds like some Greek Orthodox or Russian Orthodox or some cult or something. She says, driving me nuts Kathy says, well, just so happens my husband is an Orthodox Presbyterian minister. It still survived In fact, Kathy didn't get to class on Wednesday, and there's this long message on the answering machine with this woman calling and saying, I didn't see you in class. What happened to you? You haven't decided to drop the course, have you? And I'm thinking, what a mystery of God's ways. You'd look at these people and you'd say they have nothing in common But here's a relationship that has been built to where this woman is saying, we're going to continue in this, aren't we? And all of a sudden you realize that there is an excitement about relating to the world. And you know, it's messy, right? But when you see God working in his unique and sovereign power, then you're excited to just be part of that. Just sharing the gospel this week, made to me, brought home to me once again, how the gospel is good news. When I share it, I'm telling myself And Paul goes on to say is in second place, not only do you escape from sin, that's the first thing, but secondly that you expose sin, that's the second thing. Not being ashamed of the gospel and simply being yourself in a natural way to offer what you believe, you will expose sin. We'll talk about that more in January. But it's not no sophisticated techniques. It's simply being who you are as a Christian. And then thirdly, he says, positively you evangelize the sinner. Verse 14 This is why it is said, Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. That's the gospel you see. It's taken from Isaiah 60, verse 1, and an ancient hymn, probably of the first century church. That Paul is quoting there. The offer of new life in Jesus Christ. I expect that opportunity to come in this relationship that Kathy has with this other woman I expect that God will give you opportunities, and He'll give me opportunities as we escape from sin, living with sinners, exposing the sin in natural ways. Not in a way that's that's purposely judgmental, but as simply as a Christian shedding light on darkness to then offer the new life that is available in Jesus Christ. There's attention to that, right? This week, uh with a barber that I go to, last uh time I was there, we got into a conversation on spiritual things. And so I talked to her about uh what the Bible says, and uh she's not even from this country, a little difficulty with English, but as we talked about that Uh I explained that the Bible, which she had never read, never had any exposure to a Bible, had said the Bible gives us a the reason why we're here and the purpose that God has intended and how we have missed that and how we can discover it and live in it. And so this time I brought the little booklet we have, Ultimate Questions. And I noticed just sitting there Waiting for the opportunity to give that booklet, I'm thinking, okay, I need the right opportunity, you know, for how I'm gonna bring this up and how I'm a pastor and I'm sitting here how am I What's the right out the right out of the opportunity was when everybody else was out of the barber shop, right? Then I can say to her, you know, by the way, I got this little booklet I wanted to thought you might want to take a look at. Gave it to her. She was a little perplexed, but I noticed as I walk out the door and look back, she's sitting down reading it. God can use you and He can use me as we simply follow as light that He's placed in the darkness to live as one who is self-consciously light. Let's pray. Oh Lord, give to us a new realization we are light because of Jesus Christ who's come into our lives and transformed us. Not because of anything we have done, but Lord Jesus, simply because by your mercy, you have made us light. Lord, help us to live in this world, escaping from the sin, in those natural and inevitable ways, exposing the sin. And then offering the gospel to evangelize the sinner, the good news of Jesus who shines upon us as he shines through us Who are your people, make us open and available. In Jesus' name. Amen.