And you may recall the meaning and the effects of the filling of the Spirit in Ephesians chapter five, verses eighteen to twenty-one. If you have your Bibles, please turn to that And I remind you, as I remind myself going through this, that this is not a theoretical study to see what is it like to be filled with the Spirit. But rather this is because some of us, perhaps many of us, perhaps most of us, Are you included in that? Of those who long and deeply desire for God's Spirit to come in our lives and make a difference. To make us fit and holy vessels for Him who lives supernatural lives because His Spirit is coming and dwelling in us and filling us. individuals, families, cells, the congregation. And to believe God, to believe to see the beginnings of the stirrings of awakening in the Howard County region. The last pastor's prayer meeting that we had, where the pastors from the Howard County region gathered together, there was a particular discussion, a vigorous discussion. about a uh a holy unrest about the church in this area being marginalized and the desire to see that The Church of the Lord Jesus would become more central and focused in the activities of the community because the Lord Jesus Christ is King of this community. We want to see him honored in the way that he ought to be. And I mentioned to you that last month four of us pastors met with Dr. Hickey, the superintendent of public schools system in Howard County. We had about an hour with him where we listened to him share some of his heart and the things that were his concerns and to offer ourselves as resources That he would begin to think of us in difficulties, that he would see us as a resource, And then Thursday morning at our concert of prayer, uh Dick Stum mentioned, sitting next to me, said, uh, have you seen this letter from Dr. Hickey that has gone to parents of all the students in the Howard County School System. It was a letter that talked about some of the fears, the nervousness. Um because of rumors that had been circulating about um Monday, May 10th, tomorrow, called uh Judgment Day or Doomsday. Um Where there is the threat of violence, some planned activities, it's all kind of vague and difficult to pin down. but has caused enough alarm that not only Dr. Hickey has written to all the parents, but has instructed the principals of each school to also be in contact with the parents about some of the forebodings and the some of the uh uh particular high security measures that are being taken. So Dick said, well maybe this is an opportunity for the pastors to mobilize to pray and to let them know So uh we went into immediate action uh and uh the pastors, uh number of pastors were emailed, mo mobilized together and said, let us pray. Pray that God would uh protect the schools, that he would uh establish peace, that there would not be any violent activity, uh, not only uh tomorrow, May 10th, but also for the rest of the school year And then Randy Reinhardt, who um leads our group in that, uh called Dr. Hickey and he told him, wanted you to know that we we meant what we talked to you about And so we have mobilized a group of pastors to pray for peace and that there would not be any violent activity. Call upon the living God to hear us and to protect our schools. So I thought, I wonder how he responded to that and didn't know until Friday night, having dinner with my wife out in a restaurant, she said, Did you happened to catch Channel Eleven news. Well of course I haven't caught it, but she got it uh dinner time. And on the news uh the commentator mentioned about these warnings, some of the fears about uh violence on Monday, May 10th, and the news anchor person said, uh, but in Howard County there are a group of pastors praying for peace And I thought, now that must have connected. If he told the news, then something's going on here. Now, again, brothers and sisters, do you see this is a terrible thing. I wouldn't wouldn't wish this for the world for people. uh to go through these kind of fears uh and the potential of violence. But do you see this is exactly what we have been praying for in general Not praying for violence, just praying that the community leaders would be put in a position where they'd say, here is a problem we can't solve, and the only way to solve it is spiritually. And for us then to, as it were, put God's name on the line and say, we believe that there is a living God, and our function in this community now is to intercede. to pray as pastors and as congregations for the peace of the school system. And then to see and to honor God so that he would say, you know, maybe he'd say, well, you know, who knows, maybe nothing was going to happen. But You know, I'm glad you guys paid. And maybe it made a difference. And maybe, you know, it raises questions about reality. and about the nature of God and his truth and of the Bible. So this is what we are praying That God will be honored with it through this, and I would like to both ask you to join us to pray, not only for tomorrow, but the rest of the school year, five weeks or whatever is left And to take a moment right now, and let's pray that God will be honored through this. Join me. Lord, we want to in Jesus' name come, and we want to honor you and pray that you will cause your hand to stay the evil one in any uh plans, attempts any uh evil desires uh to bring about any violent activity tomorrow or for the remaining weeks of this school year that you would keep peace. That Lord, you would show that your power is greater than the evil one, that you would show peace and you would do it in a way that would honor you People have heard now on TV that there are pastors praying for peace. So Lord, we're connected to you. Would you honor your name? It's not for us, but for your name. Bring glory. And show that you are able to overcome the evil one. Keep us praying and watching and looking. Honor yourself through this. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I hope you see this is the vision of Columbia Presbyterian, that we would see in the months and the years ahead the stirrings of awakening and God's power being shown in our community. as he shows that this is not a private faith that we hold in some subjective way, but this is the public truth of God. that affects every area of life. May 26th, we pastors, the leaders, will be meeting with the chief of police, Little Say, of Howard County Police Department Let's pray that God will continue to make these connections and will honor Himself because that's what begins to change the climate, you see, of a community as they begin to say, maybe the gospel needs to be considered. Well, that all begins, you see, with the filling of the Spirit in our lives and in our congregation. So when I say to you that we're studying this not as some theoretical academic thing, I mean that from the bottom of my heart. We are seeking the filling of the Spirit and we're asking, Lord, what does that mean? What should we pray for? What would it look like? And we've seen that in verses 18 to 21, that's one sentence, the command, therefore, do not be drunk with wine, wherein, or which leads to debauchery. That's the artificial stimulant for joy. But rather, he says, be filled with the Spirit, that is the true source of joy, the Spirit igniting the gospel in our hearts. He then connects that to four effects in verses 19 to 21. First of all, speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, second, singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Thirdly, always giving thanks to God, the Father, for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. and fourthly, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Those four effects you see on your bulletin outline there Wisdom, worship, worship, and wisdom. Speaking, singing, thanking, submitting. We looked at the first effect last week in order to see that um that idea speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs does not mean that Christians are to walk around as living operas, you know, pass the salad, pass the, you know, and or praise the Lord, you know, and just go around, you know, kind of mechanically, you know And uh as I said to the first service, I'm sure I'll get something on a gray slip about that. But, you know, the idea is that um As we speak to one another, our our conversation comes out of the joy of the gospel expressed in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. So there there is this joy that infuses our speech to make it constructive and uplifting. That's closely connected to our worship because he goes right on the next the next phrase, singing and making music in your heart to the Lord Now this is about worship. And there's much interest and much discussion about worship at Columbia Presbyterian. If you don't believe that, just look at our grace lips that come in week after week. Uh we get lots of feedback. In fact, we've decided that we're going to make it easier for you. Uh you know the gray slips, you put your name on the front and then You can put on the back any ministries you're interested in or prayer concerns or anything like that. Well, beginning next week, we're going to add a line at the top of the gray slip. And on the right side, there's a zero. And on the left side there is a 10. And this will enable you, you see, to simply rate the worship. You can just put a check mark on the line, you know, from a zero, boo, suffered through it, to a ten, yeah, it was a home run. That was really great, really enjoyed it. You just put a check mark on there and then it'll save you. And then we can kind of get those and we can adjust the next worship service based on the kind of feedback we got. Well, you know, I see some of you chuckling and smiling, and some of the rest of you probably are thinking that's a pretty good idea, which sort of breaks my heart, but you know, we may you may be thinking, how do I take this guy, you know? Well, I hope that you see in the way I'm describing that something of the ludicrous. You see, this is exactly what worship is not It is not for you to rate so that you can decide how much you enjoyed it or didn't enjoy it. Somebody came out of the last worship and said uh Just wanted you to know that was a nine, Pastor, you know. Somebody else came out and they said, I I think it was a two, but that was my heart, you know Well, of course, worship is designed with you in mind. Worship varies in cultures. I mean, if we were worshiping in Asia, Africa, South America, it wouldn't take the same exact Form. We wouldn't do it exactly the same way. The nature of the music and some of the cultural things would vary. But God says in His Word things about how to worship Him. Those are the things that determine our worship. That's what we follow. Our desire, you know, with due respect to you, brothers and sisters, ultimately isn't to please you, it is to please the majestic, holy, living God whom we worship. That's our desire, amen. All right. We got that clear. We want your feedback. But if you give feedback, always be clear That if this is a preference, this helped, this didn't help, that you're simply saying this is something helpful to me or not. If you want to raise a principle, raise a principle from Scripture. But these are not demands that we make on those that are putting on the show. Because God tells us how to worship and he says specifically in this verse gives us a very important instruction. He says a lot of other things in his word about worship, but I want to just focus on this one half verse with you this morning, in order for you and for me to examine our own hearts and our lives. In the light of what it says. He says there that worship involves singing and making music in your heart, or with your heart, literally, to the Lord. Six observations and applications from this. A lot more I could say about worship that I would like to say, but I'd have to teach a course, so instead of my doing it, we're having Andy Jackson do it So let me highly commend to you that course down there in classroom two, middle hour, second class met today, where he is talking about the principles and the practices of worship here at Columbia Presbyterian. And I would highly recommend that you take that to be able to get in on the discussion and look at what God's Word says about that. Well, I want to just offer, real briefly, six observations. Number one, God commands you and the Spirit compels you to sing God commands you and the Spirit compels you to sing in worship. Literally, verse 19 says, singing and psalming. or making melody. The word psalming, psalm, the Greek word there, that second word, means literally to pluck a stringed instrument. And so what it is talking about is music in worship. It is saying that not only is it right to have music, it is also appropriate to have instruments in music We sing and we uh psalm, we uh make music, we make melody, we make sounds. Uh worship here is not something you just do in your heart. You notice something's coming out of your mouth. There is singing involved. There is making noise, sounds. Now let me acknowledge that there is a great discrepancy in talent in the ability to sing and to make melody. And I recognize that, not only by my own limitations, but I remember for a while in a worship we would sit in front of a fellow who loved to sing at the top of his voice and he was utterly tone deaf and uh after a while I was beginning to lose all sense of what the music was myself. But he was making an effort. And so it is not a matter of you're engaging and say, well, you know, I don't have a good voice, so I can't sing. That's not what God says here. He doesn't have any asterisk that say for those who are competent He just says, sing, singing, that's the that's the effect of the filling of the Spirit is that you are singing and that you are making melodies in your heart to the Lord. You see, music combined with truth speaks to our hearts in a way that truth without music doesn't quite do, does it? I mean you you focus on a few simple phrases poetically. And those phrases engage your heart as you express them to the Lord. You can say, when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gain, I count but lost. Poor contempt on all my pride, and it's good to pray that, to meditate on it. But there's something about singing that, in which we reflect and we think about it is what we're saying, and the music, when it's appropriate to the text. Grips our hearts in expressing that. Oh sacred head, once wounded. Shout to the Lord. You know, we say shout to the Lord, but when you sing shout to the Lord There is something that grips your heart in doing that. Or what this is what we sang here before, I worship you, Almighty God. There is none like you. I honor you, O Prince of Peace. That is what I want to do. You see, the expressing of that in Saul engages our hearts, and that's what God intends. The Spirit of God Takes the gospel, we express it in song, and it comes to Him as pleasing worship. The problem is, for many of us today in our culture, we view music as primarily a means of entertainment. We listen to music, tape CDs on the car. And so it's very easy. You know, you're kind of dragging, you got up, you know, sort of a tough week. You come in back here and you say, well, you know, I mean I just don't have it in me to sing. I'm just gonna listen. And so I know a number of you will come in, particularly on the weeks when we have the bands, and you will just listen to what's going on. Now, I would tell you from this verse, you're not only cheating yourself, you're cheating God. He says to you Singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord. So this is not something that you and I say, well, you know, if you if I feel like it, I sing, and if not, now I understand if you are gripped, you're convicted, you're saying I cannot sing this now. I just wouldn't be honest. That you may need to come before the Lord and confess and ask Him to change your heart and but week after week to come and just kind of passively be a spectator is not worship. This is not something that is put on up front for you to watch. It is for all of us. It's simply these people up here, the band, the brass, those who are playing and leading are facilitators. So that you and I are enabled to sing and make melody in our heart to the Lord. I'm concerned when I see Large numbers of people that just watch and don't seem engaged. And I ask you, why don't you sing? Why don't you engage your heart to the Lord? He says here that it is one of the consequences of the filling of his spirit. And maybe that's the issue for us. We need to pray for God to fill us with His Spirit in order that we would have the desire to do that. Let me say secondly, second observation, the filling of the Spirit and the singing of praise reinforce one another. They reinforce one another. In the Middle Ages, congregations did not sing. In those days, it was the custom and the pattern, in fact, you were forbidden to sing, for professional choirs to sing. Now there was a grain of truth that was behind that. The idea was that God is so majestic, that God deserves the very best. God deserves that he is honored and exalted with the finest that we can give. And they worked hard at that, writing and producing things. However, the Reformers understood when the Scriptures took their more rightful place in the church That verses like this, singing to the congregation and making music in your hearts of the Lord were for everybody. And so when the congregations were once again released and music was produced for the congregations to sing, not just the professionals. Not only was God honored, but they found that it had a very healthy effect on the congregations. Because now rather than just listening There was something about your expressing, confessing, engaging your affections in the expression of your worship that invited God to bring his truth into your life. So while the singing is the effect of the filling of the Spirit, the singing itself also deepens the work of the Spirit in you. As you express your joy, as you confess your sin, as you adore him, you are now opening yourself to his truth in your life to grip you. And that comes into your life in a deeper way. Don't cheat yourself of that. Actively engage in the expression of his praise by the singing of the psalms, the praise songs, the hymns. that you might engage in the work of the Spirit filling your life as the truth fills your mind and your heart Third observation, this is not just for Sunday morning. Not just for Sunday morning. Again, I remind you, verse 19 doesn't say in the Sunday morning worship. It simply says that in the context of worship, this is what you do. You sing and you make music in your heart to the Lord. Clearly it's a corporate gathering. You're speaking to one another Uh Colossians 3. 16, the parallel passage, was clear that that also is showing us it's a it's an uh a s a circumstance where we are interacting together, small group kind of situation. So in your cells, in your small group settings, we urge you to sing, to worship. You don't always have to sing, sometimes just prayers of worship and adoration, or meditating on a hymn, perhaps listening to a CD or a tape. can be very helpful, but we find it helpful if you're listening to the tape or the CD to begin to enter into it. Just kind of sing along with it. You know, let your heart be caught up with the message of it. You may want for your smoker to buy a number of hymnals, so that you can together just say, Well, let's sing this one. You know, I think this is appropriate. Maybe you'll meditate on it, you'll pray through it, you'll sing it, can be very helpful for you to do. And that is involved in the work of the Spirit in our midst. Or also do it solo. It doesn't have to be in a group. Clearly, the Psalms mandate solo worship, an individual alone before God, giving praise and worship. And so in solitude. Do you ever sing? When you're alone? When you're worshiping? Do you ever just, you know? I mean, I still recall the first time being out in the woods reading a song that said, Shout to the Lord. And uh, you know, I think it was miles from any living creature, um, except bugs and maybe a few animals. But you know, it was really hard, you know, shout to the Lord Shout. You know, and I'm kind of working my well, shout, you know. I think about their five minutes, you know. Shout to the Lord. You know, man, that felt good Yeah, it's entering into what it says. And so take us all. Read that psalm aloud to the Lord, the way it was meant to be written Air into it. Sing it. Make up your own tune. Hey, it's not going to be Bach or Michael Card, but make something up, you know? It's your offering to the Lord in what you do. I believe also that every Christian should have a good hymnal. It's part of your devotional material. And uh Take that hymnal, read the hymn, personalize the hymn, pray through the hymn, then sing the hymn. I do that every day, take a hymn, and uh, you know, we find Our church has found it which it'd be hard to beat the Trinity hymn on both its breadth and uh the the worship that's here that is not sentimental, it's it's it's biblical, it's it's expressing God's truth in a way that's personal, various uh kinds of uh music that are involved in it. In fact, uh I made this offer for the sir first service, I'll make it again for you guys Um, I I feel that's so important that I'm going to the back door, stand there, I got a list. If anybody wants a Trinity hymnal, you gotta pay for it The only thing I'm going to offer you is if you want to train a hymnal, it costs us twenty dollars for the one we got for Linda. I think we can get them cheaper for bulk. You give me fifteen smackers in my hand, give me your name, we'll get you a hymnal. Alright? As soon as they come in, we'll let you know. So I don't know what it's going to cost, but don't worry about it. For 15 bucks, you'll have a hymnal that you can use in worship. If you don't have one, I would encourage you to get one, whether that way or another way. in order for you to be able to sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord in the times you have with Him. Fourth observation Spirit-filled singing is with a new heart. It's with a new heart. Again, you see verse 19. Singing and making music in or with your heart. to the Lord. B, the vocal, the the act of singing, as well as also in your heart. Not just a duty. You should not look at Sunday morning, you know, well, you come there, you know, and that's just part of what we do. You know, I gotta sing. Okay, now he's making me sing. He used to be able to come here and just listen. Now he's gonna probably standing back there with a clipboard, getting down the names of everybody that doesn't sing. I mean though you see, this is not something that you and I can just kinda say, well we're gonna do it. We're talking about the heart, offering up to God a heart of gratitude and worship. John Piper says when he speaks of worship, he says worship is a way of gladly reflecting back to God. The radiance of his worth. Worship is gladly reflecting back to God the radiance of his worth. You don't just decide. Well, I guess I ought to do that. I guess I'll go in there and gladly reflect back to God the radiance of His Word, you said I mean our hearts are reflected by our attitude. You know, do we come here and say, man, I want to make use of every bit, every every minute of that worship because I love the Lord Jesus for what he's done. I want to get there right at the beginning. I don't want to miss anything. You know, I stood back there a couple weeks ago and I wasn't uh preaching, and I noticed, I mean, we not only have people come in five minutes, ten minutes late. 15 minutes late, 20 minutes late. I think some people think as long as I get to the main event, you know, the preaching, God checks it off in heaven and says, Well he made the worship, you know. And he just kinda you know, as long as he gets to part of it, he counts for all of it. Well, you know, if, brothers and sisters, if that's our attitude, then there's something not connecting with the filling of the Spirit. Gotta say it. Because when the Spirit fills us, He produces a heart in which the gospel has been ignited, and we gladly reflect back to Him the radiance of His word. You see, this is a gospel issue. And it means that for some of us we need to look, and rather than to be defensive or to want to debate this To simply come before God and repent. Lord, you've spoken to me and exposed my heart. The flesh is still so active. I don't worship you. I don't enjoy worship. My heart isn't lifted in the songs. I'm not eager to engage in it. That's okay. Acknowledge it. You can't change it. But you can come before God now And ask him to change your heart. When I say it's okay, I don't mean it's okay, don't worry about it. I mean it's okay to acknowledge that. God knows your heart But you and I need to pray that He will enable us to see reality, what you are really like. Before the face of a holy, majestic God who hates sin, and that that God has offered to you the blood of his own Son, Jesus Christ, to take that sin. To curse that sin in his own son, that your sin would be forgiven, and you have a new life, adopted as his son or his daughter. To be able to call him Father, to come and to worship him as one who belongs to him, cherished in his presence, that you come and that you offer that worship As one who has received his grace freely, not receiving what you deserve, and receiving what you have not deserved. It's that that produces the singing and the making melody in your heart to the Lord, you see. It's that new heart of the gospel. That's what we're talking about. And so if you need for God to do that, ask him to do that. Brother Scott Stewart was saying in one of our breakfasts recently that so many of us seek God's hand instead of his face. We seek his hand for the blessings he gives, rather than his face as wanting to cherish the intimacy of his presence. It's the Spirit who gives us a heart that seeks his face and not just his hand. Fifth observation, it is directed solely to the Lord. This worship is directed solely to the Lord. You see, he says, uh singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Now, the first part of the verse we saw that it is right and proper for us to speak to one another in worship. But when we are addressing him in song, the focus is entirely upon him. Are you aware when you sing a hymn or a praise song to God that He is listening to you? Does it ever dawn on you that God is paying attention of all the things going on in all the world? God is paying attention. To my puny little voice here singing his praise. That I have the awesome power to give or to withhold pleasure. From Almighty God, in expressing it a heart of adoration solely for his pleasure, the worship of my heart, or to withhold that. When is the last time that you consciously did something solely for the Lord? I don't care who else benefits from it, I don't care what other effect it has on it, I don't care what it does to me. I just love you, Lord, and I want simply to bring you pleasure by this offering of my worship. My squeaking and my squallin' with my heart, there's love. And that you'd offer that simply to him. You see, it is the filling of the Spirit that reorients us from our natural self-centeredness to a radical God-centeredness. So that we're more concerned for what his pleasure is than our own. Singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord. This is the reciprocation of the expressions of love between the lover in chapter 3, verses 17 to 19. As he speaks to you there of how wide and how broad and how high and how deep is his love, unfathomable to you. And the expression of the beloved in response to the lover, singing and making melody in your heart. to the Lord. That's the conversation, you see. That's the reciprocation of the spirit-filled believer And as you do it, you will see that the spirit-filled worship and spirit-filled wisdom are interdependent. They go together. As you worship, it affects your relationships with others. And in that wisdom, there is that deeper desire to worship the Lord because you realize your dependence on Him to work in you. You know, I don't believe I ever knew the power of singing in worship until I went to the Pastor's Prayer Summit back in March of 1978. And they're gathered with 7580 pastors from the Delaware Valley area, four days of no agenda except to confess, to praise, to worship, to intercede. A group of pastors just simply were there together for four days. One of the things that would happen from time to time is that a brother or two would lead in a praise song or a hymn and I was amazed at how many hymns you could sing if you had a few other people that could pick up on the rough spots that you weren't quite sure of. Somebody pick up on stanza one, somebody else would know stanza two, we'd all get oh yeah, you know, you join it, stanza three, four. We must have sung, I bet, I'm sure, over a hundred hymns in those four days Plus innumerable praise songs, scripture songs, snatches of songs. And we just sang, and the thing that that most amazed me was that we would start in this and maybe somebody read scripture and then there would be a movement of unbroken singing. They go for five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes, twenty, thirty, forty, forty-five, fifty minutes of nothing but hymn, praise song, another hymn, moving on. And as that happened, you began to see a choreographing of the Holy Spirit that nobody planned or designed. The hymns and the songs would take on a particular theme of adoration until they would finally come at the end of that time, we would have to rise out of our seats And it would end in a grand crescendo of some hymn, some praise, in which every man would be standing there singing our hearts out with what they had left of their voices With our hands raised to God on high, and when that hymn was finished, there would simply be a silence, a holy sense of being in the presence of God, and nobody dare speak. At that moment, I want to tell you, there was such a drawing out of my heart of wanting to be a living sacrifice. for his disposal entirely because of his worthiness. I could not speak, nor could anyone there. It was a holy hush of the awe of his presence And I want to tell you, brothers and sisters, if you've never experienced something like that, I pray that you will. Let's pray together. Oh Lord our God, how we thank you for music. How we thank you for the truth of the gospel and the wonder of your majestic presence that draws out from us. The affections and the adoration of our heart toward you when we see what you are like. Oh Lord, would you speak to our hearts? Cause us to repent of our lackadaisical, self-centered worship. That we might focus on you, that we might adore you, that we might look forward to worship because the gospel has taken residence in our minds and our hearts. And we want to give you pleasure. Fill us with your spirit as a congregation that you would do that in Jesus' name. Amen.