We are continuing to look at Ephesians chapter 5, verses 18 to 21, and what it means to be filled with the Spirit. Do you remember that this command, be filled with the Spirit, comes at the end of a series of commands to you and to me on how to experience the new life? that comes from Jesus Christ to you and me in very practical ways. And so in chapter 5, verse 18 The last of these commands, series has gone on from chapter four, he says, do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, the false stimulus to joy. But instead be filled with the Spirit, the true source of joy. And then he continues, we've pointed out that Verses 19 to 21 are all part of the same sentence from 18 to 21. And so in 19 to 21 you have four effects of the filling of the Spirit. Four results and they are given in four ing words The NIV doesn't translate in that way, but as I read it, I will translate it that way so you can get the uh so that stands out a bit more. He says, be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. You notice that the effects that he states are not things like be filled with the Spirit and you will speak in tongues or you will be able to conduct miraculous healings or gifts. Uh rather what he says here are the results of the filling of the Spirit are things that are life-changing character matters. These are things that you and I cannot produce. We cannot manufacture. They are supernaturally produced in the heart. First of all, it's this idea of speaking wisdom to one another, either from a praise song or hearts that have been lightened. and made wise by the praise songs to God, then two acts of worship, uh singing to God, thanking God and then back to the wisdom again, submitting to one another. Today we're going to consider that third matter, the thanking him in every situation. Not just on a sunny spring day when you don't have to go to work or school. This, you see, is not able to be produced by moralistic rule keeping duty oriented Christianity. That will always fail Rather, the only thing that produces this kind of change is spirit-ignited, gospel in the heart kind of Christianity. That's why when we read this and we see the lack of the effects in our lives It shows us what our hearts are like. It shows us our spiritual bankruptcy and the need for God to come into our hearts to produce something that we can't produce and that we see as lacking, that's not there. And that's why next week, when we finish this series, right afterwards, 1245 to 5 o'clock in the afternoon, anyone who wants to come and join Those of us who will be over downstairs in the Potter's house crying out to God to pray that his Spirit will fill us. is free to join us. You can come at the beginning, stay the whole time, stay part of the time, come later on, stay till the end. We realize that there's a direct conflict with you homesteaders that have your program next week. That was totally inadvertent. We didn't know when we scheduled this. And so all we can say to you is, if you are up for it, we go till five, you go till four. So Maybe one parent go home with the kids or something, the other one stay, you do what you want, but um we're sorry for the conflict, but we will be meeting next week for as many as care to come And pray because we see the need for God to come and to fill us to produce these things that He speaks about, that you long for and I long for in my life, the speaking, singing, thanking, submitting. Now, as we look at chapter 5, verse 20 this morning, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, I want to make five observations: what, when, what for, to whom, and how. Let's begin. First of all then, what is Thanksgiving? What is Thanksgiving? Now, anyone here who is not in the first service, or particularly not John Baker, who answered the last time, I still say 50 points to anybody who can tell me what is the root word for Thanksgiving. What's the root of that word if you may remember from an old Thanksgiving message or something like that? Anybody remember? John gave it to us in the Greek. But can anybody try for the English? Grace. Very good. This man gets the fifty points But you sit in the Greek then too? Paris, look at you. He's with Tyler John for a hundred points. We gotta go out and have lunch or something. Okay I mean that really, you know, nothing warms a pastor's heart like thinking that people listen, you know. And you you know, if you remember still, you know, I mean that that is really that's great. Makes it all worthwhile. So thanks guys Maybe somebody told now you'd remember it. I I know that. Anyway, let's not get distracted by this whole thing. The point is that it is grace, and that is very significant Because, you see, what that is saying is that the essential idea of thanksgiving is that it is acknowledging that I am receiving better or more than I deserve. That is the heart of the idea. You see, when you and I are not thankful, what we're really saying is, I deserve better than I'm getting. Right? I mean when you go around grumbling, what are you saying? You say I should have better than this. Why aren't I getting better? The problem is that some of us really believe that we deserve the blessings that we have. You know, I've worked for it, I've earned, uh, I expect it And so you're not grateful because you don't really believe that it's grace, that it's better than you deserve. Some of us have an unrealistically high view of ourselves. We see ourselves as basically very wonderful people who deserve to have a wonderful life where people Love us and appreciate us, and circumstances will go basically our way. And so when we find out there are people in our lives that don't particularly appreciate us or love us, And circumstances seem to conspire against us, and God doesn't seem to care, then we cry out, Why be? Why do I get this? You see, when really what the Bible says is that even if there were a tragedy that were to strike us, the question that we should ask is: why not me? Why should I be exempt from human trial and suffering? Why do I deserve to have better? When you think of what your life would be like, if you really got what you deserved from the God whom you have every day disobeyed and ignored. Living in a self-centered self-absorption, and I think, now, what do I deserve? Then I have to acknowledge whatever I get is better than I deserve. And so Paul says, be thankful. You see, it's only the Spirit filling your heart that can show you that. Otherwise you become defensive and maybe that rubs you the wrong way. I think I deserve a little better than that. But it's only as we're really in touch with our hearts, you see, to understand the radical nature of our self-absorption, that we see that the blessings that we receive, whatever they are, are by grace. And so verse 20 literally is saying, always acknowledging good grace. It's the word grace plus the prefix good. Acknowledging good grace, you see, to God. That's what he's saying. And the Spirit reveals that. Second observation: when do I do it? Well, verse 20, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything. Always. Let me break that down into three different parts, what I call the ABCs of Thanksgiving. And uh I would even suggest you could use this pattern in your family devotions so that you kids can pick. at each time, an A or a B or a C, and you say, okay, I'll take the A tonight, or the B or the C, and you can lead the family in that. So you've got to pay attention to find out what they are. What's the A? The A is that we're called to give thanks after blessings received. That's the advantage to keeping a record of things that we pray for. So that when God answers them, we notice them and we give thanks. Do you remember after Israel had cried out to God for deliverance from Egypt? God brought them through the Red Sea, parted it, then buried their enemies under the waves. They come out, and in Exodus 16, you have all the people gathered together, and they sing a song of thanksgiving to God. God, you have blessed us, the horse and the rider he's thrown into s into the sea. And then he says in Exodus chapter 15, verse 2, The Lord is my strength and my song, he's become my salvation. He is my God and I will praise him. I will thank him. My Father's God and I'll exalt him. So when God has blessed us, sometimes we just go on to the next need. We need to stop. We need to take some time. Say, guys, before we go through the grocery list of our needs tonight, who's going to lead us? Which one of us is going to lead us to just thank God For the answers we've seen, the things we prayed last week, or the things that we've seen that he has done for us this week. Secondly, the B is before a deliverance sought. The Bible teaches us to give thanks to God before he answers when we're in trouble. For example, in Jonah, you remember when he was in the belly of the great fish? Or the whale. And he cried out to God and he prayed that God would deliver him. And then he ends that prayer in Jonah chapter two verse I I still didn't, you know, la those of you here first time, I never did mark Jonah. I I still haven't marked it. So if anybody knows Jonah two nine, would you just kind of s speak it out now? I think somebody took Jonah out of my Bible, actually. I was looking for it here while we were just praying and you know I I don't think it's even in there. Somebody take Jonah? You know, I have to go and sing the song to myself so I can find it. But anyway, at the end of chapter two, I wish I had marked that. At the end of chapter two, he says, Lord, I will thank you. I really can't find that thing, you know. Uh I mean I know it's well anyway. You where what's it after? Obadiah, that's why I couldn't find it. I know Obadiah's gone. I haven't found that for two years. Anyway, the idea is that in chapter 2, verse 9, he's he says, I will thank you. For what you will do. And you see, there is by faith the acknowledgement that God is going to hear his prayer. Now, there's not a promise in that that God will do the deliverance the way you have prayed and the way that you've sought But there is by faith the acknowledgement God is hearing me and He will deliver. He will show his power in this situation. Perhaps a more dramatic illustration of that is in the life of Jehoshaphat back in 2 Chronicles. In chapter 20, uh Jehoshaphat is surrounded and attacked by the armies of Moab and Ammon. And he is overwhelmed, terrified. All Israel comes together to fast and to pray. And in 2 Chronicles chapter 12, of chapter 20 and verse 12. Uh I always appreciate the way Josh Jehoshaphat states this. He says, Oh our God, will you not judge them? The Ammonites and Moabites, for we have no power to face this vast army that's attacking us. I mean, we are so totally outnumbered. It's ridiculous. There's no hope, humanly speaking. We don't know what to do. But our eyes are upon you. I mean not only do we not have power to solve this, we don't even have a plan. You ever been in that kind of situation? I mean you're so overwhelmed, you say Even if you told me, well, how are you going to solve this? I wouldn't know what to tell you. I just wouldn't know how to begin. And then God in his gracious mercy says, this is my battle. I'm going to fight it for you. And so Jehoshaphat, in faith, as they go out to face this overwhelming horde of enemies, You read in chapter 20 and verse 21, after consulting the people, Jehoshaphat appointed men To go out now in ranks singing to the Lord and to praise him for the splendor of his holiness as they went out at the head of the army saying, Give thanks to the Lord, for his love endures forever. Now here is this this small group going out against overwhelming odds. Looks like they're walking into suicide, into absolute disaster. And they're singing, give thanks to the Lord, for his love endures forever. That's giving thanks before the deliverance. Now there's no guarantee that God is going to eradicate the enemies. But the statement of faith giving thanks before the deliverance is acknowledging my God is faithful. He is in control. And I can trust him. In this particular case God turned the Ammonites and the Moabites upon each other. They ambushed each other, each thinking the other was the enemy, and they slaughtered each other, so that by the time that Israel went out, there's just a pile of corpses out there. God showed his power and his mercy to them. Now it doesn't always happen that way. But I believe that sometimes the giving of thanks, while still in the problem, can become a means. a blessing. I still recall a family that was headed out to vacation the first day out. They had a flat tire Got to the flat tire and they didn't have the tools to fix it and they're stuck and they're thinking, what a way to start a vacation. But they had just been thinking about this principle of giving thanks and all things. And so they reminded each other and dad and mom and they said, okay, we're going to thank God now. He is in control. We're going to trust him. We're going to thank him for this situation and see what he will do. The trucker stopped by to help them to fix the tire, and because their attitude was of praise, They were receptive to get into a conversation with him about the Lord. Now, have you ever been in a situation you know I I know I have Where something's really frustrated me, and I think, I don't care if somebody came up now and asked me what do I do to be saved. I, you know, send them to somebody else because I'm not in the mood. You know, because my heart is in rebellion. But because they were giving thanks, they talked to him about the Lord and found this this guy had a really open, receptive heart. And right there after he fixed the tire, they prayed beside the car, and he received Jesus Christ into his life. Sometimes I think we miss God's intended blessing because we refuse to give the thanks before the deliverance that we're seeking. I think of a friend of mine, Tom Tyson, pastor in our denomination, who's actually now general secretary of Christian Ed. And for the last couple of years, Tom has suffered terribly from gastroesophagal reflux disease. Which he says is as bad as it sounds. And uh it's pretty miserable. It's been in great discomfort and pain And he's he said that uh for the two years he's had this, he's been asking God to take it away. And God's answer was no. He didn't take it away. As the months proceeded, he began to notice that he was humbled through this. He was seeking God more vigorously. His prayer life improved and he was seeking God's face to the point where he thanked God for this disease. And said, God, don't take it away. If it allows me to get closer to you, it seems you're using this in my life. Lord, keep it. Within two months it was gone. And he simply concluded that God must have accomplished his purpose through it. And his purpose was a work in my heart, and that purpose had been accomplished. Give thanks before the deliverance accomplished. Always giving thanks. See is continually In all that comes to mind, some things are not events, they're people. You see this with Paul's letters. He says, Every time I think of you, I give thanks. Again and again and again he says that to the Philippians, to the Ephesians, to the Colossians. Whenever I think of you, I give thanks for you. It's not a deliverance past or future, it's people And there's a lesson in that because there's a lot of people that we think about as we pray. You know, if you're interceding for people. Well when you think about the people you pray for, do you thank God for them? They were praying for somebody, we're often focusing on what needs to change. And when Paul's writing those letters, that's what he was doing. But sometimes, because we focus on that, we're thinking of their deficiencies. If only this person was, yeah, they're a nice guy, but you know, on and on. And so you don't give thanks Try the next time you're praying for somebody to begin by, I thank you for this person, in some specific way, for this some character trait, something you see in their life. Lord, I thank you for this, and then pray for them. And to see what that does to your prayers. Continually, as things come to mind, particularly as people come to mind, giving thanks. But what do you give thanks for? On the backside now. What do you give thanks for? Well, look at there, verse 20. Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything. For everything. For everything? I mean, do you give thanks for tragedy? Should the parents in Littleton have said, Lord, I thank you that my son and daughter were, or son and or daughter were shot? Do you give thanks for sin? Lord, I thank you that my husband or wife has been unfaithful to me, or that my children are walking in rebellion to you. You give thanks for everything? How do you understand what Paul means by that? Perhaps the best way to understand it is through an illustration in Paul's life. There are a number, but let me select Acts 16. Do you remember in Acts chapter 16, Paul and Silas have gone to Philippi? It's their first visit there. They begin to preach the gospel there, and a particular woman, businesswoman, Lydia, has come to faith in Christ. And she invited them to stay with her, and they're staying with her, and one day they're headed out to a prayer meeting And as they go out, this woman, this girl who is demon-possessed, begins to scream after them, these men are then men of the Most High God. Which wasn't exactly the kind of reference that they wanted from a demon-possessed girl. So they stopped and they turned and they cast the demon out of her. Her masters, of course, uh seeing they'd just now lost uh the means of their livelihood and trade, uh, were rather upset at this rather than rejoicing, and they stir up the crowd against Paul and Silas. So things turn ugly and violent. The authorities take them into custody and they strip them. They take their clothes and their robes and they just strip them. Very humiliating experience. And then they beat them. I mean there's no trial here. They just start beating them. Then after they beat them, then they take them in, strip them down on the back And they flogged them. You remember that involved a whip with bits of bone or metal embedded in it to rip the flesh off of your back. 39 lashes excruciating pain, muscles, sinews, all ripped down their back. And then still no trial, no accusation, no sense of justice. No acknowledging the rights of these men. They throw them into prison. And not just prison, but it says into the inner dungeon of the prison, the dankest, foulest, stinkiest part. Where the vermin flowed and you could probably barely breathe from the stench. No light. No air. And then, as if that's not bad enough, it says they put them in stocks so they can't even lay down to sleep. They're leaning up with their backs aching against a rough wall. No way to sleep or rest or get relief. And what was it that Paul did in that situation? Does he say, Lord, I thank you for that beating? Lord, I just thank you for this lack of injustice lack of justice. Hey, send whatever you want. It's not a stoicism. What you read in Acts chapter 16 and verse 25 was that about midnight, worn out, but they can't sleep, about midnight, Paul and Silas were praying. And singing hymns to God. And the other prisoners were listening to them. They were listening because this was absolutely supernatural. Who in that kind of situation is going to be singing a hymn? Singing thanks. Acknowledging God, we don't understand what's going on here. But we thank you that we're counted worthy to suffer for you. We thank you that you're still faithful, that you're doing something through this. We don't understand it. But Lord, we still trust your character. We trust who you are. And we sing praise that you are the faithful God. who has saved us and who will work through this situation. Sometimes you have to get to that point where you're just simply saying, Lord, I don't know what you're going to do, but I'm going to place myself at your disposal. And I thank you that you choose to use me in some way in this to honor you. Do you see how uniquely they honored God at that point? I mean, you know, if they're sitting out in the sunshine in the garden of the governor, praising God, who's going to be surprised? The power and glory come from singing in stocks in a stinking dungeon where everything in you aches and nothing makes sense. The prisoners hear them in God works in a great earthquake to break open the gates, and all the jail cells are unopened up and their stocks are removed. And everyone is free. And the jailer and his family come to faith in Jesus Christ. Because they've seen somebody giving thanks. Where it was supernatural to give thanks. See, that's the filling of the Spirit. Paul says there's going to be times in your life when nothing but the filling of the Spirit igniting the gospel and its hope in your heart. Is going to produce the ability to publicly give thanks to him. Retake the situation in Colorado at Columbine High School. The students who died, at least three of them, professed Jesus Christ as their Savior and as their Lord, and probably heard about the one girl. It was asked by the gunman, Do you believe in God? And she said, Yes, I do. And he shot her in the head. What's the response of parents in such a situation? Such utter heartbreaking devastation God gave grace not to deny or to pretend, but to grieve openly, and yet to acknowledge that Jesus Christ was the Lord of these two girls and this one guy, at least of them. And the result is that pastors in the area had unprecedented opportunity on national television to talk about the gospel, the churches that these kids have gone to, the youth groups, youth leaders. Their testimony for Jesus Christ, their desire to make a difference for Him and their world far exceeded anything in their brief lives that they could have expected. At the funerals, hundreds, thousands came. They said that the churches the Sunday after were packed more than Easter, hundreds more coming. Three hundred additional to one church, more than that to another church. And hundreds and thousands heard the gospel, and nobody was laughing. I understood from somebody in the first service that focus on the family's been following in that, and they've tracked At least 200 professions of faith that have come out of the funerals and the testimony for Jesus Christ of those families. Give thanks in a situation like that? Only if you've determined ahead of time you're a living sacrifice. It's simply to live for his pleasure, whether to live or to die. You give thanks because he's your God, he's your Savior. You can trust him. You trust his character. You trust him to determine the circumstances. And so you see that Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, we're cast down, we're beaten. We despair of life, but we give thanks. Why? He goes on to say, because we have an exceeding weight of glory on ahead. And as I look at the troubles in my life, they're like a speck on a balance. On the other side of the scale, there's a two-ton weight. It's the glory of heaven. And as I look at that, I say, how can I not give thanks? This life is so brief. But look what the Lord has given to you and to me is the hope that we have on ahead, right? Even in this situation locally. God has used it to glorify Himself. Told you about last week, how the pastors had contacted, spread the word around with the threat of violence this past Monday. We prayed together, contacted people in churches and prayed, and there was no violence. But we prayed, remember also that God would honor Himself in the way that that was done. Do you know Channel 11 did a follow-up story? They reported publicly on television there was no violence in Howard County and Christians were praying and they interviewed some Christians from Grace Community Church to talk about how they had prayed. And that God had answered. God was glorified. And so in a situation that makes no sense, that's terrible, that's that's devastating. You and I see God doing something that glorifies him, and we give thanks because we're at his disposal. Now, who is it we give thanks to? Remember, it is to God the Father. Look at verse 20 again. It's to God the Father. That we give thanks for everything. We remember He's the source of our blessings. That whether it is stormier or whether it is fair, he is still my Father. Who says, as he said to us in verse 1 of chapter 5, that I'm his dearly loved child. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are his dearly loved child. You are not an orphan. And you're part of his family. That family that he described in chapters 2 and 3, that is the forever family of the covenant. You're not alone. And so you can give thanks to God the Father in every situation. How is it that you give thanks? In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. You see there? Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's the means of all of your blessings. He's the one who has given you a clear conscience, who's caused you to be adopted as a son, who's given you the hope of glory, because he's reconciled you to God. And so as you look at Columbine High School and you say, if God could bring good out of a situation as evil as that, what is he not able to do? And Jesus looks at you and says My child, look at the worst crime of all human history. Sinners who crucified me, the innocent Son of Glory, the Lord of glory. And God used the crucifixion to accomplish the redemption of his people. He's able to bring good out of the worst possible situation. We're able to thank him for his character, for his sovereign control, and his wisdom. Whatever, whatever the situation. Yeah, I had experienced that and preached it to myself this week. Tuesday I had uh some couple disturbing, frustrating kinds of things that happened and I came home and I was kind of grumbling and growling and I dumped on Kathy and then we went to bed and I got up Wednesday and I'm still kind of dreading this situation and thinking about something else and I'm kinda going through And I pulled out my notes for this message that I hadn't looked at for probably a month. And I started going through it and going through the outline, and you know, God just really convicted me I mean, here I'm thinking, I'm going to preach this on Sunday. Man, I mean, I had to repent and confess. I am grumbling and complaining. What am I saying? I'm saying I deserve better I'm saying, God, I'm not sure you're going to be faithful to me. I got to take care of myself here. Do you really care? And on and on and on. And I must tell you, God filled me with such a sense of his nearness, of his faithfulness, of his reliability. That situation I dread, I went over and I picked up the phone and I said, man, I'm going to see what God's going to do in this See, sometimes God will deliver us from the problem and show his power, and other times he delivers us in the problem to show his power. But in either case, we can give thanks. You can give thanks. Because he wants to show you his power. He wants to fill you with his spirit. That supernaturally you are able in every situation to give thanks to the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ. You see the pattern here in prayer, chapter 2, verse 18, you have access to the Father. In Jesus, by the Spirit, through the Spirit. In Thanksgiving, verse 20 here, you have you give thanks to the Father. Mean you can't thank Jesus or the Spirit? No, it doesn't mean that. It just normally means That when you think in Thanksgiving terms, you think of God as Father. You're thanking Him as Father, the source of your blessing. In the name of Jesus Christ, filled by the Spirit. And so when you look at your complaining, it reveals your heart. It reveals that you and I continue to walk by the flesh, the demanding nature that says, I should have better. And as God reveals your heart, may He open your eyes to see that you need the Spirit to come, to fill you with the gospel. To fill you with a sense of what you really deserve and what you've received from Jesus Christ. And as he does that, he will take away the ingratitude And he'll fill your heart with a gratitude who's able to thank him in every situation. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we pray that you would open our eyes to see what our ingratitude, our grumbling, our complaining reveals about us. Lord, how it shows us what our hearts are really like. Proud, demanding. Believing that we deserve to have blessings and lack of trouble, the lack of trusting you to know what you're doing, to think that you have abandoned us. Oh Lord, open our eyes. Open our eyes to show us not only what we deserve, but what you've given to us in Jesus Christ. To know your nearness, your faithfulness. Lord, hear us right now as we turn away from the ingratitude, the complaining, bring to your hearts that seek to be filled with your spirit Lord, we thank you for what you will do in our lives this week. We thank you for what you've done this past week. And how you will show yourself as real and personal through Jesus Christ. Amen.