We missed uh first couple minutes of the service. Did you mention about our Japanese pest Okay. Well thank you. We are just absolutely delighted to have here with us twenty-one pastors, uh wives uh and interns as well as including two missionaries uh and one of those is Dan Iverson from our own congregation that are here worshiping with us this morning. Would you guys stand here for now As they stand, let me mention to those of you who don't know that it was back in nineteen eighty-four and eighty-five that Dan Iverson, the the one non-oriental looking fellow with a little less hair and more stature. Uh that was the fellow who was the intern here worked with us and we sent him uh to Japan nineteen eighty six with a desire to see Jesus worshiped in a place where he was not worshiped. We're not just talking about there weren't Presbyterians there. We're talking there weren't Christians there. Sheba east of Japan, east of uh Tokyo. And we have celebrated with our brothers here that the Presbyterian Church in Japan actually formed a Presbytery where there were no Christians 13 years ago. And that happened in May, and we have a number of the pastors here from that Presbyterian church in Japan worshiping and have been with us for the last couple of days. Well, brothers, we really want to welcome you. After this, you can be friendly to them briefly. They will be taking off in a couple of vans and headed off to New York City. where they will be worshiping at Redeemer Church and uh have another day of activity. And then on Tuesday they'll be packed onto a plane to get back to Japan where things are more restful and they can relax. They are tired. So we are glad that you've had a full time with us and are delighted with the fellowship. Today we finish our series on the filling of the Spirit in Ephesians And um back it's getting a little warm here. I'm gonna take this off, you don't mind, get worked up. Ooh, sorry. There goes the drums for the next uh thank you, John. No better than to do that. Uh finishing uh last message on Ephesians for this millennium. Going back to it uh next year. We've been looking at chapter 5, verses 18 to 21, where Paul says, be filled with the Spirit. We're talking about filling. Perhaps as you hear that this morning, you are aware that you feel a bit empty, perhaps hollow. Perhaps you think of the gospel and it doesn't seem like the great news that you know you oughta see it as being Lacking a bit of joy, perhaps, in your life. Paul says when we do that, you and I tend to look for substitutes, don't we? We look for idols, we look for other sources of joy. And in chapter 5, verse 18, that's why he says, Do not get drunk on wine, do not seek. For the counterfeit stimulant, but rather to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit Who is the true source of joy? Because the Spirit ignites the gospel in our hearts. And then remember, he goes on from chapter 5, verse 18, all the way through verse 21, is one sentence. So he says, be filled with the Spirit. And then he has four effects of that. Let me read those. And let me read that passage of Scripture. And noting again that the words that he uses are participles, ing words. to stand out to help you to see the connection between the filling of the Spirit and his effects. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, but instead be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing. And making music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. You see on your bulletin outline there, there are two wisdom effects. It affects how we relate to one another in two ways. And the inner sanctuary of that is to worship affects the vertical, how we relate to the Lord. Speaking, singing, thanking, submitting. Wisdom and worship. That's the effect of the Spirit. We've looked at the first three, the last three weeks, speaking wisdom with gospel joy, singing our worship to the Lord with our hearts engaged. Thanking him in every situation, not just when things are going the way we want, and then today submitting to one another humbly. Now, the first question about this is, does verse 21 go with verses 18 to 20 or with verses 22 and on? And the answer to that, of course, is yes. This is another one of those linking verses in Ephesians. You remember we saw how Paul uh uses that technique a number of times in Ephesians. The main time in chapter 4, verse 1, where he links the two halves of the book, chapters 1 to 3 and 4 to 6. And he finds he says in chapter 4, verse 1, that I urge you that you will walk in a way that is in equilibrium to the calling you've received. And so he's described the calling in chapters 1 to 3. Now he's going to go on to talk about how to live it. He links it with that verse that ties the two together. Chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, he says that uh you and I are to uh uh be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, live a life of love just as Christ loved us. And gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering, sacrifice to God. That's both the climax to what he has said at the end of chapter four about forgiveness That we would love one another because of Christ's love, forgiveness for us. But it's also the beginning of the next section where he contrasts true love and the counterfeit lust. So he ties them together. Doing the same thing here. What he's doing is, you see that grammatically verse 21 is linked to verses 18 to 21 because it's part of the same sentence. So there's four effects. It's also verbally linked to the verses that follow. And it's linked because if you read in the Greek Verse 21, submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Verse 22 literally says, wives to your husbands as to the Lord. Word submit doesn't appear. Why Well, because he's tying it so closely to what he just said in verse 21. Just do this, he's saying, basically. In fact, what he does then in verses 22, all the way up to chapter 6, verse 9, is to unfold this idea of submission in three basic relationships, the husband and wife. the parent to child and the employee to the employer. Vice versa, both those those three pairs of relationships. So the next section, the next message will be beginning a major section on unfolding what submission means is mutual submission. in these three relationships, beginning with wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. Well, I realize that that will probably raise a few pulses, and so Before we get into that, I thought that I would deflect a bit to something that is less controversial, like Bible prophecy and eschatology and the meaning of the book of Revelation. I'll give myself a break and do something a little easier. And maybe the Lord will come before we have to get back to chapter 5, verse 22. But uh actually I'm looking forward to it, and I hope we do get to it, but I'd be glad if the Lord came first. Amen. Okay All right. What is it then that chapter 5, verse 21, has to say to us? First of all, what is the command? The command is to submit, submitting. That word submit means to subordinate yourself, to place yourself under someone else To place yourself under them voluntarily or by force. Either way, but it's to place yourself under them, to subordinate yourself That idea of submitting today is a very negative idea, especially when we talk about wives to husbands, but any authority. The idea of placing yourself under someone else's authority is seen today as essentially demeaning, isn't it? It's seen as uh is necessarily exploitive, kind of archaic. We are not in a day of any kind of submission. We've talked about how the current uh trend in advertising and the rest is to break the rules, you know, be your own person. Uh the whole political atmosphere of postmodernism is to align yourself with your identity group and defend your rights. And so this whole idea of self-protection, being myself without restriction, without somebody telling me something. flies totally in the face of any kind of submission. But what you have here, Paul's saying, don't just submit to those who are in authority over you. He says submit to one another. This is a general attitude. It says when the Spirit fills you, you have an attitude of submission. Now that's totally against natural thinking, isn't it? Now, what does he mean by that? The idea of submission, you could break it down into two words, you see on the back side of your bulletin. The two basic ideas to it are first of all the idea of Obedience, to obey. When I submit, that means when somebody tells me to do something, if I'm under their authority, I obey it. I don't resist it, don't make excuses, don't rationalize, I do it. That's what the word means, to submit. The other idea that he has in mind, or that's contained in that word, is to serve. Not simply to obey. To serve. That is to renounce my rights, to wash your feet, to be willing to serve you rather than to think that you should serve me. Now it seems that when Paul talks about the authority relationships here in these three, parent, husband, wife, parent, child, employee, employer. In the authority, there's the idea of obedience, but mutually, what he has in mind, particularly in verse 21, is the second idea, giving up our rights to serve one another. That's what he's talking about in verse 21. Particularly how he describes this being done in the various relationships in the body through Ephesians. Let me give you some examples. Second point then. To whom do we submit? We submit to one another. It's a general attitude. For example, We submit in the family. That's the first context of this. Wives submit to husbands, and in verse 21, the husbands also submit to the wives. How's that? Well, my wife asks me to do something. Uh, you know, repair project or something needs to be done. around the house and she has her list and you know, I think did you get to this and what do I say? I say, sure, I'll put it on my list. Now, you see, that may sound loving, but inside there's a heart that's saying, I'll get to it when I get to it You're not going to tell me that I've got to drop what I'm doing now to do that just because you want it done. I've got a list. I've got my priorities Some of us guys, I'm not going to look for hands here, some of us guys had sort of dominating mothers, maybe, or other women in our lives, and we've said, nobody else is going to tell me what to do. I will serve, but it will be on my terms, on my schedule. You see, it's that hard of autonomy. And we we defend it by, well, I am in charge to set the priorities. And what it really is, is it is a refusal, you see, in this attitude of submission. I mean God has convicted me of that many times when I I could defend what I did, but my wife picked up that there was really a resistance to wanting to serve. Or with your wives. Perhaps you've been in a relationship where authority has been abused You have been in an abusive relationship, or witnessed closely in your family an abusive relationship. And there has grown up within you a heart that is protective. You are saying, I have got to protect myself. And that means that I will not submit. And so when God speaks to you about this relationship, or there is in your husband the opportunity to support him. There's a decision it's made, and you can either submit or you can grouch and complain. You say, but I'm not going to give up my personhood And it's there's all kinds of defenses we go through when the real attitude is: I'm not going to submit. I'm going to defend myself. I'm going to protect myself, you see. You see how much this goes against our human nature? I mean, this really cuts across. We talked about the other three. We can't manufacture them, you know? The filling of the Spirit is not something that is religious experience and expression that we can generate in a praise meeting. The filling of the spirit is talking about heart and character change. And you and I do not have it in us to submit to somebody else. Also, kids and parents. Some of us as parents feel like, uh don't tell me about submitting to my kids, you know. I mean I serve my kids, I'm in the carpool, I got the bus, you know all everything I do is serving my kids. But what about the attitude? So when your son or your daughter comes and they say, Mom, Dad, could we, is the immediate attitude, no I'm busy Go do something else. You know, and it's kind of this it's a kind of a knee-jerk reaction, you know. Can I no? You don't even know what they asked for yet, but you know already you got the answer. No, you can't do it Or is there an attitude that I'll only say no if I need to say no? My heart's response is to say yes to my kids. I would like to do that. You kids don't use this against me, okay? But listen. There is an attitude for us parents about in our serving our kids, do we desire to be yes parents or are we very quickly no parents? Or you kids. Come on. Be honest. Mom and dad say help with the dishes. Clean up your room. Ways you can help them around the house. What's your response? I did it last time, my sister and my brother said I've got to do it this time, you know, and I'm why me and I'm busy and I gotta do I got my homework and I go you know on and on and on and what it is basically just an attitude say I don't want to serve. You see? That's what God's speaking to us about. It's talking to our hearts. I don't want to serve mom and dad. I don't want to serve the family. I'm here to be served. I don't know how the world got along before I was born, but now I'm here. The world should sit up and take notice, and they should be around me to do the things that I want done. Because I'm king and I'm queen. Mom and dad told me that. I'm going to act like it. Paul says submit to one another. Parents. Kids Within the body of Christ. There's been a lot of serving I've seen within our body. This week, people putting aside schedules, changing things. In order for us to be able to enjoy the fellowship with our brothers and sisters from Japan, to have those times, a lot of people have been serving. See that, rejoice, that's the gospel. What about when we hear of the needs in setup, a children's church, nursery? Prayer teams to pray, come to one service, to worship, come to the other service, for an hour of prayer for the gospel to go forth in power. That'd be nice, but I don't have time to serve. I've got my priorities, got my agenda. I'm tired from my things, you see. Paul says when the Spirit fills us with the gospel, there's a desire to serve one another. I saw that uh this week in a in a way that was very moving to me in our congregation. And somebody in our congregation had kind of an old car and the thing finally gave out. And uh this person was single and uh they were trying to save for a new car uh to replace it, uh, but the thing just quit. Didn't know what to do, though that's it. It's the end of the car. I gotta get something. I had just preached last Sunday on giving thanks in every situation. You know, guess what the first thing came to mind was Actually even said, Well, I'm not complaining, but you know, I got this car and what am I gonna do? And I'm giving thanks, you know. But didn't know what to do. Didn't know what to do Next night, somebody from our congregation literally showed up on her door with a toolbox in his hand. Said, give me the keys to your cart. So he said, didn't call. Just showed up. Give me the keys to your car. Oh, well, all right. Gave the keys to the car. Within an hour, had the car fixed, running, ready to go. That was it. Hadn't been asked. Knew better than to call and offer. Just show up. There it is. That's the gospel. That's the body functioning. I mean he he didn't know what that meant in her walk with the Lord. She had prayed, had no resource, nowhere to turn, and she was like an angel just showed up on my door and served me When we see that, you know the gospel's at work. God is doing something, but it goes beyond even us. It transcends our own body. It goes to the body of Christ larger. When I look at the body of Christ in the Howard County area, you know we've said many times, a kingdom-sized vision requires a kingdom-sized church. And a kingdom-sized church is a number of congregations submitting to one another. That's what he says in the beginning of chapter 4, verses 2 to 6. We preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, for there is one Spirit and one Lord, one faith, one baptism. And he's talking there about our submitting to one another. I'll tell you one of the things that most encourages my faith that God is going to hear our prayers and do great things here is when I see in our pastor's fellowship of prayer pastors going out of their way to help another pastor to succeed. So I'm going to take time out of my ministry To help you. I get nothing out of it. I've seen that again and again. Randy Reinhardt, who leads our fellowship of prayer, takes every Saturday evening And spends a fair amount of time going through all the churches that are in our fellowship to pray for the power of the gospel by name, each church, each pastor. That God would cause his word to go forth and that that church would succeed in glorifying Jesus Christ and reaching the lost and building up the saints. You see, God's going to begin to work when we don't care which church gets the credit. You know? We say we're not the brightest lights, the shining stars. When God is able to work and we're ready to submit to one another. As a fellowship, as fellowships, as parts of the body, then God's Spirit, in filling us to do that, begins to fill us in greater power for revival. Amen? We see that in just what we're trying to initiate, the hope, houses of prayer everywhere. Where Christians network in neighborhoods to pray for their neighbors. Not just the people in their own fellowship, but other Christians saying, it's not a matter of who's in charge here. We're just going to pray together because our concern is for the lost and our neighbors. Or go even beyond that, to the body of Christ across racial lines. Chapter 2 Remember in verses 14 to 22, Paul had talked about how Jesus had by his cross transcended the racial lines of Jew and Gentile, those who were bitter enemies at that time. And he said, even out of Jew and Gentile, he has formed one new humanity in verse 14. One new humanity in Jesus Christ. And so if God could do that among Jews and Gentiles, could He do that among African Americans and Hispanics and Anglos in Howard County? When the pastors met with Superintendent Hickey of the public school system here last month, we met with him, we prayed with him, I asked him the question How do you see the racial problem in the public schools now compared to five years ago? Is it the same? Is it worse or is it better? Without hesitation, he said it's worse. Some people think it looks better. But there is more self-protectiveness, there is more there there are higher fences, he says, between the groups, more distrust. Brothers and sisters, I don't know how you feel when you hear that, but I say that's an opportunity for the gospel. See, because Jesus Christ says he's broken down the walls. And when he's broken down the walls, that means that when you and I are filled with the Spirit and we submit, we don't say, but it's your turn to make the first move. You know, I've been hurt in this thing and I'm sick and tired of hearing this and you know and I've got my stereotypes and I've got my issues and my backgrounds and all the things. There's the anger, there's the racism. But there's the coming in the in Jesus Christ to say, I'm called to submit to this brother of a different race. That's the gospel. As you know, we have uh linked up with Long Reach Church of God, a church that's uh about as black as we are white, not totally, but you know, majority As we pray for more diversity within each congregation, trying to link up. We've exchanged pulpits, their pastor and me And every year, you know, they have a um a revival in um you know meetings, basically evangelistic meetings in June. And uh this is a big event for them. I mean this is something they pray for for the whole year, the people that they have building relationships, it's now bring them to this meeting. It's a meeting they call it the sword, the singing of the sword. They have a lot of singing, a lot of music, and then somebody brings the gospel. Guess who they asked to bring the gospel the first night. Called me up and they said, Al, would you come and would you bring the gospel in our basic evangelistic meeting this year? Do you want a white guy to do that? Yeah, we remember you're white. Yeah, but we don't forget, you know. Yeah, we uh seemed to say, well oh that's I forgot about well, you know. Catch you later. Well you see this is purposeful. This is them saying, yes, this is a message we want to give about the body of Christ We're submitting to one another, working together, humbling ourselves before one another. Why do we do that? Why of all the things I've talked about in our own families, our own hearts, I didn't even get on work, there's the work, you know, you go to work Somebody made a mess. Ask yourself, you know, I could do this, but I have to stay over time if I do that. You know, they really ought to get caught. They're not going to get caught. I do it. I'm not going to get credit. No, forget it, man. I'm out of here. But he say, no. My job as part of a team here is to help us all to succeed. And I'm going to say, I'm going to do it. I don't get the credit, but because of Jesus, I'm going to serve. Once had a boss that said, I am responsible to the board of this organization to accomplish this mission. You have one job, and that's to help me to succeed in my report to the board. Okay? And he turned around and he said, now, you each have a job description, and it's to fulfill the mission of this organization. I have one job, is to help you succeed in your job. I'll tell you what do you think the morale was of that group? We knew that our boss was a servant to help us succeed, and he demonstrated that many times. And our job was to help him. So when nobody's looking for, you know, I'm not going to do more than my share, you see. When the Spirit fills us, we're willing to serve Why do we do it? What's interesting is the reason he gives. Very interesting. Look at verse 21 again. Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Now, I don't know if that's what your version says, but that's what the NIV says. But literally the Greek says, submit to one another out of fear of Christ. Out of fear of Christ. Why does he say that? What's his point? I believe that what he's saying to you and to me is that submission goes totally against the grain of my pride. So why am I going to serve? Why, when I am in a relationship with you, am I not going to be competitive? You know how they say two guys meet, immediately there's the square and off to see who's the top dog? You know, you kinda size the guy up. Who's the who's the top door? Who's the power here, you know? And women have their ways of competing, relationships. But you know, isn't that there's always that conscious sense of who's got the power? in this relationship or in this group. Why is it that that is taken out? There's the freedom to not need to be the top dog What I think of that, I think that the reason is when I realize that I'm a dead dog. What do I mean by that? Remember the story of Mephibosheth back in the Old Testament? Remember Mephibosheth, 2 Samuel chapter 9. Maybe start turning to that. I'm going to read a couple verses from it. Because you're turning to that. Remember, Mephibosheth was the son of Jonathan, grandson of King Saul. And Saul was David's enemy. Do you remember that Mephibosheth, when he was a baby and they were being attacked, his nurse was carrying him away and she dropped him, broke both of his feet. And they didn't have casts and physical therapy and all that and those days. And so he was crippled in both feet as a result of that accident So here's Mephibosheth, a cripple, and David sends for him. You read in 2 Samuel chapter 9. In verse 6, that the Phibisheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David And uh verse 5 tells you where they brought him from. That's his hometown, Lodabar. Whenever I read Lodabar, I always have to smile because Lodabar means literally nowhere. And so here's a guy who's a cripple from nowheresville, out in the desert. And he comes in before David, and this guy is the grandson of David's worst enemy, and David's now king. You talk about fear? I mean, I'm summoned to come before the king, a cripple from nowhere's bill. the grandson of his greatest enemy, and he is an absolute power. And so you read in verse 6 that David said to him, You notice he came to David, bowed down, literally prostrated himself to pay him honor. David says, Mephibosheth, your servant, he replied. Must have been terror in his voice, because David says, Don't be afraid. For I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and that you will always eat at my table. The Phibish says, I'm going to make you like the son of a king, cripple, an enemy from nowhere. Verse 8 The Phibosheth bowed down and he said, What is your servant that you should notice a dead dog like me? Ephesians 2 says you and I were dead in our trespasses and our sins. We were crippled in our natures, more than crippled. We were dead. We're from nowhere And we are God's enemies. And we come before Him in fear and trembling Ephesians 2 verse 6 he says he not only made us alive, he made us to sit with him in the heavenly realms, to eat at his table. There's a second part to the story. You don't hear that so much. It's in verse in chapter 19. Turn over to chapter 19, 2 Samuel. Some years later, you remember David's son Absalom had led a rebellion against him. Now David's got another enemy, and this time it's his own son. David again flees for his life. He runs. God again delivers. And David's armies are victorious. Absalom is killed. David's returning to Jerusalem now. You know, there's that political intrigue. Who was loyal to David while he was gone? You know, the opportunists all saw Absalom in power So who was loyal to him? He comes back and he sees Mephiboshe. You see in 2 Samuel 19, verse 24. Mephibosheth, Saul's grandson, also went down to meet the king as he's coming back to Jerusalem. He had not taken care of his feet, or trimmed his mustache, or washed his clothes in the day that the king left until he returned safely. When he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, the king asked him, Why don't you go with me, Lephiboshev? He said, My lord the king, since I'm your servant, am lame. I said, I will have my donkey saddled and I will ride on it so that I can go with the king. But Ziba, my servant, betrayed me. And he slandered your servant to my lord the king. He's told you bad things about me. He said I told you I wasn't loyal to you. But my Lord the King is like an angel of God. So do whatever pleases you. New this All my grandfather's descendants deserved nothing but death from my Lord the King. But you gave your servant a place among those who sat at your table. So what right do I have to make any more appeals to the king? I have no rights. I should be a dead man You raised me up and gave me everything I didn't deserve. David's heart is softened, and he says to him, Why say more? I order you and Zeba to divide the fields. I'm going to give you half of his property. How did Mephibosheth respond? Notice. Mephibosheth said to the king, Ah Just half? That scoundrel? I deserve the whole thing. He doesn't deserve anything. He wasn't loyal to you. The Phibisha says to the king, let him take everything, now that my lord the king has arrived home safely. What's he saying? The king's kingdom is intact. I am in the presence of my king again. I've seen your face. I don't need to defend my rights. I don't need to protect myself. Let him take it. That's okay. Brother and sister When the Spirit of God fills your heart, you see what you deserved. You see that Jesus has caused you to sit at his table, that he's given to you to become his son and his daughter, to share with you his kingdom. And you say, as long as the kingdom's intact and I've seen the face of Jesus, I don't need to protect my rights. I can serve. I can submit What's God saying to you this morning? How's He speaking to you? Out your own heart? In any of these four areas, the constructive speech rather than tearing down the praise to him rather than Feeling hollow, the thankful, grateful attitude rather than the complaining, or the submitting rather than the defending. If you sense a need in your heart for God to do a new work, this afternoon we're going to meet. Some of us are going to meet who are hungry, who are saying, God, we believe you can do more in us. More in our church than you're doing. We want to see your spirit fill us. We want to gather in quarter of one, all the way up till five o'clock, anytime during that period. You can come, stay as long as you want. Stay until God hears and answers till He's worked in your life. Stay and pray and intercede with us for our church and for our community. We're going to seek him. We're going to seek him because he's shown us our hearts. And he's shown us Jesus. And we want more. Amen? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, reveal our hearts that we might see what we are like, grasping, demanding people. That you might show us, Lord, that we who want so often to be top dogs need to realize we were dead dogs. And you lifted us up. You've shown us your mercy and your favor. And so, Lord our God, we come to you and we ask for you to fill us with your spirit that that which we hear would come into our hearts and you would free us. From needing to protect ourselves. And Lord, we'd have that freedom that we long for. Freedom of Mephibisha, the freedom of Paul who prayed that we would do nothing out of out of the strife and and competition, but would have the attitude of Jesus who gave up his rights and he'd become a servant for us Lord, would you do that in us, we pray, for each one of us here. In Jesus' name. Amen.