Children. No children scriptures. Oh. Hang in there kids. That means you don't get those extra seats this morning that are next to you. Welcome to the CPC version of musical chairs. You know how we play it. We just have you stand and sing and people just keep gathering in and pushing in and that way you don't notice that there's more people than chairs until you finally go to sit down And then everybody scrambles to see if in fact there are enough seats. And if there's not, then we send you off to children's church or something. But can't do that. Everybody looks like you're seated. Hang in there. We'll have you actually looking forward to the fall, where at least you'll know that you can get a seat when you come in. But hang in. It's good for us all to be together. The explosion of books on biblical prophecy continues since the last time I spoke a couple weeks ago. I've seen two or three new ones that have come out. These keep pouring off the presses at an ever increasing rate. Now we have besides Swindle, Walvard, and Pentecost, the road to Armageddon this week. There was a new one. Where was that? It's a new one by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins. Continuing. the series on the tribulation, this one, The Assassins. So if you want to keep up on what's going on in the tribulation, uh Max Luceto is getting in on it now. He's got a book, When Christ Comes that has just come out. And then this one by Robert Van Kempen, what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? The Rapture Question Answered I'm not exactly sure what the rapture question is, but there's the answer to it. So you got that? And then a whole bunch page full of other ones here that are coming up. Um my favorite is this one by a fellow by the name of Mark Water. Don't know him or heard of him, but he's written a book called Biblical Prophecy Made Easy. I like that. I gotta get that one. So uh we've got a whole host of these things coming up here. Uh I haven't seen this much action on biblical prophecy since I was a teenager. Uh I went to a church, remember, that had biannual week-long prophecy conferences. They'd start one weekend You go through Sunday and then you go every day of the week all the way to the next weekend, climax in the next weekend. I think they're always kind of hoping the Lord would come to kind of bring the you know, the thing to an appropriate climax conclusion, but uh that didn't happen yet. But uh we were taught in that church where I became a Christian to read your Bible in one hand and your newspaper in the other hand and watch day by day, week by week, month by month, uh biblical prophecy being fulfilled in the news, the days of the Cold War and tension in the Mideast. and all those various things, what was going to happen with Russia and China, all these things that were happening. And the passages of course that we focused on many times, having a whole series during the year The book of Ezekiel, Daniel, Matthew 24, and the book of Revelation. Those were the four big sections of Scripture that we focused on. One of the key passages of all that we would focus on was Daniel chapter 9, the 70 weeks of Daniel. And what was most exciting, the 70th week of Daniel's prophecy. And so we are going to look at that this week and next week in order to try and understand what this passage is teaching us, particularly Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 to 27. Verses refer to the seventy weeks of Daniel. And those weeks, or seventy-sevens, are divided into three units. First, there is a unit of 70 weeks, 7 weeks or 7s, then 62 weeks or 7s, and then one last week or seven. And the key question that people who study prophecy ask when they look at that passage is, is the 70th week past or future? Has it already taken place or is it still to come? And even more amazing, the question that in verse 27, does that refer to Jesus the Messiah? or to the Antichrist. Now you say, how could a verse be confusing as to whether it's referring to Christ or the Antichrist? But that's the big question. So let us read that passage of God's Word now. God intends for us to understand this. The passage is one of the most difficult passages in all of the Old Testament. One commentator calls this the dismal swamp of Old Testament interpretation. Another commentator wrote that if I were to read all the opinions, interpretations, and commentaries written on these verses, Daniel 9, 24 to 27 It would take me the rest of my life to do it. Much has been written on. It is a very difficult passage. We're going to attempt to understand it I don't think that this passage is impossible to understand. I won't be like many people and say, I'm going to make it easy. It's very simple. Just follow me. I got the clue. It's right. But I do think With a few biblical principles of interpretation, we can understand what God is saying and how that is of immense practical importance for you and for me. Daniel chapter 9, begin now. Verse 20 to 23 talks about Gabriel bringing this message, and we'll get to that in a few minutes. But I want to just focus on these verses, verses 24 to 27. Seven sevens are decreed for your people and your holy city to finish transgression, to put an end to sin, to atone for wickedness. To bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. No one understand this. From the issuing of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the anointed one, the ruler, comes, there will be seven sevens. And sixty-two sevens. That's a total of sixty-nine. And it will be rebuilt. with uh streets and a trench, but in times of trouble. After the 62 Sevens, or the 69th Seventh, The anointed one will be cut off and will have nothing. The people of the ruler will come, will destroy the city and the sanctuary. The end will come like a flood. War will continue until the end, and desolations have been decreed. He will confirm a covenant with many for one seven That's the seventieth seven. In the middle of the seven, he will put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on a wing of the temple he will set up an abomination that causes desolation until the end that is decreed is poured out on him. Understand it? All right. Let's see what God has for us in this. I believe that the basic problem in understanding this passage is ignoring the very basic biblical principle of context. Most of what you read in biblical prophecy on these verses takes these verses in isolation and simply seeks to exposit and to understand them as if there was a frame around them and you just look at them. In fact, these verses are an answer to Daniel's prayer that we just heard And so you need to understand both the historical setting as well as the prayer in order to understand what this vision is about. Daniel chapter 9 John began with a prayer in verse 4, but let's look from the beginning, Daniel chapter 9, verse 1. When does this take place? Very important. in the first year of Darius, the son of Xerxes, Amede by descent, who was made ruler over the Babylonian kingdom. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood from the scriptures, according to the word of the Lord given to Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would last seventy years. Daniel is now an old man. Nearly seventy years. have gone by since he had been forcibly brought out from Judah in six oh six BC, probably with his home destroyed and burned, perhaps the rest of his family killed. There's no mention of them. Many years have taken place since Daniel's lived in Babylon. Some years after he had been moved into Babylon in 586 BC, a few years after uh you know twenty years after he had been taken away. Nebuchadnezzar had brought all of his armies to Jerusalem, had burned Jerusalem to the ground, had pillaged the temple, taken all of its treasuries. raped and killed and left utter destruction and no civilization left. The people there must have wondered, where in the world is God in all this? He calls himself the God of Israel. He says he is our our God and and he is the God of the ark. And yet all of this is taken and destroyed, and God seems to do nothing. Is he God or isn't he? Where is he? Perhaps in your life this morning, there are things going on in the scenery of devastation and landscape of your life, and you're wondering, where in the world is God? He says he's my God. And he's letting this happen and this happen. And I don't see any evidence that God is intervening, that he's showing his power. Well imagine how Daniel must have felt. Imagine how he and his friends being taken into captivity and seeing the promised land laid waste, the treasuries of the temple made trinkets for the heathen gods. And Daniel and his friends have been in turmoil. But during that time, do you remember how God showed his power? He showed that he was the one true living God of all the earth, delivering Daniel even from the mouth of a lion in the lion's den. And again and again, God had showed that He was a God who answers prayer, not all prayers, not in the way we pray, but that He is a sovereign, caring God. And God had revealed to Daniel a vision. A vision, you remember, of four world kingdoms, and then the messianic kingdom. And as God had revealed that vision to Daniel, he had said, there will be four successive kingdoms. Babylon will be replaced by another kingdom. And now Babylon has fallen. 538 or 39 BC, Cyrus of the Medo-Persian Empire came against Babylonia, a mighty walled city, seemingly impregnable. But the river ran under the city in order to provide water, drinking water, washing water for the city. And so Cyrus dammed up the river. And then by night brought his armies under the walls on the riverbed, sneaked inside the city, and took it. And now mighty Babylonia has fallen. It is no longer a world empire. It is a conquered city. At this point, Daniel now maybe 90 years old. He's still serving in that city. Daniel now is having a quiet time And he's reading in the book of Jeremiah. It says that in verse two. I understood from the scriptures the word that God had given to Jeremiah. What's he talking about? Probably talking about Jeremiah 2910. Where God says in Jeremiah 29, 10, this is what the Lord says, when 70 years are completed for Babylon I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise to bring you back to this place. For I know the plans that I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. And so Daniel sees that 70 years are almost up. Babylon has fallen. But Daniel realizes that the restoration will not come automatically. Up, Lord, 70 years up. Okay, it's time for you to act. Because Jeremiah had said, You will seek me. You will come and humbly seek for me to fulfill the covenant and the promises that I've made. And that, brothers and sisters, is why you read in Daniel chapter 9, verse 3, that Daniel says, so I turned to the Lord God and I pleaded with him in prayer. and petition in fasting and in sackcloth and ashes. God's promises are to be claimed They are to incite you and me to seek him. And in this case, it was to seek him with confession of sin. I was tempted, really tempted, as I studied this passage, to come up here in torn jeans and a dirty, ash-covered t-shirt. And the only reason I didn't, because that's how Daniel was when he prayed this prayer. He's wearing sackcloth and ashes. Signs of mourning. The only reason I didn't was because I thought you'd probably think it was funny rather than thinking that this was a sign of a dramatic display of how Daniel felt about his sin. But now picture me or picture Daniel as he's praying this. Picture him In torn clothes, old sackcloth, with ashes on his head and all over his clothes, as a sign of mourning. It's what you do when someone dies. And Daniel praised this prayer. Now you've heard the prayer. But again, I want you to use your imagination Suppose as John had read that prayer and then led us in a prayer of confession, that you heard the person to your right or to your left. begin to sniffle. And as the prayer goes on, you hear this person begin to blubber. And then as we continue on in the prayer, you begin to hear them sob. Deep, heart-rending, heaving sobs. And you, you know, kind of open your eyes just a little bit. You don't want to be conspicuous, kinda glance over real quick, you know, to see. And sure enough. There's tears streaming down this person's face. What would you be thinking? Well you might be thinking something like, uh, huh, eh, wonder what they did this week. Boy, I thought I had a bad week. Uh I just screwed up some stuff, but they must have really royally screwed up this week. Listen, we read about Daniel that he was a man of utmost integrity. Even his enemies couldn't find anything to pin on him except that he worshipped the wrong God. And Daniel is weeping and sobbing and mourning and crying over his sin. You see, we see somebody who is weeping and sobbing over their sin, we tend to think they're less spiritual. The actual fact may be that they are more spiritual because they're more in touch with their heart. Daniel was in touch with his heart. And so he doesn't pray, these Israelites, O Lord, they've screwed up. And Lord, they're just as bad now as when they were brought here 70 years ago. And I don't know what you're going to do with them But you got to get a hold of them, Lord, because we're going to go home. And you've got to change their hearts. That's not what he prays, is it? Daniel prays, Lord, we have sinned, we have broken your law, we have done wickedly. And he's including himself because he knows his heart. Let me tell you something. Satan's greatest desire is to convince you that you are not really evil. That you are more a victim of others' evil than an agent in your own heart and life to hurt others. And to sin against God. He wants to convince you that you are sufficient in yourself to control your life. To do the best you can and to get along with some of God's help, but that you are not a hopeless case left to yourself. And you see, if you don't understand that, you will miss the whole point of Daniel's prophecy. Because that's what this whole chapter is about. This chapter is about a man who says, God, I want to go home. But I see that we're here because our sins have blocked your blessing. And God, if only you could take care of that sin problem. God, if you could only forgive me, if you could only wipe the slate clean. God, if you could only remove that so that your mercy would come upon us. Without that, we are hopeless. Now you see, until you begin to see your heart for what it is, you won't really be able to enter in to what this passage is about. I find in my own life it's so hard to hear from others, even those who know me very well. what my heart is really like. Just this week I was lamenting about An area of longing in my relationship with my kids, and wondering why there wasn't a closer relationship in this particular area. And as my wife, Kathy, began to talk to me about, here's what I think may be the problem, and here's what I think God may be saying to you about that I found myself getting defensive. I found myself wanting to blame shift and to minimize it. No, I don't think that's really the problem, you know, it's it's really their problem Now it's not really that I've been so off base in this area, wanting to excuse myself. If I ever find that kind As I realized, I looked at myself doing that, I thought, the real problem is I don't want to see what my heart is really like. I always want to live in a little bit of denial. Pretend it's a little bit better. You see, we're not ready to hear the gospel Until we're really ready to face what our hearts are like, we don't deserve any of his mercy. Sin is a major problem. It is not a little problem to get out of the way so we can get on with living. Sin is the problem in your life and my life. And until we're ready to own up to that, to face it squarely, to not minimize or to blame shift the gospel, and this passage in particular will never make sense to us. Having said that, let us now look at what it is, in fact, that Gabriel promises. You notice Gabriel interrupts his prayer. We're just going to look at verse 24 now, and then we're going to look at the rest of it next week. Gabriel interrupts his prayer, he says in verse 20. Daniel says that while I'm still praying, I'm still trying to talk, and verse 21, Gabriel comes. The one who he had seen in the vision in chapter eight. He instructs me and he says, Daniel, I've come to give you insight and understanding. Soon as you began to pray, an answer was given, which I've come to tell you. Now, he's praying for the restoration of Jerusalem. The problem for that is sin. That's clear. The whole thing is saturated with a covenant. God of the covenant, these are your covenant people, this is your covenant city. We have sinned against the covenant, we have broken the covenant. How are you going to restore us? You've got to forgive us, Lord. How are you gonna do that? Lord, forgive, Lord hear. That's the way it ends, just as Gabriel interrupts him. Lord, forgive, Lord, hear and act. Do something So an answer was given, he says, For you're highly esteemed. And therefore consider the message and understand the vision. Now verse 24 is the overview. I want to give you that this morning. Then we'll unpack some of the details next week in verses 25 to 27. Notice the overview. Seven sevens I think that's a better translation than seven weeks. Literally the Hebrew is seven sevens. A seven could be a week, but I think it's a seven, and I will go into that more next week why I think what I think he is saying about the time. distributions. But we don't have time for that this morning. Just want to give you these points. In verse 24, you have six things that will be accomplished in this time that is decreed. Three are negative and three are positive. Notice. Seven sevens are decreed for your people, covenant people, and your holy city, the covenant city. 2. 1. Finish transgression. 2. Put an end to sin. 3. To atone for wickedness. 4. Bring in everlasting righteousness. 5. To seal up the vision and prophecy. And 6. To anoint the most holy. I don't have time to defend my translation, but let me give it to you to make as much sense as I can. I think the key is the consistency. You can translate these Hebrew terms in various ways, and believe me, there are books of ways that you could do this. What I think is important is that there is one way to look at it, which both sees it in terms of an answer to Daniel's prayer and sees the relationship between the terms. Here's my suggested translation from out the 77s. Number one, to put away or hide transgression. The word finish there, it says finish in most translations, has the idea of hiding something. And in fact, to put it away by hiding it. It is used of forgiveness. So the issue is finished. It's put away. To put away to hide the transgression. Two, to remove sin by sealing it up. Now the NIV says to put an end to sin. The idea is to put an end to something by sealing it. In fact, to remove it. Five times Daniel uses this word for sin. And again, that's the big problem. It's the sin problem that's blocking your blessing in my life. And so what Gabriel says is Seven seven seventy-sevens are decreed in answer to your prayer, and the second purpose is to remove the sin by sealing it up. So that uh the sin problem is definitively dealt with. It is sealed up and removed. Thirdly, then, to bring that to a climax To atone for or to cover sin or wickedness. That's the third idea. To atone for or to cover sin. The word is used throughout the book of Leviticus concerning animal sin offerings, where the blood covered the sin. The idea was in the image of it that God said, Here's the sacrifice. The sin, the blood of that animal, when you put your hands on it, that blood covers your sin, so I don't see the sin anymore. I see the blood instead. Now you see all three of these terms have the idea of covering, removing, hiding. Those are the ideas. Okay? That's what's in And every other approach I've seen on this has one term means this and one term means that and you don't see any connection between them. I would suggest that this shows the flow of it. So He's not speaking about what's going to happen at the end of history when there will be no more sin. He's talking about the time when sin will be definitively dealt with In history. When your sin, Daniel, is to be shut up as if it no longer exists. That's the blank there, no longer exists. Your sin, Daniel, will be brought to an end so it no longer enslaves. That's the second. That And thirdly, your sin will be atoned for so that it no longer alienates God from you. Sin is going to be dealt with as if it no longer exists, it no longer enslaves, and it no longer alienates. That doesn't mean there's no more effects of sin, it simply means that there will be forgiveness. There will be freedom and there will be reconciliation. That's what he's talking about. He's talking about that to Daniel and he's talking about that to you and to me. Now it starts to get really exciting. Notice So far, you can explain it naturally. Here comes the supernatural part. Keep in mind that this was written over 500 years before Christ came. These three negative things, the dealing with sin by hiding, removing, covering, now lead to three positive effects. Number four, he says, this will be so that, let's see what the NIV says, to bring in everlasting righteousness. Literally, I would translate that And this is just very literal, to cause to come everlasting righteousness. In other words, the effect of this dealing with sin is that it is going to be to cause there to be Everlasting righteousness. Now, what does that mean? What is that referring to? Here you have over 500 years before the Lord Jesus walked the earth, before Paul wrote any of his epistles. The doctrine of double imputation. Now, what in the world is the doctrine of double imputation? Some of you may have heard this before. If you haven't, it's about time you do. It is a glorious teaching. What that means is That the gospel says that when Jesus came and died on the cross for your sin and for my sin, he didn't simply provide a pardon for your sin. If he had done that, praise God, our sin would be removed. But we'd be back right where Adam was on probation. Slate is cleared. Now keep the law, do right, do better. I've taken care of it once, now go on and do better next time. And you and I would be in an absolutely hopeless situation because our problem is not simply our sins, it is our sinful heart What Jesus did and the glory of the gospel is that He not only became sin for us, but by Him, 2 Corinthians 5:21 says, we have become the righteousness of God. Jesus, when he died on the cross, gave to us not only, he not only took from us our record Which he suffered for. But he also gave to us his record. So we're saved not only by his death, but by his life. We now, God doesn't just take your life and credit it to Jesus so he suffers the curse for what you deserve and what Daniel deserved and what he expresses. He also takes Jesus' life, the record of his life, and he credits your life with his life. You are no longer on probation You now have his righteousness that is fixed and finished. He has caused there to be in your life Everlasting righteousness, 500 years before Jesus came. Daniel wrote that. You believe that? Praise God. Now, think about it. That's double imputation. See what it means is that not only were your sins imputed to him, but his righteousness imputed to you. Then he goes on, fine. To seal up vision and prophecy. This is the same word as the second one. To seal up sin, hiding it Now the idea is to seal it up, to finish it, to to bring it to an end because it is fulfilled. In other words, what he's saying is that at this time all the hope of the Old Testament, all the prophecies and all the covenants are going to be fulfilled. At this point, you see, at Christ's first coming, these things were fulfilled. We don't have to wait. till the end of time for the sealing of vision and prophecy. Why is that? Key point about prophecy. Keep this in mind, please, as we go through the whole rest of the series in the fall. Come back and oh yeah, July twenty fifth. I remember hearing that. Remember, that everything about the end times and of Jesus' return is simply the unveiling of what has already been accomplished in his first coming. There is nothing to add at the second coming. There's not some whole new thing about, you know, here's a whole scenario about what's going to happen with Israel and then all this other things and all these other things kind of unfold. No, when Jesus comes, he simply unveils the fullness of the salvation which we now have by the first fruits of the Spirit. When he comes, the vision and the prophecy has been sealed. It has been accomplished. Now, see it. You see, we don't see it yet. We see it with the eyes of faith When Jesus comes back, we will see it unveiled. In fact, if you ever thought about it, that is the literal meaning of the book of Revelation. The word revelation comes from the word apocalypse. The word apocalypse means to unveil something. That's what this is about. Now, the last thing. Notice this, the climax. Sixth point, to see a lot the vision and the prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. What's that talking about? Some say it refers to the holy of holies, the temple At the end of history. But there's no article here. It doesn't say the. It just says anoint most holy. When that is used that way, it generally refers to a person. I believe that what this is saying is that there will be to anoint the most holy one. You see, what Daniel, what Gabriel is revealing to Daniel here is the climax of all of this. How's this going to happen? How's sin going to be hidden and covered and sealed and removed? How is there going to be brought in everlasting righteousness? What is going to be the hope of the fulfillment of the covenant and the sealing of all prophecy and vision? It is going to be through the anointing of the Holy One. It is coming through a person. Jesus, the Son of God. Your hope is not in some principle. It is not in ways to do things, in wisdom, it is in a person. Your whole hope this morning in whatever is happening in your life is in the fact that the Holy One has been anointed. Messiah has come. And in him all the promises have been fulfilled. This was again written over 500 years before Jesus, that he is the hope of it all. You see, I believe that many preachers misinterpret this passage. Because they're trying to add to the gospel. Gospel's not enough. So we're gonna have some other scenario, you see, at the end, that's going to help us to see why this is so interesting. And some of the scenarios are pretty fascinating. But they always have the effect of somehow setting the gospel just slightly aside. See, when we see what our hearts are really like, when we really long For God to forgive us, to take away the record of all the things you've done that have hurt other people They've destroyed so many things in your own life. Hopes and dreams. The sin that has blocked God's blessing. And you see, there's come a Messiah. And he's taken that sin. He's removed it. And he's covered it. And he's definitively borne it so that it is atoned for. You're forgiven. You're freed. You're reconciled to God. You have his righteousness. You're simply waiting for the unveiling of all that is accomplished and is completed to be revealed when he comes again. Your whole hope is fixed on him. And when it's fixed on him, you can't be disappointed. John Fitzgerald Kennedy, his wife Carolyn, and Lauren know the truth now. You know, we've all been caught up with the suddenness of death to young people out of time. And they know the truth Are you ready when Jesus comes, when he comes to take you, to unveil to you the fullness of the salvation he's brought? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Lord, show us our hearts and what they're like, so that we, Lord, would see how glorious the gospel is. How amazing, Lord, that over 500 years before Jesus was born, you wrote down in this specific detail. In these verses, what his work would be to do. And that you, Gabriel, came sent by God to speak to a broken-hearted man Crying out in his sin. And so, Lord, you hear the cries of every one of your people here. You never turn a deaf ear to us. When we cry out to you and seek your face, as Daniel was doing, Lord, you come and you bring to us the gospel. That you've forgiven us, that you have freed us, that you are not against us, that you are our Heavenly Father, who gathers us up in your arms. That we have that everlasting righteousness. Nothing can separate us from you. And we look for the Lord Jesus to come, where there will be that unveiling of what has been sealed. The fullness of the prophetic vision. Oh, how our hearts beat to see you reveal that to us. Oh Lord our God, give to us hearts This week, they live in expectation to know that the gospel is not simply the way we've gotten into the Christian life. It's the way to live the Christian life day by day. May we live it with joy. Because you have forgiven us fully and completely in Jesus' name. Amen.