If I ever got the chance to to write two or three books, I don't know if I'll ever get that, but if I did, I uh a couple that I'd like to write would be one on the names of God Um you remember we did a series on that a few years ago. I'd also like to write a book on uh the Song of Solomon as a love poem. I uh think there's a lot of treasures there and I I hope to do a series on that sometime before I die here. And a third book that I would like to do would be on the book of Ephesians. as the Christian manual, uh the manual for the Christian life. And uh I would like to do that in which I would focus on the symbols, the syntax, the structures of Ephesians as key to its meaning. Because I don't think that's really been just done justice in anything I've seen. And you know, the Bible really is a supernatural book. And one evidence of that is the fact that um You could go to Christians all over the world today, 2,000 years after it was written over a period of a thousand years before that And they would all agree on the basic essential message. The essential message of what the Bible's about. That's amazing. And yet the Bible is also infinitely deep, because it reveals the mind of God. Which is unfathomable. So in one sense, the book of Ephesians, which we return to now, in, as you see Some of you are wondering what's that number 70 up there? That's the 70th message. Haven't talked about Ephesians for over a year. In fact, just by my curiosity here, how many of you have never heard a message from me on the book of Ephesians? All right? Boy, you're not a whole lot more honest than the first group, eh? You know, I like two or three I know it's more than I've a few of you, okay, admit it, but uh I know it's a whole group of you that have never heard A message on Ephesians for me. We're gonna rectify that. Uh get into this thing, because this is this is just a delightful book And uh there are so many treasures here. In one sense, though you could reduce the whole message of Ephesians to a simple statement You need Jesus and Him alone for the forgiveness of your sins, and having entered into the new life that he offers to you You can live it out by the power of the Spirit, being what you are. Simply being what God has made you, recreated you to be in Christ. And that's communicated in two ways. First of all in the symbols, and then also in the structure. Now, we've talked about this before, that you could reduce the book of Ephesians, which talks about the Christian life, you could reduce the Christian life according to the book of Ephesians to four postures. And uh does anybody remember what those four postures are? You see there's S-K W S. The S is what? Sit. The K is Kneel, the W is walk, and the S is stand. Now how many of you cheated and read the top of the bulletin? I realized that after I put this in here. That's a real no-brainer. Well, it's always good to start off with something that's, you know, a positive experience, right? So you all got something right. All right, well those are the four postures, and those are basically what the Christian life is about. Now, again, the Bible is a very graphic book, so you've got to picture it The Bible saying the very first posture is to sit. Now, why does it say that? Well you know chapter one, verse twenty, what the Bible says, what Ephesians says is that God raised Jesus from the dead after he had accomplished his work on the cross, and he seated him, Jesus. In the heavenly realms, far above all, rule and authority, power and dominion, every name that can be named in this age, the age to come, Jesus above all, is seated because he's finished. He's resting in that work Then, chapter 2, God says, but you are dead in your sin. It doesn't say you are ill, it doesn't say you're disabled, it says you are dead. Now, as you probably know, Kathy and I are going to be going over to Ireland this summer. So you're going to be hearing a bunch of Irish illustrations And this one's so far just from a book and a picture that I read, but in Dublin, it's a Dublin over there, there's a Church St. Mickens that has a crypt. And in that crypt, according to this picture I've seen, it's a very dry place, limestone walls. In fact it's so dry that bodies don't decompose there. And so very thoughtful people, they left a few of the coffins open. So just so you could see that, you know. And so there's this picture and you see these bodies laying in this coff in these coffins And there's still some skin on them, you know, there's still, you know, but they're all chalky white. I mean the bodies look like they're limestone. But and there they are. Bodies Now, unless you've been reading too much of Stephen King lately, you don't expect them to move. You could yell at them, you'd do anything, but they're not going to do anything, they're just going to lay there Because they're dead and they're utterly unresponsive. And that's what Ephesians 2 1 says you and I are, apart from Jesus Christ, unable to respond. You are dead, he says, in your trespasses and sins. But God, verse 5, verse again verse 4, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions. It's by grace received. And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms. Alright, so the first thing that Ephesians wants to get across to you is that You, if you have trusted in Jesus Christ to take your sin, to give you a new life, realizing you can't do that for yourself, then the first thing you need to do is to learn To sit. To relax. You can't do anything that will make you Acceptable to God, coming to church, religious stuff, good stuff, outweigh your bad stuff. You cannot do that. You simply learn to rest in the finished work of Christ. In fact, the Bible says you rest in that completely. So that there is nothing you can add to that work. And if you this morning have trusted Christ, you know something of what I mean, don't you? But you also know that you want to know more about resting in Christ, right? I mean, we have begun to learn that, but there's so much more we need to know. And so, Ephesians goes on and says you need to learn to kneel. And so the second posture is, chapter 3, verse 14, Paul says, I kneel before the Father. And I pray that you, chapter 3, verse 17, I pray that you who are rooted and established in this love might have power To gather with all the saints, to grasp how wide, how long, how high, and how deep is the love of Christ. And to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. You see, Paul says That your learning more about the love of Christ is just the beginning of your experience here. It's it's it's a lifelong process. But even that lifelong process is just starting. Because look at back at chapter two In verse 6, he says, he's raised us up with Christ, seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus, in order that in the ages to come You know what that's saying? It's saying, I believe, that's going to take all eternity, all the coming ages, to begin to really fathom how wide, how high, how long, how deep is the love of Christ. You kids really love it when mom and dad take you to the shore and especially on a day like this, right, go to the beach. If you're sitting on the beach, you maybe pick up a bucket of sand and you're looking at that sand and let me suggest next time you kids look in that bucket of sand that you look at all those grains of sand in there and think of those as particular instances of God's mercies and his blessings to you. Each grain of sand. Now the problem is that, you know, do you ever try to line up grains of sand? You know, pick them out and sort of line them up on a dark piece of paper or something. You you can't do it. It's sort of run all together. They're so fine. Because you see, even though they're all individual They're all kind of together. You can't separate them. And that's the way it is with God's blessing. But you look at that bucket and you say, well, let's suppose that these grains in this bucket represent all of God's blessing and mercy to me throughout my life. And you look down, you say, Well man, there's a lot more sand around here. You know, you look up the beach, say around Assateque or something, ocean city, look up the beach as far as you can see, down as far as you see, sand, sand, sand. And he said, boy, I I could go up and down the coast. I could go down to Florida. I could go up to Cape Cod. I'm always telling you guys Cape Cod's nothing but sand. That's all it is, a pile of sand. All the way up and down, you know, and all of this, each grain represents the blessings and the mercies of God. How long is it going to take you to discover that Then you get in all the beaches in America and North America and all the world. Can you work your way across the Sahara Desert? Blessing by blessing. That's what Paul's saying. You kneel to begin to discover that, and then God is opening up through all the ages to come his blessings. See Now that's that's the gospel in terms of what God has given to you But there's a point when you're asking God, Lord, help me today to know something about how wide, how deep, how great your love is. And at one point God says, get up. You know? You say, okay, and y why? Because in order to experience, you can't just keep experiencing it on your knees all the time. So the third thing he says is walk Chapter 4, verse 1. In fact, the word walk appears seven times in the book of Ephesians, and uh usually it's translated, most of our modern translations, by the word live. So for instance, in chapter four, verse one, where Paul says, A prisoner of the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy. Some of your translations might say I urge you to walk Worthy of the Lord calling that the Lord's the calling you've received. You walk. Chapter 4, verse 17. So I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer walk. As the unbelievers walk in the futility of their thinking. Chapter 5, verse 1. Be imitators of God, therefore, dearly loved children. Walk. A life of love as Christ loved us and gave himself for us. Now what's interesting to me is that the Christian life Is described as a walk. Anybody ever, Curti God did not describe it, he doesn't say fly. He doesn't say leap. He doesn't even say run. So you get up and you walk one step at a time, one step after another Walking in this new life that God has given you in Jesus Christ. He's described in chapters 1 to 3. You walk. Step by step entering into that. And as you do, you'll face opposition. You'll find out that there are spiritual powers that are hostile to this walk. And so at some point in receiving the opposition of discouragement, of temptation, of distraction, whatever it is Paul then says, being a very realistic author, Bible's a very realistic book, it says you will also have to learn to stand. And the word stand there has the idea of taking a definite stand against opposition. So, for instance, you look at chapter 6 in verse 10. And Paul says, finally, after all this about how to walk, and gives all these specifics, by the way, we'll be looking at those. I'm going to take four weeks just to review Ephesians. I want us to kind of brought up the speed the best we can before we take off onto chapter 5, verse 22, which is where we left off. Also delays getting into chapter 5, verse 22 for another month, you know, build up my courage. But anyway, no, that's not really the reason. I want to take the four weeks so that we're really together on understanding what this is all about. And so uh, you know, Paul says in chapter six, verse ten, finally, after all this about walking, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand. Against the devil's schemes. And look at verse 13. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you've done everything, to stand Stand firm then for the belt of truth and the rest of the armor. Okay? So you get the idea, he wants you to stand four times there. Stand, stand, stand, stand firm, stand Because you're going to be in a battle. There's going to be opposition. Christian life is not easy. Now, I would like to suggest, very practically, that you practice that. I'm not gonna have you do it right here now. But I'd suggest that this week, every morning when you wake up, if you're like me, you sleep in a lying down position. Alright? I find that works best. So when you wake up, you will be resting. So first thing you do is get up and sit on the side of the bed and say, Lord Help me this day to rest in the finished work of Christ. I don't add anything to it. I can't take away anything from it. I simply have his passive righteousness. That means I don't do anything for it. I simply receive what he has done. Help me today to rest in that. And then kneel down by your bed and say, Now Lord, I pray that today you will reveal to me something more about the depth, the height, the length, and the breadth of the love of Jesus. Help me to see that And something I'm doing this day is you're active in my life. And then, if you're like me, you walk to the bathroom. That's the first place we use. So, from the bed, walk into the bathroom and say, Lord, as I'm walking this day, help me to walk in the gospel. Walk in obedience, walk in trusting you, in all the things that I'm coming to grips with this day. Help me to believe you, to serve you, to be available to you. You get into the bathroom, and then what's the first thing you see? You look in the mirror, and there it is. The enemy. No, that's not what you look at. But you take a stand at that point And you say, Lord, help me to stand against whatever opposition comes. And probably a lot of it's going to come from that person that's looking back at me, you know. So, Lord, help me To stand in the strength of Jesus Christ. Notice what he said in 6. 10. He says, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. You don't have strength to stand against the temptations, the opposition you'll get. Lord, help me to stand in you. Now just try that this week. You said, well, you know, a couple weeks you told us to get up and think about glory. Now you have, you know, I mean You're going to be so busy in the beginning of your day, you're going to be tired by the time you get to breakfast. Put aside the glory for a little bit. Just try this this week, see what the Lord does in it. All right? That's the first thing. Now those are the four postures. But then There's another way that Paul deals with this that's even simpler. Because you take the book of Ephesians, you can divide it into two halves. Six chapters, you can divide it in chapter one to three, four to six. Key verse is chapter four, verse one. Because that's the one that links the two halves. In a sense, you could sum up the whole book of Ephesians by that simple statement under point two, be what you are. That's what Ephesians are all about. Be what you are. Chapter 1 to 3, you see there it says indicatives. Indicatives are what? Simply facts, statements of facts. Chapter 1 to 3 says, here's what you are Here's who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ in the gospel. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 are the imperatives. Those are commands. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 says, here's how to walk in that new life. And it gives you a lot of specifics and particulars. And so in chapter 4, verse 1, Paul says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to walk. Live a life worthy, walk. But then you see that word worthy of the calling you've received. That's a troublesome word. How in the world are you ever going to walk worthy of Jesus Christ? And the calling he's given you. Can't do it, right? Not only can you not do it, but that word sounds like it's placing you back under the law You know, urge you, live a life worthy of all the Lord has given you. Well, I don't know about you, but that'd take away all the good news. But you see the word worthy as really an unfortunate translation. The Greek word that's used there, as some of you have been around for a while know, is a word that's a word used in commerce, it's a business word, and it means literally to bring the balances of a scale into equilibrium. And that's where you get the idea of worthy. Now, what it's literally saying then, Paul's saying, okay, now take a look at chapters 1 to 3. And that's this side of the scale. Who you are and what you have in Christ. Man, the scale goes all the way down. Here's the weight of glory of all you have in Jesus Christ. The perfection of his righteousness Being adopted as God's Son, all the rest of this, you see. There it is, the weight of glory. Now Paul's saying in chapter 4, verse 1, he's saying, Now bring your life into equilibrium with that calling. So as you learn to walk verse by verse, command by command, everything that he lays out before you, he's saying, bring your life into equilibrium with that calling. So that you are experiencing that new life that you have in Jesus Christ. See, that's what he's talking about. So the chapters 1 to 3 are the passive sitting. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 are the act of walking. Chapters 1 to 3 are the passive resting. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 are the act of wrestling. There's an illustration of this in the Old Testament. And I hadn't I have not shared this before, so if you don't remember this, it's because this is since the last time I was in Ephesians. Reading through the book of Genesis, and it occurred to me, you look at Genesis, you have the covenant that's given to Abraham, and it's given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now, the promises are given to Abraham, but Isaac and Jacob are an illustration of Ephesians. Do you ever know that? If you look at uh Isaac Isaac is an illustration of Ephesians 1 to 3 because Isaac is simply an illustration of passive receiving. I mean there are few characters in the whole Bible more passive than Isaac. How much can you tell me about Isaac? Not a whole lot, right? Not a really vivid, prominent character. Why? Because all that Isaac does is receive. Very peaceful character. Receives the promise of the land. He receives the promise of the covenant, the promise of children. I mean Isaac even has his wife dropped in his lap. He's sitting there out in the field one day, you know, meditating, the Bible says, and along comes the servant. Here's your wife. Oh, great, thanks. I mean there is a guy that's at peace, right? Now what about Jacob? You look at Jacob. Jacob's life is struggle from the beginning to the end. I mean this guy comes out of the womb, Python, grabbing his brother's heel. Remember that's what he's, you know, Jacob means a heel grabber, because that's how he was born And so all through his life he's fighting against his brother, he's fighting against his father, he's fighting against his uncle Laban for twenty years. I mean, this guy even fights against God. Remember, coming back, he wrestles with God, and God says he prevailed and he cripples him for life. Jacob is a picture of wrestling and struggle. Now, if I were to ask you, how many of you identify with Isaac and how many of you identify with Jacob? I don't even have to do that to know the results. 99% of you are going to identify with who? Jacob, right? But you see, the Bible says both Isaac and Jacob are intended to be a picture of the Christian life. If it's just passive resting. There's something wrong. But if all it is is struggling and resting, there's something wrong. Because what Ephesians says is in every command That goes against your will, your flesh, in chapter 4, 5, and 6 is based on something God has made you to be. Your new identity by grace in chapters 1, 2, and 3. So it lessens the struggle for you. It helps you in very practical ways. If you can look at every command in chapter 4, 5, and 6. And trace it to something that you have been made in Jesus Christ in chapters 1, 2, and 3. Let me give you some examples of that. I'm there in your bulletin outline, just so you can see. Chapter 1, verse 4, Paul says, You are holy. That is, you've been set apart from sin. Therefore, chapter 4, verse 17, 5, 1 and 2, therefore be holy. You are holy, that's the fact. Therefore be holy. That's the command. But the command's based on the fact. You don't work to be holy in your own strength as something you achieve. You simply are working out the holiness of Jesus Christ that's already been given to you. See, that's the gospel. You are made new. Chapter 2, verse 4 and 5, verse 10. Therefore, live as a new creature. And he goes into specifics, chapter 4, verse 2, all the way through chapter 6, verse 9, and how to do that. We're going to be reviewing some of those over the next few weeks. A lot of particulars. You are one with every other believer. Chapter 2, verse 11 to 22 goes to some length to describe that, no matter how different they are. No matter how little you seem to have in common. Therefore, live at peace with other believers. Chapter 4, verse 2 to 6. And chapter um What's this 31 business? Oh yeah, chapter 2 verse chapter 4 verse 2 to 6 and also verse 31 through chapter 5 verse 2. That might just notice that might not be real clear to you. You see, that's saying that you can live at peace with other believers because you have already been made one with them in Christ. You are sealed with the Spirit. Chapter 1, verse 13 and 14. Therefore be filled with the Spirit. Chapter 5, verse 18. What he means there. See all these things what he tells you to do is based on who you are, what you have already. I mean that has it so freeing, isn't it? Somebody say amen. Somebody that knows that's true. Say amen. Yeah, okay, well. What do you expect? Discover it, brothers and sisters. This is great. This is fabulous You are pure. Therefore, live purely. Be pure, you see. Chapter 1, verse 4, chapter 5, verse 3 to 14. See, that's the gospel. The gospel is that Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in your own experience that which is already true of you in Christ by faith. Christian life is not just wrestling. It's not just obedience. Christian life is living by faith, out of the grace of Christ. You see, and that makes all the difference. As I say, you know, some people think saved by grace, sanctified by sweat. That's not what the Ephesians says. Saved by grace, sanctified by grace, through faith. So therefore, third point on the back, I urge you, what you need to see, what I need to see in this Is this not just information for us to jot down and say, oh great, now I've got a little outline for the book of Ephesians. It's something for us to live in very practical ways day by day. In chapter 4, verse 1, Paul says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you. I urge you To walk, bringing your life in equilibrium to the calling that you've received in Jesus Christ that I've just described in these first three chapters. That's a pretty powerful statement. And you see, when you read that, and you hear me, and you say, ah, you know, you make it sound so simple. But life isn't like that You don't know what my life's like. Easy for you to say. And you don't won't know what it's like to be a single mom trying to raise kids without a dad. You don't know what it's like to not have anybody to share your life with and be so lonely Or um you don't know what it's like to be married and wish you were single. To believe that my spouse really doesn't love me. Thoughtless Uncaring. Well, you don't know what it's like to have had your spouse leave you And on and on and on it could go, physical, trials, emotional, relational My brothers and sisters, I want to say this very gently. But I want to say it so you don't miss it. Chapter 4, verse 1, Paul does not say, I urge you To walk, bringing your life into equilibrium with the calling you've received. He says that, but there's a few words that preface that and make all the difference that we often miss. Look again what he says. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to walk. Now why does he stick that in there? I believe he sticks that in there just for those of us that say, I'm an exception to the possibility of seeing the reality of this. Paul saying, think about my circumstance as I write this to you. Paul had been stoned and left for dead. He had been hated by the Jews so that they got him arrested by the Roman authorities. Dragged off to Rome, and there he was in a Roman prison as a prisoner for the Lord, he says. I mean he you know we think oh as a prisoner, well, you know, he had a house arrest and you probably you know it wasn't too bad. Chapter 6 verse 20 says he's in chains So here's a guy who has no freedom, has no comforts, he's in a foreign land Hundreds of miles from all that was familiar, precious to him, no family, has no idea if or when he'll ever see home again. And he says, it's in that circumstance that I'm telling you, you can live above your circumstances. You can live by the gospel. Amen. You can live by the gospel that says that you have been made a new creature. By Jesus Christ, is you can rest in His finished work. You can kneel and ask God with expectation, show me more of your love. In my situation today, as I depend on you. And so I'm going to walk in obedience. I'm going to walk and do what I believe you want me to do. And I'm going to follow you. And I'm going to stand. Against whatever is going to try and distract me or derail me from that. And Paul says you can do that in the grace and the strength of Jesus Christ. Therefore, what I'd like you to do is first of all to ask yourself, do I have that? Do I have that new life that Jesus Christ offers? And if you don't, quite simply, you need to recognize your helplessness. That you are dead in your trespasses and sins, and as Paul says there, that you are walking In a way that is provoking God by your disobedience and to seek for the new life that Jesus Christ can offer you The redemption, he says, the purchase of your freedom, the forgiveness of sins according to the lavishness of his grace. That's chapter one. Don't let anything stop you from that. But if you have that, and if you know that you have that new life in Christ Then I have something very specific I'd like to challenge you with. You take a look at chapters 4, 5, and 6 sometime today, and you look at the Naria. That is the greatest challenge to your life. One of the areas that he talks about. We're going to look at those over the next week, but that the next weeks. But just today to look at this and say, here is an area. That I do not see the reality of Jesus Christ in my life, then trace that command back to a statement of fact in chapters 1, 2, and 3. And I guarantee you'll be able to do it. May not be obvious right at first, but you will be able to do it. I had a guy that say you can't do it all. I don't believe it, you know. And A few days later he came back, he had about ten pages of notes, he had done every verse and command, and he traced it to me. He says, Hey, he really can do it. He can do it. So take a look and see what it is to encourage you about the reality of your new life in Christ in chapters 1, 2, and 3, and then ask God this week, Lord, begin to help me to experience That new life in this area. And see what God will do. Ready for that? Let's pray. Lord, I pray that you would fix in each one of our minds what you're saying to us from this right now. The area What we need to do to respond to you, whether it is faith in the finished work of Jesus to get into chapters 1, 2, and 3, or whether it is learning how to kneel. To find out more about that grace, to rest in it, by learning how to walk in it in some specific way, to stand against the opposition, and to see your power. Lord, right now at this moment of quiet, fix in our minds and our hearts what that area is and that step of obedience would entail. And Lord Jesus, you will not be glorified to leave these, your people, empty. And so I and we together count on you to show your reality and your power. In the lives of each one right now, that are seeking you to know more of your reality, who hunger for you. Meet them, I pray, and show them what you can do. To glorify yourself in their lives. Because that's the gospel. You've given it to us here in Ephesians. Lord, help us to enter into it, into its reality. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen