Well we are reviewing the book of Ephesians after a year away from it. And uh once again, as we saw before, if you were to sum that book up in just one simple statement. It would be, be what you are in Jesus Christ. That is, in your daily experience Begin to experience and work out the new life that you have been given in Jesus Christ. You saw that John just read from chapter 4, verse 1, the key verse of the book. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I, Paul, urge you to live a life that is to walk In a manner worthy, we saw the word worthy means to bring a scale into equilibrium. To bring your life, then he's saying, into equilibrium with a calling that you've received. Here's the calling you've received. Of all the weight of blessings you have in Jesus Christ. Now bring in your daily living that experience of those blessings into equilibrium, into balance. So you're beginning to experience that. For instance, in chapter one in verse five, He says, you have been adopted as sons, generically, not not that's not sexist, it's sons as a a rightful privilege of adopted sons of God at that time. Using the image of adoption, you have been adopted as God's precious children. So, he says, walk as children. Experience that. Live as a child of God, not as an orphan. And uh That's only if you're in Christ, you see. He's saying, be what you are in Christ. If you don't have Jesus Christ this morning, all you can do is be what you are in yourself. That's Oprah's message. Be who you are, be what you are. Get in touch with that inner spirit. Get in touch with whatever resources in you that you can release in order to fulfill your potential, you say. The more you try to do that, the more you find out what a burden that is. Terrific burden. I was talking to somebody just this week about that. A person really struggling with the gospel And at one point they blurted out, in just sheer honesty, I hate the law. I can't keep it, and all it does is condemn me. But boy, you got that right. There it is. But you see, if you finally come to the end of yourself in saying, I have to agree with what Paul says about me in chapter 2, verse 1. And you confess that yourself. As for you, as for me, I was dead in my transgressions and sins in which I used to live when I was following the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdom of the air. The spirit is now at work in disobedience. And I was also living among them at one time. I was living in this world, gratifying my cravings of my sinful nature, and following its desires and thoughts, and like the rest of all my friends. I was by nature the object of God's wrath. But because of his great love for me For you, God, who is rich in his mercy, made you alive with Christ even when you were dead in your transgressions. It's by grace you've been saved. And he has raised you up with Christ, raised you from death to life, and seated you with him in the heavenly realms. Amen. That's a real hearty amen. I hope you feel that a little bit more than you express it. You see, and that's why we talk about the four postures. The learning to rest. In that work. We're seated, you see there, verse 6. Seated with Christ in the heavenly realm, resting in him. I don't know if any of you guys tried that this week or last couple of weeks when I suggested, you know, when you wake up in the morning? Did you do that? You remember I'm resting here in bed And I get up and I sit on the edge of the bed and I say, Lord, I am resting in the finished work of Jesus today. And then you kneel by that bid. That's the second posture he talks about, chapter 3. I kneel and I ask you, Lord, Lord, show me something more. of the unfathomable riches of the love of Christ toward me. And let me know something of your power which is beyond my imagining. To meet the challenges of this day. And then you walk. That's the third posture he talks about. Chapters 4 and 5, beginning of verse 6. Chapter 6. Walk to the bathroom Saying, Lord, as I walk here, I am going to walk in faith and obedience to you that you would make me to experience that new life. I'm not under the power of sin. And so Lord, help me to walk in obedience by your grace, by faith this day. And then you stand there in the bathroom. And you look at yourself, you say, I got an adversary, and it's worse than that thing in the mirror. I have one that hates me, and he wants to destroy me And so as you shave or wash or comb and do those things, you say, Lord, I'm going to stand against the evil one. In your strength, as chapter 6 talks about. The battle of this day is a spiritual battle. And so I need spiritual resources. Lord, help me to live in that. So that's what Ephesians is all about. Now, we left off a year ago in that third section talking about walking. And so I want particularly for a couple of weeks three weeks actually to focus on what we've been talking about in walking, experiencing the new life in Christ. And uh to pick up on that so that uh when we um we continue at chapter five, verse twenty-two, you get some sense of the context, all right? So you gotta you gotta come every week and get it all filled in there, all right. Now you notice that in ch in that third section, see there in the box, there's three aspects of that walk. There's first of all the body life, that's living in the church family Verses 2 to 16 that John read. Then secondly, there is dealing with the holy life. That's the new life that you put on in Christ in general, talking about your general standards of living and then he comes back to relationships talking about submissive life, the third thing there, end of chapter five, beginning of chapter six, talking about three relationships of husband and wife, parent, child, and the slave master or in our context uh the employee employer and probably you think that slave master is pretty good image of it so that's the way he deals with it Now what's interesting to me, and I remind you of it again as we looked at it before, is how amazingly different Paul deals with how to live the Christian life from the way that we American evangelicals would typically describe how to do that. And there are two ways that strike me that he does that remarkably different from the way that we tend to think. Uh if we were to write about how to experience the Christian life, in many people's thinking today The idea would be that, okay, chapters 1 to 3 is about the gospel. Now, do you believe the gospel? Yes, I've agreed to that. I've submitted to that. And so I have accepted Jesus, and I have a relationship with him, and I believe that my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. But that relationship between me and Jesus is something which is very private and nobody else's business. I don't have to go to church for that because as we all know, going to church doesn't make you a Christian any more than going into a garage makes you a car. Okay? So we know that and we understand that it's a private personal relationship and um going to church is a good thing but not necessary and Taking the Lord's Supper with other believers, that's a good thing, but it's not necessary. And getting training for discipleship is nice for those that have the time, but That's in the optional category also. Because you see, really what it boils down to is me and Jesus, and everything else is kind of optional. Now that's one way that we tend to be different. More is sort of a private cognitive, this is what I agree with view of Christianity. The other way is that for those that understand that there's more of a commitment involved, we still would probably, if I were to say All right, we're going to talk about how to live the Christian life. What's the first most important thing? Probably most of us would say, be in the word and in prayer. Have a daily quiet time, whatever you want to call it. You know, those private spiritual disciplines of being in the Word, right? That's that's foundational. That's the way You gotta start right there. What's interesting is that Paul precisely does not start there. The way Paul starts is to say the foundational thing is live in community. Now that's That's not what you hear generally today, right? In fact, that's not what you generally hear in Western culture anyway. You know, uh Paul takes 73 verses to talk about what it means to walk, to experience the Christian life. Takes 15 of those seven seventy-three verses to talk about what it means to live in community. In fact, uh Lauren Johnson reminded me a couple weeks ago that there are 155 verses in the book of Ephesians, which means that if you were to memorize three of those a week You could memorize the entire book of Ephesians in exactly one year. And some of you are probably thinking, if I memorized it at the rate you're going through it, I could do it one verse a week and I'd still be ahead of you. Well, that may be. But you can try it and see how far you get. Alright? Back to the point. Paul takes 73 verses, talk about what it means to walk in Christ. Fifteen of those. The beginning, the foundation is on living in community. Now, that is not generally what has been stressed, particularly in Western culture in the church. Just give me, let me give you an example. Steve and Tim and I all got computers this week, and so we've been having a lot of fun with Jerry Myers loading all kinds of stuff on there. One of the things I put on there was I've got a CD that's got, among many other things, all nearly thirty-six hundred sermons that Charles Spurgeon preached in nineteenth century England. I think I preached almost 3,600 that have been preserved. That guy talked a lot. I mean these these go on for over fifty volumes And I figured out a way to search the texts for these things. So just out of interest, because of what I'm preaching, I put in Ephesians 4 to see how much spurgeon made of this idea of what Paul is saying here, which we believe at Columbia Presbyterian is absolutely foundational to our philosophy of ministry, living in community. You know, the equipping of the saints and all this these. And uh what I come up with? Well He preached one sermon on verses two and three about living in humility. He preached one sermon on verse 15 and 16, which he focused on the union with Christ and how that is something we all do together. And in all the years of his ministry and nearly 3,600 sermons, he did not preach one single sermon. On Ephesians 4 to 14, nothing. Not one message And that's typical of what you would find in a lot of American Western preaching up through, say, almost to the last generation. Now, this is critical to our understanding of the Christian life because we believe that it's critical in the New Testament foundation of what it means to walk, to live out the new life that you have in Jesus Christ. Why is it that it's so important to live in community? Well, remember the principle of Ephesians. The commands are based on the facts. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 is simply saying, be what you are. Experience what you already are and have in Jesus Christ. So he begins this because what he is saying, live in community because what? Chapter 1, 2, and 3. You are in community. Whether you like it or not, you have been joined to the people of God when you came to Jesus Christ. Chapter 1, verse 5, I told you, he said, You are sons of God through Jesus Christ. He's adopted you. Now, if you are sons, you are part of a family And so you are brothers and sisters. Then we switched the image. Now we've got brothers and sisters. And so when he goes to chapter 2 and 3, he makes a big point of this. The fact that no matter how diverse your background, even if you are In hostility to another culture. In Jesus Christ, you have been reconciled. You are joined together as brothers and sisters in Christ. You belong together. And so this is something that is a fact. He says then in chapter 4, experience that fact. Live it out. That's basic to Christianity. In fact, when John Stott wrote his commentary on the book of Ephesians, he gave it the title God's New Society because he thought that captured the essence of the book of Ephesians. So the first thing Paul is saying is that you need to, as a Christian, basic. It really amuses me when people say that, well, where in the Bible does it say that we need to be part of a church? Well, if Ephesians is the basic manual for Christian living, you see, the whole premise of Ephesians is based on the fact that you live in community. That's what Ephesians 4, 1. to 16 is all about. That you and I are constituted as sinners living in community. And it's not easy to live with sinners. You're not easy to get along with any more than I'm easy to get along with. And let's just face that. Let's not pretend that somehow we are just really specially nice people who are all easy to get along with. Because when Paul wrote verse two and three here, he did not give any footnote that said that's not necessary for Columbia Presbyterians Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. Bearing, humble, because there's prickliness, and you and I have sharp edges. Make every effort, he says, work at it to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. You see, Christian community is supernatural. It's not natural. Where else would you find Democratic and Republican senators and congressmen In a group together where they submit and love one another and care for one another and are even willing to sacrifice for one another, other than in the Christian fellowship on the Hill in DC, in the Bible studies and prayer groups. Where bipartisan membership creates very close fellowship. I've heard a number of stories of men willing to sacrifice and women for one another in that fellowship. Because you see, Christian community is supernatural. It's constituted by Jesus Christ. It's experiencing something that's not natural. And in order to understand how that works, you need to see that Paul breaks down chapter 4, verses 2 to 16 into two parts. First of all, in verses 2 to 6, he talks about the unity of saving grace. The unity of saving grace. He says there that uh there is one body, one spirit Just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. All right, seven unities. You are joined together You ever marvel at the confidence and the joy that Paul seems to have in the gospel? And then did you ever stop to think? That you have exactly the same righteousness as the Apostle Paul himself You see, not a shred of his hope or his confidence were in his own righteousness. He was 100% in the outside, external righteousness of Jesus Christ. Apart from him. And if he could rest in that, and you had that You can rest in that the same way he did. You see, there's no room for competition or comparison within the body. My righteousness better than your righteousness. Bologna My righteousness is exactly the same as your righteousness. If we belong to Jesus Christ, we share in the same identical righteousness. Now that's basic to how the body functions. We share in a common righteousness. But the Bible, uniquely, while it provides the means of that unity, does not say that we're all to be alike. That's the nature of cults. The Bible distinctly says that you and I are not to try to make each other look like and act like and have the same values as one another. We can even have Democrats and Republicans in our fellowship groups without the primary agenda for trying to convert the other. See? You don't believe that, do you? That's the nature of Christian fellowship. Is that we have a common righteousness. There are differences, and those differences are personalities, skills, abilities, rest that you might say, well the Democrat and Republican thing has to do with convictions But the fact is that whatever different backgrounds we're coming from, and whatever the differences of our gifts and the rest of that That we come together and we recognize the unity of Christ without trying to make in other ways that are distinct to us each other look like the other person. That's why Paul, after he stresses the unity, says in verse 7, big contrast there, but To each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. Unity of saving grace, the first point. Second point, the diversity of serving grace. The diversity of serving grace. Very quickly, let me just uh review what was in twelve messages, but just do it very, very quickly. in a couple of minutes the five principles that Paul laid out for us here in verses 7 to 16, because this is basic to how we function as a church. First principle was that you are all gifted for ministry from the power of the risen Christ. You say, well what gifts do I have? I don't have anything to offer. I don't think anything distinctive. I you know, I just don't think that I know the Bible well enough, don't have anything really to contribute Paul says, to each one of you, grace, this is the serving grace, not saving grace, has been given as Christ apportioned it. That's why it says when he ascended on high He, Jesus, led captives in his train, his victory train from his resurrection, and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended, talking about his incarnation, to the lower earthly regions. He who descended in his birth on earth is the very one who also ascended after his resurrection, higher than all the heavens, in order to fill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. You said, well, I don't fit any of that. Well, those are the leaders in the church and the elders. But the second principle is that the elders' job is to equip you for ministry. Because verse eleven talks about those offices, then verse 12, to prepare, to equip God's people, all God's people, the saints. For works of service or ministry, you can translate that, to equip the saints for ministry, be another way of saying verse 12, so that the body of Christ may be built up So you build one another up, and you do that as you interact in community. What is the purpose of building up? Well, he goes on to state that. The goal, third principle, see down the back side of your bulletin, third principle, verse 13. The goal of ministry is maturity in Christ. He says there in verse 13, until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. The unity of the faith refers to our convictions. The full, deep, affectionate knowledge of the Son of God refers to our affections, the becoming mature. Attaining to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ refer to our character. So those three ways we come into maturity. Your convictions? Form more and more as biblical convictions rather than simply experiential. Your affections centered on Jesus Christ. Rather than yourself and your character being more and more shaped to look like Jesus. Now, as you look at those three, there may be one or two that you incline to more by temperament, and one that you just don't relate to. Which one, as you look at those three, do you least relate to? Think about that. That's why you need the body. You need somebody who, in that one area, maybe you're the person who says, I'm really strong on the convictions And I think it's really important that my character is changed to look like Jesus. But this affections thing, I don't really relate to that a whole lot. Well, you see, God has created the body so that he would put you in face-to-face fellowship with another believer who's very strong on affections for Jesus. And as you interact together, then part of what you, by the grace of God, have been growing in rubs off on that person, and what they have to offer is communicated to you. And together we grow up into the image of Jesus Christ, which is balanced in convictions, affections, and character. So the fourth principle Is that the primary means for you to grow is your one-to-one and small group conversations characterized by truth in love. Now I said the primary means because I was thinking of Paul's train of thought here, but if you look at that as a principle, probably be good if you crossed out the word the and wrote above it a Because that would be more uh precise, more correct. A primary means. God uses other things, preaching of the word and training and other things, but a primary means for your growth and graces, you're one to one and your small group conversations characterized by truthing in love. Look at verse 14. He says, immaturity, no longer like infants, tossed back and forth by the ways, blown here and there by every wind of teaching Cunning, craftiness of men, their deceitful scheming, whatever's the big thing, the rage of the day. That's what we clamor to. Don't even realize it. Just just, you know, this is What is the latest popular thought about Christianity? But we are to be rooted and grounded. Verse 15, instead speaking the truth in love, literally the Greek is instead truthing in love. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head. And so you do that as you are in a face-to-face fellowship. We have created cells not because cells are mandated by the Bible. Cells at Columbia Presbyterian are simply a structure to work out the principles of Ephesians 4. So that you can be in face-to-face fellowship. If you're in another kind of face-to-face fellowship, okay, fine. But if you are looking for a means to say, you know, I really I believe that God would have me to experience more of Christ than I am, and you're not in face-to-face fellowship, then I would strongly urge you, on the basis of God's word here in Ephesians 4 That you consider one of ourselves, one of the fellowship groups at Columbia Presbyterian, where you could be truthing in love, where you could be honest about where you are And where there could be the giving and the receiving of the gospel as it applies to our hearts. You see We spent a lot of time working with our cell leaders, training them to provide a safe climate for honest sharing. So that we are able to talk about where we really are. You know, I was praying through the message and walking along the path outside my home, walking down through the woods this morning, and this guy walks past me and he says, How are you? And you know, he didn't even wait for me to tell him about my family and you know some of the things that were going on well in my life and a couple of the things I was struggling with that I you know didn't see God working I mean you know down the path. I'm like, well wait a minute, don't you want an answer? You know, I mean Even here on Sunday morning you walk out and somebody say, How are you? How you doing? you know and you just kinda this expectation of fine, how are you? But You see, but a cell, a group, where this thing's going on, where truthing and love's going on, is where somebody says, How are you? And you say This brother or sister really wants to know. Let me tell you. Let me tell you the good things God's doing. Let me tell you the things that I'm really feeling some struggle. You see, that's what it's about. See, if you take Columbia Presbyterian and took what are the two basic things that are distinctive about us, it's all summed up in our vision statement. It's the power of the gospel in the structure of the cells. Remember what our vision is? Go back and review it. It's in bold print, and you probably have some copies still back there. Vision of Columbia Presbyterian Church is to be a reformed church that is multiplying cells that are multiplying disciples who are learning to live as sons of God. And brothers and sisters of one another in the power of the gospel in a diverse community. That's it. You see, a lot of that comes out of what Paul says here in Ephesians 4 in the context of the whole book. So, principle 5. Everyone's, you might write your name in there, needs to be involved in this for the body to thrive Verse 16. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part Does its work, contributes as part of this. And so if you look at Columbia Presbyterian, you understand the three basic structures are we have celebrations, Sunday morning and evening, preaching of the word, worship, Lord's Supper, once a month. The seminars for training, middle hour, weekend seminars, and the cells for face-to-face applying of the gospel in real life, where we're living, the kind of things that Ephesians 4 is talking about. Now, I have really been rejoicing. We have a long way to go in this, all right? Don't anybody think that we've mastered this living in community thing. We've got a lot to learn about But God has been teaching us a lot. And I'm excited about what we're seeing in people's lives changing and how people are growing and how people are discovering what a difference this makes. And so as I thought about this message, I thought, really, you shouldn't just hear from me, you should hear about somebody that's learning this. So I asked Pete Grofe, who's one of our new cell leaders, if he would share with you something of what God's been teaching him. about what it means to live in community. So Pete, would you come on up here and share a little bit with us? Oh, you want me to say something? Okay. Uh, hey. Hey. Hey. Uh it uh any of you who uh were at the uh Lord's Supper uh last month that I led, uh heard that my natural tendency is to consider the Christian life in a couple of aspects. One would be an acknowledgement of certain facts, the biblical truth, and the other just by living by a set of principles. Uh in this model, the Christian life is really broken down into information and behaviors, and you gauge maturity based on how much you know not necessarily just uh the scriptures and the doctrines, but you know, which groups in society are favorite groups? Which of our societal ills do I know how to cure and what can I speak upon effectively? Who do I need to boycott and uh who needs to be pointed out as uh who needs to be corrected. And the other is how do you appear to yourself and to others? Am I happy with myself? Am I a good, dull, boring middle class guy who goes to work and cuts my grass and is nice to my family and friends and neighbors? Um how do I appear to others? Do I appear to be a kind of guy who is not outside the edge? Am I kind of well confined to a certain set of principles and just kinda blend into the crowd well Uh one thing that uh uh as Alan has has pointed out, um is you know this is not an effective model and something that I've learned in my heart is that this measure of success that I have developed doesn't achieve unity, it fosters disunity. If I separate myself by focusing on uh the standards uh that I have set up and not on the common ground of the gospel. Um each person in essence becomes a church. I set my own rules I set my own boundaries and I can't be kind of isolate myself. Or each family becomes a church. We just kind of become a little enclave. uh maybe the appearance of unity, but it's not the unity that Paul is talking about here in Ephesians four. Uh we came to CPC many years ago, not just because the word of God was being upheld. We know several churches where that's the case. but because our friends uh and neighbors were telling us uh about how the gospel was working in church. And we met with Alan, we talked with him, we listened to some tapes, we talked to some folks and we said, hey, we'd like to be a part of that. We see God working there. Uh naturally when we when we came in, um we just kinda sat down, became comfortable and kind of blended into the crowd. Um After a while we heard about the cell ministry, uh we quickly decided that we didn't want to be part of that because it didn't fit into my measure of success in the Christian life Uh guy went to work in me and just showing that holding to truth was only a part of what he wants. And I w in in in in my prayers and in considerations I was saying, Well Lord, you say you want me to hold the truth and I'm doing that. And he says, Well, read on, read on. It says, in verse fifteen Instead, we will hold to the truth in love. Uh in love. Is this part of that uh affection thing that I'm not really a part of? I don't want to really w want to be part of or need to work on. Uh So I I be I became convinced, uh, number one, mostly that just what I was doing wasn't effective. And I knew I needed to do something differently Um I you know talked to Steve Green uh quite a bit about the cell ministry and he invited me to come to the cell leaders' meetings and I came. Um and I realized that it was uh it really provided the compliment than I needed to my life. I had a lot of things going for me spiritually, but I didn't have the ability to open up to people. I didn't have the ability for people to open up to me Uh I built a a nice little convenient barrier, the cone of silence around me that um was was pretty impenetrable. I learned that, you know, God's definition of maturity is not just what you know. That's important. But what do you do with what you know? How will people describe me? Will they describe me as the plain vanilla middle class Christian guy red haired golfer, yada yada. Or will they say something with their first thought be Pete Rophy cares for me because God loves him. That's what I'd like people to think about, and I'm certainly not there now, and I hope all of us someday will um will be thought of as people who care for others, care for each other because God has cared for us. I have gifts. I need to serve You all. You all had gifts. You need the blessing of serving others as well. One of the big hurdles that I had to get over in deciding to get involved with the Cells ministry was what are the risks involved? What are the costs involved? Yeah, I'm already busy enough. I don't need to add more meetings and more people to my life. Um, also, yeah, I don't want to give up my comfortable existence. I don't want people to see me. I don't I'd manage to keep people at bay. I you know I understand my friends, they understand me. We don't kinda try to work on each other too much. Um And you know, constantly also didn't w want people to let me see them. I I don't want to be complicated enough that uh uh I I didn't want to get into to people's lies. I didn't want the the mess and the inconvenience that that comes with that sort of thing. Um you know, when I when I see people what I really need to do is is let them in to see me. And I'm learning more and more that as I do that, it's much less them seeing me as me examining myself Against God's standard, against what He would have me do. And then working with God to achieve what He would want in my life And when I look at people, I don't want to look at them and and see their sin and judge them by my standard. What I want to do is love them and point to point to Jesus, point to them the solution to their problems, to source for their comfort. We all need, uh, as Alan pointed out, something um that w that we're likely missing the some aspect uh that we just generally just don't focus on Um, as you consider the question, you know, what do you you know, are you living um the Christian life? Are you mature in Christ such that your unity is is shown Uh I just pray that you would receive the same blessing that I have had and that my blessing uh my family has had. Thanks. Thanks a lot, Pete. What's God saying to you from that Is he calling you into a deeper participation with the body? If you are interested in that, talk to any one of us as pastors, Steve, Tim, myself, any elder. But let's go to prayer right now to bring ourselves before the Lord in response. Lord, each of us here is having different unique reactions to what we hear from your word, from Pete. Some of us really identify with him. Some of us are drawn to say believe your spirit is working in this I I really need to give up my private safety. I need to experience the body. I need to learn what it means to live in community. We pray that you would draw them into a community of fellowship, whether it's a cell or something else that's face-to-face, significant fellowship within the body. Lord, thank you for our cells that are willing to receive and eager to receive in new people as they grow and multiply. There's no lack of space because you're a gracious God. You make room for all of us. So, Lord, I pray that you'd be drawing in more to the community of this body. And showing us what it means to live in a community where the gospel's touching us in the deep core of our being. To see growth and grace that we've never experienced as you break through in new areas. Lord, we know you want to do this because that's what your word tells us, and we can count on it. And so we do, and we ask you to do that in Jesus' name. Amen.