Great and mighty is he. Now you're set to hear his word, huh? Ready to go? That's a great, great expression of praise. Thanks. This Tuesday, we're going to be celebrating our nation's 224th birthday. If you take the Declaration of Independence as that birth and uh apparently Columbia is celebrating it tonight. So if you're gonna be here for the Lord's Supper, maybe a group of us will go over and see the fireworks together afterwards But as we think about Independence Day, it's a good time for us to look back, to think about what that celebrates And to be able to thank God for many blessings that He's given to us as a nation, it's also a good time to look forward Uh in fact I think too often Christians look backward rather than forward, kind of wishing for the good old days, you know, the days when we were a Christian nation, this kind of thing. Let's kind of return to the old days. And uh I have some problems with that. And uh if you're African American, you may have some problems with that as Christians talk about wanting to get back to the old days, you know, you think What are the old days you're wanting to get back to? The Bible certainly had a very strong influence on our culture, but we were never a Christian nation by any stretch. In fact, I was talking to somebody about this recently, my concern about Christians looking too much nostalgically to the past and not much anticipation of Christ's supremacy in the future. And the person suggested I start an organization called Focus on the Future. I don't know about that, but anyway It made me realize that there is a verse in Ephesians 1-3 that I have not preached on yet. And it has to do with exactly this topic. And I figure it's about time to remedy that. So I'd like to call your attention to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. And see. This these uh two verses as we look at the history and the future of our nation And he made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ. So Paul's saying he's given some inside information. He's made known to us the mystery. That's something unrevealed previously that God's now making known. Mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure. This is something God wants, intends, delights in. Which ye purposed in Christ, so this is a very strong statement. This is something God wants to do and He's going to let you in on it. What is it? This purpose is to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment. And here it is, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. Now that statement comes after and is in fact the climax of one of the most magnificent statements of the gospel that you have in all of Scripture, verses 3 to 8 that Tom read. Where God is saying to us that before the mountains were created, before this world was produced, before God spun the galaxies all into place, an ever-expanding array of increasing Expansion of the universe that we see before all of this, before He began to accomplish that, He had you in mind. He chose you to be his son or his daughter by grace in Jesus Christ. He adopted you. He decided before creation that he was not going to let you be lost in your rebellion But to send his own son, Jesus Christ, in order that you would be made blameless through his record, forgiven, he says through his blood, and that he would lavish with all his wisdom and understanding, knowing you through and through, he would lavish upon you all of his grace. And all of these things. And then he says, now besides his purpose for you, there's also a cosmic purpose And that's what he opens up in verses 9 and 10. All of this is moving toward God's final intention for all of history. And it is Christ's supremacy. Those are the first two blanks. Christ's supremacy. This is God's final intention for all of history. To bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ What does that mean? The Greek word there has the idea of summing up, to add up a column of figures. And it was a figure of speech that was used to talk about things being put in order. We use that same kind of idiom today. We talk about whether things add up Whether they make sense. And that's the idea that you have here. God's saying that in this day, when the times will have reached their fulfillment, all things are going to add up Because they're all gonna add up under the head Jesus Christ. Things don't all add up in your life this morning, do they? A lot of things don't add up. Don't make sense. Things that you and I struggle with, and they won't add up until that time when Jesus Christ is hid Brings all things into their proper relationship with Him as supreme over all. Imagine what that's going to be like when everything adds up When everything's in its proper relationship, everything is fulfilling the exact purpose for which it was created. You and me and the flowers, creation, the animals. All those things, Isaiah 11 talks about animals. All these things being brought into their proper relationship. What a glorious time. But it doesn't happen yet. When is that gonna happen? I believe it's talking about ultimately when Jesus Christ comes back When the times will have reached their fulfillment, something clearly in the future, it's something that's going to happen when Jesus Christ, who is In verses 22 and 23, in fact verses 19 to 23, he is already head, lord, king over all rulers and authorities, power and dominion. In his ascension, he is Lord, and particularly in the first fruits of the church. He is ruling, God's placed all things, verse 22, under his feet, appointed him to be the head over everything for the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. So he says that in verse 11 and 12 and at the end of the chapter, you and I are the first fruits. When you bow before Jesus Christ. And you acknowledge that you need a Savior from sin, and that Jesus Christ is the only one eligible who can take your sin, who can bring you into a right relationship with God Who alone has the wisdom and the authority to rule your life, you are the first fruits of what is going to happen everywhere in all time In that day when Jesus Christ comes again. There will be a time when all of America will be under the headship of Jesus Christ. You can't even think about Jesus Christ properly without thinking of his supremacy. You can't even think about him properly without thinking of him as head in majesty and power. You can't think about Jesus Christ properly without adoring Him, wanting to prostrate yourself before Him and say, Lord, you are so worthy. What do you want me to do? So we're the first fruits of God's final intention for all of history. Now, the question that I want to ask this morning is as we come to the two hundred and twenty fourth birthday of the United States and we think about its past and we think about its future. Is there any connection Between what God is going to do in that day and what He intends to do in the near future in this nation Well, as soon as we begin to talk about what God will do in a particular place in a particular time, we go beyond what Scripture tells clearly For certain will happen. And yet, what I'm talking about here is the notion of revival Because you see, revival, as David Bryant says in his uh very worthwhile book, The Hope at Hand, where he talks about the possibility of revival in his judgment. The highly likely probability of revival coming within our generation. Revival, he says, is a kind of foretaste Of the consummation. It's an anticipation of the consummation of Christ's supremacy In fact, you think of that word consummation, and you have the word sum in there, which is the idea here from verse ten. All things summed up, adding up under The Lordship, the headship of Jesus. That's the consummation when He is head over everything and there is no rebellion. A revival is an anticipation, it's a foretaste, it's a glimpse, it's it's It's getting something of the first fruits. It's a step forward, a thrust forward in history where Jesus Christ Is disclosed sovereignly by God in His Majesty and His rightful place. You and I see Jesus and His kingdom now like we have dark glasses on. And we're in a room sort of like this. You can see things, you can make it out, sometimes a little better, sometimes it seems like it's pretty dim. But revival is to take off the dark glasses, you see. Revival is to see Jesus more as he really is. Now what is ahead for us as a nation? What are we looking toward? I would like to offer uh some thoughts that are held by a number of Christian leaders. That say that we may be, in fact, on the threshold of not only a revival, a foretaste of Ephesians 1, 9, and 10 But perhaps an unprecedented revival, something that has never been matched, because of m a number of indications in the history of the church. I would like to look in part at a number of thoughts from David Bryant's book and some other things. David Bryant, uh, you think I'm big on alliteration? This guy kind of goes nuts on it. He has a whole series of DPs through the whole book. And I'd like to offer three of them, possibly a fourth, and some of my thoughts and his thoughts To help us to get a taste of what Paul's talking here about and what that means for you and me as we think and as we pray as citizens for this nation. First is the dark prospects of our world without Christ. The first indication that God may have us on the threshold of revival is the dark prospects of our world without Christ. Now eventually we're going to get to chapter 6, verse 12, Lord willing, and we'll see again that the struggle that we're in is not against flesh and blood. It's against rulers, authorities, against powers of this dark world, against The heavenly realms were in a spiritual warfare of desperate magnitude And we see that in the United States, don't we? I mean we see on the one hand what seems like progress of Christianity, but we see what seems on the other hand To be an increasing rejection of Christianity and of Christian values. In fact, many people think that we are getting to such a desperate position morally. and spiritually in the United States, that nothing less than revival will enable us to survive as a culture. You think that's overly pessimistic I find it very intriguing to think about how we have shifted in our attitudes as a nation in just the last four years. Now maybe this is just me, and I didn't have anybody confirm this to me after the first service. But I'm going to offer it to you anyway. I didn't even talk about this with anybody, so I'm just offering you my own observation. Three, four, five years ago, most of the futurology that I was reading was pretty pessimistic. It talked about the environment, global warning, warming, and uh the ozone depletion, you know, and all these things of what was gonna be severe weather patterns and droughts and all this kind of stuff and the AIDS epidemic gonna wipe out possibly twenty five percent of Central Africa and who knows what it's gonna do in the United States and then there was the hot viruses and the possibility of producing a pandemic that would eclipse the black plague and Then there was the talk of terrorists with nuclear arms at their disposal, desperate people who could hold the world hostage. On and on and on it went. And then what happened? Well, you know, we heard all the horror about Y2K and we survived Y2K. We licked that sucker. And uh, you know, the economy took a few bumps in a row, but hey, it's soaring on and technology is breaking through in unprecedented um Progress, I mean the human genome has been mapped millions of dollars and years ahead of the schedule that was anticipated, and we are beginning to feel invincible Have you noticed none of the problems have changed, but the stuff I'm reading now is pretty optimistic. Glory days are ahead. We got a golden century ahead. I don't know about you, but that's you know, the other things are still acknowledged, but not with the same sense of alarm Meanwhile, as you look at moral, spiritual, and other indications of the state of people's lives. There's some things that are fairly alarming. For instance, David Bryant points out in his book that every day in school, at least 100,000 students carry guns. Forty are hurt or killed by firearms. 6,250 teachers are threatened with bodily injury, and 260 are physically assaulted every day. 160,000 children skip classes because they fear physical harm. The number of teens hospitalized for psychiatric treatment jumped from 16,000 in 1980. To over a quarter of a million in 1990. Murder is the leading cause of death among youth aged 15 to 19 222% increase of teens murdered each year since 1950. Teen suicide increased 300% since 1940. Now the second leading cause of death, 5,000 a year with 50 to 100 times more attempting it but are unsuccessful. You hear about the crime rate. People say it's dropping. You know, things are doing better. What they don't tell you is if you look back to nineteen fifty, there's been a thousand percent increase in crime You get the picture of somebody who is walking around feeling pretty good, and inside there's a tumor growing in their liver. Like James Boyce, who was diagnosed with liver cancer around Easter time, dead two months later. Do you know how precarious we live in our optimism? I mean, news could come across that would shatter that this week. All the optimism could evaporate so quickly. We're a nation that's obsessed with rights. Lawsuits proliferate. And I believe That we will be involved in the struggle, Columbia Presbyterian, and the churches in the Howard County region Concerning the gay rights agenda, sometime in the next very few years, maybe three to five at most. That's my personal judgment. Uh this is not in any way to say to any of you who struggle with homosexuality that I am coming down on gays or lesbians as a distinct, particular group of sinners that are greater sinners than the rest of us. What I am saying is that the leaders of the gay rights agenda have taken advantage of the postmodern political correctness to move the confrontation to a new level. Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. U. S. News and World Report. I see this kind of thing every week. But here's just one example. Just recently. The Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts, is punishing a campus evangelical group for refusing to allow practicing homosexuals into its leading positions. The Tusk Christian Fellowship, I believe that's an intervarity group, has been de-recognized. The university said, as far as we're concerned, you do not exist. The tribal unal decided without a hearing That the fellowship was violating campus anti-discrimination policy by not allowing Julie Catalano, a bisexual member of the group, into a leadership position for this next year. The group says that they favor gay rights and oppose homophobia, but they must remain free to teach their own doctrines. It's not exactly a radical group. All they're saying is, would you allow us the right to follow our convictions as Christians and those that lead our group? The university has said unqualified, no, you may not. The university is punishing the religious group for failing to have the views of the dominant campus culture. According to Leo, the judiciary has effectively silenced the voice of religion on its campus. The broader problem is that the politically correct left now relies far more on coercion Then on persuasion or moral appeal. The long-term trend is to depict dissent from the gay agenda as a form of illegitimate and punishable expression That's one of many examples. You may be aware Focus on the Family has a Loved One Out seminar. They move that around the country in which they talk about some of the things that are going on in the gay rights agenda, but also how the gospel is able to deliver people from homosexuality, out of the bondage of that, into freedom in Christ. You know they're finding it harder and harder to find church churches that are willing to host it because of the intimidation that is being brought to bear by gay activists in the community. They're finding more and more that the press refuses to cover any event unless they cover the protest side, but not the side. Where the Christians are simply seeking to make their point of view known. This week, Time magazine, extended article on the conflict of gay rights in the church, male white Formerly an evangelical, worked with Jerry Falwell and was writing a number of books that are known in the evangelical community, made this statement in that article He said, we don't debate anymore. Mel White is a professing homosexual now and part of the gay rights more aggressive leadership. And he says, we, that is the homosexual community, do not debate anymore. Change your policies, speaking to the church, or we're going to split you apart. As Leo says, this is not persuasion, this is not dialogue, this is intimidation. And I believe that the churches of Howard County are going to be involved in this. It is inevitable Are we allowed to say that homosexuality is wrong? We're not talking about condemnation. We're not talking about homophobia. We're talking about biblical convictions. But when that time comes, will we wish that we had done something to demonstrate our love for people who are gay and lesbian or with AIDS? What is it we're going to be caught in? I think we're going to be caught in some pretty tense times, but tremendous opportunities for the gospel. I mean a culture that says, as postmodernism does, that there are no moral values that are allowed on the table in any way to claim absolute. A culture really cannot exist. It cannot continue when there are no moral values. Well, enough gloom, you say. And I've given you about 5% of the file that I have here, so I will not continue to belabor the point. I think I've made it. Enough gloom? Isn't the church in fact more influential? And we have a lot that we can hope on in terms of what God is doing through the church? Well, unfortunately the second point is the disturbing paralysis of the church at present. The sad fact is that the Church of Jesus Christ is losing ground in the United States. Most of the polls show that Christians Both beliefs and behaviors are less distinctive from the unbelieving world than they were ten, twenty years ago The divorce rate in the evangelical church is just about the same as it is in the general culture. Christians are not gaining ground by nearly any measure that you want to take. For instance, again from David Bryant's book. Researchers have discovered that thirty-five hundred people leave the church every day in the United States. According to studies by the Association of Church Missions Committees, a quarter of a million Of the 300,000 Protestant congregations, that is, you've got 300,000 congregations, 250,000 of them That is, uh, five-sixths of them, are either stagnant or dying. Research on church growth in the United States in the nineteen eighties uncovered These disturbing statistics. 85% of churches were losing members. 14% grew only by transfer growth. 1% of the churches in this country are growing by conversions. According to Peter Wagner, during the 1980s, not one single county in the entire United States increased in church membership and church attendance. We seem to be ineffective in reaching the unchurched Very few churches are doing it. We seek through ourselves to build relationships to do this, but it's difficult. Almost all the churches that are growing are growing by transfer growth of other Christians. We seem to be becoming more and more a subculture that's speaking to ourselves. How many of us know pagan people as close friends? You know, I mean it's hard. I have one pagan friend that I kind of talked to and just this week talking about the gospel and He says, you know, I mean that it's so arrogant. You know, all the vastness of this universe, all the worlds and all there must be intelligent life and all these and you know, and you think that man is the center of the universe and that you know God created everything for us here and sent his son for us and I and you had the truth and I y you know, you're kind of backing and well, you know, just seem kinda but you know The glory of the gospel is, yeah, that's true. That is how vast he is. But man, we are really getting out of step from the way most of our friends think about the world. You know, we're in what David Bryant calls quoting Ed Silvosa A spiritual stronghold. Spiritual strongholds, 1 Corinthians 10, 3 to 6. I like his definition he gives Ed Silvoso. He says a spiritual stronghold is a mindset impregnated with hopelessness that causes the believer to accept as unchangeable something that he or she knows is contrary to the will of God. Let me read that again. A spiritual stronghold is a mindset impregnated with hopelessness that causes the believer to accept as unchangeable Something that he or she knows is contrary to the will of God. Remember uh a few months ago we showed the transformations video about how God had worked in power and We showed four of the five cities throughout the world where God had brought great revival. And you know, you look at that and you say, Yeah, I can see that happening here. Or do we say, no way? Not in Howard County, not in this region, a spirit of hopelessness that things will really change. Any more good news? Well, actually yes. The first thing for us to remember Is that no matter what we see, Ephesians 1, 9 and 10 is true because God said it. He says he made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure In verse eleven reminds us that he does all things according to his good pleasure. So, that which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfilment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. Will happen. If you believe it, say amen. It will work. And we gotta believe that because God said it and we're moving toward that. But there's also some indications. That there is a deepening hunger for reality, not just the superficial growth, the unbounded resources, the busyness of activity. But a deeper hunger for the power of the Spirit, a hatred of sin, and an amazement of the gospel. There's indications that some of the church leaders, those that meet with David Bryant in the Concert of Prayer International, More and more frequently, saying we have got to lead our denominations, our churches, in repentance, in confession of sin, in revival and renewal. Not just more activity. High schools, see at the poll, Bible studies, proliferating on the high school level. We're seeing in College campuses, more and more students meeting for Bible study, confessing sin, getting serious with God. We're seeing among pastors the pastors' prayer summits, a movement where in many cities, hundreds of cities around the United States, You'll have whole groups of 50, 100, 200 or more pastors coming together for four days with no other agenda but simply to confess sin, to worship, to seek the face of Jesus Christ. In many of these contexts, there is the confession of racism. There is the acknowledgement of bitterness. There is reconciliation, there is forgiveness, there is a new sense of unity across racial lines, denominational lines. I have been in such gatherings, deeply moving times. The time when you sense that we're moving beyond the business as usual. We're moving beyond what can we do and let's set out our plans and make our budgets. But to cry out to God, God, our backs are to the wall. We're ineffective. We have so much that we're doing. Our churches are growing, but we're not changing this culture. We're not putting a dent in the mindset of the leaders, the gatekeepers of our cultural values. God, this is time for you to show your power. And we're seeing more and more people beginning to do that. Cities coming together for concerts of prayer, ten 1520, I heard recently of one twenty-eight thousand Christians gathered in a city representing 300 churches for nothing but to confess sin, to seek God. And to ask him to bring the renewal that we so desperately need. Brothers and sisters, we need that here, don't we? We need it because we can think that we're doing a great job. And God is blessing. We see his blessing in many ways. We need to see God raise up a determined people. That's his last DP, you see on the backside there. The dramatic preparations, the third. of what God is doing toward a possible coming revival, that's the question mark. Toward the coming revival? Don't know God couldn't let us move into a new dark ages. But there's indications that he's raising up an unprecedented cry of his people in prayer. For renewal and revival. And as Matthew Henry said, when God intends to do a great work, he first sets his people praying. And we're seeing him do that. Therefore, we have hope to believe that he intends a foretaste of Ephesians 1, 9 and 10. rather than the bleakness of leaving us on our own. A determined people whose priorities are shaped by their passion for Jesus Christ in his kingdom We have unprecedented resources, the English language, a global language, the information technology The things that are at our disposal and wealth and the rest of it to reach the nations for Jesus Christ with the gospel. And what is needed is an awakened American church that takes seriously the fact that God's final intention is not to make us comfortable, but to make Jesus Christ supreme. Are you and I willing to be such people? Are there such people here at Columbia Presbyterian? I give you a little checklist there to go through. Don't have time to go through it in detail, but just for the look and say, Lord, if if you want me to be part of this To realize that it begins with me alone, learning how to pray, growing in my faith, exercising my faith, because faith is like a muscle. If you exercise it, it grows stronger. If you don't, it atrophies. Pray faith-sized prayers. Pray the things that you could believe God could do. Record them and then pray something larger. Continue to grow individually. And as a family do this, come to hear Robert Carr tonight as he comes to present the work in Kenya and Uganda. He was in Uganda, now in Kenya. Talk to the Padeas back there, what God's doing in Spain. Hear about what God is doing in other areas. Encourage our faith together. Help our kids to see that we as families live by building a record of God's faithfulness to us. In our cells worshiping, so that we're reminded of the presence and the power of the living Christ with us And then the sum cells setting out an empty chair for the person that you're praying for that God would bring, that you're praying, developing a relationship. Pray, put that empty chair there. God Put in that chair someone that's seeking you. Bring them into our midst. And here's who we're praying for. Name them. And ask God to show you his power. In our Sunday service prayer teams, we occasionally have groups, sometimes two, three, four back there. First service this morning, nobody was back there praying as I preached. I need for you to be praying for me, to pray that God would bring about conversions, change lives in these services. Not just me up here standing in my own strength. Would you come once or twice just to see what it's like to pray in the service that you don't worship? Come in the other service in the summer, maybe a little more relaxed. And just come and spend 20-30 minutes back there praying for God's power as the word is preached. And I give you feedback. You put down your snail mail or email and I'll give you feedback that that week, that Wednesday, about what God did in the service the previous Sunday. Or Thursday morning to join us in the concert of prayer over in the Potter's house. As we pray partly for our missionaries, partly for our individual needs here, but also we spend some time each week praying for renewal and revival. And the larger scene, the application of what I'm talking about this morning. If there's one way to apply what I'm talking about this morning, be come Thursday morning at 6. 30. 6. 30 to 7. 30. We're out and we're done. But spend a little time praying, keeping a record of what God is doing, to grow in our faith. And then to join with brothers and sisters from other churches in Howard County on the first and third Mondays of each month. Tomorrow night is the first Monday. River Christian Action Chapel, Rumsey Road, same parking lot there where Grace Community is. So we'd be open. Open to what God is doing. Where is He going to lead us? What's He going to do? We don't know. We don't know. I don't know. I think we're in s for some pretty exciting times ahead. I think it's gonna be a lot of conflict. And I think God's gonna show our spiritual and moral bankruptcy in a way that You know, it might be kind of scary to think about right now, but I think the gospel may be shown in greater power than we have ever seen. Let's pray. Father, we just take a moment now. I I ask you, Lord, I uh this is this is such a gigantic topic And yet, Lord, we just ask you to open our eyes, take off the dark glasses, that we might see Jesus in his supremacy To see that the inevitability of that day when he will reign and all things will be summed up in their proper relationship to him To you, Lord Jesus. Make us a people who live because if revival doesn't happen, nothing else really matters. But if revival does happen, nothing else really matters. We'd be a people who would live for the glory of Jesus Christ because you are so worthy.