Well, what Phil just shared is an illustration of the basic principle that how you live Is determined by what you think, what you believe. And that is why Ephesians is such a powerful book Because Ephesians shapes our thinking with truth. Ephesians reveals to you God's perfect diagnosis. Of why it is that you find it difficult and sometimes impossible to live successfully, what Jesus Christ has done to rescue you from that And to enable you to live successfully as He's called you to do. Because the Bible says That whatever you feel about your life this morning, when you think about your life this morning, how do you feel about your life? I mean, really You satisfied? You're struggling? How do you feel about your life? Well, besides being tired, rough week, whatever. Just think about your life. The book of Ephesians says, no matter how you are feeling about it right now, the fact is that you are in one of two situations. In chapter 2, verse 1, Paul says, Either you are in this situation, you are dead in your transgressions and your sins in which you live when you follow the ways of this world, and the ruler of the kingdom. Of the air, the spirit, who is at work and those who are disobedient. There is a spiritual force. There are spiritual personalities. That are seeking to work in you disobedience, to hold you in bondage, to keep you from being able to do what God says you ought to do, what the Bible teaches about how to live. All of us live among them, and you are gratifying the cravings of your sinful nature You are following its desires and its thoughts. Like everybody else, you are by nature objects of God's wrath, of his anger. God sees your heart, he sees and knows the radical self-centeredness of your thinking and your living. And he is angry. He is angry with you and at you for how you have spurned him, disregarded him. And continue to live as if you are the center of the universe. The Bible says that that's true. However much you are in touch with it. That is, in fact, the root problem of all your troubles. But If you are familiar with the book of Ephesians, you'll know that I actually put in the present tense what Paul puts in the past tense. Because he says that writing to the Ephesians, this was true of you, and then there is this gigantic contrast in verse 4, but But because of his great love for us, God who is rich in his mercy Made you alive with Christ Even when you were dead in your transgressions and sins. You were absolutely dead. He made you alive, and then he adds on almost almost humorously there, it's by grace you've been saved. I mean, you know, I mean if you're dead. And the gospel comes to you and you are utterly unable to respond and you read that God made you alive, then it's kind of like, well, it's sort of obvious, it's by grace that he did that, right? Paul puts it in there just so you don't miss it. It's by grace. God who's rich in mercy. It's by grace that He has done that for you. And goes on. This isn't just a resuscitation. He hasn't just given you life temporarily. This is a whole new position. Verse 6, he's raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. In order that in the cunning ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. Amen. When is the last time you thank God for that? You know? He just said, Lord, amen. Thank you. Thank you. For the riches of your grace. I'll tell you, somebody joined that brother. Anybody believes that? Say amen. Amen. Isn't it great? Now you see the implications of that Or that if that is the case for you, that you were dead in your transgressions, you were ignoring God, you were walking as if you're the center of the universe, God has raised you up out of that spiritual deadness in Christ, giving you new life. Forgiveness seated you in the heavenlies with him. You now no longer are under the dominion, the rule, the bondage of sin. You now have a whole new realm in which you live as someone who has been freed from sin. But many of us as Christians are like the slaves during the Civil War after the Emancipation Proclamation was declared and enforced, continued to live as slaves. They simply couldn't believe they were really free. Slave patterns, slave ways of thinking and operating were so deeply embedded In the minds of many of these men and women, that even though you could tell them you are free, you can live now as a free man and woman They continued to choose to live as slaves because they couldn't imagine the freedom. So, what Ephesians does Is it tries to tell you how to think as a free person. So you remember what we've been doing As we looked at the overview, chapters four, five, and six teach you how to live in freedom. They're based on the fact of your freedom, your new life in Christ, in chapters 1, 2, and 3. In terms of postures, chapters 1, 2, and 3 first teach you how to sit, to rest in the finished work of Christ, and then how to kneel. to ask God to teach you about the dimensions of his love and the extent of his power available to you. Then it goes on into chapters 4 and 5 up to chapter 6 verse 9 to teach you how to walk. In this new life, how to apply it, and then as you do that, you will meet resistance. So the end of the middle of chapter six to the end tells you how to stand against temptation and false thinking. So we have been we let go of this back in May of nineteen ninety uh nine, last year. At the end of chapter 5, verse 21. That's the end of the section, the middle section on walking. You see then your bulletin outline That the section on walking is divided, subdivided into three sections: body life, holy life, and submissive life. A couple weeks ago we reviewed the body life section That you in your new life in Christ are called to live in community. That's the way the Christian life is lived. You do not walk alone. You walk in face-to-face fellowship with your brothers and sisters, sharing your life with them to know their encouragement, the ministry of their gifts in your life, yours and theirs. To grow up into the image of Christ. It's done in community, can't be done alone. Then he goes on specifically how to apply this in some specific areas of your life. That's the holy life. And he does that by giving you seven specific ways, seven areas to apply this, and then an eighth climactic statement that moves you on into the third section, submissive life. And so what we want to do this morning is I want to review for you before we can move on from chapter 5 verse 21 into chapter 5 verse 22 and the whole submissive life thing, we need to get rooted back in on this whole matter of the holy life. So I want to summarize about uh six months worth of messages in this one message this morning. This that's what it took us to cover that. chapter 4 verse 17 to 521. And I want to review that with you, just looking at some of the basic principles of that before we can move on. It's very important, I think, for us to move on with a clear conscience from chapter five, verse twenty-two, and not just have a bunch of baggage of stuff that we've forgotten or looked at and haven't really thought about or applied before that because If you do that, then you just kind of go in sort of cynically saying, Well, what's something else I can't apply now? You know, what else are you going to lay on me that I can't do? So I want to show you What it is, in fact, God intends to give you power to do in this section on walking, the holy life. He starts off in chapter 4, verse 17. what what I consider to be a rather breathtaking statement. I mean particularly in contrast to current much of current psychology, this is a pretty radical statement. Look what he says. So I tell you this, Paul says, chapter 4, verse 17, beginning of the section on walking, on the holy life of walking. So I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live, the word is walk in the Greek there, I mean the translation of the word, must no longer walk as the Gentiles walk in the futility of their thinking. Now, you get the impact of that? Paul's saying basically, stop sinning. Stop walking in your pre-Christian patterns of thinking and behavior. It's easy for you to say Paul. I mean, you don't know my background. You don't know how deeply embedded in my life those sin patterns really are. I mean, what do you think I'd just go, oh, stop sinning on that one, you know? Turn them all around. I mean, I've had three counselors that have told me my parents have screwed me up so bad it's going to take me years to recover. I'm in three support groups. And you know, and it just goes on and on and on, you know. And and then you have the audacity to tell me, I insist on it, that you must no longer walk that way That's exactly what Paul does. And then he doesn't back off. Look what he does. He says You've been walking in a way contrary to what God intends. Stop doing that. Stop walking that way. As the Gentiles, those without Christ, As those who are not thinking biblically, who do not have the relationship with Jesus Christ do, and the futility of their thinking, why? They are darkened in their understanding. They're separated from the life of God Because of the ignorance that's in them due to the hardening of their hearts. It's a willful ignorance. It's moral ignorance. They don't want to follow them. Sometimes they just don't know how So there's a there's a separation. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more All that really matters is this life and my gratification now. And some of you that have not been Christians for most of your lives May be able to look back and say, I can remember that. That's still pretty vivid in my thinking. And then the contrast. Look at verse 20. You, however, did not come to know Christ that way. In a whole new pattern. Surely you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with a truth that is in Christ, that is in Jesus. You see, his way is truth, not deception. And so there is this whole new way of thinking. Verse 22. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self. which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, and to be made new in the attitude of your minds, new way of thinking And to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness, or righteousness and holiness of the truth. You see again the strong contrast between faulty thinking, thinking with deception, and thinking truly, thinking the way things are, thinking according to the facts. If you are a Christian this morning, if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith, you do not have to continue in the sinful patterns of your pre-Christian thinking. Now, I'm not saying that you can live in sinless perfection. I'm not saying that you will be in total mastery. Of life-dominating sins so that they will never be a problem to you again. Not saying anything like that. But what I am saying is that there is a basic principle of the Christian life that Paul is articulating for us here. Which is that we are by the power of the Spirit, under the instruction of Scripture, able to put off The old pattern of thinking and disobedience, and to put on a new pattern of obedience and faith in Christ. You remember, the image that Paul's using here is like, well, a t-shirt. Remember the old t-shirts? You know. Here it is. The same one. You know? Somebody thinks they ought to frame this thing, you know, and put it up to. There is the book of Ephesians That's the same one, you know, and I'm still using it for the oil. Um and I thought of, you know, I probably to make the point better, I should have rubbed it out in the compost and into garbage and You know, had some things crawling off of it. You know, because it really it really doesn't display what your nature and my nature without Christ is like. Because I can hold it Man, if it was like my heart is without Jesus Christ, I wouldn't even be able to hold this thing. It would stink so bad I couldn't even get near it And that's what the Bible says is what your heart and my heart is like. It's like this filthy, grimy, stinky, dirty old t-shirt. And Paul says you put that thing off and then you take out of the bag its nice new brand clean t-shirt, you know, and there's your new life in Christ. And Paul says you put that on. Now, you say, come on, you know, I mean it's it's just not that simple, Al. I mean but you know what he says, you've got to follow him closely in this Is that you do that specifically daily in particular areas. You make a decision at one point, giving your life to Christ, that you are going to walk in the newness of his life. And then you apply that this afternoon when somebody irritates you and you apply that when you feel like serving yourself rather than somebody else, when you want to distort the truth, when you want to do this, you want to feed your mind with something you ought not to be looking at and the rest of And on and on and on, there is this continual putting off, putting on, a choice that says, I'm no longer that person I have been made a new person, raised up into new life in Christ. Therefore, I will put off that old nature in that area by faith. In Jesus today, right now, this moment, Lord, help me to put on your new nature. I can't change it. I can't obey this. I can't do it. With you in me now. Grant your new nature by your spirit to enable me to obey this. And as you do that and experience gradually more of his power. There is substantial, significant, discernible change in your life. You believe that? Now, look what he says. Look at the areas Gives you seven specifics and then a climactic statement after that. First of all he says, verse 25, put off falsehood and dishonesty, put on truth, integrity, honesty. Put off stealing and put on sharing. Put off the gimme attitude and put on the generous attitude. Put off corrupt garbage talk. Put on constructive building up talk. Put off bitterness. Put on kindness. Put off the malicious holding of grudges. Put on forgiving love. Put off impurity. Put on purity Put off the participating in darkness. Put on the exposing of darkness. Put off the ignorance of God's will for your life, kind of drifting around, never really knowing what he wants you to do, and put on the understanding of his will for your life. And then the climax put off the intoxication of artificial stimulants and put on the invigoration of the Holy Spirit. Now, in each of these cases, understand that the command on the right side, what you put on, is based on a fact of Who you are and what you have that he's already told you about in chapters 1, 2, and 3. So if you're looking at an area there and you say, how do I do it? Then do a study, go back to chapters 1, 2, and 3, and say, now where do I see? What's the root of that? What's the basis for that? And that'll help you by faith to see that new area. Do you identify with any of those seven or eight areas? And if you're like me, you look at it and you say, where do I start? Kind of overwhelming, right? Well, but I believe that before we go on to chapter 5, verse 22, what we should do, perhaps, this morning is look at these a little more closely. And personally, and to examine your life in the light of each of these. See that you can't do it Drives you back to Jesus Christ. And as you come back to him, claiming the truth In chapters 1, 2, and 3, by faith, then ask him to help you to obey in that specific area. So I want to look at these seven areas again, but I want to ask you as I'm doing this Pick one area. Pick one specific area of these seven or eight to say Lord, this is the one that I believe you're speaking to me about this morning. This is the area that I believe that you're whispering to me about. It's time. To take me seriously in this area. It's time to put off the pattern of disobedience And doubt and unfaith, and to put on the gospel, and put on the provision I've made for you to live in obedience. First area, bending the truth. Verse 25. Look what he says, chapter 4. Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we're all members of one body. Why do you bend the truth? I know I bend the truth when I want to protect my image. I want you to think of me better than I really deserve. I want you to think of me as somebody who doesn't deal with sin on the basic levels that I deal with it. I want to pretend that I'm something that I'm not. Or maybe you're finding pressure at work to twist or bend the truth in some area for your reports, for customers, for whatever it is. There's pressure to pretend that things are not the way they really are, and you know. Or maybe you want to avoid conflict with someone, and so you're not going to deal honestly. Why is it that Paul says here that you are to speak truth because we're members of one another? He sticks right in there the fact that's the basis for the command. Well, again, we looked at this stuff over a period of six months, so I mean I gotta sum up real quickly. But remember the basic principle there is that you are called to live in community. This is the first command after he's just talked for sixteen verses about community. And what Paul is saying here is the community is built on trust, and trust is built on honesty. Therefore, if we're going to have community, we've got to be honest with one another. In our cells, in our one-to-one communication, just a basic part of the Christian life. Begins there God's a God of truth. Falsehood violates his nature. And so the next time you're tempted. To lie, to twist, to bend the truth. Remember who it is that's called you, it's the God of truth. And say, Lord, I'm going to trust you to tell the truth and see what he does. Taking rather than giving, because I deserve more than I'm getting, verse 28. See, he says He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share with those in need. It's a hard attitude. The hard attitude Is that there's basically two kinds of people in the world. There's takers and there's givers. A taker is a person who believes that I'm not getting what I deserve and I need to help myself. A giver is a person who understands, I've received by grace more than I deserve. And so I will copy God's nature to be generous and to give. Are you a taker or are you a giver? Believe that you're not getting what you deserve, and so you're kind of bitter about that, and you need to take We're grateful for all that God has done for you. And you're able, because you've got a Father in heaven to take care of you, to be able to give. Is God speaking to you in an area of your life on that? Or maybe it's your tongue. Third area he talks about is basically what he says is garbage talk. Verse 29 says, Do not let any unwholesome talk, the word unwholesome there. is a word in the Greek which means corrosive garbage. Don't let any garbage talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs. Why? Because chapter two said you are part of a building that God is creating for his presence. Therefore you are he is building you up and you're to build one another up The problem with garbage talk is that I'm more interested in what I need to say than what you need to hear. You know? So I'm going to say it because I need to say it. Every once in a while, God gives me grace When I'm ready to let loose with Kathy, our wife, about something that just really torque me off, to think, what will be the effect of what I'm about to say on her? And unfortunately, just about every time I ever ask that question, it takes all the wind out of what I was just going to enjoy so much saying. Because I realized it was really for my benefit that I wanted to say it. Just to get it off my chest. Paul says the purpose of the communication should be to build the other person up, which doesn't mean to just say what they want to hear. But what will be helpful In bringing the gospel and truth to them, to help them to hear it. You got a problem with your tongue? Problem with letting fly what you want to say rather than thinking about the effect that it will have on somebody else? Maybe you say, well, in this particular case, I don't really give a rip because this person has hurt me And they have abused me so bad, I simply cannot forgive. And so Paul follows that with number four, the question of bitterness. And he says in verse 30: Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Get rid of all bitterness. Put it off, you see. All rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. You see, that's this dirty old t-shirt, the brawling, the slander, the malice, all this stuff he's saying Put that off and put on rather kindness, compassion, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you The imitators of God, therefore, is dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Remember two years ago, just about this time? Those of you around, that's how long ago I was preaching on this. And do you remember I challenged you to write on a piece of paper all those things That a person had done to offend and to hurt you, that was keeping you from ever being able to be at peace with them. And then we talked about your writing to God, all the things that you had done to offend him. Because you see, what Paul does not say here is bitterness hurts you. So just get rid of it. That's that's kind of Oprah again. You know, it's just it's gonna hurt you, so you just get in touch with your spirit and rise above it. What Paul says is you can't do that The only way you can forgive somebody that has really hurt you, deep, purposefully, intentionally, inexcusably. Is to see how inexcusable your own sin has been to God. And to see what he says in verse 32. To forgive just as in Christ God forgave you And so you remember we had a ceremonial burning where a number of you took those offenses, things you were holding against somebody, went out to the back parking lot. Presented them to the Lord. We created a little bonfire. And I still remember how as we put those in the bonfire Just a little breeze came up, just as it was burning to the ashes and scattered the ashes, so it disappeared. Very meaningful moment. But you see, that's only possible through Jesus Christ. You have bitterness this morning God is saying, before we can go on to the next section, this is an area that you need to give over to me. Chapter 5, verse 1 and 2 is the climax of that. Live and love as Christ has loved us and given Himself for us. It's also the beginning of the next section on purity. Because he goes on to say in verse 3, but among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality. Or of any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. Nor should there be any obscenity, foolish talk, coarse joking, which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving for the Of this you can be sure, no immoral, impure, or greedy person, such a man is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of such things, God's wrath comes on those who are disobedient. Therefore, do not be partakers with them. So you are to be pure. Why? Because chapter 1, verse 4, you have been made pure. Through Jesus Christ. So if you're struggling with pornography, if you're struggling with sexual Impurity, sexual intimacies with someone with whom you are not married then the way to deal with it is not to simply say, well I gotta just stop this. I just, you know, gotta suck it up and you know, this is disgusting, this is terrible, and I just gotta get away from it. You see, the Bible here presents you with very good news, and it is that your heart is far worse than you think it is. You may be trying to deal with this thing on a level this high. What the Bible says is verse 5, this shows you are an idolater Your self-gratification of your sexual lust simply reveal as a symptom of the fact your whole life is built on self-gratification. But Jesus Christ has freed you from that. So the issue is to be able to look at your heart. And to say, this is not some foreign piece of me that I've got to deal with. This is an expression of my whole being. To confess that before Jesus Christ and let him free you. Or maybe it's that you minimize what you do with unbelievers is really no big deal. That's the sixth area. He's saying you're rationalizing. Saying, well, you know, sure, you know, what we do isn't Christian, but hey, you know, I can't hang around Christians all the time, and really no big deal. Maybe some of you kids, some of you teenagers, you're saying, well, you know, what do you expect As much as you try to rationalize it, you know what you're doing dishonors Christ. Look what he says. Verse 8. For you were once darkness, but now you're light in the Lord. Live as children of light for the Fruit of light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, and find out what pleases the Lord. Try it. Try being light and see how your conscience is sensitized to what it is that really pleases them. Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret, but everything exposed Exposed by the light becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. That's why it said, Wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. You know, I've been praying that God would enable us as a congregation in probably what we will be involved with and some of the gay rights agenda issues to um be able to love some people who are caught in the gay lifestyle. Just this week found out somebody in our congregation has a friend who is gay, loved that friend Showed them love, and then took their courage in their hands to give them a copy of mere Christianity. You know, it took some guts. Um, but God will honor that. Not just going along, being tolerant, acceptable, but loving, exposing the darkness. And you see, that's connected to what he says next, the seventh thing. You know, you're always wondering what is it that God wants me to do with my life? What's his will? I don't know. It's a basic principle in Scripture. Do what you know he has revealed. What he simply revealed in this word. Do what he says. And then He will make known to you what he has not revealed for your particular life when you need to know it So he says, be very careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will for you is. And then he goes on with the climax of the whole thing, to be not drunk with wine, artificial stimulants, but rather to be filled with the spirit. We're going to look at that section next week to take a look at for one week and review that whole verses 18 to 21. But I want to come back in conclusion to say about this section. You go through these seven. What's God whispering to you about this morning? What's an area, one of these seven? Not all seven, not three or four, one area. And you look and you say, that's the area that I want to run from. That's the area that I believe the Holy Spirit is saying. It's time to stop minimizing and rationalizing and saying that'll never change. And it's time to believe me. You know, our sin can become like our clothes. After a while, we don't even feel them. Next to our skin. It's like a bad odor in a room. You walk in and there's a stench that's overwhelming. But if you have to stay in the room after a while you get used to it and somebody else comes in and says, whoa, it really stinks in here. You know, I guess I hadn't even noticed after a while I've been in it so long That's why you have to leave with your sin and my sin. We get used to it. We don't see how offensive it is, how it's holding us in bondage. So, what I want to do now is I want to pray. I want for you to have time to just bring before the Lord your life and that particular area that He's speaking to you about. Let's pray. What is it that God is saying to you? How is he drawing you to himself? Jesus Christ wants to deliver you in that particular area of bondage. He wants to free you. He wants to show you his power. Come to him. Come to him right now I'm gonna ask you to do something a little different this morning. I believe that God's speaking to some of you. You're quiet. I believe you're you're hearing him. For some of you, this is a very important moment. And so if there is a particular area that you're asking God to give you new victory, new power in Jesus Christ for your life right now, I'm going to ask you to slip up your hand, not because of anything I'll do or anybody else. Nobody else can see. Every head is bowed, every eye is closed. But just that you would slip up your hand that I'd say as an indication that you're really serious before the Lord in this. That you're asking him in this area to give you this new freedom. And so if there is that area, would you just slip up your hand and I'll be able to see that, okay? See a number of you. Yes. Many, many of you. Praise the Lord for that. Okay, put your hands down. Is there anybody else? Okay. All right. This is between you and the Lord. Anyone else? Just another couple moments, okay? Yep, see that. Yep See another. Lord, I thank you for those that are hungering and thirsting for righteousness right now. Because your promises they'll be filled And so, Lord, I don't believe there's a single person here in this room, and I don't know their hearts, I don't know the areas, the issues, but I don't believe there is one person here Who is saying, Lord, I am coming to hate that sin now. I'm saying it more like you say it. I'm tired of living with it and excusing it. And I want you to give me new power. Significant growth and grace in that area. And so, Lord, I pray that you would meet each one because that will honor you. It would dishonor you. If one of your sheep came hungering here now and said, Lord, I really want to follow you, and you said, well, you're kind of on your own. You will not do that. You will meet each one of us who longs for you, and I pray that you will show them even this week the first fruits of the power. Of your spirit in that area in new victory in their lives. Lord, do that for the honor of Jesus. And for the increase of our faith and our love for you in Jesus' name. Amen.