Well, those of you who were here this week noticed that uh this place looks a little different now. It's been transformed from Veggie Town back to a worship center. How many were here this week for BBS at some point? Good number of you a lot of people were here this week. It was just a terrific time. There's over a hundred and fifty kids here, plus the kids that were uh downstairs in the nursery and for the workers. Uh in a third year Veggie Town, I don't know what we're gonna do when Bob becomes a shriveled up old tomato. Uh we're just gonna have to move on to something else. But post Veggie Town is kind of hard to imagine. Gene Lyons was leading for the fur third year, uh, did it alone coordinating the whole thing, but a lot of assistants, a lot of people working with her and It was just a real fun time that we're here. We saw a number of ways that God was working. A lot of effort went into it. Um You know that last Sunday there was one place left. We had a waiting list for most all the classes. And a family came here last Sunday for the first time and afterwards they asked Jean uh are there any places left for BBS and she said, Well what grade? And they said, fifth grade And she said, that spot was reserved for you. There was one spot left. It was for fifth grade, and that kid took it and was here all week. And uh we just saw a lot of ways that God provided. Uh we had a zoo downstairs. Uh for the first time it was kind of a highlight. Kids could come down there and see a tarantula and alligator, Python. I mean I'm not talking pictures or models, I'm talking the real thing. Um but they heard the gospel presented every day About a third of the over 150 kids who were here were not CPC kids, and about a half or more of those were not from evangelical churches or they were from no church. Several kids were from no church at all. Uh so it was a great opportunity uh and it was a terrific time. I hope those of you who are tired from that feel a lot of satisfaction because it was a great time together Some of you may also remember that this uh Sunday is uh the Elders Home Fellowship meetings for most. Some of them were last week, some will be next week, but check to make sure whether you have a meeting with your elder today. And I mention this now because if you are not a member of Columbia Presbyterian, you're new, even if this was your first week, or if you've been coming for a while and are not yet a member I want warmly to welcome you to come to our home. Three to five. There are directions that are in the bulletin. And so take a look at them and let me know at the back door if you plan to come, it would help Uh and maybe if you have any questions on directions, I can help you out on that too. But um come on, let's get a little time together and we'll talk to you about some of our plans as a church Particularly we're talking about some of our facility plans, but uh other things as well. Today we finish our review of Ephesians before resuming at chapter 5, verse 22. And uh I I noticed that uh when John made his crack about uh Colossians being a decade behind Ephesians, that only one person did I hear laugh, and I wasn't able to detect who that person was. But it uh occurred to me that either the rest of you didn't think it was funny or you didn't get it. Um but it may help you to notice at the top there this is the 74th message on Ephesians and um Uh you know, I I really am not trying to go through slowly. I go through as quickly as I can. It's just that I'll find something else. I can't jam all that into one message, so I break it down and break it down and keep breaking it down And uh, you know, you you're good to hang in there with me to to try and uh keep going on this thing, but there is just so much that's so rich. You know, Ephesians, as I've said many times before, is kind of a the most basic discipleship manual that we have in all of God's Word, and therefore it's the most basic systemization of discipleship that we have anywhere. It is God's final definitive word on what the church is, and it just it breaks the Christian life into two parts It says the first thing that you and I need to understand is that we are spiritually bankrupt, that we cannot Please God and be obedient to Him and and live the way He intended us to, with Him as the center. That we therefore must trust Jesus as the substitute for our guilt to pay for our sin. And that having done that, we are then enabled to rest in him. Chapter 1, he was seated after his resurrection in the heavenlies. Chapter 2, we are seated with him. And so Ephesians is teaching you and me to rest in Christ. But then in chapter 4 He begins talking about the second part of the Christian life, how you walk in this, how you experience that new life day after day. Chapter 4, verse 1, you recall, as a prisoner for the Lord then, I urge you. To bring your experience, your daily living into balance with the calling, the new identity that you've received in Jesus Christ. That's what that verse is really saying. And so we've talked about how he then is teaching us how to walk, to live in that new life. And he says that the first thing you realize is that you have now uh a new power. You do not live the Christian life in your own strength. Many Christians seem to have this idea that we are saved by grace, sanctified by sweat. We now get busy to do our duty. But the gospel is, as Ephesians presents it, that we are saved by grace and we are sanctified by grace. We are appropriating, we are living out the new life that we have in Jesus Christ. So we have a new power to do that. Chapter 3, you remember in verse 14, where Paul kneels. It's so that he says in verse 16, I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being. so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. That's what we're trying to learn what it means to do, to have the power of the Spirit dwelling in us that we have Christ dwelling in our hearts by faith and living each day in that reality. But then he says, you also not only have the Spirit in you, you also have the body with you. You are called to community, the first 16 verses of chapter 4. And so you and I learn to live in community, in ourselves and in our other face-to-face kinds of fellowship activities. And uh then having said all that, he presents before you the new standard, the the way that you live that's distinctively different. From the way a person without Jesus Christ lives. The way you live that's now different being liberated from the bondage of sin from before you had Christ in your life And so that is chapter 4, verse 17, up to chapter 5, verse 21, which is what we finish reviewing. this morning. You remember last week we looked at the seven specific ways that Paul says that you and I live differently. He talked about how you see them there, put them together so you have them all put together. Uh that the principle you remember he said is you no longer verse 17, chapter 4, no longer Do you walk as you used to walk? Do you walk as your non-Christian neighbors, friends, family walk? Darkened in their mind, in their understanding, don't understand reality, don't understand truth, do not have the power to please God, center their lives on Him. Paul says, no longer Don't give me this stuff. He says that you know you got to go to counseling for ten years. Counseling may help. It may be a great help for you. We often advise that, but he's saying you don't Ever make excuses to say, I simply am unable to obey God in this area. And so then he goes through seven ways that you and I put off the old life and put on the new life. And you remember the example of filthy old, grimy, stinky, rotten t-shirt, which represents your old life and my life in Christ. You put that off, he says, you take that grungy thing off. Not just as a once-for-all thing, that's it, done, okay, end of that. But day by day, area by area, putting off The old way of thinking, the old way of coping, the old way of living my life centered on myself. Putting on, he says, the new life in Christ. And then you say, Well like give me an instance. And he says, Well like putting off Falsehood, your lack of honesty and integrity, putting on truth and honesty, putting off the way of taking and saying I deserve more than I'm getting. I gotta help myself and putting on generosity and sharing, putting off the corrupt garbage talk That tears down just because it's what you want to get off your mind, putting on the talk that builds up your brother and sister, husband, wife, kids, parents Putting on that which is going to help the person to become more like Jesus. Putting off holding grudges, bitterness, putting on kindness and forgiveness. Putting off impurity, putting on purity, putting off participating in darkness and doing the things that the unbelievers do that dishonor God and rationalizing, it's really no big deal. putting on a new life that exposes darkness, not in a self-righteous, holier than our thou attitude, but simply because there is a conviction and character by the presence of Christ in your life that stands apart from that. Putting off the ignorance of God's will for your life because you never quite know what he wants because you're not doing what he has clearly revealed to do. And then putting on that new understanding. This is what he intends, because as you do what he's revealed, you gradually understand more of what he has not revealed that's uniquely for you. Now, before we go on and finish this section, let me just stop because we took some time to examine our lives last week and to commit one of those areas that you sensed that the Holy Spirit was whispering to you about. Let me ask you, did you see God work this week? I mean, you know, I don't want you to pull up your hands. We're not taking a poll, but be honest. Did you see God work in the area that you prayed about last week? Did you see that His Spirit came and gave you some new power? Did you find that there was a new freedom, new priorities, a new way of thinking? Did God remind you of that? If we were to go around and have the time to share, what would you say God did in your life this week that was a result of what you longed for him to do as you sat there last Sunday? Now I ask that not because I expect you to have some answer you could share, but I think it's important for us to realize as week by week we come to God's word that this isn't something that we just file and say, Oh well, yeah, nothing happened last week, but let's go on to the next, you know. Because if we do that Then you will become just a bit more cynical about what God's going to say to you this morning. There has to be the recognition that Paul's talking to us about how to live. God is speaking to you because He wants to free you from your sin. He wants in that area that you prayed about last week to show you that the Holy Spirit is for you. He wants to help you. And so you see, that's what brings us to this final climactic command that wraps the whole thing up. It's simply because Paul intends for you to experience new power. That he doesn't want you week after week, month after month, year after year, to confess the same old things and to not see progress. Not perfection, but nevertheless, significant progress. That he climaxes this whole thing in chapter 5, verse 18 with what I call the eighth command, which is kind of like the new creation. You know, P preachers often I think make too much of numbers and, you know, getting everything nice and symmetrical and alliteration and all this kind of stuff. But I I don't know if Paul had in mind that there were seven areas I put down seven. I d I don't know even where I got them. I don't think I got them from anywhere. It just looked like there's seven. Uh but if you look at that and you say, well then why is there an eight? You know, I mean seven's the number, right? It ought to be seven. Well if he intended seven, and if I'm right that this final statement is an eighth You see this statement as a transitional statement that impels you to the next section. And that's very clear when you get to verse 21. Because the way he ends verse 21, when he begins verse 22, it's the same idea, and he doesn't even use the word again. He just goes right on. So just like chapter 5, verse 1 and 2 was the conclusion Of chapter four about bitterness and the new life in Christ, and it was also the introduction to a new life of purity, so this statement about the Holy Spirit is the conclusion of what he's saying about the holy life, and it's also the introduction to what he's saying about the submissive life, three basic relationships that you all, you, you and I all have, or at least We generally all of us have two of those, at least, of the three. So what is it that Paul's saying here? What is the climax? Verse 18. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the spirit. So he's saying here, put off drunkenness with wine, put on a filling of the Spirit, or, if you see your blank and your bulletin outline, put off intoxication. Of wine, which I believe is referring to any artificial stimulant, get to that in a moment, but put on invigoration of the Holy Spirit. Put off intoxication of artificial stimulants put on invigoration of the Holy Spirit. Now I believe that the contrast here is not particularly or specifically necessarily simply a contrast between alcohol or spirits and the spirit I think what it's really about is artificial stimulants and the spirit, the artificial stimulants that become our idol To help us to cope with life so that we feel better, because let's face it, life's full of pain, isn't it? And boredom and disappointments. Drudery, and a lot of things that make you want to escape. Right? I mean, isn't there a fine line between recreation and just escape You know, I mean, I need to back off. I I just need to relax. And it's such a fine line for a Christian, I find, for myself, my own life Whether I am recreating or whether I just need something to help me to escape reality A number of articles recently on the rave drug ecstasy, those little pills that make you feel like you always wanted to feel. Interviewed one guy who had won a Rhodes Scholarship. And he said, uh, when I take an ecstasy pill, it makes me feel like just like the time when I found out that I had won the Rose Scholarship. Hey, popping a pill is a lot easier than working to be able to get the Rhodes Scholarship. Get the same feeling. Hey, take the shortcut, you know? He says I've done it forty times. Every time I get the same feeling We're in a culture that is always looking for shortcuts, for macros, you know, the shortcut button. Program it on your desktop, whatever the shortcut is, whether it's a pill to pop or something to take. We are so used to being able to find a shortcut to something. That this verse, I believe, is very relevant for you and for me as Christians at the beginning of the 21st century. Be careful that you are not substituting the presence of God with some idol that is an artificial stimulant to help you to cope and to escape. Maybe it's not alcohol for you. Maybe it is some kind of drug. Maybe it's food. Maybe it's TV. Maybe it's the internet. But maybe it is alcohol. Whatever it is, look into your life honestly and say, what is the thing that I tend to flee to to cope To escape boredom, pressures, pain, disappointment rather than the Holy Spirit Now, why is it that Paul puts that particular contrast down? Why does he say, do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery or wastefulness, but rather be filled with the Spirit? I believe it's because the Spirit is the down payment of our new life in Jesus Christ. It is the Spirit who fills you, who indwells you, to give you a down payment of that new life and new power in chapter 1. In verse thirte thirteen, you see, the command is based on a fact. What's the fact? Chapter 1, verse 13, Paul says You were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having believed, you were marked in him with a seal The promised Holy Spirit, this is all fact, no commands here, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. And then he goes on in verse 17 to say, So I keep asking the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, that he'll give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you will know him better. The Spirit He says also, verse 18, opens the eyes of your heart, so that you will know the hope to which He's called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in Christ. Then in chapter 3, he goes on about the Spirit. I pray that out of his glorious riches, verse 16, he may strengthen you with power through his spirit. in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, this is a fact, you see, this is not something you have to work toward This is something that as a Christian you are given. You are rooted and established in the love of Christ. But it says I pray that you'll have the power together with all the saints to grasp that love How wide, how long, how high, how deep, to know this love that surpasses knowledge, so that you will be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. And so, the simple fact is that if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you have the Spirit of God in you. Be filled does not mean that you are empty and that you need to now have the Spirit introduced into your life in some new way. Paul is absolutely clear you have all of the Holy Spirit you can ever have. The idea of being filled, as we looked at when we went through Through those verses before, and I always refer you if you want to get more detail, go back to the tapes. They're in the library, they're accessible. We now have somebody who's heading up the tape ministry, and so you can get those more much more accessible now. But what we said the filling means is an awareness and an influence. Being filled with the Spirit is talking about being conscious of his presence. And being controlled by his influence. That is the basic meaning, if you look biblically as we did before, at what that is all about To be filled with the Spirit is to be conscious of His presence in you and to be controlled by His influence. And let me ask you another personal question. How aware were you of the Holy Spirit in your life this past week? When you were struggling with things, did you have a conscious sense that you have a resource, the Holy Spirit, to help you through that? To deliver you from that temptation, from that discouragement, to help you to live the things that you prayed last Sunday morning. That you longed for God to take out of your life one of those seven areas. Were you conscious this week that that was not something for you just to do on your own, but that you were able to call upon the Spirit of God? To control your life, to empower you to do what you yourself were not able to do That's so important for us as Christians, isn't it? Now I want you to notice a couple things about what he says in this that may help. Again, just by way of review. You notice that two things that he says there. First of all, notice that verse 18 is a command to obey. That's the next blank. It's a command to obey. It's in the present continuous, being filled with the Spirit. Therefore, that is for all Christians at all times. It's not for a special subset of Christians who are spirit-filled Christians. Who have had some sort of experience that puts them on another level or plane of acquaintance with or with the presence and the power of the Spirit is for all Christians. That command is to you, the same as that command is to the charismatic preacher who claims to have had 30 years of fillings repeatedly. It is the same command. Be being filled with the Spirit. It's something that is available for God to reveal the Spirit to reveal His presence and His power in your life, and He intends for you. to know that. That's good news, isn't it? When God gives you a command, then that means He intends for you to obey and experience that. But notice the second thing about the command And this is one of those amazing things about Paul's writings. The command is in the passive. Next blank. The commands in the passive. Be filled with the Spirit. Now, how in the world do you command something in the passive? Be filled Well, let me give you an analogy. You go back a few verses, you remember to chapter 4, verse 31, where he's talking about bitterness and anger. Remember in chapter 4, verse 31, the NIV translates it, get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger. Literally, you remember when we looked at that verse If you translate it more literally, it was let it be removed from you, all anger and bitterness, malice, and the rest of that stuff. That's passive. Let it be removed from you. Be filled with the Spirit. They're passive commands. What does that tell you? That tells you that you have here the amazing confluence of human responsibility and God's sovereignty. He is saying it is God who must fill you with his spirit, the the awareness, the sovereign power that comes into your life in those times of deepest need, but you seek for that. You You just as you decide, I am no longer going to continue to indulge in my bitterness and anger and the rest, Lord, take it from me. I can't get rid of it. Show me the cross. Take it from me. So he's saying here, thirst, long for the sense of the presence and the power of the Spirit into your life, and Seek God in that. Now how do you do that? That's where you go on to the next thing. Flip over your bulletin. And here I give two words. To give the balance of what I think Scripture is saying. A word to charismatics and a word to Orthodox Presbyterians. Alright? The word to our charismatic brothers and friends and sisters is that you notice that in this command, be filled with the Spirit. Often that is taken to be some mystical experience. To be filled with the Spirit, to yield myself, to seek Him till something happens in my life, and I speak in tongues or I do something that transforms me, it puts me into a different state or level But the clue to the error of that is the fact that as John pointed out to you, Ephesians and Colossians are parallel books. And if you look at this section in Ephesians 5, you see that Colossians chapter 3 is talking about the very same subject. It's the same kinds of commands. You can look at him, just put them in parallel columns, and you'll see he's talking about the same concerns. Now, when he comes to this issue Of being filled with the Spirit, he uses different language in Colossians. What does he say there? Did you pick it up when John read it? Colossians 3, verse 16. Where he says here, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, sing psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. With gratitudes in your heart to God. This is going on exactly what he says in verses 19, 20, 21, in Ephesians 5. So he replaces be filled with the Spirit with be filled with what With what? Okay. Not rhetorical. The word of God. Okay? Now what's that tell you? He changed his mind He said, hey, you know, they were getting kind of out of control over here when I said be filled with the Spirit, so I better change that. You gotta calm things down. I'm writing to Presbyterians here in Colossae. I'm going to say be filled with the word. You guys understand that. I was writing to the charismatics over in Ephesians and told them to be filled with the Spirit. They like that. No, that's not what he's saying. What he's saying is You cannot separate the Word of God from the Spirit of God. If God is going to fill you, how do you seek Him? How do you seek for an awareness of His presence and of His power? You come to his word. Now, I don't know how your week was as you tried to apply from last week. Well let me tell you, my week was I felt like I was hit by a Mac truck. And it went over me and then backed up and went over me again This was one of the most difficult weeks that I can remember for a long, long time. And I felt, by Tuesday morning when I go out to pray, utterly helpless. Hopeless, washed out. I mean, you know, it was one of those days where you can barely pick up your Bible, let alone study it And I went out and I wasn't even thinking of this message. What message? I'm not thinking about preaching on Sunday. I'm just consumed with pain and all the things that were going on in my life and all this stuff. And I went out, and by God's grace, he brought to mind through something I was reading. was actually something that Jonathan Edwards said, and he pointed to a verse that I had never noticed. And it was one of those things where it just kind of like, whoa, I never noticed that. Is that in there? And I began to look at the word. And as I looked at that And I'm not kidding you. In fact, let me tell you what it was. It was Isaiah 32. Right? And I looked at Isaiah 32 and I noticed what I'd never seen before Isaiah says, see a king will reign in righteousness and rulers will rule with justice. And then literally what it says in verse 2 is, a man will be a shelter from the wind. And a refuge from the storm, like streams of water in the desert and the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land. Now what is a man? A man is the king who's going to reign in righteousness. And so what Isaiah does here is he takes what is Universally said in the Old Testament of Yahweh, God, and he says, that's going to be true of a man who's going to come. And that man is going to be a shelter from the wind for you. That man is going to be a refuge in the storm, and he is going to be like a stream in a thirsty desert and like the shadow of a rock on a hot day. And I'll tell you, my soul just drank that up. In fact, after some time of dwelling on that and a sweet sense Of God's presence coming to me. Say, Alan, I am that sheltered for you. At one point I had to just stop and say, I just want to worship. And what was happening? As the word began to dwell in me, there was a new awareness of the Spirit and His presence and of His power. And nothing changed in the circumstances. But in my heart, things were okay. You ever experienced that? Have you ever known that that's the filling of the Spirit, you see? It's it's not just that some heavenly blanket comes down to make everything okay But it's as you come seeking him and go to his word that he comes to meet you in that with a promise that is no longer sitting there on the page. But it's God as if he verbally, audibly is saying to you, my child, this is for you. I'm here for you. You see, the wonderful thing about this is that God is saying His Spirit wants to meet you and help you this week. Jesus died so that his spirit would come to fill you. And he goes on to talk about how, and you see that diagram there, we don't have time to go into it. But uh you know for those of you who want to make sure you get your blanks filled out, let me just tell you the words of the Orthodox Presbyterians is basically what I've given. This this speaks, I believe, of a supernatural joy in worship. And a wisdom in ministry that is more than we generally experience. I think there is a real temptation and tendency for us to become rationally self-sufficient. To equate understanding doctrine with spiritual maturity. And God is saying to be filled with the Spirit Is not simply to say, yeah, what I'll say is, hey, get there deeper in the word, study your Bible. No, brothers and sisters, it's much more than that. It's what produces the four participles of verse 19 to 21. Speaking, singing, thanking, submitting. The book ends the first and the last are how you relate to other people. The middle two are worship, how you relate to God. You see it there. Speaking the beauty that builds up one another. Singing praise to lift up the Lord in worship, thanking him to lift him up in gratitude, accepting your circumstances and saying, God I'm not going to say, why me? I deserve better. If only this person. Why do they have it so easy and I have it so tough? But it's by the Spirit of God understanding it's by grace. I am getting far better than I deserve. God's grace and his mercy to me are unspeakably rich. And so, out of that core of worship, the center to, the ends are the way it affects how I relate to people. Why does he say speaking in Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs? Remember we talked about that? Strange, you know, speaking songs? Why? Because I think it's saying your language, my language, to one another. Is infused with the joy of the gospel. And as that joy comes through us, we speak in a way that infuses joy and song, the song of the gospel to one another. And the submitting is the most the most supernatural part of it. The fact that you and I Out of fear of Christ, he says, submit to one another. Why? Why does he say that? Out of fear of Christ. Because remember we used the example of Mephibosheth? Why is it that I don't have to fight to be the top dog? Because I like I realized like Mephibosheth before David, I am a dead dog. And I deserve nothing. And Jesus Christ, the Son of God, submitted Himself as a servant that he would save me. And so I can learn to submit and know the mind of Christ. And that's what launches us off to the three relationships. But for right now, Just look at your heart to ask, what do you know of the presence and the power of the Spirit in the needs that you have? He wants to meet you. Let's pray. Father, whatever the need is, as we think in our own lives, the things that this week we tried to do and we were unable, we were discouraged. We were disappointed. We felt helpless. Lord, would you fill our minds and our hearts with the gospel? As the Spirit comes to show that we are not alone, that you, Lord Jesus, are a shelter from the wind. And a refuge from the storm. Did you want to bring springs of living water out of our innermost being, the Holy Spirit in our lives? That you are like the shadow of a rock on a hot summer day. We need you, and we come to you in this moment. Thank you that you receive us. And that you promise to help each one of us calling on you now in Jesus' name. Amen