Well, we are finally here at Ephesians chapter five, verses twenty-two to thirty-three. We left off at Ephesians chapter 5, verse 21, back May of 99, went uh through a year of prophecy, four weeks of review of Ephesians. And finally, we now begin that beautiful but controversial passage, Ephesians 5, verses 22 to 33. I feel a bit like a pastor I saw in a cartoon once. You see the pastor at the pulpit in the window behind him. You look out through the window, there's a cab sitting, running There's his bags packed by the pulpit. He's leaning over and saying, A sermon I have long wanted to preach to the congregation. And so I will preach to you wives, submit to your husbands and to you husbands sacrifice your love for your sacrifice for your wives and then Kathy and I get on a plane tomorrow and we head for Ireland. Let you work it out And we'll be gone for three weeks and uh actually back here in four. And uh well you can look in the in the bulletin board for the details of all of that. And uh See what's going on. You'll actually have an Irish pastor, the one I'm I'm preaching at his church, the church he serves, and he'll be preaching here church in Northern Ireland and um you know you you may after a week or two say I I think he was rebuking us, but I'm not sure I understood what he said. Uh just you have to work at understanding through that thick Irish brogue. You'd probably have to be working to understand me too But we're really looking forward to the opportunity and excited about it. Very grateful for the opportunity to be able to do this. In fact, uh after the first service There was a couple here that had were here visiting for the first time. They had gotten married in May. They just got back from their honeymoon in Ireland, the exact spot where we're going to be on Tuesday. And uh so there they are, brand new marriage, just got back from Ireland, I'm going to Ireland and I'm preaching on marriage and they just got married. If they don't come back, I don't know who will. I mean anyway, we'll see. But um Actually, uh I've looked forward to doing this, uh kidding of that aside, but uh uh this is a powerful and beautiful passage. Years ago I preached a series on the Song of Songs. How many remember that? Anybody? Yeah, look at that. That is the one series I would like to repeat. And I'm hoping to do that sometime after Ephesians, shortly after Ephesians, actually So this is something that we need to hear God address us about. And today I'm only going to get to introduce the passage. I want to give an overview of it. And then we will resume it again in September. These are uh not good days for marriage in the United States. If you were to look at a 50-year trend of marriage in this country, you would see that the rate of marriage is down. Fewer people marry The people that marry marry later. The people that marry more often get divorced, about one out of every two marriages Those that do get married are having fewer kids, and the kids that are being born are more often born out of wedlock and often are raised by single parents. without the benefit of either a mom or a dad, but the other to do it by themselves. And uh for years we heard that uh while all this may be going on, the fact is that um in the generation or two ago they just had a bunch of miserable marriages that people put up with, but at least the marriages today are happier Just recently at Rutgers University, a group called the Marriage, the National Marriage Project, did some research on that. And they found out that that's not true. They found out that actually the typical person in America today is less happy in their marriage than they were 20 years ago, or at least than when the survey was done 20 years ago. In fact, the project concluded that there is a substantial weakening and deterioration of the very institution of marriage in our culture. and that the very institution is in jeopardy. Do you realize that today the average car lasts longer than the average marriage in the United States? A little over seven years. If you're driving a car that's over seven years old, it's older than the average marriage in the United States. We live in a culture of rights rather than responsibilities. We live in a culture in which it seems like the academic community for the last 30 or so years has despised. the institution of marriage, made fun of it. So we're not getting much support. In fact, I find that many teenagers, people in their twenties today, have no hope for a marriage that will last for a lifetime. That's kind of an ideal that seems rather unattainable to many people. Very sad situation. And yet Over 10,000 people went to the recent I Still Do conference here in the D. C. area, just a week or so ago. Indicating that there are still many people that want help in their marriages and are committed, particularly Christians, to seeing their marriages stand for the long haul. So as we approach this passage, I want to give you some good news. And it is that this passage indicates to us that God wants to help you in your marriage for those of you who are married. I'll say a word to those that aren't in a moment. But if you're married here this morning, you may be really struggling with your marriage. You may feel that there is not much hope to restore intimacy and trust and deep satisfaction in your marriage. And if there's one thing that is clear out of Ephesians, is that that is a priority for God that He wants to work in your life. To see your marriage not only survive, but to sing. Out of 155 verses that God gives us in the book of Ephesians on everything about the gospel. About the Christian life, about the church. He devotes 12 of those verses, nearly 10% of the book, to the relationship between husbands and wives. And so if you are feeling like there's not much hope, if you are still in a relationship with your husband or your wife. God intends to give you some very practical help over these next weeks that we'll be looking at this. My prayer is that God will strengthen the weak marriages at Columbia Presbyterian, that He will cause all of us, even those who have strong marriages To find God deepening our understanding of our relationship with Christ and how that translates into marriage. And so a word to those of you who are not married. I have not forgotten you. This is intended to be intensely relevant to you in particularly two ways. One is that there is a principle here that has to do with the whole church and its relationship to Christ. God wants for us to understand something of the love of Christ for his people through this passage. So I hope that those of you, whether you are married or whether you are single, will be able to see this and understand something more about the gospel, about the love of Christ and how that translates in some of its implications to human relationships. But there's also another reason, and that is Even if you are single, you may someday get married. You don't know if, you don't know when. God certainly doesn't exalt marriage over singleness. But you don't know what God has in mind for you. A couple of weeks ago, Kathy and I received an announcement from my cousin that she had just gotten married. My cousin is seventy-one years old. The fellow that she married was eighty-one. We kid him that he was robbing the cradle. His name is Judd, J-U-D, he says. One D, no sense in wasting a D. They are gloriously, happily married at 71 and 81. So you don't know. You can't tell me. Well, I know that I will never get married, and God doesn't have that in mind for me. We often say that from this passage, marriage is not your idea, it's God's idea. Some of you may say, no, I think it's the other way around. It's my idea, but it's not God's idea. But God has told us that in terms of the pattern, He is the one who invented marriage And therefore, he is the one who has the authority and the wisdom to give us instruction about it. So just two points this morning for the overview. One first of all to notice the context of what Paul says, and then secondly to notice the commands that he gives. First of all, notice the context of this passage. Three things about the context. This is where expositional preaching has such an advantage. Because we have been looking at the book of Ephesians, and rather than see this in isolation, you see it as it's connected to what Paul said before. Three things to notice particularly, first of all, that Christ is your pattern. in marriage. Do you remember that back in chapter 4, verse 31, 32, Paul had said, be kind and compassionate to one another. This is talking about all believers. forgiving each other just as God just as in Christ God forgave you. Be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us. and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. The foundational fact of marriage is the redemptive love of Jesus Christ. That love which gave himself For you and for me, in order to forgive us and in order to love us sacrificially. That's the basis, the pattern of marriage. Notice, women, that that is not just for men. That is the pattern for you as wives also. Mutually, the pattern of marriage is the sacrificial love that involves forgiveness rather than bitterness repeatedly. You know, I mean, uh where but in marriage do you learn forgiveness at its deepest level? And that brings us to the second point. The Spirit is your power for this. It's after these seven put off the old nature, seven put on the new nature. Did you remember Paul climaxed that in verse 18 by saying, uh, put off intoxication by alcohol or artificial stimulants, put on the invigoration of the alcohol of the Holy Spirit. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, wastefulness. Instead be filled with the Spirit And it's significant, I believe, that it is after Paul talks to us about our need to be filled with the Spirit and the four effects of that, that the very first application he then makes is to marriage. Because where but in the relationship of marriage where two sinners live in such intimacy Do you see a need for the Spirit to apply the gospel to your heart to be able to continue to forgive and to love? And so this is not something that you simply decide to do. Just like the other things we've said in Ephesians. It's not, okay, well, these are the principles. Shape up and decide to obey it. You can only do this by the power of the Spirit as He infuses the gospel as a song in your heart to produce a forgiving love or a love that forgives. As a means of making marriage last. And then thirdly, you notice that mutual submission is God's principle to bind the two of you together. After he says, be filled with the Spirit, you remember he gives four effects. And those are in verses 19 to 21. First of all, speaking to one another in Psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. That's the song of the gospel in your heart to one another. Singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. That's worship. Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's gratitude, thanking Him. And then fourthly submitting to one another out of reverence or out of fear of Christ. So you see that that word submit, which climaxes that, becomes the link pin to push you forward into the beginning of the statement about marriage. In fact, that is so obvious in the Greek more than it is in the English, because in the Greek where you read submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, then you go to verse 22 and it simply says, fives. To your husbands. The word does not appear. The word submit is not there. It is simply picking up on the idea from verse 21 of the mutual submission of husband and wife to one another. And that's a very important principle as we look at this passage, because often when you hear this passage preached, it sounds like the wife's duty is to submit, the husband's duty is to love Okay, you got that right? Now you you know you have to roll. If you're a wife, you don't have to love, you just submit. If you're a husband, you don't have to submit, you just love. But the context of Ephesians is that there's far more overlap in mutual love and submission than there is dismiss. instinctiveness about the uniqueness of those two roles. The wives are to love, the husbands are to submit. But in the reflection of Christ and his church, there is a particular uniqueness that Paul also brings to the surface. We'll get into that more later. But I want you to particularly notice that there are no power words that are used here. Paul does not talk about the exercise of authority. The point is simply the role that each of them have in reflecting Christ and the church, which brings us to the two commands. There's two main commands, just a quick overview today, and then we'll look at them more in detail as we resume it in September. First of all, to the wives, submit to your husbands. That's the word. There it is. I didn't make it up. It is the submission, you notice, of one who is under human authority. There are three relationships Paul talks about here, husbands, wives. Parent children and masters slaves, or today you'd say employers employees. We'll get into that. analogy as we go. But the thing I want you to notice now is that in each case, he addresses the one under human authority first. And so the statement here is uh that you wives, he says, first statement, uh, submit to your husbands with a comparison. And you notice the comparison is as the church does to the Lord. Wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body of which he is the Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands. And at this point you may ask, well, okay, but in what areas? Talking about the basic major areas and what areas. And then he gives the extent, the end of verse 24, in everything. You say in everything? Yeah, you serious? I mean give me a break. What what does this mean, submit in everything? Um Well again, it's not my idea, it's God's idea, and we'll look at it more later, but all I want to do right now is to make one request of you. Before any of you take me to task, men or women, for my interpretation and understanding of this passage, I am perfectly willing to sit down and talk with you about it, but I ask one thing of you before we have the discussion. Please memorize verses 22 to 24. Now I can make a case, it'd be a great thing to memorize verses 22 to 33, and I think that'd be great to do, particularly husbands 25 to the end, wives 22 to 24. But for us all to do all of it. In fact, some people have decided to memorize the whole book of Ephesians, and that's even better. That's great. Remember, if you do it uh I forget what was it, three verses a week you're done in one year But the thing is that we often discuss scripture or react to it before we have really internalized it. And I think that as I have memorized this passage, it has helped me to see that there are certain incontrovertible relationships. There are certain things that are just clear. I mean, you know, may Agree, disagree, like or not like. Because if this is what God is saying, if I believe that this word is scripture, his word, then memorizing it makes a difference So if you come up to me and you say, hey, that's your understanding of that business of submission, I'll say, okay, let's before we discuss it, let's just say it together, okay? And then you and I can say it together and say, Oh, you're just doing that so nobody will come talk to you. Well it's not that hard. It's only three verses, you know? How bad can it be? But I think it will make a difference. So let me encourage you that before we come back to it again, you may start on that. It's only twelve verses. And um so probably take us twelve weeks to get through with all the interruptions. You just do a verse a week, you got it. Second command, here is to the husbands. Husbands, love your wives I'm always kind of amused when I hear about how hard the task Paul gives to the wives in submitting to their husbands when always seems to me that the far harder task that he gives is to the husbands To love your wives, again, there's a comparison. In fact, there's two comparisons: to love your wives as Christ loved the church, and to love your wife even as you love your own body. First comparison is Christ loved his church. He blends the comparison with the extent in that, and just very briefly, again in the overview sum up three ways that Christ loved his church. First of all, sacrificially. First blank there. He gave himself up for her. Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church, and gave himself up for her. Again, more detail on that later, but you see he's picking up on verse 2 that Christ gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. You realize that there's absolutely nothing that Jesus wouldn't do for you Realize there is no sacrifice too great to make because of his love for you? Even the giving of his own life? Nothing Nothing he wouldn't do because he loves you. And sometimes we husbands look and we say, She expects that. No way. I mean, she hasn't been too kind, and what has she done for me? And she's taken advantage of me and I'm tired and I also need to take care of myself, and I'm so exhausted now, the last thing that I can do is sit down and listen to her, really listen and focus Listen guys, the next time you find yourself saying that, may you whisper to yourself, Lord, Thank you for an opportunity to learn just a little bit more about your love for me. Because no sacrifice was too great for my Jesus to make for me. And at the point when you love and it involves sacrifice, giving yourself by the power of the Holy Spirit, you're drawing closer to Jesus Christ in that. Well, we'll talk more about that. But the second thing is that he loved her selectively. You see in verse 25, he loved the church and gave himself up for her. It's often been pointed out how particular is Jesus' love for us That he didn't just make salvation possible for everybody, but that in fact, if he had, nobody would have chosen to receive it, because chapter 2, verse 1 says we're dead in our trespasses and sins. But that in fact he loved her and gave himself for her, which means that having set his heart on you He determined to do everything necessary to accomplish your salvation and to apply it to your dead, rebellious heart. Jesus set his heart on you. He set his heart on you realistically. He knew exactly what you were like. He knew the nature of your love and your lack of it. He knew how many times you would say, Lord, I know I need to stop that, and I need to change this, and I'll try better, and I'm gonna, this week, Lord, and how many times you'd let him down But nothing, nothing will drive his love away from you. Because he's given himself for you, particularly. Personally, he set his heart on you. Guys, let me ask you Have you ever consciously understood that you have set your heart on your wife? That you have given her your heart in a way that's irrevocable and can never take it back, that she simply cannot drive your love away. And have you ever told her that? No way, man. If I tell her that she'll just take advantage of it, you know, hey. She'll think, hey, I can treat him any way I want. He already told me. See, he's never leaving. I feel so taken for granted. Let me ask you, come on. You ever take Jesus for granted? I do But isn't there a delicious security in knowing that he's committed himself to you and he'll never withdraw his love? And so in communicating that to your wife, it's your job to love her. It's up to her what she does with that information. It's trusting, you see. It's trusting God. Love, this kind of love is really a great act of faith. And finally, uh notice he loved her sanctifyingly. I don't even know if that's a word, but I use it uh because I think it uh describes what he says here in verse 26 and 27. That he has loved her sanctifyingly. That is, he loved her to make her holy. That's sanctify means to make holy. He's loved her to cleanse her through the word, and he's loved her to present her radiant to himself at the last day. We're going to look at this in more detail in October, but do you see that Jesus has a vision for his church? Uh he didn't simply die for you, so that you would be saved, go to heaven, have your sins forgiven. He has a vision for your life. Every one of you, married, single, Jesus has a vision for your life. And it is to remove the blemishes, the spots, the wrinkles. And to make you radiant. Radiant for the glorious nature and character of Jesus Christ. And that's how he's going to present you at that last day, when you and I meet him at the throne at the wedding feast of the Lamb. Let me ask you guys again. Do you have a vision for your wives? Do you have a vision for your wife's life? to be all that Jesus Christ intended it to be when he died for her? If you do Constructing that vision of what it is that you see that she becomes enables you to protect her and to empower her. To be the woman that God intended her to be, to serve her to that end. Not as an appendage to you. But to serve her, to be what Christ intended. That's biblical, guys. We'll talk more about the idea of vision and what that means. But let me just ask you now to begin thinking about that. The vision that you have for your wife That's the difference you see between a contract view of marriage, which is the world's view, says it's fifty-fifty, kind of an investment on return on investment. You know, I make investments, I get a return, and if the Returns diminish to the point where I don't think the investments are worth it, then I cut my losses and I'm out of here. That's contract. Biblical view of marriage is covenant. The unconditional setting of my heart upon another person, in order that that person would be loved by me and become through that relationship All that God has intended. That's what God's holding before us. And it's exciting and it's powerful and it's distinctive. The second comparison is that he is to love his wife as a man loves his own body. You see there in verse 28, in the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. And then this radical statement: he who loves his wife loves himself. Wow. What a statement. If you love your wife, guys, because you are one flesh, you're really loving yourself. And so we want to talk about what is meant by that, what it means to enlarge your happiness, to include the circle of another person in that. And the profound things that we learn about God and about love, in seeking to imitate what Paul's talking about here, even just to understand it. There's more we could say, but let me finish with just some basic overall questions to you. Forget the details of all the particulars that I've talked about that we'll pursue later. But if you're married, Let me simply ask you, are you committed to the pattern that God has given to you here for yourself, regardless of what your spouse does? You notice that Paul does not say that you wives are commanded to make your husbands love you. And say anything about your responsibility for your husband. But what may be even more missed is husband's It does not say anything about your responsibility to make your wife submit. That is not your calling. The responsibility of each is addressed directly. You wives are responsible to obey God in what He says to you. You husbands are responsible to obey God in what he says to you and to not change your spouse. So many marriages struggle and limp along because each spouse is thinking If my partner would only change, then this marriage could sing. And until they change, it's hopeless, because there's nothing I can do. Baloney. God tells you what you can do, and if you are obedient to Him, things will change. I recall some time ago when I was, yes, I hate to admit it, really discouraged and angry at Kathy. I said this in the first service and she heard me. And maybe a shock to some of you, but we do have our arguments, tensions, struggles at time, and this was a time, it was kind of a low time And I was really frustrated and I was absolutely sure that if there's just certain things that she would change, and until she did You know, we just weren't going to make any progress. And I went out again to meet with the Lord, like last week. Wasn't as bad as last week, but this week's been a lot better, by the way. Um, but I did go out uh to meet with the Lord that pouring my heart out to him, Lord, Lord, what do you want me to do? And you know, it's like he just brought me up short There's another one of those times when it seemed like the Holy Spirit was almost audibly addressing me. And the gist of what he said was basically this. Alan, you are not the Holy Spirit in Kathy's life. I'm the Holy Spirit. And frankly, you're making my job harder by your interference. Your job is to love her. My job is to change her. And if you focus on your job, my job will be easier. You know, that was really freeing. I mean, I was going in angry and upset, and all of a sudden I realized, oh, yeah. Hey, who am I kidding? I can't change her anyway. You can't change your husband. You can't change your wife. Some of you, you know, you think you're going to change this person. Yeah, there's some basic raw material there, but you're going to shape it. Dismiss that delusion from your mind. Only the Holy Spirit can produce the character of Christ. And so you need to come to the place this morning Or maybe you've been thinking, if only, waiting, controlling, trying to change. And God is saying, it's time to stop your own pattern and follow mine. A little while ago I was eating breakfast, and you know those how they have the cereal boxes so that they get your attention so you start reading the box while you're eating it and This was on the back of a special K-box. I was reading this thing, you know, and you're sort of half awake, half noticing, and finally I kind of focused. Guys are kinda out of focus and I realized after a while He's out of focus after I'm awake as well as when I'm just waking up. But on the box it says, It's your game. Play it your way And I thought, yeah, but isn't that today? You know, it's my game. My hoop's this big. Your hoop's this big. Okay? I can double dribble. You can't. You know, I mean, what kind of game is this? You know, but that's what they have you believe. Hey, it's your game. You make the rules. Everybody's against rules. And we've been trying to live marriage that way. I'll make the rules. This is the way I think makes sense. Or this is what I read in an article. Or this is what, you know, in these romantic, idealistic ways that don't fit human nature Maybe God's saying to you this morning, it's time to stop trying to play the game your way. And God has told you, marriage is my idea. And I've told you How to live. Not how your spouse should live, how you should live. And whether you're married or whether you're single, he's saying to you this morning, I want you to see That the very best marriage is only the dimmest reflection of the love of Jesus Christ, his passion for you. Do you see it? Let's come to Homem in prayer. Father, some of us have been refusing to follow The operator's manual and how marriage should work. We blame we blame SHIFT And we lament, we complain, and we nag and we do everything, except look at what you say to us to do. And Lord, I pray that you would get our attention this morning to stop. Stop waiting for the spouse to change. As you would make us obedient to your word. And Lord, for those that are single to simply commit themselves to you, that they would learn to be the kind of people. Who learnt the love of Christ, that quiet, submissive attitude, men or women, that you teach us To rest in you for your purpose for us. If we're struggling in a marriage that seems dead, Lord, show us that you're sufficient for us. And that you can bring life out of death. But Lord, right now you want to speak to us about the love of Christ that is sufficient. Lord, may we see your love and therefore be able to trust you that you have set your heart upon us And that all our stubbornness and foolishness cannot drive you away Lord, we give ourselves to you anew, to trust you and to obey you. In Jesus' name. Amen.