And now it's back to the book of Ephesians, once again. Hallelujah, right? It's only 75 messages so far. We'll get through here. Keep going. And uh really looking forward to this, looking forward to this uh series where we come to chapter five. You remember just once again for those of you who have been with us for a while or if you haven't, Ephesians is oriented around four postures of the Christian life Teaching us first of all chapters 1, 2, first half of 3, how to sit, that is, how to rest in the finished work of Christ, which we cannot add anything to it, we cannot take anything away from it, we simply rest in it. And then we need to kneel, to get down and ask God, show me that love, which I can't comprehend. Show me your love and show me your power. That's the last half of chapter three. It moves into chapter four. You remember this key verse where he says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to walk In equilibrium with a calling that you've received. So the third posture is the walking, walking out that new life. And he describes that in three sections. First of all, walking in community in chapter four. The first half of it, then the last half of chapter four, chapter five, one through first half of chapter six, uh excuse me, first half of chapter five, is learning how to put off the old nature. of sin, put on the new nature that you have in Christ, the holy life, walk in a holy life. And then he talks about walking particularly in three relationships in submission. Marriage, parenting, and work. And that's the end of chapter 5 and beginning half of chapter 6. Then he finishes off by talking about what it means to stand in opposition to the adversary. that you have who will seek to dis deflect you from Jesus Christ or tempt you or discourage you. And that's it. Christian life is basically learning how to sit, kneel, walk, and stand And we're at that point now, at the end of the walking section of those three relationships, beginning the one on marriage. So that's where we are in the context. And we'll be spending most of the fall on this section that John just read, chapter 5, verses 22 to 33. And the very first thing that I want you to understand about marriage from this passage is that marriage is not man's idea. We didn't invent it. It's not a sociological phenomenon. Marriage is rather something that is God's idea. He invented it. He defines it and he regulates it. So we look to God to see what marriage is. In fact, marriage far from being simply sociological, is ultimately theological because marriage is to reflect the relationship that God has with his people. Let me say that again. That's very fundamental. Marriage is intended to reflect the relationship that God has with his people. And that means that though much of the fall will be spent on this issue of marriage, it is not just for married people. It is also as much for those of you who are single. Because it is dealing with your relationship with Jesus Christ, and it's giving marriage as an illustration. And so this is both for those who are married as well as for those who are single. Because for all of us, the Bible describes God as married to his people. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 54, in verse 5. We read, Your Maker is your husband. The Lord Almighty is his name. The Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer. And so again and again the Bible describes God as the husband of Israel, the husband of his people. And in fact, uh uh I I believe that you really can't understand chapter 5, verses 22 to 33 without this as a backdrop. I I wish that from everybody who after today comes this fall, that we could require them to go back into the prayer room and listen at p double speed or something this sermon because it's what makes the other sermons make sense. You see, without what you're going to hear this morning And you get the particulars about the commands in chapter 5 about marriage. Those commands can seem restrictive. Whereas if you understand the purpose of marriage, you see those commands as freeing. And you get the big picture of what is found. In fact, because I want to give you the big picture this morning, that's why you don't have any blanks in your bullet. You know, you just got the outline. You sit back, relax, and get the impression. Get the picture this morning. Don't worry about taking all the notes on all the details. Get the impression, which is in fact the backdrop for all that we're going to be studying for the rest of this fall. Unless you see Christian marriage as utterly unique in contrast to the way the world sees it, as something which is majestic and mysterious. Because it is an analogy of God's relationship with his people, you will never really understand what marriage is all about. And this passage. to see that this is describing something that has more passion and more love than anything that the world can conceive of. And so that's what we want to explore this morning. Now I picked And I mean this, I picked ten passages. I could have picked a number more. I picked five from the Old Testament, five from the New Testament. Just give you an overview of this theme of God married to his people. For instance, in Jeremiah chapter 2, you have a picture of God with his people as a young bride. And it's a it's a rather tender picture. Look what it says. Some of these, uh most of them don't bother to turn to. Just listen to me. The only one you may want to turn to is the next one, Ezekiel. But in Jeremiah chapter 2, in verse 2, we read, Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, I remember the devotion of your youth. How as a bride you loved me and followed me through the desert? That's God speaking. I mean, think about that. Isn't that rather strange? I mean God's sounding kind of wistful You know, I remember when I bought you out of Egypt and and you followed me out into the desert. You know, well you've seen those pictures, you know, the guy and the girl are in each other's arms and they say I don't care where we live. To be any kind of rock or a hole in the ground. As long as I have you, you know, it'll be heaven on earth. God saying, You remember when you followed me through the desert He said, that's okay. You know, we'll follow you through the day just as long as we have you. I said, remember those days? Because then he comes to chapter three of Jeremiah in verse fourteen. He says, Things have turned changed. What's happened? What's happened to that love that you had for me? Return, faithless people, declares the Lord, for I am your husband. A kind of a wistfulness, you get, you know. Your mind, there was a time when your affection for me was deep, but somehow now that's waned. You go after the Baals, you go after other gods And I'm no longer the center of your affection. That idea is developed probably in the greatest vividness Of any place in the Old Testament in Ezekiel chapter 16. You may want to actually turn to that one if you happen to know where Ezekiel is. um it's just before all the minor prophets um but um and Daniel but um Ezekiel is a very very moving chapter it's a long chapter uh 63 verses, so I'm not going to read it. But it's a very moving passage about God's love for Israel. And he mixes a number of images here, so it's something that's obviously not to be taken literally, but basically the picture is that God says, uh I found you when you were first born and you had been abandoned. They, you know, your parents threw you out in the field and you were out there kicking in your blood and Um you aren't going to be very long for this world, but I rescued you. I cleaned you, I washed you, I nur nurtured you, and I nourished you, and you grew and I gave you beauty. I gave you all that you had, and you thrived, and you flourished. And then he says in verse 8, after some years later I passed by, and when I looked at you, I saw that you were old enough for love. And I spread the corner of my garment over you, and I covered your nakedness. I gave you my solemn oath, and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Sovereign Lord. And you became mine. He's describing Hebrew marriage. And he says, I looked at you in your beauty that I had given you. And you were beautiful in my sight. And so I married you. And then I continued to adorn you I made you more and more beautiful. I made you rich. In fact, he says, I made you queen, so that everyone looked and they envied and they admired with astonishment your beauty, all that you had, and you were such a delight to look at. Look how this woman has been loved by her husband and all that he gives her, and she's beautiful and radiant. But he said that wasn't enough for you, was it? And so he says in verse fourteen. Uh he says, excuse me, not verse fourteen, he says in verse fifteen But you trusted in your beauty, and you used your fame to become a prostitute. You lavished your favors on anyone who passed by, and your beauty became his. What a heart wrenching scene. Here God is saying that I wasn't good enough for you. And so uh Here you forgot who you belong to, uses the word prostitute for its shock value, so people would see that that which is spiritually done. Is as real and can be as beautiful or as ugly as prostitution But he says, in your case, it was even worse. Because you weren't even unfaithful to me out of some misguided love. It wasn't even some attraction. It wasn't even for anybody who loved you. In fact, you didn't even do it for money. In fact, you paid men to abuse you. How pathetic. How foolish. How desperate. Look what he says in verse 30. How weak-willed you are, declares the sovereign Lord, when you do all these things, acting like a brazen prostitute. Verse 32. You adulterous wife, you prefer strangers to your own husband. Every prostitute receives a fee, but you give gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from everywhere for your illicit favors. A foolish, desperate woman. He says, Therefore, you're going to be shamed for your ungrateful unfaithfulness. What husband could have loved you better than I did? And look how you've treated me. And so this is designed to Turn our stomachs and to move us to see what a despicable thing God's people have done after all that He had done for them And he describes the shame that he's going to bring on them, the exposure, the disgrace in his jealous wrath, verse 38, that is poured out upon them. Isn't that amazing here? I mean, here's God who had made the universe and all things, and he's jealous over these people. I mean, destroy them and make somebody else, you know. I mean, you could do that This is no. No, I had set my heart on these people And then at the end, after all this pouring out of his wrath and his jealousy, he says in verse 62, There's going to come a time when I'm going to establish a new covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you, and you will know that I am the Lord. And then when I now get this, he says, when I make atonement for you. You remember that the punishment for an adulterous woman was stoning. And so he's saying you deserved to perish. But an atonement is a substitute. God says, I'm going to provide a substitute to take what you deserved for all that you have done. You will remember, and you will be ashamed, and you will never again open your mouth, and it means arrogantly. Because of your humiliation, declares the sovereign Lord. Cryptic statement. It just ends there. God says, I I I love you so much. I can't give you up. You're kind of torn with she's got to suffer the consequences, but on the other hand, there's going to be a substitute, and what's all this? And then you see this the same kind of theme developed in Hosea In Hosea chapter 1, 2, and 3 you have uh this woman that uh Hosea married, Gomer. Who he'd given his heart to, and she's unfaithful to him. In fact, in verse 7 of chapter 2, you read that she will chase after her lovers. I mean it's not as if she's being seduced by again like the thing like the woman is Ezekiel. She's chasing her lovers, but she's not going to catch them. Here they are running away from her She'll look for them, but she will not find them. So she is, she's caught. Again, adultery is a picture of her ungratefulness. It's nothing that Hosea was unwilling to give her. He loved her. And she's forgotten who she belongs to. She's forgotten her vows. And so it's again an ugly, heart-wrenching depiction of the spiritual unfaithfulness and adultery. And our hearts go out to Hosea, don't they, and his broken-heartedness. Then she finally comes to say there at the end of verse 7, Man, I'm going to go back to my husband as at first, for I was better off then than I am now. And again, you see God's passion for his people. He doesn't say, well, nice for you to come back now that everybody else has rejected you, so I'm the last resort, huh? But rather, look what he says, how he humbles himself. Verse 14: Therefore, I am going to allure her, I will lead her into the desert and speak tenderly to her to win back her love and affection. He says in chapter 11, an amazing verse, just amazing when you think of who's saying this, the Almighty, eternal God, maker of heaven and earth. And he says in chapter 11, of these people People like you and like me in their disgraceful spiritual adultery says, How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? My heart is changed within me. All my compassion is aroused for you. This, in spite of the fact that she not only disgraced herself, but she's made a fool of him But you see God's passion again and again displayed. So in chapter 14, in verse 4. He says, I will heal their waywardless, and I will love them freely. For my anger has turned away from them. He catch that. I will love them freely. It's very significant to observe that in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, that word freely The Greek word that's used there is the same word that we read in Romans 3, verse 24, where God says that we are justified. Paul says we are justified freely. By his grace. It's that same word, and that word freely has two ideas to it. First of all, the idea that there is no payment that can be made. There's no payment, it's absolutely free without cost. I will love them freely. There's nothing they can do to earn it. There's nothing they can do to deserve it. It's free But even deeper to me is the idea that freely conveys of no reason. There's no reason in the one who receives the gift. For instance, in John 15, where you read that Jesus says, They hated me without cause, the word without cause is this word freely. And so there is as much reason for God to love Israel as there was for Israel to hate Christ. There is as much reason for God to love you and me as there is reason for us to hate him. You see, there's no reason. I will love them freely. No payment, no explanation. It only can be understood if you could know the mind and the heart of God. And that's what this is all about, you see, not simply to know his mind, the fact that justification works by the infutation of Christ's righteousness to you and to me, and that gets us in and all, but this is speaking of God's heart. The relationship that He has with you and me. And so you see God rejoicing over us as a bridegroom rejoices over a bride, Isaiah chapter 62. You see that idea of the end of verse 5, as a bridegroom rejoices over his bride, so your God will rejoice over you. Those of you who are married, you remember that day that you were married? You remember driving off from the wedding? You guys, you remember thinking, well, hey This is one of the happiest it's the happiest day of my life. I can remember driving off with Kathy after our wedding and one of the happiest of all weddings because of the circumstances of our family, but I remember driving with her and that's why we always go to Cape Cod, you know, because that's where we went for our honeymoon. And we're driving up there and I'm thinking, she's mine. She's mine. We've given ourselves to each other. And I was so delighted, and God says, just like that picture, that's how I rejoice over you. In fact, in Zephaniah, in chapter 3, in verse 17, he says, He will take great delight in you, he will quiet you with his love, he will rejoice over you with singing. Even that saying, that saying, whatever I think of you, I start humming to myself. When I think about you, I break out in a song. I I create another aria. I you know I I produce some you know some beautiful piece of music. I I I sing because That's how I feel about you. I mean, is that how you think about God thinking about you? You see, that's what marriage is to depict. It's the picture of God's heart. Toward his people. And if you miss that, you miss all of what Paul's talking about in Ephesians 5. Probably the The most beautiful expression of all of that is in the Song of Songs. That's the fifth one in the Old Testament. When you come to the Song of Songs, you have this This beautiful love poem and and I've given to you there uh uh examples in each chapter of the Song of Songs. I I'd actually uh toyed with the idea of of diverting from Ephesians and doing a series on the Song of Songs, just a brief one, uh, because I'd done that once before and a lot of people wanted me to do it again. And I thought I'd probably irritate more people doing another parenthesis before finishing Ephesians and I would bring joy to the hearts of those who enjoyed the Song of Solomon. So I'm hoping to do the Song of Solomon after we finish Ephesians. Um but it is just an absolutely beautiful picture. Uh for example in chapter one and verse fifteen, the the lover, now all the ones I've given you as references, those are all the statement of the groom toward his bride and For example in chapter 1 and verse 15, how beautiful you are, my darling. Oh, how beautiful. Your eyes are doves That's talking to somebody just recently who is really struggling with sin and failure in their life. And they said, I guess all I can really do is just to remember that because I am clothed in God's righteousness, he accepts me. And I thought, well that's true, but somehow I wasn't at ease with what I was hearing. So I pursued a little further, and what the person was really saying is In myself, I am despicable in God's eyes, and because for some reason I got hooked up with Jesus and I'm kind of hiding in him, God is able to tolerate me. Now, let me say something absolutely clearly, and if you don't get anything else from this sermon, I hope you will remember this statement. God does not love you because you are in Christ. You are in Christ because God loved you And there is a world of difference between understanding those two things Charles Spurgeon in one of his sermons said this. In the very beginning, when this great universe lay in the mind of God, like unborn forests in the acorn cup. Long before the echoes waked the solitudes, before the mountains were brought forth, and long before the light flashed through the sky, God loved his chosen creatures. You see, the order of salvation is such that, as Ephesians 1 told us, it was from all eternity that God set his heart on you. And in your gratitude and in your unfaithfulness, in all that you deserved As fully as the adulterous prostitute in Ezekiel 16, God says, I've set my heart on you, and I will not give you up. And so he sent the bridegroom, Jesus, as the atonement to suffer as the unfaithful wife in your place. So that you would be placed in Christ and forgiven and restored as his bride He doesn't love you because you're in Christ. You're in Christ because he loved you. And marriage pictures for us the relational dimension of salvation. So when you come to the New Testament, you have this image again and again of the church as the bride beloved of Christ. For instance, Matthew 9, verse 15, you see Jesus as the bridegroom. Who takes his bride to himself? In Romans chapter 7, in verse 14, Paul says, You were married to the law, but the law died in Christ, and so now you're married to Christ. You're in a new relationship. In 2 Corinthians 11, verse 2, Paul refines that a bit, and he says, now, if you really want to get more precise about this, you're really not married to Christ yet. You are his betrothed bride. See, strictly speaking, you and I are not married to Christ. We are not his bride as if the ceremony has already taken place. The ceremony is still future. We are in that position in terms of Hebrew culture. Where we have been legally betrothed to him. And we're in that period of waiting for the bridegroom to return to take us. In Hebrew culture When the betrothal was consummated by an exchange of the vows, then there still was not the living together Usually for about a year, during which time the bridegroom would go away to prepare a place to receive his bride. Often it would be a place built on to his parents' place, but whatever it was The father of the groom and the groom would prepare a sumptuous place to receive the bride. And then without warning or announcement of the particular day, you know, you women can say that's got some pluses and minuses, but you didn't know when the day was going to be, all right? So you didn't have to get all Oh, been out of shape about Thursday and I only got three more days. But there was always the sense it could be tonight, it could be any time. You hear the sound of the shofar, and here he comes With all his retinue and he's coming to get me, and then the ceremony takes place and he brings you into this place where you'll be with him forever. And so Paul is saying, right now you are waiting. And as you wait, You are increasing your anticipation and your affections and your faithfulness is shown by your affection set on him. John Piper, a contemporary writer and theologian, is perhaps most known for his statement: God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him. And you see that illustrated in this relationship. When we as his betrothed have our affections set upon him So that he satisfies us fully, then he is fully glorified because His wonder and his goodness and all of his beauty is displayed by how much he satisfies us. And so what Paul's saying in 2 Corinthians 11 is, if you and I, and James 4 says this in other places, if you and I say, Jesus, you are wonderful to have. But I need Jesus plus. I need Jesus plus my health restored or maintained at a certain level. I need Jesus plus a certain person to care for me and be in my life, or to act like I think they should act. I need a certain thing without which I am not complete. I need a certain career path. I need a certain success. I need a certain lifestyle. The Bible describes all these things and all their materialistic manifestations, that is, the values of this world, as spiritual adultery. Saying that he really isn't enough. And I must I must ask you, as I ask myself, is there something in your life that has drawn your affection away from Jesus? So that right now, if you had to be honest, you'd say, it's Jesus plus. Without this I am not at peace. I am not at rest. There is turmoil. There is demandingness. There is dissatisfaction. I must have And God, if you don't give it to me, then you don't have my affection. Is there something in your life that's like that? Some wedge And Satan's driven between you and Jesus. Perhaps he's brought you here this morning to speak to you about that. And you might confess that. You might bring that before him. That you might restore him to the center of your affections and understand something of his love for you Which elicits from your heart and mine the devotion in which Jesus has no rivals. Maybe it would help you if you see what's coming ahead. Because when you come to Revelation chapter 19 Then you see that John writes, Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come. Look ahead. Look, Christian, to see what's ahead for you. His bride has made herself ready. Fine linen, bright and clean, was given to her to wear. Fine linen stands for the righteous acts of the saints. And then the angel said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb. You see, this is exactly what Paul's talking about in Ephesians 5, when he tells husbands, Love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. To make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word, and to present her to Himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle, or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. You see, that's what he's doing in your life right now. He's trying to move, smooth out the wrinkles. All those ugly wrinkles. Spiritual wrinkles. You know what you think of wrinkles, right? He wants to smooth those out of your life. All the blemis He wants to make you radiant, to present you in all the splendor that he intends in that day when you come to receive him. Our daughter Julie said this summer one night on a back porch, says, you know, mom and dad, I I realized now I had set my heart on all the external beauty. I wanted to be beautiful, wanted my life to be beautiful, I wanted a beautiful marriage, I wanted everything just the way I wanted it, and was very self-centered. And on all the things that have happened in my life recently, she said I realized what God is doing Is he is displacing that to produce in me an inner beauty that is far more important and valuable And she said, I never saw that until now. And so this coming weekend, I will take my daughter Julie on my arm. And out there in the outdoors of the Colorado Rockies, we will walk down an aisle. Stone and birch chips. And as we walk down that aisle, there will be a man standing at the head of that aisle. And he won't be looking at me. There'll be a man standing there with love in his eyes, waiting for me to take her hand and place it in his. And that hand that I held the day at Cape Cod when we were having so much fun that her diaper dropped all the way down to her ankles and we just kept on walking until some lady looked with disgust at how could this father let this happen to this poor kid. That hand that I remember placing on a bike when we gave it to her and Without even asking anything, just leaped on the bike and took off and proceeded immediately to crash into the mailbox. Was rather put out that we hadn't explained brakes That hand that I put on the wheel of car to teach her to drive. That hand that I'll place in a man who loves her, but very imperfectly. And I'll be thinking of that, but I hope that I'll also be thinking about another wedding where you and I will walk down the aisle And you and I will look up at the head of that aisle, and there will be a groom standing there, and he'll be looking at you with love in his eyes like you have never experienced before. And as you come to give yourself to him, you may think, does he really love me? And he says to you, my bride, I literally laid down my life to make you my bride. And you and I will so gladly, with great abandon, give ourselves to Him to take us to that place He's prepared That so far outstrips the most sumptuous earthly honeymoon sweet, to enjoy a honeymoon with him that will last forever Never diminishing in its passion and in its delight. Now do you see why it's so important to be faithful? Do you see if you're single why it is so important to serve Jesus Christ with uncompromised devotion? Do you see if you're married why it is so important for you to determine that you will, by the grace of God, reflect to the world in an imperfect but nevertheless unique way? What the love of God is for his people in your relationship? In a world where, as Time magazine recently said, serial marriages are seen as interludes in lives that are more basically single. Because men are too controlling and women are too demanding. Where each sex is on an impossible search for the perfect mate. And no one has learned what a covenant of love means, which grows through endless forgiving and learning what it means to love And not just want to be loved. To commit yourself by God's grace to model in the particular ways as a wife or a husband What it means to display his love to the world. Let's pray Oh Lord our God, overwhelm us as we think, as we perceive your love for your church. For us who so ill deserved it, who who did everything to provoke you, to cast us off, to disown us. And yet, Lord, your love is unquenchable. Lord, we Look forward with such keen anticipation to that day when you as the bridegroom will come to receive us. Lord, for any of us who have been reminded this morning of that idol in our lives which has rivaled our affection for you, cast it away from us. Lord, help us to see it in its shameful inability to satisfy anything like you and how shameful it is for us to share our affections. For devotion with any but you. Lord, speak to our hearts that we would see this as the backdrop of all you're going to say to us in Ephesians 5. That our hearts would now come into line with that. For Jesus' sake. Amen.