William Willeman, one of the great contemporary preachers, said a little while ago in an interview that preaching often involves saying difficult things that cut across our grain He said, when I'm confronted with such a text, I sometimes imagine myself hiding down behind the pulpit, coward that I am, and pushing the text out in front. With the observation, can you believe that God is saying this to us? Now he says, whether I like it or not is really beside the point. This is God's word, and I'm simply sent to faithfully deliver it. I felt a little bit like that yesterday when I had a unique experience of uh officiating at a delightful wedding in which I was possibly the only Christian present. And talking about how marriage is and by the way, uh that was not Julie's wedding. That was last week. I don't want you to be confused. And uh by the way, thank you for a number of you who have asked how that went. It was a delightful time. We had superb weather and everybody had a great time. They were duly married and we just picked them up from their honeymoon last night and so everything went very well. A number of you said you were praying for that and I thank you for that. Thank God was honored Uh but this wedding yesterday was a bit different and when I tried to present the gospel and uh how that is the basis of Christian marriage in terms of forgiveness and selfishness Uh I kind of felt a little bit like William Wilman and I feel a little bit like that, I guess, again this morning as we deal with this text that we've been talking about coming to for months now And uh the time has run out, and here we are, is Ephesians chapter 5, verses 22 to 24. A difficult text, certainly one of the most controversial in the New Testament. Wives. Submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. I want to deal with this text over two weeks, this week and next week, and this morning I'd like to deal with it in three parts. I want to talk some about the context of these verses so that we can uh understand them a bit better. And then I want to talk about the analogy that he uses between Christ and the Church and uh marriage. And then uh I would like to ask some personal application questions based on that. But let me warn you this morning is mostly principles, general principles. to approach this text, I get more specific in application next week. And maybe the good news is hopefully um some of the more practical specific things in dealing with the words of the text will come up then. But we need some context, we need some background, and so um that's what I'd like to deal with here immediately. You remember two weeks ago I talked about how Until we understand the fact that uh marriage is a mystery and understand something of the majesty of that, that it's a picture of the relationship between God and his people, between Christ and His church, then the specific commands really won't uh make a whole lot of sense. So, you know, if you Didn't hear that message, you can be dismissed down to the back room. They'll play the tape. You can listen to that. Come on back now. But really that is the larger context to make sense of this thing. But there's some things in the more immediate context that we need to understand also. So let me uh mention a couple of those because without that I think we can tend to distort the meaning of this and have more trouble than uh The first of the three points about context, A in your bulletin outlined, is the principle of authority. The principle of authority. That is very basic to what Paul's talking about here. the word verse 21 submit to one another. Then you see in verse 22 the words not used in the Greek But it is uh strongly implied uh that again he's saying, wives submit to your husbands, verse twenty-four, as the church submits to Christ, so wives should submit to their husbands in everything. I think it's significant that that word, the Greek, is hopataso or hopitasomi, and it has as its root, the word tasso, from which we get our Greek uh our English word taxis. And what is taxis? It's it's order. You know, it's it's uh it's classifying things. And the idea there in the Greek is that submission has to do with the basic order of society, that society cannot exist in order without authority. And that's that's simply basic to it. You know, whenever you pull together a team, whether it's at work uh or anywhere you pull together a work team, what's the first thing you do? Uh you all get together and you either appoint or you elect. a chairperson or a coordinator or a leader, and everybody agrees that they'll submit to that person. Every year our session elects a moderator. And uh, you know, we don't all struggle with this, you know, big heavy implications. What is this? This person is going to run roughshodshod over our free will and I no And we all say, look, we've got to get the job done. There's a goal here. And so we'll submit to the leadership of this person at least for a year. Maybe we'll kick them out next year. But you see it's not that way in marriage. In marriage we we've come to the realization that basic to the authority structure is the fact that there's two sources of authority. One is either from God in His Word And that's really behind all authority, whether it's the state, whether it's the family, whether it's anything. Ultimately, God is the authority and the appointer of authorities. Or you have man, human beings, and those either can do it by agreement, or The tendency, if there is no absolute, if you don't have scripture behind the authority structure, is that might makes right, and you will ultimately incline toward tyranny. So you really have only ultimately those two bases for authority. Either it is ultimately God derived, and when you come to marriage You know, you d you don't have to sit around and think, well now who's gonna be the leader of this organization? You know, I'm gonna flip a coin or you know, who take the IQ or take a test or what You know, because God's already told us. He says, I've appointed the man's going to be the one that's going to be the chairperson. He's the one that's going to be the leader in that situation. So God is directly behind this authority. The man is accountable to God in that. And without that, you really have a difficulty avoiding tyranny. Uh let me give you an example uh uh about that. Well let me let me first say I I think that it's because We struggle with this whole issue of authority so much that it's it really is hard for us to receive what God says in these three verses. And I I've thought about that some and I I think there's three reasons why it's hard for us to receive these verses, and I have them listed there for you. The first is the general culture in which we live Postmodern culture in which there is no absolute authority, and so there is resistance to any authority. The whole notion of authority is rather repugnant. to uh postmodern people. Uh we like to make up our rules as we go along. We pride ourselves, all our advertising. I've given you a number of examples in the past. Uh no rules, just write, you know, just make up the rules as you go along. Um submission is servile. Uh so um We pride ourselves in resisting authority. Those of you who are familiar with Asian culture know there is a strong display. Distinction between Western culture and Asian culture. When I was teaching in Korea, I was told that it would be very hard to have a discussion, and these were adult pastors, men uh in that group because uh they were used to when a person teaches, they are the authority. You don't question it, you don't discuss it, you just receive it and get it down. And so it's hard to have discussion. And I was grateful we were able to have some And that's even fading, that's changing in Asia. Why? Well, mostly because of Western influence that questions all authority There's some good things to that, but of course ultimately what it's doing is it's questioning any authority, God's authority. And so when we come to a text like that, there's something in us that's just built in by the culture and all the virus of that that says, what's this submission business? Now, more specifically, I think more what's much more difficult is what we have received from what I call the radical feminist ideology. And I distinguish that from feminism in general, which talks about equal pay and certain things that are simply a matter of dignity and rights of women. Radical feminism has as its avowed goal the abolishment of all patriarchy. That is very explicit. The abolishment of any patriarchy, the church is seen as an archaic patriarchal institution. in which male headship is necessarily and essentially oppressive And therefore it must be abolished. And the church becomes intimidated by this in saying, well, you know, how do you defend that? Let me give you an example. Just uh recently, U. S. News and World Report, the September eleventh issue, the number of the Leaders of the Catholic Church in Ireland have called for the deletion of Ephesians 5, 22 to 24, this passage. from the lectionary, from the annual readings of Scripture. And the reason for that, and also other passages that speak of this same idea of women submitting Because, they say, quote, all strike themes that some readers find are grossly out of sync with modern notions of marital partnership and gender equity. Now you notice it's not based on exegesis, it's not based on a better understanding of Scripture or what God is really intending. Basically what it's saying is, well, we don't like that anymore, so let's get rid of it. And um don't we find ourselves sometimes intimidated by that? And and the problem you see is is really a lot deeper than just a matter of whether or not we can accept verses 22 to 24 of Ephesians 5 as they stand, but If in fact you find yourself intimidated and on the defensive and wonder if really Paul was either in a bad mood or he really was a bit chauvinistic or you know too much rabbinical input or something. The effect of it is you begin to lose confidence in Scripture because you begin to say, well, you know, maybe if maybe if that verse is a little embarrassing and it's really not in sync with what we understand now, well What about some other verses? What about blood atonement? Or what about other things, you see? And so there can become an erosion of your basic confidence in the reliability and the trustworthiness of Scripture in general. But I think we have to be honest in saying that the third reason why we have difficulty with these verses Is for many of us the shameful example of abusive husbands. Husbands who have abused this text And twisted it and distorted it for their own ends. Petty tyrants who are control freaks. Who want to impose their own selfish wills on their wives by some righteous reference to Scripture and saying, You must submit to me. God says so. And that disgusts me when I hear that. I know of examples of husbands who have forbidden their wives to get medical treatment. And saying, I'm not going to pay for it because you're not sick and you don't need it. And I'm the authority. Or husbands who have, I know one case where a husband stripped their home of anything attractive and beautiful, threw it out or sold it. because he was convinced all that was uh worldly and ungodly and his wife had absolutely no say in it. Um he later repented of it, but during the period of Time when he was going through this, there was no discussion. He was simply the authority, restriction of social activities, restriction of all kinds of freedom The intimidation by strength, uh size, uh even physical abuse, and if you have witnessed that, if you have been part of that, if you are familiar with that in your background Then I understand it it's hard to come to verses like this without thinking of the abuse of those verses so that they can so control your thinking that it's difficult to be able to receive what in fact God is saying here, which is in fact very wholesome and very beautiful. In fact, you see, I believe that it's Christians that should have been the first to stand against abuse of husbands because it's only Christians who have a reason to do so. Let me illustrate that for you. You see, the world has no ultimate authority. Therefore, authority is only ever of human derivation, and ultimately that will always become might makes right. And when I um uh received a recent letter from uh University of Pennsylvania, uh they send me these uh alum things or articles And it was an interesting article recently by a woman in which she made this statement. Human rights always presuppose the unique dignity of being human. Which slightly amused me anyway, coming from University of Pennsylvania, which, along with many other schools, does everything it possibly can to show that there is nothing unique about human beings. But nevertheless, she says insightfully, human rights always presuppose the unique dignity of being human. And then she really gets uh pretty upset uh taking to task the author of the recent book, The Natural History of Rape. Because the thesis of that book is that Basically, rape is simply part of the psychological evolutionary process. In other words, translated, it's how men are wired. And you know, I mean, who can blame them? That's just part of the evolutionary process and you know, rape is just one of the outcomes of that. And her reaction to that, I mean she's repulsed by this and she says from her secular point of view That's terrible. Why is it that you apply that thinking to rape? Why don't you apply it to murder? To which I say, Amen. Indeed. Why not? You know, hey, yes, we're wired to murder, to steal, to rape, to kill. Yeah, I mean, sure. Kind of sounds familiar, doesn't it? I mean that's what the human heart is. But of course what what they're saying is that we only want to selectively apply the thinking of that Only the Christian can say there is such a thing as authority. It comes from God. It is regulated by Him. It is derived in Him. Every authority on earth, the husband, any authority. is subject and accountable to God, and he tells us how to function in it. So therefore it's the Christian who alone can say that's the way it acts, but it is not right. Only the Christian cannot simply be descriptive, that's the way people act. But be proscriptive and say, but they ought not to act that way and we will stand against it. I don't want to get into a big philosophical lecture here. I understand you might think I've already gone over the edge on that. But do you understand why that's important for us when we come to verses like this? That as Christians, we can clearly distinguish between the right use and origin of authority And understand that that is not necessarily tyrannical, that it is in fact wholesome and good for the ordering of society. And that's what God intends. So what he does, you see, the third thing about the context is that he then uh excuse me, second thing, is that he then applies this basic principle of authority to three pairs of relationships, the husband and wife in marriage. the parent and the child in the family, and then the employer, the employee to the employer in the work situation. And God regulates that. He's the one that says this is the way it should function. And there's freedom in that. But you need to understand that there are two important qualifications to this, and those are the next two blanks. That the idea of submission to authority does not ever imply inferior to superior. That's clearly not what Paul's saying. How do I know that's not what he's saying? Well, because in a parallel passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, don't bother to turn to it now, but I'll just jot it down there in your margin, 1 Corinthians 11, 3. Paul uses the same word head, where he says here in verse 23, the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church. In 1 Corinthians 11, 3, he says, the head of the woman is the man. The very next statement is, and the head of Christ is God. Now, if in fact submission to headship implies inferiority then the Son is inferior to the Father. But of course we know that that's heresy. Scripture is absolutely clear. that Jesus' submission was as an equal voluntarily submitting himself to the Father in order to accomplish the task of salvation. In perfect analogy, the submission of the wife to the husband is a voluntary, free submission. Of one person to another, one equal to another equal. The wife may be smarter, she may be more talented, she may be by human perception more qualified But God has appointed that this is his order, and it is freely done, with no indication or implication of inferior to superior. Otherwise, we have real problems with Christ being inferior to the Father. The second qualification is that this is not in any way unconditional. These verses are not unconditional. The wife must never submit to the husband in sin. If she manages the money For instance, and she therefore does the income tax and he says to her, We need to um not give the government its due in this area. I want you to uh cut some corners on the income tax and not be honest on that. She cannot say, Well, my husband told me to do it, so it's his fault, you see. I'm just doing what I was told. I'm just submitting I've seen wives do that. I've seen wives blame their husbands for the things that they do that are wrong. And The principle here is that there is always a hierarchy of authority. And you see that in Acts chapter 5, for instance, in verse 29. Where Peter, speaking for the apostles, says to the authorities who forbade them to preach the gospel, we must obey God rather than men. And that same principle applies to the wife concerning the husband. So not inferior, superior, not an unconditional thing. The wife is responsible directly to the Lord for her behavior. And then thirdly, third qualification, as I pointed out before, the context is also verse 21, specifically where you have mutual submission Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. And you notice that the word authority is never used in the statements to the husband. The command for the husband is simply in terms of service and giving himself. The command to submit is only to the wife. And I've said it before, I'll say it again. Husbands are not to compel submission. That is sin, it is wrong, and there is no excuse for it. The submission of a wife to her husband is a voluntary, free submission that is the issue between her and the Lord. Verse 22, wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord. That doesn't just mean as you submit to the Lord, but it means your submission to the husband is an offering to the Lord. It is between you and Him that you do it. It is your voluntary free service to him. And I'll get into more about that in a minute. Because this really leads us to what the whole thing is about. And it's about that analogy, you see, between Christ and his church. For as the for the husband, verse 23, is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, for which he is Savior. That's the reason. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. Uh notice a couple things about this briefly. First of all, the meaning of head, that's controversial and lots been written on that. And sadly, I read a number of Christians who try to make the case that this word head or headship does not mean authority, but rather refers to source, sort of like headwaters, you know, the headwaters of a river or stream. Unfortunately, you can't substantiate that through the use of the word in the New Testament. In the New Testament, the word head or headship clearly means authority. And I don't have to say anything more than to give you one verse to make that case because Even if it ever did mean anything like that, which it doesn't, uh, in any other passage, you remember the whole basis of Ephesians is that what chapters 4, 5, and 6 are based on chapters 1, 2, and 3, right? So Whenever you see a command in chapters four, five, and six, what do you do? You look for the basis of it in chapters one, two, and three. So the question that should come to your mind when you read verses twenty-two to twenty-four is hmm He's saying here, submit to the husband as head. Now, is there anywhere he talks about headship in chapters 1, 2, and 3, and all of a sudden you Go to your little cross-references or your handy little concordance, you find out chapter 1, verse 22, that's exactly what Paul's talking about. You go back to chapter 1, verse 22, and what do you see? God placed all things under his Jesus feet and appointed him to be what? Head over everything for the church. There's no way that's talking about source. The whole point is authority. Look at verse 21. Far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given. That's where Jesus is seated. That's his position. So he is head, which means he is the authority. He is above all other authorities. And in verse twenty-two, he is appointed that, you see, for the church. And that really brings us to the heart of what Paul is trying to communicate here, I believe, in chapter 5, verses 22 to 24. Basic principle of Ephesians again, remember? The commands are based on the facts, the imperatives are based on the indicatives. So Every command of chapter 4, 5, and 6 is based on some statement of fact in chapters 1, 2, and 3. What's the statement of fact? Jesus is head. He is the authority for the benefit of his church. Then you come to chapter 5, verse 22, and I believe that Paul picks up on that precise idea. And this is often missed. Look at verse 23. For the husband now is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. In chapter 1, verse 22, where he says, for the church, that word for has the idea for the benefit of or for the sake of. And I believe that's what Paul picks up on here, where he says that the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. Now In what possible sense could we ever speak of the husband being the savior of the wife? Only in this sense The idea of savior in the Greek has also the idea of preserver or protector. And I think what Paul is saying here is that in Christian marriage, as a picture Of the relationship between God and his people, there is this beautiful symbiotic dance in which the husband as protector of his wife, both physically and I believe emotionally, we'll get into more of that later. And I don't believe that that in any way is demeaning. I believe that's a simple fact of how we're wired that gives dignity to both partners. That as the husband is the protector of his wife And she submits gladly and securely to that that there is an interdependent relationship that displays the relationship of the dependence of the church upon Christ and his refusal simply to think of himself and his own prerogatives, but to do everything he does for the benefit. of the church. I tell you that is beautiful. And so the motivation, you see, of the wife is not moralism You know, do this or God's not going to love you or smile on you. It's not works. You do this so that God will bless you. It is not uh even manipulation. Uh wives do this, you know, submit to your husband, and by that you'll be putty in your hands, you see. You get to really be behind the scenes and get to control things through that, you know, the velvet hammer approach You see, none of that is anything to the point. What is to the point here is simply the wife's relationship to Jesus Christ. And as she looks at her Savior, she sees the one who laid aside the prerogatives of his sovereign authority. And as Tom read in Philippians 2, he placed himself voluntarily in submission to the Father under the law. To keep that law for you and for me, to submit himself, as Scripture says, even unto death. Submitting himself when in Gethsemane it crossed the whole grain of every fiber of his being to become sin. And to take that on, why? Because he submitted freely, voluntarily, for the benefit, Ephesians 1. 22, of the church And you wives, we husbands, you know, all these things, as I said, are reciprocal. Husbands submit also out of that. But you wives, in God's providence has given the distinct and unique ability to identify in your marriage with Jesus Christ in his attitude. Of submission to the Father. And by doing that, accomplish our salvation. So when you see that, it's entering in To the mind of Christ. What is more glorious, you see? It's not for your husband. I mean, he benefits from it, but it's not for him. It's for the Lord. She does it as to the Lord And she can't do that on her own. You can't do I mean I hey I wouldn't want to submit to some sinner. You know? Submit to you? I wouldn't no none of you would I want to submit to on my own. You know, I don't trust you So how does she do this, you see? Well, again, remember the context. Verse 18, be filled with the Spirit. So that he goes on, you know, the the implications of that, the four participles, the fourth one was submitting to one another out of fear of Christ. As you look at Christ and you understand what it is to be under a God who judges your sin, what you deserve to get for how you've lived, and you understand He has forgiven you, you have no rights to want to claim and defend. And so you are able freely then to submit by the power of the Spirit. It's only the Spirit. You see, what this verse what these verses do is that they come to break every one of us, everyone in this room, because what is characteristic of us is we don't want to submit, do we? We don't want somebody telling us what to do. We want our own autonomy. We want to make our own rules. We want for us to live as free people without anyone over us. And you see, you simply can't come to Christ on those terms. In fact, let's get to the questions because that's where I'm at. You see, the question really here is number one Do you really have an independent spirit, whether you're a husband or a wife or a single person? Anybody here? These verses come to reveal to you as you read those verses and you chafe under them. You either, as a man, say, I don't like these verses because they seem archaic and What it does to women, or as a woman, you say, I don't like these verses because they compel me and they demean me and they put me in a vulnerable situation. And all of us, you see, our fears and our reactions resist We say, well, God, you gave these. Are we able to come to Jesus Christ and submit to Him? That's really the issue. Can you submit your will to Jesus Christ? Because if you resist what he says, you're really not submitting to him. He said, Well, submit to you in this area, in this area, but not when you say things like this or some other area. If you come to Jesus Christ at all, you come to him prostrate, submitting your will to all that he says. And then you find that all that he says. is good and free and for the benefit of the church, including you. So that may be an issue for you. This whole roo loss of regard for authority is a basic issue today. It's one of the main issues in the world. All the focus on rights rather than on responsibilities. And where does it begin? Well it begins in the home So if kids grow up seeing mom disregarding dad, if kids grow up seeing that dad is Really kind of uh tolerated, kind of a buffoon, has no real authority, then that whole basis for authority is undermined psychologically in the kids' lives. And so, you wives and moms, become a model of what godly submission looks like as your kids see you toward your husband And it's out of that that they either decide they'll respect their teachers or the other authorities that they come across, or that they're going to diss them also. That they're going to simply say, well, who are you to tell me anything? You see, it all comes back to what God has ordered. To be the foundation of that in the home. Ten Commandments. Honor your father and your mother. And so if uh if you have trouble with this, it may be a basic gospel issue in your life or in my life, because these verses come. to reveal that our hearts, apart from the Holy Spirit, hate to submit under any circumstances. It's not only a Pride issue, it's a trust issue. Can you really trust Jesus in what he says? And then secondly, do you accept that the marriage Order was invented and ordered by God alone that Scripture, not modern sociology, directs it. And uh therefore, one of the direct implications of that is if you are single, it means that uh clearly from this you could not have the freedom to marry an unbeliever If you are a woman, how could you marry a fella who is not a Christian and submit to him as your spiritual leader? If you're a guy, how could you marry a woman who's not a Christian and expect her to submit to you as to the Lord when she doesn't know the Lord? So there is here all kinds of implications about what God says about the marriage relationship, which is to point out that ultimately all this, you see, is not about simply human relationships, it's God-centered. It's really all about our relationship with him. And out of that flows the trust and the freedom that comes in the ordering that he has directed. Then thirdly, husbands. Do you find that there's been times when you've abused this? Let me ask you right now, did you hear this sermon? Are you saying, I hope my wife's hearing this Boy, thanks Al. I could really benefit from this. If that's anything of your attitude, repent of it. You see, it's not about you. It's not about you. It's about your wife and the Lord. And it is not your job to make sure that your wife is discipled in order to come into conformity with these verses. I've been tempted to that many times. I've sinned in that. But you see, it is simply between her and the Lord. But then for you wives. Do you see the privilege that God gives to you this morning to look into your heart and to be able to say, do I really trust and love Jesus enough? That I see this as an opportunity of expressing my worship, my devotion to Him, in order to obey Him in this area, to honor Him. What would the world see? And I I tell you, I rejoice in in the guys I see at Columbia Presbyterian, guys that are trying to work this through all of us so imperfectly, but trying to Manage our homes, take care of the kids, accept responsibility of that on Sundays, and wives that are seeking to cooperate and uphold that. We'll get into more specifics about that next week But what is God saying to your heart this morning? That's the basic issue. Let's pray. Father, we we come to you to confess that our hearts are rebellious. At the core, Lord, we want to be in control. The idea of submission is repugnant to us until your Spirit comes to show us Jesus, who submitted, even though he had all the authority in the universe, who submitted on our behalf. Even unto death, so that we could become your bride Father, help us to really understand that and out of glad and grateful hearts. Respond in glad obedience and submission to you and those That you have placed each one of us under. For Jesus' sake. Amen.