Uh not one to comment on what I wear, but I have been called by Regis seven times this morning. Whoever that is One person said that somehow I get the feeling that this morning you're not going to preach three points, you're going to ask me four questions. This was uh my wife's idea and I submit to my wife. Felt like I ought to get up with the times or something, you know But just to put those of you at rest, I understand what's going on. Have you been a little crowded here? But let me just let you know that there is more room at the 830 service. Used to be that that was the one that was jam-packed But uh for whatever reason now people have begun to switch and so if you're finding it hard, particularly if you have a lot of people in your family to get everybody together, you might consider if you come here at 8 30, it's easier to do that. And it also helps on just in the future for those of us that come to this and are on time to move in so that people can see the seats that are left. I was noticing people scrambling back there for seats and there actually were some seats that are available. So if we can kind of sit together, that helps for the people that are looking for seats after 11 o'clock Well God's word to us this morning is from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 22 to 24. Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. Now why am I preaching on that? Because I had a number of requests to preach on it from men? Uh no Uh it's simply because it's the next verses in the exposition of Ephesians, which caused me in preparing for this to reflect on the fact of the benefits of expositional preaching through a book because it means that we don't just preach on the easy, favorite, uh, popular kinds of texts But rather to uh preach on what God has arranged in his word comes in balanced form. And um of course the disadvantage is that people know it's coming. So I noticed that last week the attendance was about a hundred less than the week before when I started this text. But it looks like either you forgot about that or something happened because that seems to have recovered some at least in this service this Sunday. Uh last week remember I began by talking about uh the um context of this To see, it's important to realize that verses 22 all the way through verse 33 are in the context of verse 21, submit to one another out of reverence for fear of Christ which is really the climax of his statement in verses 18 to 21 on what it means to be filled with the Spirit. Which he says has four effects, be not drunk with wine, but rather be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another in Psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, giving thanks to the Lord with your hearts and everything And then um he uh says wait a minute, I got that the other order, um, speaking, Psalms, hymn, spiritual songs, singing, making music in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks. and then submitting to one another uh out of fear or reverence for Christ, which he then applies looking forward to three basic relationships in life marriage, parenting, and employment, in each case where the first one mentioned submits to the second one in authority. Wives to husbands Children to parents, employees to employers. But the word to those who are in authority is never to exercise that authority, but rather to serve. those that are under their authority. So as we saw last week, very important principle. Scripture never abolishes uh authority for some idealistic notion of egalitarianism, but rather what scripture does is to regulate authority to protect it from tyranny Authority is a basic fact of life. And so we saw that the deeper issue really is that marriage is intended, second point, to be a picture of the relationship between God and his people, specifically between Christ and his church. It's an analogy. And uh that's a rather amazing thing when you think about it, isn't it? That we who don't deserve to even be called God's servants have been chosen to be his bride. God has set his affection on us and has given us that exalted, privileged position of his beloved bride. And so he pictures that and has chosen that the husband represent the place of Messiah, sacrificing himself for his people, giving himself for his wife, and that the wife pictures in marriage, the church receiving that, submitting to it, and joyfully affirming that relationship. So we saw that um also to understand this, you have to understand the basic um structure of Ephesians that wherever you see a command in chapters four, five, and six, it's based on some statement of fact in chapters one, two, and three So when you read wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord, for the husband's the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior, the immediate thing that goes through your mind is okay That's the command. What's that based on in chapters 1, 2, and 3? Is there anywhere you see about headship? And of course, look back in chapter 1, and you see there that from verse 20, where you read that God raised up Christ. uh and seated him in the at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way, then you realize That the basic principle here that Paul's articulating is that the fact is that Jesus is head. He is sovereign authority. And the church, by its very nature, recognizes that authority. He is over all authority Now he's saying, by way of experiencing this, living this out, particularly at this point, he's addressing wives and saying, you now, based on that principle, you now Express this, picture it, for those who see, your submission to your husband as a way of your identifying with Christ and entering into his mind. and into his heart. The wife voluntarily submits to the husband out of faith and love for Christ. You see, remember again, submit to your husbands as to the Lord, not just as you would to the Lord, but also in your obedience to the Lord. It's for him, not for the husband. It's not ultimately for your husband's sake that you do that. Be wise, it's for the Lord's sake. It's for your love and obedience to Him. But now whenever we get into this discussion, you lay all that down, and somebody always spoils all the fun of all the philosophical discussions about authority and submission and headship and all that by saying It Okay, but what's that actually mean? I mean what does it look like day to day? Alright? So I can't duck it. That's what we want to deal with now to try and understand what this actually looks like. So point three is to actually consider the command wives submit to your husbands. Notice it's a command and it's not a suggestion. First of all, notice what this does not mean. That's important in laying the groundwork for what it does mean. The first thing we touched on last week is that it It does not mean that she is inferior to her husband in any way. This is absolutely clear from the passage that Sandy had as part of our reading this morning, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. I mean first Corinthians chapter eleven, verse three, where you read that the head of Christ is God the Father. Um And that's important because the wife may be smarter than the husband. She may appear to be more qualified to be the head in any way that you would look at. That's I've seen that a number of times But the kingdom is not about competition. It's not about who appears to be more qualified for that job. The simple fact is God has appointed him. And therefore, the wife accepts that and she submits, and in doing that, she learns something about the heart of Christ. in his submission, identifying with him. Perhaps even a clearer example of the fact in Scripture that submission never implies inferiority is the fact that Jesus submitted to Mary and Joseph as his parents. I mean can you imagine uh when they were teaching him, um you know, Jesus grew. He didn't come understanding Uh he wasn't omniscient as a baby. He didn't come understanding everything. But we do know that he had certainly keener insight about things. So that by the time he was a teenager, you know we say you teenagers think you know everything. I mean imagine being Joseph, you know, trying to teach Jesus about carpentry, you know. I mean he made the wood. Well you so what are you gonna teach him, you know But Jesus submitted voluntarily at every point under their parenthood, even though there was no question, when there was any kind of conflict, who was right But in submitting, you identify with his heart. And that's important. Secondly, it certainly does not mean mindless, absolute obedience. And uh again I referred to Acts chapter five verse twenty-nine last week where we saw that Peter speaking for the apostles, you remember they were under the author authority of the Jewish leaders. The Jewish leaders commanded them, do not speak of this Jesus as Messiah. And their response was not, well, okay God, I guess that's the end of the Great Commission. They've told us we can't But rather Peter says to them, We must obey God rather than men. And so it is never an option for you wives to sin because your husband made you do it. That is simply not an option. I mean try sometime speeding because your husband said you had to get home and then you're stopped by the police officer And he says, you know, you were doing sixty-five and a forty-five zone, you say, Well my husband made me do it. Oh, okay, God, I'll I'll give your husband a ticket. You know, no, it doesn't work that way You're responsible. You do what is right. You obey God rather than man if there's any conflict. However, point three This does not just mean when you agree with him. So often I hear wives say, well, I simply can't submit because he's wrong. I said, well, you know, is there some scripture that you know that he's violating? He's he's simply ignoring scripture. There it is, very simple, and he's sinning. Well no, it's just he's stupid You know, it's just bad judging. I mean, I just he he's just wrong in this. And I didn't bother to take the time to look it up. But I remember a story, I think it was Susanna Westley, didn't talk to her husband, wouldn't eat with him for a couple of years because it was you of the monarchy. You know, Jesus said, Look, I you know we we just part ways on this, so go fix your own meals, you know. I mean, that wasn't something from scripture. You see, you can't point that was a it was a difference of opinion. And so if you have a difference of opinion on politics or who you're gonna vote for, it's not something that you can say, at this point I simply won't submit. Because what doesn't seem to dawn on some people is submission isn't submission unless you disagree Some always had this idea that, well, I only submit if I think he's right, because if he's not, how can I do that? Well, if you don't think he's if you do think he's right, you haven't submitted. You've just agreed together Submission only becomes submission when you say, I'd rather not do it this way. Now I may have a strong feeling, may have weak feelings, I express them, absolute, no question. They're expressed as strongly as you can. But Once again, there has to be a point where there is the exercise of the headship in the final decision. Now, this is a very basic point that deals with our human natures. The reason I say that is because of what we read in Genesis 3, and that's so important that I'd like you to turn to that because I think it's directly relevant to what we're dealing with here. Genesis chapter 3 Do you remember after Eve had disobeyed the Lord and she sinned and then Adam sinned and God comes and he pronounces the curse as a consequence? When he's addressing the woman in Genesis chapter 3 verse 16, we read, to the woman he said, I will greatly increase your pains in childbearing. With pain you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. Now, what does that last line mean? Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. There's a lot of ideas about what that means, uh and a number of commentators seem to think that what that's saying is that even though pregnancy is painful you won't be able to resist his cologne the next time he comes, you know. Uh I don't think that's what it's talking about. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you, is directly parallel to what chapter 4, verse 7 says, which I think helps us to understand its meaning. Remember in chapter 4 uh you have the case of Cain and Abel, and um Abel kept flocks, offers a sacrifice to the Lord, the Lord receives it, accepts it. Cain offers uh vegetables and the Lord does not accept it. And Cain is verse five, very angry. He's ticked with his brother, he's jealous, wise His sacrifice accepted, and mine's not, you know, sibling rivalry and all that business. And then in verse 6, the Lord says to Cain, Why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must master it. Now, the word there desire is the same word, desire, in chapter 3, verse 16, and the word master there is the same word as the word ruleover in chapter 3, verse 16. So the parallel is obvious. The desire does not mean attracted to. The desire means the desire to control or master or overthrow. Sin is desiring to master you, but you must master it. That's what he's saying in chapter four, verse seven. So the parallel idea then in chapter three, verse sixteen, clearly in the mind of the writer, they're just a few verses apart. Is that he's saying to Eve, your desire is going to be to overthrow your husband's headship. You will want to control him. You'll want to be the one in charge. But you will not be successful. He will, in fact, continue in that position. You'll seek to overthrow his headship, but you won't succeed. Now, historically, of course, that has been borne out, and was uh testified to some years ago in a book by a sociologist Stephen Goldberg called The Inevitability of Patriarchy What's interesting to me about this book, which uh is a scientific study of various uh anthropological study of various uh cultures around the world, and basically showed that um that men have occupied the hierarchical positions of power and dominance and leadership and headship and all this in almost every case and always in every culture in the majority of positions. But that Margaret Mead, who was an avowed feminist, um was quoted on the book's cover with this statement She said, all the claims so glibly made about societies ruled by women are nonsense. We have no reason to believe that they ever existed. So historically, this has been borne out that your desire will be to rule, but you won't succeed, he will But that isn't necessarily commending it. What it's saying is that what God intended as a beautiful harmony of leadership and submission without conflict has in fact become under the curse tremendous tension So that the wife is saying, I refuse to submit, I need to be in control, and the husband is either abusively, as we talked about in a number of cases last week, uh tyrannically, by intimidation, by selfishness, seeking to maintain his power in control. But what Paul is saying, you see, then when you come to Ephesians chapter 5, is that Jesus has come and that he has not asked you wives to do anything that he hasn't done. He has come as the one ultimate authority. has lived in submission, under authority, and he now calls you to follow him in that and has established that Christian marriage should be a blending, a harmony of sacrificial leadership and humble submission, joyfully affirming that. Now, that means that when you and I look at this, you wives need to recognize that part of the fall in your nature is that you will always want to not submit and justify that. We men, we husbands We'll always want to control tyrannically, selfishly, and seek to justify that. And that's where the gospel comes in, you see, to change our hearts. It's not changing who's in charge, it's changing why we're in charge and why you submit. And so we come then to what does it mean? How does this work out? Well, again, I remind you that the word submit literally means to put in order under. That's what the word literally means there. Uh the word taxis, from which we get order, you know. Um Things that are chronologically or whatever categorically set up, it is to place myself under the order Which means bending my will to someone else's authority. That's basically what the word means. And all the commentators that seek to say really in what it means, uh really try to twist and and get beside the point, but the word simply incontrovertibly means that. I give you some examples. They're in Romans 13, it's used of submission to the state In First Corinthians fourteen, the spirit of the prophets is subject to it is under the control of the prophets. Chapter fifteen, verse seven twenty-seven, talking about the kingdom under Christ, which he gives to the Father, and it's again that it is under, it is under his authority. But the picture is not that of slavery But rather that of teamwork. It's again the idea of you have a team, then there's somebody that's the head of the team. You have Presbytery, somebody's the moderator of it. You have whatever group There needs to be somebody who is not the tyrant, but who is rather the leader, and we all simply agree to submit. Men submit in many situations, but in marriage, God says it's not something you have to wonder about. I've simply appointed because of the redemptive picture of my relationship with my people that the man is in that position. And the woman then freely and because of her love for Christ is able then to submit But in fact the pattern, point two there, should be that rarely would there be a reluctant submission, a chafing. Rather, the general pattern in Christian marriage should be consensus in almost all situations. There's discussion, there's input. And uh, you know, let's face it, for most of us uh men we realize that many times our wife has a better insight, she has um more wisdom on what it is to be done. It's not that we say, okay, well that's it, I capitulate, why don't you just leave? No, it is rather that I listen, we discuss it together and You know, one thing I find that's that um I don't know about you guys, I I think it's kind of a general pattern of human nature. If my wife communicates to me that she is willing to submit Hey, it's your decision. I'll follow you and I'll support it, but I disagree, and here's my reasons. If I know that she's willing, that really puts the heat on me to not take advantage of it, you know? If it if it's kinda like um Look, you're you're gonna be sorry if you don't do this because I'm telling you, I I got the inside word and the spirit spoken to me and if you do this, okay, but you know you know, then I wanna kinda react and defend myself and try to prove So if there is in fact perceived she's willing to submit, then well, what do I want to be selfish? I want to be the jerk and say, okay, great, I got my way. And oftentimes I have to ask myself, am I willing to change my mind? Am I willing to submit to her, this mutual submission of verse 21, so that when we in fact discuss it, I am open to really change. Realizing that when it's all said and done, the final decision is going to rest with by either affirming what we both agree to most of the time or saying, this way I think we need to go Uh Rosemary Miller gives an example of that in her book From Fear to Freedom, where she and Jack talked about having her mother in Uh they talked about her mother, mother should um she had been living with them, whether she should continue to live at the age of ninety-nine or not, and Jack had just gotten out of the hospital The kid sided with Rosemary. He said, I don't think we should do that. I think your mother, it's time for her to go into a nursing home. And Rosemary said, chafed under it, we disagreed, put tension in our relationship. But one day she said, I was at the kitchen table and I was sobbing to God, God, what would you have me to do? I don't know what to do And she said, the Lord revealed to her, you do know what to do. I told you what to do. Listen to Jack. He has said it, he has good reasons, you really don't have you just you're trying to protect your mom. And when she s when she realized what was going on in her heart and she was able to submit to that, she said there was a real freedom. They were able to come together So it's an attitude. Really not, how many do we agree or disagree? It's the attitude. Are we willing to hear the other, but then for the wife to say, I will, in fact, if I disagree, be willing. to not only express that, but then to support what he will do. This of course means point three why it's so important that Christians only marry Christians. We often talk about that, and Christians sometimes hear that, you know, you know, only should marry a Christian. Like it's some sort of arbitrary rule. But it it's it's at the essence of what marriage is about. If your husband's not a Christian, why you women How are you going to submit to him as a spiritual leader? If you men, your wife is not a Christian, how is she going to submit to you as to the Lord? There's no redemptive context for your relationship And so the Bible is very clear. Now, wise will then sometimes say, but I I've become a Christian since I was married. I'm married to an unbeliever. What do I do? Well, 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 to 6, very clear it's addressing exactly that situation. And Peter doesn't back off of that principle. He talks about a submission there that is a creative submission, but it is still saying that the rule, the way God has ordered things, are to stand. And that's why it's important that you women, those of you who are single, ask yourself, before you marry a man, not only is he a believer But can I confidently submit to this man's spiritual leadership? I still remember a situation some years ago where a couple came to me for premarital counseling, and I was working some things through with them, and I came to this point when we talk about roles. And I asked the fiance, I asked the woman, are you confident and able, are you able confidently to submit to his spiritual leadership? Believe that God will lead your life and your home through him. And she hesitated, she waffled, and she said, Well, I'll tell you the truth. I have some questions about that Yeah, we put we put off the marriage. I mean I said I I'm sorry, I I can't I can't marry any of you until this is settled. And we put off the wedding for uh six or eight months I think Uh and did not set a date until she was able to say Yeah. Because you know what o often it happens is she'll say Yeah, when I get through with him I'll be able to. You know, that's this kind of naive thing of, well, you know, I'm I'm gonna disciple this guy and gonna whip him in the shape, and then he'll be a spiritual leader. Well Let me uh disabuse you of that self-deception. It don't work that way. So many wives have gotten themselves into such sad situations thinking He'll change after we're married. If you cannot be willingly at the day of the wedding, in your vows, say in your heart, I am willing to joyfully submit to this man as my spiritual leader. Don't go through with it. In this case, she was able, after a few months, to say, Yes, I I now have confidence in him. And you know what happened? His knowing that she was having those reservations because he in fact did love her, that really increased his motivation to grow spiritually. And he began to just think through what does it mean to be a spiritual leader and began to uh work in his own life to submit himself to Christ and to grow as a Christian, and it was a beautiful thing to see how God used that for him to grow into that position. And that marriage was many years ago. And uh they're not part of this congregation now, but I still have contact with them. They moved Um and it's still a good, strong marriage. And I believe God used that. So don't uh any of you women that are or would be in that kind of situation consider that lightly. But now fifthly, what does this mean in terms of uh not just whether I submit to the decision, but the general supporting of his leadership? I believe that what Paul's talking about here, you know, and he ends up in verse 30. The wife must respect her husband, that's part of this whole idea. And it means that you don't undermine your husband's leadership. Now most of us husbands aren't too good at it. The Uh we need to grow in it. Uh we need support, we need encouragement. Uh but wives that criticize, especially in front of the kids, boy, that was the lousiest family devotions I've ever expected. experienced in my life, you know. What does this do? You know, I mean you just sort of scrape your way through it, you're tired, you know, and your wife starts saying, you know, boy, those are really crummy. uh you know boy I could do better devotions with my eyes closed, you know. The any of this this kind of undercutting, this undermining, uh is I think a violation of what what Paul's talking about here Or running your husband down to your friends by saying, you know, Boy, you know, what a jerk I'm married to and help me you know, I need prayer, you know, you always do it that way. Uh, pray for me, you know, and you know, what really comes out is it's a opportunity to run 'em down. Um let me give you rather a positive example of what I I think this can mean. And uh I I don't know how many of you have uh ever heard of uh E. V. Hill, a preacher, uh particularly if you're African American, you'd um be more likely to have known him. He is um he's one of the most prominent, most respected, most gifted uh African American preachers in the United States. In fact, Uh his stature is such that uh I was in a meeting just this week in DC and uh a black pastor there said, you know, the reason that many African American pastors even were willing to cooperate with promise keepers was simply because E. V. Hill said he supported it. And he was in a meeting where that was stated. And so that's the kind of stature this man has out in LA, but he's known nationally and internationally. But how many of you have ever heard of Ruth Hill? That's his wife Uh Ruth Hill, um Evie Hill's wife, he says uh she is she's really the reason that God ever really used me in any capacity Because of her support, because of her confidence, her ability to help him in the difficult times. For instance, he talks about a time when they were uh just beginning in ministry, and he decided to supplement their income that he would invest in a service station And Ruth said, I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think you that you are uh really able to do that. It would be a distraction. I don't think it's a good idea Uh he thought it was a good idea. They discussed it and bottom line was he said, Okay, but I hear you, but I'm gonna do it. So he bought this gas station And sure enough, her predictions and understanding were right on target. In some months, the gas station went downhill and he finally lost it and he lost his shirt and a deal. He called up one uh that day that that happened, he said, honey, I've lost the gas station. And she said, All right So creeps home, expecting, you know, I told you so, I knew it was money, you know. She didn't do any of that. He got home and she said, Well I'll tell you what, I've been doing some figuring Uh, you don't smoke and you don't drink, and I figured that the money we've saved by you're not smoking and drinking is about the same as what you lost in the gas station, so why don't we just forget it You know, he said, she could have shattered my confidence, she could have held that over me, she could have been bitter, but that enabled me to go on And then shortly after that he said I came home and the house was dark and there were two candles lit in the dining room and she said we're gonna have dinner by candlelight tonight. He said, Well that's a pretty good idea. So he goes in to wash his hands in the bathroom and no lights there either Because in the bedroom, no lights there either. He says, Okay, so what's the deal? And she began to weep. And she said, Honey, I know you work so hard. But she said I I just wasn't able to pay the electric bill. But she said that's okay. Because she said, we'll get through. Once again he said, I f I felt so utterly inadequate as a husband. He said, She could have said to me, you know, I grew up in the home of Dr. Carruthers. We never had our lights off. I lived pretty well until I got married to you. She never said that. And it was by that kind of support that encouraging him, that believing in him, that not undermining him, that E. V. Hill became a man of the kind of leadership and stature. uh that God used to this day. It was one time s a little while after that that he got in trouble uh for his stand on some issues and actually had death threats. And one night there was a phone call that said, You will be dead tomorrow. And the next morning he woke up, he was glad he's alive. But he uh Ruth was gone. He looked out and the car was gone. And it was a few frantic moments until he saw her drive up and she got out in her bathroom and he said, What in the world were you doing? And she said, Well it it occurred to me they might have put a bomb in the car. It would have blown you away when you drove it, so I got in and I drove it this morning. It's okay. You know, submission is not weakness. Submission is strength. And I've seen that in my wife. I'll tell you, the reason I'm here and I've continued in ministry through the years is in large part due to the support that I've had from Kathy. To the fact that she has stood by me, she has encouraged me, she has been my best crit critic in the best sense, Um it you know, you can't underestimate. Uh there's a fellow George Gilder that wrote a book called Men in Marriage. And he says in that book that the evidence really demonstrates that men are more dependent on the support and the encouragement of women than women are for their own well-being to get that same support from men. I believe that's true A man needs the respect and the encouragement of the woman that he's married to in order to really do his best in any capacity. And there is a power that God has given to you women that is not at all a light thing. But now, as you hear that, you may say Okay, yeah, all right, you know you've convicted me. I'm ready to creep out of the hall, you know, here because I realize I have failed in this. I really don't respect my husband. I uh feel like he's selfish, I haven't submitted the way I should. I'm that Genesis 3 woman, no doubt about it. I try to control. In fact, my mother was a controller. She controlled my father. In fact, I don't even know what a strong man looks like. I undermined his leadership. I realize that I resent his ineptness. I I criticize him. Um I don't like to be in charge, but I feel like I'm forced to. Yes, yes, yes, yes. I need to try harder. I will submit. I'll do that. You know, that misses the point. Because remember, Ephesians is about the gospel in the heart. And so the whole point of this is the fact that Jesus Submitted perfectly for all that you lacked in your submission to God. You and I have not submitted. All of us Jesus submitted for us on our behalf and we are credited with his perfect submission. You wives don't submit in order to attain some sort of wifely righteousness in the area of submission. Jesus has accomplished that. You sit in his finished work. Amen? Because of that Out of freedom and out of love for Jesus Christ, you pray the Holy Spirit work in your heart to do that which you and I cannot do. But to be able out of love for Jesus Christ and the heart, not just the behavior, to be able to see and work in you a submissive heart that gladly supports The headship of your husband for the well-being of your home. But what's that mean for the husband? Tune in for the next few weeks. But let's pray now. Father, Father, we pray that you would help us to see the gospel, that we would see that Jesus, you Lord Jesus, in your strength submitted. To the law, to Mary and Joseph, to the Jewish authorities, to all those authorities over you, all the submission we could never do because of our arrogance, our pride, our resistance And your perfect submission has been credited to those of us who believe and trust you as Savior and Lord. Lord, if anyone here hasn't, move in their hearts to convict them of their arrogance. That they might submit to you. And for those of us who have, particularly for the wives, Lord, work in them the gospel By the power of the Spirit to produce not a resistant chafing, but a glad submission to you. And therefore, to all that are over them, in Jesus Christ. Amen