Well, maybe I'm just um more aware of it because I'm preaching this series, but it seems to me that there have been a lot of articles on marriage lately. Uh Time magazine's had two cover articles in the last six weeks. One um six weeks ago was um this one uh Who needs a husband? Uh there's an article on uh the fact that more and more women are choosing Singleness or serial monogamy over marriage points out that over forty percent of adult women in America are single Over forty percent, because they say that they would rather be single than to exist in a loveless marriage like they have often seen and often in their own parents. In fact, many doubt that lifelong love with one person is even possible. It struck me looking at that as what an opportunity for Christians You know, uh Barna's research uh observed recently that um the first two things that come to mind when people hear Christians or evangelicals is that there are people who go to a lot of meetings. and they're against a lot of stuff. But um what an opportunity for people who really don't care a whole lot what you're against and what meetings you go to or what your apologetic is on how the Bible is true, but wonder, does Jesus Christ make any difference in a marriage? And for Christians to be able to demonstrate the difference that he makes. Not in a perfect marriage. Nobody pretends to have that. But at least in a loving marriage, that you would see it's possible for two people to love each other from the point of their vows to the time that they're separated by death By the power of Jesus Christ. The second uh article was on what divorce does to kids. And uh this is what it said on the cover. Quote, new research says that the long-term damage is worse than you thought should unhappy parents stay hitched. It was prompted by a new book by Judith Wallerstein called The Unexpected Legacy of Divorce. A couple of weeks later, John Leo in U. S. News <unk> World Report wrote a column on this. In which he catalogued what the book talks about, many harmful effects on kids of divorce that follow them all their lives, uh increased uh mental and emotional disorders difficulties in marriage, instable unstable marriages, alcohol, drug abuse, suicide, these things obviously are not inevitable, but it adds a lot of stress. But then he quotes very interesting from a book, another new book, called A Generation at Risk. And that book cites the statistic that Apparently, according to one study, seventy percent of the contemporary divorces, divorces that are happening in this decade, seventy percent Are occurring in what are called low-conflict marriages. That is, marriages where the partners say they didn't quarrel often or disagree much. 70% of them divorce. Seventy percent of those that were divorced were in that kind of marriage. So why would they divorce? Well, it seems to be a matter of Unrealistic expectations about what marriage is able to produce or what it's like to live with a person, an inability to resolve conflicts And um rather low sense of commitment to one another. Leo goes on to point out another fascinating study In which uh it was discovered that eighty-six percent of the people who said that they were in bad marriages These were people who said my marriage is a bad marriage, but they decided to stick it out. Five years later, 86% of them said their marriage had turned around. And sixty percent of them said that their marriage was now very happy. Conclusion was people just don't stick it out and they might find things could turn around. Well A lot of stuff being written on marriage, um, and a lot of a lot of struggles, a lot of stresses in our time. No not surprising that the last two messages that I gave on wives submitting to husbands got a lot of reaction. Are you surprised? Um a lot of comments. Well one woman graciously emailed me a couple of pages. of which uh she talked about out of some of her own pain things that the church should be doing, be more specific in this and uh suggestions that uh she would make for our church. She went out of her way to say this is not critical, but it's of concern And I thought her suggestions were so good. I'd like to, and I got her permission, to um quote you from one paragraph of uh this uh email She says, in one of your next few sermons, could you provide some more concrete steps about how to actively work out leadership and submission? Perhaps you could encourage our brothers and sisters to seek help and mentoring from older, more experienced couples in dealing with this issue. Also give the stamp of approval for Christian couples to seek professional counseling, Christian counseling, for help in this area. There are still a lot of people who think it is a sign of weak faith to seek outside help. Thirdly, encourage them to go to their elders for help and advice. And elders should be encouraged to speak openly about this with those people assigned to their care. Fourthly, would you try to dispel the myth that it is more godly to suffer in silent submission? Encourage wives to actively seek help and support both for themselves and their husbands. from the Christian community. So, consider it done. I add my Amen and present that to you. We do hope and pray and work at the fact that within ourselves these kinds of issues should come out. And if there is need then the cell leader can pass that on to the elder. so that you are not trying to work this out and drowning in your own marriage, struggling without feeling like there's any help. We're part of a community here. And there there should be that We should be here to help one another and we as elders want to do what we can. But it was interesting to that uh last week one woman After the service came up and and she asked me, Is it okay to disagree with my husband or to Tell him what I think he should do, what we should do in our marriage. Is that okay, or is that not being submissive? And I said unqualified, absolutely There's no question, but that Scripture gives you every right to disagree with and state in whatever terms, graciously, hopefully, what you would disagree with or the suggestions you would make, and I'll give you scripture for that. Very interesting to me that when Peter, 1 Peter chapter 3, Peter talks about submission. This is not Ephesians 5, another passage. Peter talks about a model for submission of wives to husbands, and he pulls back into the Old Testament to get an example. The person he picks is Sarah, who he says was an example of a godly, submissive wife. But if you turn to Genesis chapter 21, and you can either do that now or later, but I just want to make a brief reference to this Because we need to move on. But I think this is worth noting. In Genesis chapter 21, this is after Ishmael and Isaac have been born. And you read there in Genesis 21, verse 8, that the child, that's Isaac, grew and was weaned, and on the day that Isaac was weaned, Abraham held a great feast. But Sarah saw that the son whom Hagar the Egyptian had borne to Abraham was mocking, mocking Isaac. And she said to Abraham, Get rid of that slave woman and her son, for the slave woman's son will never share any inheritance with my son Isaac. Well, Sarah, why don't you really tell us how you feel about this? Uh I think she's giving him some advice to her husband there. And uh predictably verse 11 says that the matter distressed Abraham greatly. We guys, some of us are a little slow to read. I think we got a little tension here. And uh, you know, Ishmael's his son and he doesn't want to do this and you know, because it says it concerned his son, and so he's really torn. What should I do Now what's significant is verse 12. But God said to him, Do not be so distressed about the boy and your maidservant. Listen to whatever Sarah tells you, because it is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned. God places his stamp of approval on Sarah giving advice, says, listen to her, fellow, and it is through her that God is speaking, you see. So it's Abraham's decision. But he is told by God, listen to your wife. So I offer that to you in case that clears up any confusion to be having on what I was trying to say in that. In most cases, of course, there should not even be any conscious sense of who's submitting to who, because as you both seek the Lord, you're coming together, and there is a harmony in that The man is responsible ultimately in what happens, but with all the input possible, as the two of them seek the Lord together. But now it is time to turn to the husbands. And uh finally, some of you have been waiting for this God's word to the husbands, right? This, I remind you again, is God's word, not just the words of Alan Harris. So Let us hear what God says and read from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25. I'm going to just go up to verse 30 this morning. Husbands, love your wives. Just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word. And to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. In this same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, no one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for it, just as Christ does the church. For we are members of his body. I want to unpack those verses, just those verses, this morning and the next four weeks. And I want first of all for us to notice that Paul breaks this down into basically there's two parts to it. The first is the command And then the second is the comparison. The command is very simple, just four words. Husbands, love your wives. Simple as that. The comparison then goes on, just as Christ loved the church, gave himself up for her, and it continues on through verse twenty-seven particularly Now today what I'd like to do is to particularly focus on just one word there, the key word in the command, love. Husbands, love your wives. The word love there is probably one of the most familiar Greek words to English-speaking folks. It's the word agape. And I want to look at this one particular word, and first of all, I want to contrast it with three other ideas. And then I want to compare it. See how Paul illustrates it by a comparison. So first of all, notice the contrasts between this word and other words or ideas. First of all, notice there are two other words that Paul could have used when he said, husbands, love your wives. A number of Greek words for love. Three that are the most common are first of all the word eros And that word for love refers to sexual romantic attraction. That's the bells and whistles word, you know. I want you to notice particularly though what's sometimes misunderstood. The word eros is not a dirty word. It's a good word. It's made by God. Eros is made by God. It's not the same as lust. uh it uh can turn into lust, uh but it is uh simply physical attraction and romantic desire. It's passion Let's hear it for passion, you know, more passion, not less. That's right. I won't tell you who said that. It was one of our elders, but uh We got passionate session around here. Um but you know, passion's good and uh it's kinda like a fire. You know, if it's out of control, uh it can do a lot of damage, it can burn and destroy, but if it's in the fireplace We It can warm and bring light and a great deal of joy and benefit. So that's the way Eros is. Um if it is um Um not controlled, it's harmful, but it is primarily a matter of feelings. We speak of falling in love as this, you know, something you can't control. You're just kinda helpless and you know, your stomach flip-flops and you hear the bells and the whistles and all that kind of thing and you know there's just this person that provokes that. They just stimulated. What can you do? In fact it's interesting in that time article One who needs a husband. They asked this question. And they said, which describes best describes your attitudes toward marriage? And here's two of the questions they asked. Number one Do you think you'll eventually find and marry your perfect me? And you know, they got all kinds of things to describe. This is your soulmate. This is the person who will just you'll love forever, this the perfect one who has just been made for you. You know that person? Now how many, what percentage of women do you think that they will find and be able to marry their perfect mate? Seventy-eight percent. That's over three-quarters of the women. Over three out of four women say, I am going to find the perfect guy and that's the one I'm going to marry. You say, well, that's women for you, you know, guys would never say that. Well seventy-nine percent of guys said it. So much for that. So then they asked this follow-up question. So if you couldn't find the perfect meat Would you marry someone else? And 34% of women said, If I can't find the perfect guy, at least I can have the perfect smoke. Isn't that one of the ads or something? At least I you know I'll marry somebody. And uh forty one percent of guys said they would settle for myths less than perfect. You see this whole idea is that there is that person who produces the eros, who produces these feelings that can't be controlled, and that's the one. Well, that's not the word Paul used. The second word he could have used is the word phylos, which refers to fondness, companionship. It's the word that means like You have shared interests, you enjoy being together, it's just somebody you like to be with. And again, it's primarily a feeling, not uh something that you can control And so you can no more command eros and fill us any more than you could command somebody to stop being sad or stop being hungry or stop having a headache. It's simply not something you can command. But when you look at the word that Paul did use, the word agape, you find that that's a unique word. Because while it involves emotions, agape is a decision of the mind and the will to esteem and to cherish someone and to do what is for their good. To esteem and to cherish someone and do what is for their good. Agape is a devotion that unselfishly sacrifices for the benefit of the other person. What's interesting is that the word agape was not a very frequently used word, apparently, in that culture. But whereas Paul does not use the word eros anytime, he uses the word philos only twice in his writings, but he uses the word agape over thirty times in his letters. And you see that what he's doing here is something radically different from the non-Christian view of love and marriage. both in his culture and in ours. Namely, he commands husbands to love their wives. Husbands love your wives. And he can do that because you are able to command agape, because it is something directed at the mind and the will. not excluding the emotions, but it is primarily directed to the will. That's that first blank. It's addressed to the will. And that means that every one of you husbands, and you wives also, particularly the husbands, are capable of obeying this command. And loving your spouse. You say, I can't do it. Just can't do it. No, Paul says this is a command. You can obey it. But only If you belong to Jesus Christ, because agape love is, this is the B part, supernatural fruit of the Spirit. Agape, agape love, this particular kind of love that the Bible talks about is supernatural fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22 says The fruit of the Spirit is agape, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, the rest of it. Which is why this command follows verse 18 Do you remember? What was controlling the thought was verse 18, do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. And those four things that flow out of that, then the three relationships, husbands, wives, parents, children, employees, employers. And what he's doing now is he is saying, now In particular, I'm applying this supernatural love to the marriage. Husbands, by the power of the Spirit, obey this command to love your wives. But notice also that this is not a moralistic command. That is, he is not implying that you can simply decide to obey this out of guilt. All right, you came in here and you know you really thought your wife was a rather despicable person to live with and things are pretty tense at home and I say, Husbands, go love your wives and you say, Oh my goodness, you convicted me, I gotta go home, I gotta try harder, I gotta do it. That's not what Paul's saying. It is a gospel command. And what I mean by a gospel command is that it follows that same pattern we've been looking at all through the book of Ephesians. The command is based on a gospel fact. The imperative is based on the indicative. Now what is he saying here? Husbands love your wives. Why? Because Christ loved your wife In fact, love your wife because even more Christ loved you. He loved his church. And that's made up of all these people that he described in Ezekiel 16 and Hosea 1-3. as people who were dame, self-centered, who were arrogant, who uh were unfaithful All these people who were unlovely and unlovable, Jesus came not because his bride was lovable, he came in order to make her lovely. See the difference. So the gospel, you see, brings this sharp contrast. And he's described this through his letter. Look it back at Ephesians chapter 1. He uses the same word back there where he is describing God's love for his people. In chapter one, very end of verse four. It's talking about you and me. In love, in agape. He predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and his will. This is something he decided to do, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he's freely given us in the one he what. Loves. Again, agape. He loved his son. John 17 says he loves you as much as he loves his son. That's John 17, 23. So he loved you. He in his love he called you to himself. You go over to chapter 2, after he describes what wretched creatures you and I were and our death of sin. Verse 4, but because of his great agape, his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ. By grace you've been saved, and he seated us in the heavenly places, verse 7. In order that all the ages to come he might show us the riches of his kindness in Christ, you see, that's his agape love. That's what he has done for you, his bride. You go to chapter 3. What's the prayer that Paul prays? He says, I pray that you being rooted and grounded in love may have power to grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the Notice he had said you're rooted and grounded in his agape. Now he says, I want you to comprehend something about that agape, the love of Christ, to know this love. that surpasses knowledge so that you might be filled to all the measure of all the fullness of God. Those are all facts, you see. That's the gospel. Now what he does in chapter four is he begins then, how do you live that out? So in chapter four, the very first verse, after he has made the link between, I urge you that you would begin to bring your experience into equilibrium with the calling. The very first thing he says, chapter 4, verse 2, be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in what? Agape. In love, you see. That love which you have received from him, he's saying, by the power of the Spirit, that love is worked out through you. Verse 16 He talks about how in the church he reminds us again of how it works. The whole body being joined and held together with every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in agape, love, as each part does its work. So then the command, chapter 5, verse 1, be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly beloved, agape, children, loved by him, and live a life of love, literally, walk in agape. Walk in that in your daily living just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. That's the general principle. Specific application then, you husbands are to take the initiative and to set the example Husbands love agape your wives, you see. What he is saying is appropriate, work out that covenantal love that God has bestowed on you. That brings us to the second contrast. It's the contrast between a contract view of marriage and the covenantal view of marriage. That's B. Contrast between the contract and the covenant. You see, the contract is the world's view of love. It says the returns of my investment must be worth the effort. I enter into this contract. And as long as you keep your part of the contract, I keep my part of the contract, there is an emotional investment, there's a lot of work here. At some point, if I notice there are diminishing returns, then I may decide to cut my losses. And let's terminate the contract. I got a letter from a wife that said and this is not somebody that's here now, so don't worry. I am feeling so emotionally unfulfilled in my marriage. My husband is withdrawn and distant and unresponsive. It seems that the marriage is dead. A next door neighbor I told you about some while ago after married for fifteen years. We went for a walk and my neighbor said um I want a divorce from her I can't live with her anymore. I said, well, that's so terrible. He said, well, nothing really. It's just that our personalities don't mesh and I'm becoming an angry person. She's sucking the life out of me. He said, well, so you're blaming the failure of the marriage on her? He said, Oh no, no, no, no, no, no. No, listen, it's not that she's a bad person. No no, it's nothing like that. You know, it's not a matter of one's good and the other's bad. It's just that our two personalities don't mesh anymore. And I thought, well, I mean, how can you argue with that? I mean, if our personalities don't mesh, nothing left, right? See, that's a contract view of marriage. It says that I'm simply in this as an investment. Now, the covenantal view of marriage, the biblical view, is utterly radically different. In a covenant, God, the covenant initiator, decides to set his heart upon his people irrevocably. It is a permanent agreement unable to be revoked. And our whole security rests in that It rests in what people call his unconditional love. But let me tell you something. It's not unconditional love. The gospel is better than unconditional love. See, unconditional love says God accepts you as you are. But what the gospel is, is what David Pallison calls contra-conditional love. That is, God accepts you as Christ is. He's made a covenant with him, and he has made you by union grafted in him, and he loves you as he loves his own son. He cannot withdraw that. And you see that because your relationship with him is based on that covenant, marriage is to be a picture of that covenant. is to be a picture of the irrevocableness of two people entering into a covenant. And that covenant continues because of the agreement that has been made. You and I simply then reflect that love which God has given to us, the husband for his wife, the wife in response to the husband. Therefore, key point. For some of you men, you may be saying right now, it is impossible for me to love my wife. I don't even like her. She is so critical. She is so impossible to please. I don't know whatever happened To this woman that I married who was gentle and kind. And now I wake up and it's a different person. I'm living with a shrew Listen, you can continue to lament and live in self-pity and dwell on yourself in that, and you will drown in your tears. The gospel's response to that is radically different from anything you'll hear in the world. And it is simply this: get your eyes off of your wife and onto Christ. What you need is a different understanding of love. What you need to do is to look at the cross and understand covenantal love In order for you to then make sense of what it means to love your wife. Now come back to that in a moment, but let me just finish the third contrast before I do. Just a moment. The third contrast here is between agape and self-gratification. Agape, you see, these are the blanks there. Agape gives And does not focus on what it gets or grabs. That is an explicit contrast I would suggest that Paul makes here. Because when you look back at chapter 5, verse 1 and 2 Where he this is kind of the key statement. Things flow out of that. Be imitators of God, therefore as dearly loved children, and live a life of love. Walk in love, walk in agape, just as Christ loved us. and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God, what's the very next thing he says? But among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality or of any kind of impurity or of greed, because these are improper for God's holy people. So what Paul's saying there is that The idea of the givingness Christ gave himself for us, and sexual immorality is essentially grabbing, it is taking rather than giving. That is why sex before marriage, outside of marriage, is utterly incompatible with agape. Because sex is the ceiling of the lifelong covenant with a person in physical union. Outside of that, it is for self-gratification, no matter how lofty the terms are used to rationalize it, and it is not giving. I was reminded of that last spring when I was invited to a reunion of a group of people that I had become a Christian with. Yes, there was a time before which Al Harris was a Christian. It was, you know, in the years, the the BB years, you know, before the Beatles. Back in the early 60s was a group of us that hung around together, and I became a Christian through the ministry of this church and this group And uh we all got together again, and I happened to see there uh a girl that I had dated and hadn't seen for Uh 30 years, I don't know. But, you know, this is a girl I had dated and uh I got to meet her husband. And it turned out her husband was a pastor. You know, a thought came through my mind as I shook his hand and I looked him in the eye and I said, so good to meet you. And I sat with him for dinner and I thought I have not defrauded you by God's grace in anything that we did. I can look you in the eye, and that's a good feeling. There was another girl I remember that I had dated a lot more, and uh we had gone together for a while, and once again I I met her husband, who also happened to be a pastor Uh I don't know what it was with the girls I dated. Actually it was only one girl I ever dated that never wanted to marry a pastor and that was Kathy, but But that's okay when I was dating her, I didn't intend to be a pastor either, so It was the same thing, you know, and I shook his hand, I looked him in the eye, and it was again by God's grace, simply his working in me. I mean it it was because you know I'm not taking any credit, but You know, I thought when I saw him and I thought, you know, I can look you in the eye, and that feels good. And I thought, you teenagers, those of you who are not married You know, as you as you date somebody and you decide what kind of physical activity you're going to engage in, think the likelihood, no matter what you're thinking at the moment, the likelihood is for most cases you're not going to marry that person. And think someday I'm going to meet the person who they did marry. Will I be able to look them in the eye? Or will I feel like I defrauded you and I took something I had no right to? The feeling of that lasts far longer than any brief momentary self-gratification in the backseat. You see, that's the essence of agape. It thinks about what to give, not what to take. Now let me come back to the comparison. Three contrasts, but only one comparison, because there is only one comparison that Paul can make. When he talks about love, his mind immediately goes to Christ. And so he says, Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church. And gave himself up for her. Always remembered that the central fact of marriage is the redeeming love of Christ. Because marriage is not simply a sociological phenomenon, it is to reflect the theological reality, the work of Christ in his church. 1 John 4, verse 10. This is love, agape. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and gave his son to be an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Therefore, I say it again. If you're struggling with love for your spouse, get your eyes off of your spouse onto Christ. As you look at the cross and see his love for you, Lord, understanding agape, John is saying, is not to look at how much I love him or anybody else. It's to look at how much he loved me. and gave himself for me. We're gonna look at that more closely next week. But to think how wide, how long, how high, how deep Is the sacrificial love of Christ for you that took him to the cross. And then After you've spent some time at the cross, then come back and look at your spouse and see what the Lord does in your heart. Some of us need to repent of our self-centeredness and look to Christ rather than to the other person. Let's pray. So, Father, we want to bring our hearts before you, which are very self-centered by inclination. We're so wrapped in our feelings and how much we're loved and all the rest of this. And Lord, we know that our spouses inevitably let us down But herein is love. Not that we loved you, not that anybody but you could ever love us. The way we needed in our desperately lost situation to be loved. But you have loved us with a covenantal love that does not love us as we are, but loves us as Christ is. And therefore, we are securely bonded to your heart forever. Lord, show us Christ that we might understand love in Jesus' name. Amen.