Well you like the uh quick quizzes we do around here? Expect an educated congregation. Quick quiz, do you notice the six of number ninety-four? Come up with it. Okay. By the way, this is uh this is not for some building campaign, big piggy bank here. Uh this up here is one of the remnants of the vacation bible school from uh this week, Veggie Town VBS. It was a great, great week. That was part of the construction site. They built that during this week and uh learned a lot about God's word. It was a terrific time, nearly 170 kids. That was capacity, if you had to be turned away. Nearly 70 adults and teenagers participated in making that happen. My wife told me that my humor was probably a little off base on Friday when I kitted that the husbands hadn't done anything and she said, Honey, I don't think that came across as a joke and I realized actually, um, even as I said, I uh one of the things really impressed me was how many husbands got involved in this thing. It was not at all a mothers only kind of operation, both in the construction, the designs, the crafts, as well as participation through the week That was a great time for families. I think some friendships were formed, both among kids and adults, and uh it was just a terrific time of God's blessing. Those of you who prayed, God richly answered. In fact, if any of you are here this morning As a result of that, because your kids went, you don't have a home church, and you're with us this morning, we especially want to welcome you and are glad that you've come to worship with us. We are looking in our series this summer and then continuing into the fall and the winter at the prophecy of the last days before Jesus comes back because of Y2K and all the interest there is in this. came across several more books this week but don't have time to give you your morning book review. Um by the way, somebody uh was offended last week at what I was saying. I think I'm kidding around about those books. Let me say once again uh that while I believe that some writings on prophecy uh really d do deserve to be mocked, uh in terms of our relationship with our brothers and sisters I understand that uh I disagree with some of my brothers and sisters in this and I very seriously take um my fellowship and honoring with them. I told some of you before that uh people that I would disagree with now on number of matters of prophecy led me to the Lord Jesus Christ So please do not ever interpret, and I'll try to guard in what I say, the things that I say about disagreement with other Christians on the interpretation of prophecy as in some way putting them down or saying We're superior because of our understanding and our under our interpretation of God's Word, but we don't have time for letting you know about any more books now. Anyway, I just want that to be clear. These are honest disagreements for the most part among true believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And one certainly of the most controversial of all of the passages on prophecy is Daniel chapter 9, what are sometimes called the 70 weeks of Daniel. Those 70 weeks in Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 to 27. are about what will happen from Daniel's day to the ceiling and the end of prophecy and vision. The big question The controversial question in this passage is, does that period of time, the 70 weeks or 77s, refer to what was fulfilled in the New Testament? So it's all past, or does it refer to something that is still to happen to be fulfilled in a seven-year future tribulation time? That's the big question, but there are a lot of other things to understand about this passage rather than just as a past or future. And I mentioned last week that I believe those that in my judgment misinterpret this passage. do so largely because they ignore the context. And that's why last week we looked at Daniel 9 verses 1 to 24. in order to see that this whole pr this answer that the angel Gabriel gives, and here's the prophecy for the future The answer that he gives is to the question, the struggle that Daniel expresses in his prayer. His prayer for confession, Daniel's prayer, do you remember the scene we talked about? It's at the end of the 70-year captivity of the Jews in Babylon. Daniel at that time, he's been taken away 606 BC, the very beginning of the captivity. He's been living in Babylon now for over 70 years in his case And as he is waiting there, Babylon has just recently been conquered by the Medo-Persian Empire. 70 years are almost up. Daniel's reading is quiet time, Jeremiah 29, 10. God says, after seventy years I'll restore my people. And Daniel's saying, God, there's a conflict here because Your city is the city of your name and your covenant. Covenant is a big deal in that prayer. The city is a big deal. That's his concern. Read it again. Again and again. It's the shame of Jerusalem, desolation of Jerusalem. Nothing's ever happened to a city. Like has happened to Jerusalem. What are you going to do about Jerusalem? And the struggle is because we're no better than we were seventy years ago We're still stubborn, we're still self-centered, we're still stiff-necked, we're still a people who are stupid in the way that we ignore what you tell us to do So God, how are you going to forgive us and bring us home? And he just simply cast himself on God's mercy. It's in answer to that, you see, Gabriel the angel interrupts him. He says, Whoa, whoa, whoa, okay, just stop right there. God has sent me to give you a revelation of what he is going to do in answer to your prayer. And so then he says, there are seventy-sevens. Now notice he picks up Daniel's list and green says, Jeremiah 29 says, 70 years till Jerusalem gets restored. Gabriel says, seventy sevens are decreed to answer your prayer. Now, I'll come back to that in a couple minutes, but that's significant. So then he comes on, and in verse 24, he gives the summary statement. Let's look at that again from God's Word. Seventy-sevens, he says, are decreed for your people, your holy city, to do six things, three negative and three positive. First, to finish transgression, and I said I would translate that to to hide and put away transgression. to put an end to sin, literally, to seal up sin, to atone for or to cover wickedness. Those are the three negative things all having to do with the problem of sin. That's what Daniel's praying. Lord, what are you going to do about our sin? Lord, forgive, Lord have mercy. Gabriel says, I am in this period of seventy-sevens going to deal definitively with sin, and it will be hidden, covered, and put away. Then, three positive things from that. Two, one, bring in everlasting righteousness. Not only am I going to take away your sin But you will no longer be on probation as Adam was in the garden. It's not even just a matter of clearing the slate. I will By one that I'm going to reveal, I am going to give you, I'm going to cause there to be in your light everlasting righteousness, which even you can't mess up. You're going to have a record that is perfect and spotless. Wow, what that must have meant to him. To anybody who takes their sin seriously Now how is he going to do that? Then the last two code together to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy, and I believe it's the most holy one, which I explained why last week Those two go together. In other words, I'm going to do this through. The word anoint is the word Messiah, Mashiach. I'm going to do that through a holy one who is going to be anointed as Messiah. And he is going to seal up vision and prophecy. That is, he is going to fulfill all these things. He's going to bring it all together. Those things are an unveiling of this work which is sealed when Messiah comes the first time. Not as if there's something additional to add, it is simply the unveiling, the unfolding of what Messiah comes to do. Now Having said that, we go on to verses 25 to 27, where he comes back over that and gives it in more detail. And these are the verses that are, as I say, among the most difficult in all the Old Testament to understand. So we're going to try to do this simply, as simply and clearly. In fact, this is a this is so difficult that first of all you'll notice in your bulletin outline, there are no blanks this week. Uh the stuff that you see on the chart, that's not blanks. You can write whatever you want in there, draw pictures, do whatever, but there's nothing there to fill in. Uh and then on the back side No blanks, because you don't have time. I just want you to listen. Just follow the flow of the thought. In fact, if if some of you have studied this and you're saying, yes, but what about? Uh then we can gather back in the storage room before they're putting the chairs away or up here someplace afterwards because we just have the one service coffee time. So if some of you want to gather around to discuss this, I'd be glad to do that. But I want you to get the flow of the thought and so we can apply it to our lives and therefore this we will need to to move rather quickly on this. I hope your brain is in high gear this morning. First of all, notice the 77s are divided into three periods. Okay? Seven sevens, sixty-two sevens, and one seven. Seven, sixty-two plus one is seventy. Remember again, the burden of Daniel's prayer is for sin and the city. God, you've made a covenant. This is your covenant city. The city has been destroyed. What are you going to do with the city? How are you going to restore the city? What are you going to do? City, city, city, on and on and on. And the problem of sin. Our sin, sin, sin. Alright? So those are the two big issues. Gabriel gives an answer to deal with the problem of the city through the solution of Messiah. Those are the two themes in verses 25 to 27. Keep that clear, and that's why the chart's there to help you to focus on that. I believe that much of the problem of biblical prophecy that we're seeing written as we come to the year 2000, much of the errors, much of the confusion and misunderstanding are exactly at this point. They don't take sin as the big problem. Sin is something that's been dealt with with Jesus. Now we go on to something else that's interesting. It's going to happen in a tribulation, the rest of this kind of thing. Whereas the focus of this whole prophecy is the sin problem. Sin and God's city. What are we going to do about that? Now, if you keep that in focus in mind, it helps you to see some of the things that are very controversial about these verses so that they make sense. The question then is what are you going to do about the sin problem? And what are you going to do, Lord, about the city to restore it to its place of glory? Now, Daniel then, I'm going to pick up where my thought is here. Daniel, Gabriel says to Daniel, verse 25, no one understand this. From the issuing of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, that's Cyrus, until the anointed one, the ruler, comes There will be seven sevens and sixty-two sevens. So until Messiah comes, there's going to be sixty-nine sevens, and that's divided into two parts, seven and sixty-two. That division probably, look on your chart there, is you got uh concerning the city a decree to rebuild it, and that will happen within those first seven sevenths. Then there will be a longer period of 62 sevens before Messiah, the anointed one, comes. Now, many people, I've read many commentaries, I remember as a young Christian struggling with this, about how do you make you there's a there's a basic assumption that each day is a year. So seven sevens is forty-nine years. Seventy sevens is four hundred and ninety years. You know, and so You've got 69 sevens, that's 62 times 7 times years, that's 483 years. And I I've read many, many commentaries, I don't know if you have or not, that try to fit the period between the decree to rebuild Jerusalem and Jesus' birth or his baptism or his public ministry to make that somehow 483 years Let me tell you, save your time. You can't do it. I don't think God ever intended to do it. So out of hand, I reject the notion that each week is a week of years. That he doesn't say that. And the reason I think that that is not intended is because when God told Jeremiah in Jeremiah 21, 910 about the duration of the captivity, he said, straight out, it's going to be 70 years Hey, can't misunderstand that, can you? Big interpretation. 70 years, 365 days times 70 years. That's pretty easy to come up with, okay? But When he comes to Daniel about the future, he doesn't say it's going to be four hundred and eighty-three years. Who said that? What I believe he's doing, and this is very important in prophecy Prophecy is not mechanical. It's sovereign, but it's not mechanical. God is saying there's going to be a period of time A rather brief period of time, seven sevens. And then from that decree to to the rebuilding of Jerusalem, that's going to happen. It in fact happened within a hundred years. Then he says there's going to be a longer period. But God is not in to date setting. Very clear, you see in the New Testament, no man knows the time of the day. God does not intend that. In this case, even the 70 years from Jeremiah, what month and what day did that begin? Did it begin from when Daniel was carried on? In 606? Did it begin when Nebuchadnezzar laid waste to the temple in 586? You know, he God doesn't give us this date to this date. Because if he did, what would happen? We just say, we'd sit around and say, okay, well, just wait for the date. That's not the purpose of prophecy. The purpose of prophecy is to build our faith to seek Him. There's an interaction between God and us in the fulfillment of His purposes. So God is saying there's going to come a period, and when you see Jerusalem restored and rebuilt, then you'll know seven sevens have been completed. Now there's going to be a longer period before Messiah comes. We don't know how long. So when Jesus came 483 years later, When in fact, uh excuse me not four hundred and eighty-three years, when Jesus came in fact five hundred and thirty-four years later, or when John the Baptist said Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world, which was 564 years later, the people should be ready. They should say, Oh yes, that's about when Daniel said that we should be expecting Messiah to come. They in fact were ready. They were expected. But what was the problem? The same problem as we got in prophecy today They weren't taking sin seriously, so they didn't look for the solution in the prophecy to deal primarily with sin Isn't it crazy? Here they is. They're waiting because they're saying, oh, okay, we had 697, about ready to go. And why did he say he's going to do it? to cover sin, to atone for sin, to seal up sin, to bring in righteousness. And so you say, okay, all the time's right, Messiah's gonna come, he's gonna reestablish Jerusalem, gonna smash those ormans and it's gonna make us glorious. Nothing about sin. You see, the key to understanding biblical prophecy is to see that it deals with the problem of sin. and Jesus reigning in his rightful place in our lives to forgive us and to transform us. That's the point of prophecy. He who has this hope in him purifies himself even as he is pure. Keep that in mind. So as Daniel comes to this place, Gabriel is saying, I am going to deal with the sin problem. in this after these sixty-nine sevens. Now look how he states it. Verse 26. First of all, back to 25, so you see it again. No one understand this, from the issuing of the decree of Cyrus to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the anointed one, the ruler comes, there will be seven sevens. Then after that, sixty-two sevens. It will be rebuilt with streets and a trench, but in times of trouble Now again, an amazingly accurate prediction, because you would have thought that if there's an edict to restore and rebuild, there's going to be peace. Hey, great, you know, times of blessing, just like days of Solomon. That wasn't the way it was, was it Do you remember Sandalot came against Nebuchadnezzar came against Nehemiah? There were a lot of uh restrictions, there was a lot of turmoil, then you have the uh the the times after that of the Seleucids and Alexander's arm and all this upheaval from all those years after that. It was a time of trouble. Again, don't miss that. It's an indication of the inspiration of Scripture that Daniel in his day predicted something unlikely. And it exactly was fulfilled in that way. Now, verse 26 then. After the 62 sevens, the anointed one will be cut off. Very significant statement. He will be cut off. The word used there is very significant words. Words used throughout the book of Leviticus to refer to death. He will be cut off from my people. It's the word that's used in Genesis chapter 15. Do you remember when God established the covenant with Abraham? Do you remember that? It was the evening And Abram saw in a vision that God took a heifer, a goat, a ram, a dove, and a pigeon. Five creatures He cut those creatures in half, so they're slaughtered, and the parts of this ram, heifer, goat, dove, pigeon Each half is laid, it says, opposite each other. So you got a half of a goat on this side, a half a goat on that side, half a half or half a pigeon. Now what's in the middle? Well, in those days when you established a covenant, you c the word covenant uh bereath means to cut, so you cut a covenant. And what people would do if they established a covenant is they would take some animal and they'd cut it in half, and they would have a gutter in the middle of this animal, and down that gutter would flow the blood of the animal. Then you would walk between the pieces, and you would say in effect, May God do so to me and more so if I break this covenant. In other words, may God cut me in half, dismember me if I you know, I mean they took seriously when they're made a vow, you know, I mean, you know, cut my hand, you know, steal her blood. That's the way they did. All right. Very solemn thing. Now, what does God do? God can't walk between the pieces. So in Genesis 15, you have this picture, Abram saw, I saw a blazing torch go between the pieces of the animal. And God reaffirms his promise to give Abram the land which we saw a few weeks ago, the land which is the first fruits of the earth, new heavens and the new earth, God says. I am going to restore, remove the curse that came in Eden, and I am going to create a new Eden. If in fact I go back on that, may I be dismembered And so when you say, hey, God, that's kind of silly, isn't it? How can you dismember you? You're a spirit. Got the value, got the point. It's impossible. It's as impossible for me to break the covenant as it is to dismember me. But then get this. What does God do? In order to fulfill the covenant of blood, God takes on a body. He becomes flesh. And Daniel says in anticipation of that, Messiah will be cut off. Man. Your spine should shiver at that thought. Messiah, the Holy One, is going to fulfill the blood covenant by himself being cut off. He will take upon himself the curse of breaking the covenant that he established. And it goes on to say, and he will have nothing. Literally, the Hebrew is not or nothing to him. And what happened to Jesus when he fulfilled all the stipulations of the covenant and then was crucified and cut off by God? He had nothing. His disciples abandoned him. Humanly, he was alone He was crucified. No crucifixion statue or painting ever shows this, but Jesus was in fact crucified utterly naked. No loincloth, nothing. He had nothing to him. The soldiers gambled for his room And the worst of all, from all eternity, his fellowship with the Father that he loved. The Father turned his back on Jesus the Son, and he had nothing to him to be ever felt utterly alone, abandoned, misunderstood. What you and I experience is nothing compared to the aloneness of He who was full of glory, who created the universe and all the creatures from eternity enjoying the fellowship of the Trinity. And there was nothing to him, stripped, absolutely bare, predicted, 500 years before it happened. Messiah will be cut off. The covenant of blood will be fulfilled in him as the one as if he had been the covenant breaker. And nothing will be left to him. He didn't do that for himself. He did that for you. He did that so you and I Who deserve to have nothing, to be cut off, to be stripped bare and alone and cast out from the presence of God. Would receive his forgiveness. Would be honored by God as if you had done exactly what Jesus had done. And loved by God as if you were his own son. That's the gospel. Now you see it's in the light of that that you need to understand the end of verse 26 and 27. Let me just say that one of the things that I am most encouraged about Is that I see us, individuals of us, as a congregation, beginning to understand something of what that means. Now just Tuesday night I we were meeting the cell leaders and myself and I I went into a little more detail of what I shared last Sunday about how God convicted me and rebuked me for my trying to feel defensive and defend myself, my reputation, some things that Kathy was trying to help me to understand about our my relationship with our kids. And as I talked about that a little bit, somebody said after I finished, let me piggyback on that, start talking about some ways that God had convicted him and sin with his family and then somebody else picked up and said as a dad, Let me share with you some ways God's been convicting me of things that I've done are just absolutely shameful and inexcusable and then somebody else picked up on that and somebody else and the result of it You know, if an unbeliever came into the room at that time and said, boy, this is really a downer. What are these guys, masochists? They're all into just talking about all the rottenness of their lives. Do you know the effect of it? Was we went to a time of prayer, of praise, and adoration? That our sin has been sealed and hidden and covered, and we're not on probation, and we have the righteousness of Jesus, and it was praise and thanksgiving and It was a very full, meaningful time. That's the way it is in our lives. You see, when we take sin seriously, that we understand what it meant for Messiah to be cut off and have nothing. Gospel comes alive. Now you see, if you understand that, then verse 26 and 27 begin to make sense. Because then he says The people of the ruler who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. Now look on the back of your bulletin. This is the most difficult part. I'm going to do it briefly just to try and help you see makes sense. There's two ways you can understand this verse and a half. I'm going to show you the way. One way that's the most popular way, and then I want to suggest an alternative. He says, after this, uh the people uh the people of the ruler who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. The end will come like a flood War will continue to the end, and desolations have been decreed. He will confirm a covenant with many for one seven. In the middle of the seven he will put an end to sacrifice and offering And on a wing of the temple he will set up an abomination that causes desolation until the end that is decreed is poured out on him. Very difficult, isn't it? The way to make sense of it is let me ask three questions you see on the back that will help to break it down. First question is who is the he in verse twenty seven, he will confirm a covenant, and what is the covenant that he's confirming? The more popular interpretation is this refers to the ruler or prince of verse twenty six. People of the ruler who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary, Who is the Antichrist? The covenant is one that is referred to as the covenant during the seven-year Great Tribulation after the rapture, where there will be a covenant established with the Jews by the Antichrist. And that's what's in mind. I don't think that that's the case, and I'll tell you why. I think, in fact, that the he will confirm a covenant is not referring to Antichrist, it's referring to Jesus the Messiah. The reason I say that is if you look in verse 24, 25, and 26, it's very clear in every case the prominent person that's in mind is Messiah. When you come to verse 26, it does not say the ruler will come with his people. It says the people of the ruler will come. So the ruler is not even the subject of the sentence. So when you have the he in verse 27, the most obvious, in fact the only antecedent that makes sense to it is the Messiah. It can't be the people, because it says he, it doesn't say they. And the ruler is simply the one to describe. It's the people of the ruler that's going to come. I'll get to that in a moment. So that uh What it's referring to here is the Messiah confirming the covenant that has been made with Abraham. We have that in uh a number of places in Scripture, you had this idea of the Messiah, Jesus confirming the covenant. I had a reference here, but um I don't see it right now. But if you want that we can deal with those afterwards. But that idea of of Messiah confirming, fulfilling, making firm is the idea in the Hebrew of the covenant. uh is what I believe is in mind here. He came, he fulfilled it, he makes it effective, he confirms it. So then who are the many? And what is the one seven? You see, he confirms a covenant with many And he does it during the 70th seven. Who are the many and what is the one seven? Well, popular interpretation is that the many are the Jews during this one seven-year period of the Great Tribulation after the rapture. That assumes a large gap between the 69th and the 70th week. It's assumed that this prophecy is only to Israel. The church is not in mind. It's not for you and for me, all this prophecy we've been reading. It is to the Jews who then rejected Jesus, and after that the prophetic clock stopped. It is said, after the sixty-ninth year. You now have the church age so far about two thousand years, and when Jesus comes in the rapture, the prophetic stark picks in again, starts clicking. And you have the seven-year tribulation where this one, the Antichrist, makes the covenant with many during that one literal seven, you see, seven-year period. I don't believe that that is what Daniel has in mind here. I believe, in fact, what he has in mind is that there is a succession of 77s. It's referring to the New Testament period. And that that last seven is the period just after Jesus' resurrection. That's what makes sense. Where many Jews received him. Isaiah 53, 11 says he will justify many, the many. Not all, not all believing, some believed him, and then in the middle of that period, that is just a brief period. Of that time after his resurrection, 70 A. D. , there would come an end to the temple and of Jewish worship. But let me get to that as we look at the third question. Third question then is, to what then do the end of the sacrifice, verse 27 He will bring an end to sacrifice and offering. And the abomination that causes desolation. What does that refer to? Popular understanding of that is it refers to the betrayal of the Jews by the Antichrist during the tribulation. He establishes a covenant. They think he's their friend. They rebuild the temple, they restore the sacrifices, the sacrifices are going on, and then in the middle, three and a half years, the Antichrist then betrays them, turns against them And that's where you have all hell breaking loose and the fulfillment of a lot of the things of Revelation it said and all these things that happened, the seals and the bowls, uh, during this period when Antichrist is reigning I don't think that that is what that is referring to. I think, in fact, what it is referring to is Messiah's destruction of the temple in 70 AD. Again, this verse 26, the people of the ruler will come and will destroy the city and the sanctuary. What that's referring to, I believe, is to Titus Vespasianus and the Roman armies that marched up against Jerusalem. b shortly before 70 AD and then during that period, the months after that, laid siege to it. If you read any of the descriptions of it in um Josephus or anything else, it's an absolutely heartbreaking tale. of stubbornness, of resistance, of betrayal, of slaughter, of famine, starvation, destruction Uh so that um God says if those days hadn't been shortened and that kind of thing continued, all humanity would have been wiped out. It was a time of absolute heartbreaking chaos You see, the sacrifices and offerings should have ended the day Jesus was crucified. That's when the temple was rent, remember, from top to bottom. But while some of the Jews he confirmed the covenant with believed him, most of the Jews continued to make the offerings and the sacrifices. They continued to worship at the temple, and that which God intended as good, what was better on earth than the temple? It was the symbol of the very presence of God. It's where the ark was, where the Shekinah glory was. That which was the most precious and holy place on earth. Was now displaced by Jesus. Jesus was now the one that we should go to. And so the temple became an idol The temple became an abomination that causes desolation. Now, verse 27, very difficult verse to translate. I will just give you the translation, the New American Standard. Because it comes the most accurate to try and state that end of that verse. It says, on the wing, or it could be on the pinnacle of abominations. The word temple doesn't appear there, and I be stuck that in. On the on the pinnacle of the abominations will come one who makes desolate even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed is poured out on that one who makes desolate. What's it saying? Boil it all down for you and for me. Whatever it is in your life that is the most precious gift that God has given to you. If at some point that replaces Jesus Christ in your life, a job, a relationship, whatever it is, a ministry It becomes an abomination that causes desolation in your life. And Jesus must remove it. He cannot brook the rival. And just as he had to destroy that temple in 70 A. D. , he will move into your life graciously to remove That thing which is a substitute for himself. Let's pray. The Holy Spirit comes in power. He will sweep away our idols. What are your idols? How do you know what your idols are this morning? Let me ask you. What are you afraid that he's going to sweep away? That's your idol. Let's come before him now and let us confess those idols in our lives. And come to Messiah, who was cut off and had nothing. That we might have his righteousness come to him now. Come to Jesus.