Uh Larry Crabbe in his uh book uh Marriage Builder, which I still think, though it's old, is one of the best books that's ever been written on marriage of a contemporary nature. It says this in the book. Consider what may really be happening when a couple get married. Two people, each with personal needs, pressing for fulfillment, pledge themselves to become one. As they recite their vows to love and respect each other, strong but hidden motivations stir inside them. If a tape recorder could somehow tune into the couple's unconscious intentions I wonder if perhaps we would hear words like these. The bridegroom. I need to feel important, and I expect you to meet that need by submitting to my every decision, whether good or bad. By respecting me no matter how I behave, and by supporting me in whatever I choose to do, I want you to treat me as the most important man in the world. My goal in marrying you is to find my significance through you. An arrangement in which you are commanded by God to submit to me sounds very attractive. The bride I have never felt as deeply loved as my nature requires. I am expecting you to meet that need through gentle affection, even when I'm growling. Thoughtful consideration whether I am always sensitive to you or not, and an accepting romantic sensitivity to my emotional ups and downs. Don't let me down. But of course, he will let her down, and so will she. We live in a day in which writers are actually talking about the death of marriage as an institution, as we have known particularly s in the history of w Western civilization, because as they say it doesn't work. That is, it produces more pain than benefit. We live in a day where the divorce rate within evangelical churches is approaching the rate of the general population. I read this week of a large district of a respected denomination where two-thirds of the pastors are divorced. In our study in Ephesians, we have come to chapter 5, verses 22 to 33, the most definitive and extensive discussion on marriage in the New Testament, particularly on the roles. that the husbands and the wives are to play in order to make for a successful marriage. And last week, remember, I began with the instructions to husbands Remember that the context of this whole passage is that the biblical theme is that marriage is a picture of the relationship between God and his people It is a majestic mystery. It's not simply a sociological arrangement. But as verse 32 says, this is a profound mystery, but I'm talking about Christ And the church, you must always keep that in mind as the context for the commands. And it is in this majestic display of God's grace that the wife reflects the church and the husband is to reflect the cr the Christ, the bridegroom And so again we read in Paul's words to the husbands, verse 25: Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. We saw last week that that word love is the Greek word agape or the verb agapa. Which refers not primarily to feelings of romantic attraction or even liking, but rather refers to sacrificial devotion. The unalterable commitment to the beloved in a covenant that binds the heart of the lover to the beloved, no matter what the cost. And so he goes on, husbands Love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. I want to focus this morning on the last part of that verse and gave himself up for her. And I would like to call your attention to two things. First of all, the sacrifice that he gave himself up, and then the selectivity of it that it was for her First of all, then consider the sacrifice of Christ for you Clearly, this language is the language of sacrifice when it says he gave himself up for her, for that's exactly what he says in The beginning of the chapter, be imitators of God, therefore dearly loved children. And that, by the way, is not just to husbands. There's a general principle here for all believers also. Husbands are to take the initiative. But to all believers, imitate God, therefore his dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, then it goes on, as a fragrant offering and sacrifice. To God. So this is sacrificial language. And how can I begin to help you to understand the immensity of that sacrifice? How can you and I begin to understand what it meant for God to become man? I mean the old uh hackneyed comparison, imagine yourself trading places with a street beggar in Calcutta And we hear that and say, yeah, yeah, I've heard that kind of thing before. But imagine actually having the opportunity And for the benefit of someone that you love, being able to exchange such places. For Adam's race was a lost and helpless race. There was absolutely nothing we could do to save ourselves. There needed to be a second Adam who was not in the bondage of sin. And so God, the second person of the Trinity, freely chose. To leave an eternity and to leave all of the lack of restrictions upon his deity. The complete existence of undefilement, and for him to take on flesh in a body For you to decide to become an ant would be much less of a sacrifice. He gave himself up for her. And if he were to simply do that for a few years, that would be sacrifice enough in itself But if he did that and became the second Adam of a new race, that would be great for those that followed after. But what about us? We're still lost in Adam's fall and sin. And so we needed someone who was willing to give himself up even more than that. But having taken a body to live under the law To live in poverty, so that the foxes have holes and the birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head, no place to call his own. Living in perfect obedience to the law that condemns you as a son, as a daughter, as a parent, as a friend, as a worshiper. In all those roles that you play as one created by God to give him honor and to give him glory, you and I have failed utterly. And Jesus succeeded perfectly. And the only way for you and for I, for me To have life was for him to decide to undergo what Luther says is the great exchange For having accomplished a perfect obedience to the law, so that he was acquitted before God to allow himself to be taken by the Jewish leaders of that day. So that they manipulated the Roman, the crowds to have the Roman government crucify Jesus in your place and in my place. So that all your failure was heaped on him. And beyond any of the physical suffering of the scourging, of the nails Of the asphyxiation of the torture of that cross, there was the abandonment by his Heavenly Father The abandonment of that God with whom he had shared an eternity of bliss and was seen vile in his sight. Utterly abandoned, not for sin in general, but for your sin, for my sin. So that he would then be able to give us the record of his righteousness for you And so that Jesus, every time he looks at the nail prints in his hands, he thinks of you with love. You are that bride that he bought with his own blood. Let me ask you, have you received that offer yourself? Not just have you received Jesus in some general, vague way. That you're not against him, that you come here to worship on Sunday, that you try to do the right thing, but have you ever received the sacrifice? He gave himself up For her, his church, his people. Are you one of those for whom he's given himself? Have you ever received that personally? If I had put in the bulletin this morning a card and it had four options on it. Number one, I have received Jesus and I'm resting in him. Number two I haven't received Jesus, but I see my need to, and I'd like to know how. Or number three I haven't received Jesus, but I'm considering that maybe I should, and I'd like to talk to somebody. Or number four, I haven't received Jesus, and I don't intend to, as long as I live. Which one would you check? Where would you be in those four? If you're a number one, praise God. We fellowship together and we'll spend eternity together. He's given himself for you. If you check number two or three, let me suggest that you put on the gray slip, something to that effect of where you are so that we can get back to you. One of us as staff pastors, myself or one of the other staff pastors, to get back to you to talk to you about that. How can we help you? Don't put that off. Because every time you hear something like this and you decide not to act on it, your heart becomes a little bit harder, a little bit more calloused. So that the next time it's easier to just bypass that until finally it makes no effect, no impact. And you're irretrievably lost. He gave himself up for his bride Are you there? Let's pray for just a moment before we go on. Lord, I pray that anybody here who has been thinking about this and who has resisted this, who has for whatever reason, maybe have not known enough to even take that step. Lord, that you would prompt them to move in obedience to your spirit and your call to them now. To jot that down on a gray slip so that we can talk about that further? That they would not put that off, for you have given yourself up an immeasurable sacrifice. For your bride, and I pray, Lord, that there'd be none here that would be left out of that. For it is the only way to life, and without that there is only death. Lord, hear us in Jesus' name. Amen. Having said that to all of us, there is a specific command that Paul gives here now to husbands And the rest of you can listen in because there are some general principles here. But you notice that what he says here is that this is a model for you husbands. Verse twenty five husbands love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Verse twenty eight. In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. And so This is a model for you. It's very important, I think, that we emphasize that because we live in a culture that is so romantically sentimental but knows so little about actual sacrifice. You know look at the typical love songs that we sing, you know, I wanna hold you in my arms forever. Here I'll always stay, you know, and used to hear those things and think, well, don't they ever get hungry? I mean Let's stop for all this hugging and loving and get a hamburger and then somebody have to go to work and you know, but what it pictures in this subtle ways is we have this idealistic view of love So we love to sing about and write poetry about, but it's not particularly related to the everyday life of diapers and headaches and colds and carpooling. You know, it You know, take uh the history of romance. A guy like Auguste Rodon, uh the famous French sculptor, he uh idealized the feminine form, a tremendous romantic. In fact, he mesmerized women by his intensity and his romance. He utterly abused his wife, neglected her, wouldn't see her for weeks or months. uh had a number of mistresses who he used for models and then toss away as disposable trash one of his mistresses wound up in an insane asylum, um, out of her mind. His son he utterly neglected, spent no time with him, despised him. His son grew up an alcoholic, not able to get a job Meanwhile, doing all this romantic art to depict the beauty of romantic love for a guy like Rousseau. Who, while he was writing in the romance movement of the wonder of romance and ideas about romance, left his wife and his children to starve. And so we tend to make a kind of a dichotomy between what we think of as love and the way we actually act often, which is that sacrifice is inconvenient. It deals with the hard stuff of reality. You see, loving, which means giving yourself, which is what Paul's talking about here, means that you do it when it's inconvenient. It means that you are willing to help get the kids ready for bed Even when both of you are dog tired or to clear up from dinner or to get dinner ready or do the housework. And to repent of your attitude that says, That's your job. This is my job. It's the kind of Mentality is willing to give yourself and relinquish the heroic image that you have at the office as the guy who will always come through, who will take on the challenge. Even though you know that it's at the cost of certain things that your wife needs. And so you're willing to give up that image. In order to do what you know you need to do to love your wife. It means taking initiative to pray together, not just once a year when somebody's dying. But on a regular basis to say to your wife, honey, let's come together and pray about some of these things that we've been thinking and talking about. Maybe a couple times a week, three, four times a week. Set a time, take the initiative, keep that time, don't always let her be the one that has to suggest it I find that we men are far too often responders rather than initiators. Typically the way I operate if I don't catch myself, is that you sort of move along in a passive mood until the alarm bells go off and the bedroom door is locked, and you say, Oh, I think we've got a problem here. You know, something's got to get your attention, so you say, I guess I've been letting this slide. You know, I kind of figured everything was okay. As long as she's not complaining, I can just keep moving on my agenda. But then something happens and you say, now I gotta react. You see. Love which gives itself doesn't wait to just have to react. It takes initiative. So many of us men are so into this control thing that we feel like To actually meet my wife's needs is to capitulate to her demands. Rather than seeing that rather than Saying, well, I've just got to capitulate. It's I want to take initiative to meet her needs. And that means understanding how she receives love. A couple very helpful books that are in our library written on just check coming over here. There's still three copies after the first service, believe it or not, of one of them. Judson Sweihart's How Do I Say I Love You? Very helpful book. Talks about eight languages of love. The basic premise of the book is that we all tend to want to express love the way that we receive love. For example, with Kathy and I The way I receive love, if I'm hurting and having a problem, is I just want her to put her arms around me, tell me she loves me, confirm me, and say, it'll be okay. Thanks, son. I can go on. Um so when Kathy was hurting, guess what I would do? I'd put my arms around her, honey, it's okay, it'd be all right. And he'd get his elbow in the ribs, you know, and I'd say, boy, this is a hard woman to love. Man, I you know That is not how she receives love. If she's hurting, she's wanting understanding. Help me with a solution Help me to be able to see how do I get out of this thing. I don't want the affection out. I just want the affection. I don't want the solutions, you see. So I tend to give the affection because that's what I want She would tend to give the solutions, and I said, forget the solutions. Knock it off, just hug me. No? And there's so many ways that we're like that, aren't there? And so Sweart talks about eight of those kinds of things. Sharing time together, helping, words, touch, loyalty, a number of other things. And then he has a test at the end where after you go through the book and read what each of these languages are, then you go through and you say, Well now wonder How would I rank order the way I receive love? From one to eight. So you put them down. And then you look at your spouse. Both husbands and wives do this. You look at your spouse and say, what are her, what are his languages of love in their rank ordering. So then you put down what do you think your spouse would be, number one, two, three, four, five, six, you know. And then at some candlelight dinner or in some pretty good atmosphere, because it's hard, you share those lists in fear and trepidation. For most guys it means that, what? That's number one? Geez, I had that as number six. You know, because we sometimes don't be and then all of a sudden you realize why what you've been trying to give wasn't received Because you see, when Jesus gave himself for us, he didn't say, you know, I've got a lot of really neat things I've created that I'd like to give to you. I mean I got this galaxy over here, and it is astonishing. Let me take you over there for a few years and enjoy that. You say, Lord, I'm still dying. I mean, I've only got a few years left. I don't need the galaxy. What Jesus did was to understand our deepest need and gave himself precisely at that point, even though it meant the ultimate sacrifice for himself. And so if I were to ask you guys, what are ten ways that your wife receives love? What are ten things that you could do? I've done that from time to time. Stop when I realize my wife isn't feeling loved. Usually I get that message after a while it gets through. Ah, you know, something's going on here, you know. And I stop and I say, okay, what is why isn't she feeling loved? And I put things down, make sure that I'm home to dinner on time, or else call in advance, you know Help put the kids to bed. I remember this was an issue on a regular basis, not just occasionally and with all my excuses why I couldn't. Or various other things, you know And uh I've done that on a number of occasions. I can you guys come, you know, if you said if I asked me, you said, what are what are ten ways that you could express love to your wife that would be really meaningful to her? Come up with ten. How about five? Three? Maybe one? So let me suggest that you do that. You you write down what are ways that your wife Could receive love from you, that would be meaningful to her, then let me point out a trap. And the trap is that you'll fail in that Because not only will you fail because you're a sinner like I am, and I look at those lists and I say, yeah, somehow I thought putting down the list was going to solve my marriage problems. I made the list, you see, now I can just keep the list. Well isn't that the way we guys are? You know. That's what we say in a world. Just tell me how to do it. Just tell me how do you want me to love you? Okay, let me write it down. Wait, you're going too quick. Let me get it all done. Now just keep the list You see, but that's not what Paul says here. He says, love your wife just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her And so you look back in chapter 1, 2, and 3, and you see, how did he do that for us? He adopted us in the pleasure of his will, chapter 1. That's his love for us. It's his pleasure in us. Chapter 2, out of his mercy, he raised us up in Christ when we were dead. He saw our deepest need. And he met that in ye, chapter 3, that you might know the length, the width, the height, the depth of the love of Christ. And so love is a matter of the heart. It's the affection that gives itself So making lists can be helpful, but can also deflect you from the hard issue. You see, this is really a gospel issue. It is that he gave himself for her. And that Is as you and I reflect on that, the love of Christ, not your list. That out of the overflow of your heart, you begin to see that to show Jesus your love for him, you display it to your wife in her deepest needs. That's why we're having a marriage conference next May. I understand we already got our first registration for it this week. I hadn't even told you about it. Uh May 1819, we're going to be having a conference, marriage in the context of the gospel. And it's to deal with these hard issues, not just the psychological insights and the lists and those kind of things, but how to live a successful marriage out of the gospel May eighteen nineteen. You guys be alert to that. Your wife's gonna want to go, put it down. You take the initiative, she'll be grateful, you'll get A little bit of gain a couple points on that rather than waiting for her to say, are we going to that? It's for both husbands and wives. Then he also says here, you notice that it was for her, the selection. Jesus set his heart on you. He chose you for himself. And it says you and I enter into that, that our hearts are warm toward Jesus, we realize that he didn't just make salvation possible for everyone, but that he actually saved his people. sometimes called particular redemption, the fact that Jesus gave himself for his church. It's his church that he loved. It's his church that he set his affection on He accomplished that for you and for me particularly and sovereignly. In March of 1967, when I took Kathy out with an engagement ring in my pocket to that restaurant in Fairmount Park in Philadelphia, I did not get her aside after the dinner and say, Kathy Would you marry me? And if you decide not, there's a girl over here, and she looks pretty good too, so I don't feel under any pressure on this, you know. So it's just an option. See? But Jesus drew us to himself because he had set his heart on us. And that's a precious truth. Because you see, it means that for for you husbands, when you set your heart on your wife, That is irrevocable. And you can never take it back. And your wife needs to know that. I never think about that in any depth but that I don't think about an example of a man, Dr. Robert McQuilkin Who was uh president of Columbia Bible College and Seminary. Ten years ago, he resigned from that position. In order to take care of his wife, who was deteriorating with Alzheimer's disease. Here are a few of his words. He says it's been a decade since that day in Florida when Muriel, my wife, repeated to the couple vacationing with us the story that she had told just five minutes earlier. Funny, I thought. That's never happened before. But it began to happen occasionally. Three years later they had to consider the possibility of Alzheimer's with her And then shortly after that, um she had a daily radio program looking up that uh she produced. One day the station manager called them in, was looking very uncomfortable, became apparent that the program was starting to become an embarrassment with lapses of her train of thought. And so they ended her program. Her public ministry is over, I thought, but she didn't think so. Even though she lost the radio program, she insisted on accepting invitations to speak, even though invariably she would come home crushed and bewildered that her train of thought had been lost and things didn't go very well. So she began to read textbooks for blind and found out they weren't being used because there were gaps and things that were incoherent. Muriel never knew what was happening to her, though occasionally when there was a reference to Alzheimer's on TV, she would muse aloud, I wonder if I'll ever have that. It did not seem painful for her, but it was a slow dying for me to watch the vibrant, creative, articulate person I knew and loved gradually dimming out. Muriel cannot speak in sentences now, only in phrases and words, and often words that make little sense, like no when she means yes. But she can say one sentence and she says it often. I love you. She not only says it, she acts it. The board arranged for a companion to stay in our home so I could go daily to the office. During those two years, it became increasingly difficult to keep Muriel at home. As soon as I left, she would take out after me. With me she was content. Without me, she was distressed, sometimes terror-stricken. The walk to school is a mile-round trip. She would make that trip as many as ten times a day. Sometimes at night when I helped her undress, I found bloody feet When I told our family doctor, he choked up. Such love, he said simply. Then after a moment I have a theory that the characteristics developed across the years come out at times like these. I wish I loved God like that, desperate to be near Him at all times. Thus she teaches me day by day. I came across the common contemporary wisdom in this morning's newspaper in a letter to a national columnist. Quote, I ended the relationship because it wasn't meeting my needs, the writer explained. The counselor's response was predictable What were your needs that didn't get met by him in the relationship? Do you still have these same needs? What would he have to do to fill those needs? Could he do it? Needs for communication, for understanding, for affirmation, common interests, sexual fulfillment, the list goes on. If the needs are not met, split. He offered no alternatives. I once reflected on the eerie irrelevance of every one of those criteria for me. But I'm not wired for introspection. I'm more oriented outward and toward action in the future. I even feel an occasional surge of exhilaration as I find my present assignment more challenging than running an institution's complex ministry. Certainly greater creativity and flexibility are needed. I have long lists of coping strategies which have to be changed weekly, sometimes daily. Grocery shopping together may have been recreation, but it's not so much fun when Muriel begins to load other people's carts and take off with him, disappearing into the labyrinth of supermarket aisles. Or how do you get a person to eat or take a bath when she steadfastly refuses? It's not like needing a $10 million budget or designing a program to grasp some emerging global opportunity, to be sure. But it demands greater resources than I could have imagined, and thus highlights more clearly than ever my own inadequacies, as well as provides constant opportunity to draw on our Lord's vast reservoir of resources. As she needed more and more of me, I wrestled daily with the question of who gets me full time, Muriel or Columbia Bible College and Seminary. Dr. Tabor advised me not to make any decision based on my desire to see Muriel state contented. Make your plans apart from that question. Whether or not you can be successful in your dreams for the college and seminary or not, I can j I cannot judge. But I can tell you now, you will not be successful with Muriel. When the time came, the decision was firm. It took no great calculation. It was a matter of integrity. Had I not promised forty-two years before, in sickness and in health, till death do us part? This was no grim duty to which I stoically resigned, however. It was only fair. She had after all cared for me f almost four decades with marvelous devotion. Now it was my turn. And since and such a partner she was, if I took care of her for forty years, I would never be out of her debt But how can I walk away from the responsibility of a ministry God had blessed so signally during our 22 years at Columbia Bible College and Seminary? Not easily. The resignation was painful. But I've been startled by the response to the announcement of my resignation. Husbands and wives renew marriage vows. Pastors tell the story to their congregations. It was a mystery to me until a distinguished oncologist who lives constantly with dying people told me, almost all women stand by their men. Very few men stand by their women. Perhaps people sensed this contemporary tragedy and somehow were helped by a simple choice that I considered the only option. It's all more than keeping promises and being fair, however. As I watch her brave descent into oblivion, Muriel is the joy of my life. Daily, I discern new manifestations of the kind of person she is, the wife I always loved. I also see fresh manifestations of God's love. The God I long to love more fully. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how little we seem to know about real love. We hear of someone like that and Lord, all the things we complain about and fret about and hold as resentments. Seems so trivial. Father, so much more, and Lord Jesus, so infinitely more, when we look at your love which caused you to give yourself up. For us. Do we understand that it is only there that when we recognize our failure to love and confess that honestly to you And then see that you have loved us and continue to love us in spite of all that we are and do, that our hearts begin to fill up with a reflected love that comes from you. Lord, may that be so in the hearts of each person here, as you show them Jesus, for we pray it in his name. Amen.