We've been praying that God would enable you this first Sunday that Evan's leading to Just be able to focus on him and not be evaluating or observing what's different or new and I think God is answering that. There seems to be a spirit of worship here and I'm very grateful for that. We're seeing in Ephesians chapter 5 and verses 22 to 33 that Paul holds Christian husbands to the highest possible standard of love for our wives. Which is the covenant agape love of Jesus Christ for his bride, the church. This is a love which is a passionate love. Not just a romantic idealism, but a love that expressed itself in the giving of himself as a sacrifice. for his bride. Verse 25, husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. In verse 2, he had said, gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. We think it's a big deal, we husbands, if we give some of our time to our wives. And yet the second person of the Godhead Subjected himself to time for us. Before his incarnation, there was no issue of giving up time. He only discovered that sacrifice because of his love for you. We think it's a big deal to forgive our wives when they've hurt us When they have been selfish. And yet Jesus Christ gave his life for your selfishness, for your offense against a holy God. And when you think of a time when you have felt the bitterest sense of self-condemnation. That was nothing compared to what you and I really deserve to receive from the hand of a holy God. And Jesus sacrificed himself at the cross to take that sin upon himself so that you and I would be forgiven. And so the basic point of this passage, as we go through it, remember it every week: you can't understand marriage without seeing it as a picture of the relationship between God and his people. It's like a braid. You know, if you look at a braid of hair, it looks like there's just two strands that are interwoven. But in fact, if it was only two strands, then they would quickly unravel. In order for a braid to stay together, there has to be a third strand which is not evident or apparent that is interwoven with the other two in order to hold them together. And so it is with marriage. We see the husband and the wife, but in order to keep the marriage from unraveling, there needs to be the Lord Jesus Christ at the center of that relationship. In order to be the model for the love. To be the example, to be the motivation, to be the empowerment, or otherwise it will unravel And so I said the husbands. And as I thought about what I said last week, I thought I need to go back over a couple of things to make them a little tighter, to to bring these points into focus that may not have been so clear. And so let me um let me sum up what I was trying to say uh in three points, different three points, but um trying to say to you husbands that um If you focus on your wife, you will always slip into either the eros view of love, that is the romantic affection, which rises or falls, comes and goes. Not only depending on what she looks like, but on the relationship and how it's been, you know, how you know how that goes. Or the Philos which is the liking, the companionship, which is again a a feeling of whether we're compatible and we're getting along or not. If the focus is on her You will never be able to love her with an agape love. And that's what's unique about Christianity, you see. In order to love your wife, the focus needs to be on Jesus Christ. I mean you ignore her, but I'm saying that primarily there needs to be the focus on his love. Because that is the only source of agape, that self-sacrificing devotion, the covenantal, irrevocable setting of a heart upon another person for their good. And when you do that, three things happen. Number one, you realize how utterly inadequate you and I are to love that way We recognize, Lord, I simply don't have it in me to love anybody with that kind of sacrifice. And so we need to stop pretending that we can obey what this says. Okay, you told me now I've just got to try a little harder and I gotta do it. But the first thing is to recognize that the gospel comes and says, you can't do it. You cannot love your wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. So it drives us to the gospel, it drives us to Christ so that our focus is on, Lord, forgive me because you've revealed to me the barrenness, the self-centeredness of my own heart. And so I go to him empty. But then the second thing that it does is that it takes me to a passage like 1 John 4, verse 10. Herein, this is agape, not that we loved God, but that he loved agape us. And sent his son to be an atoning sacrifice for our sin. Therefore, I focus not on my love, my inability, my capacity, my trying, my focus is on the love of Christ. And as I focus on his love, then my love becomes like the moon from the sun, a reflection of his love. Therefore, you understand in the same old principle we've gone over and over, Ephesians, commands are based on the facts. That the command, husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church, how did he love the church? You go back to chapters 1 to 3. And you review each chapter. In fact, let me encourage you strongly, memorize chapter 1, verse 4 to 6. So I was going to say memorize the three chapters. Just start memorizing chapter one verses the end of verse four to six. In love, he predestined us to be uh to be made blameless. and holy through the one whom he loves, his beloved. Memorize, think about, meditate on chapter two. Beginning in verse 4 also, while we were dead in sins because of his great mercy, because God, who loved us, made us alive in Christ. And then talks about how he raised us up with Christ, will show us in all the ages to come, the riches of his glory. Memorize, think about that. This is how he loved you. Go to chapter three and realize that you being rooted and grounded or love or being given the power by the Spirit to understand, to enter into the height, the depth, the width, the length of the love of Christ You see, and as you and I reflect on that, then we literally reflect that. That's the idea. Out of the power of the Spirit Our lives begin to take on the savor of the love of Christ. And then we come to the third point, which is also vital And I didn't get time to really I mean you say how much time do you need? But I still didn't get time to really focus this last week, and that is that in every instance The more we go on in marriage, the more we realize that a successful marriage must be in every aspect God-centered. So that you notice that when the dis the sacrifice of Christ is described there, he says he gave himself up for her, and then that's Amplified a little bit in verse 2, gave himself up. Now notice the way it's stated, for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. So he gave himself for us, but the sacrifice was to God. And it's important that you and I realize that your love, husbands for your wife, is a sacrifice to God, but for her. Now, your love is for her. You don't ignore her. Your love is for her, your affection is set on her, but the sacrifice of what you offer is to God. And that frees you from being in bondage to her appreciation and applause. Because so many of us as husbands, when we make some sacrifice, we do some sacrificial offering of love, and what's the first thing we think? I got some points for that Well, that's what I said last week, right? The end of the thing. I said, okay, you know, sign up for the marriage conference again. You'll get some points for that. You say, and then the way we think So many times I have done something for Kathy and I will think, you know, well, boy, that was a pretty unselfish kind of thing to do. Boy, I'll it'd be nice tonight. I come home and you know she'll find those flowers there or whatever it is, you know. And then she won't say anything. I think it's usually detest me I didn't say this in the first service, she was there, so don't tell her. But you know I'm thinking I will get some points, some strokes, some appreciation, some applause. And when she doesn't And she has said sometimes, well I just thought you were looking for that, that what that teaches me is, yeah, it really was. I was kind of addictive to that So I really wasn't doing it for her, I was doing it for what I would receive, you know, establishing my husband record of righteousness, you see. And so God uses that to show me who am I really doing it for? Because you see, if I'm doing it for Jesus, Out of my response to him, I know that to him it is a fragrant offering. That's what it says. A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. I know he's pleased with it. That should be enough. You see, if my devotion is really centered on him, then if she notices, that's great. If she doesn't notice, that's okay. And so we as husbands have to get out of this notion of the point system. Now, I mentioned in the first service that uh there was somebody there who had sent me something. about the point system and just how we fall into this. We're so addicted to this kind of thing. And uh I said I wouldn't reveal his name Um I'll just tell you that his wife's name is Marie, but I won't tell you who he is. And I'm giving you just a couple of examples of what he's sent in this How husbands gain or lose points with their wives, you don't get points for something that's expected. Alright? So for instance, her birthday. You take her out to dinner, that's zero points. You take her out to dinner and it's not a sports bar, that's a point. Okay, it's a sports bar. That's minus two points. Too bad It's all you can eat night, that's minus three points. It's a sports bar, it's all you can eat night, and your face is painted the colors of your favorite team, that's minus ten points. You know, or communication. When she wants to talk about a problem, you listen, displaying what looks like a concerned expression. Zero points. When she wants to talk, you listen for over 30 minutes. That's worth five points. You listen for more than 30 minutes without looking at the TV. Plus 10 points. She realizes it's because you've fallen asleep. Minus 50 points. One other one, one last one. Your physique. You develop a noticeable pot belly. Minus 15 points. You develop a noticeable pot belly and exercise to get rid of it, plus one point. You develop a noticeable pot belly and resort to loose jeans and baggy Hawaiian shirts, minus 30 points. And then you say, I don't care because you have one too. Minus eight hundred points. And so, you know, we guys kid about this, but don't we really think that way? How do you gain points or lose points? And the whole focus is on what my wife's response is What Paul says here has nothing to do with her response. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. The focus is on him. On what he has done to love you, in what he is doing to love you, and what he will do to love you, and that's exactly the pattern of verses 26 and 27, which we're now up to. See, he gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word and to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish. But holy and blameless. Those are the three tenses of salvation and of Christ's love. The past tense, having cleansed her The present tense, making her holy. And the future tense, which we'll deal with next week, will present her perfect. Focus then first of all on what it is that Jesus does. And the emphasis there is on what Jesus does, not on does the present tense, because I'm thinking both of what he has done and what he is doing. First of all, notice what he has done to love you. He has cleansed you through his word. That's the first blanks here. Cleansed through the word There's two parts to that. Notice it says cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word. The first is the washing. He's washed you. And salvation is many times described in terms of washing. Interesting that in Ezekiel chapter 16 and verse 9 where you have the description of God marrying his people, it says in entering into that that he washed the bride from her defilement and her blood. In Ezekiel 36, verses 25 to 29, God describes the new birth and the new life in terms of washing and sprinkling your heart clean. Now At this point you may notice that um your translation, if it's NIV or some others, um has the cleansing her by the washing with water through the word as if that's present tense And if you see the NIV footnote, you'll notice that it could be translated either cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, or having cleansed her by the washing with water through the word. And I'm pretty convinced that it should be translated having cleansed her for two reasons. The first reason is because of this pattern of making her holy Cleansing and then verse 27, what he will do in the future. So there seems to be this idea of what he has done, what he is doing, and what he will do. But much more persuasive and definitive is the fact that in almost every case where you see this idea of washing for salvation, cleansing. It has to do with our entering into the Christian life, the point of our conversion, the point of our justification, the new birth For instance, in Titus 3, verse 5, it says, having been washed by the renewal of the Holy Spirit, you see, so it's the having been cleansed. Let me get it get that right. He says, uh Um he saved us through the washing of rebirth and the renewal by the Holy Spirit. You see, that's referring to what he has done. Ezekiel 36, it's all what he has done, point of bringing us to himself, giving us the new heart. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul says, Some of you were immoral, you were drunkers. You were greedy, but you have been cleansed. Talking about the point of what's been done when you came to Christ. Hebrews 10. You are now able to draw near because you have been cleansed in your conscience, in your body. Seems to be the theme of Scripture. And I believe the washing, therefore, is talking about baptism Having cleansed her by the washing with water, that is the physical sacrament that's depicting the spiritual reality. Uh and he makes that clear because he it's through the word, you see. It's not the washing, it's not the baptism, not baptismal regeneration or some superstitious idea that somehow the sacrament is going to change you spiritually, but it's the washing with water that depicts the cleansing, the spiritual decleansing, through the word And uh that's the kind of thing that you have in John fifteen, verse three, where Jesus says, You are already clean because of the word that I've spoken to you. And I think that word there most narrowly defined is that covenant word of love from the bridegroom, I have saved you and I love you. But more broadly, it's talking about the gospel. And the gospel is basically the what and the so what. What, what Jesus has done in giving himself for the bride. And the so what, what it is that you do to receive him. So what he's saying is that uh Christ loved the church, gave himself up for her, having cleansed her by the washing Of this Spirit in your life depicted in baptism, through the word preached to you, of the gospel which you believe And having done that, having brought you to himself in that, he is now in the process of setting you apart. That's being what he is doing. He is, the blank's there, setting you apart to himself. Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, it says, but you can also translate that to set her apart to himself. The word make the phrase make holy, as you may know from study of the Bible, uh holiness is set apartness. That's what holiness means. It just means something set apart. Very interesting. In the ancient Jewish weddings, when the bridegroom came to that point in the ceremony where he placed the ring on his bride He would say, with this I sanctify you to myself. I set you apart to myself. And that's the idea, you see. If you look in the Old Testament and holiness, uh, for instance, holy oil, what is it? Well, it's it's not magical. It's simply oil of special ingredients, which is set apart. for a holy purpose, for anointing, for whatever it is God said. It's set apart, you see. Or the utensils in the tabernacle and the temple that are holy were set apart for a special use The tabernacle itself was holy because it was set apart from other dwellings for where God would meet with his people. The people are called holy because they're set apart from all other peoples to belong to God. I've said to you many times, I believe the clearest statement of the gospels to make an argument for it is in his Exodus chapter six, in verses six to eight. And what is it that that does? It defines the name Yahweh. And how does he define himself? Do you remember those three R's that we used when we looked at that many years ago now. Um but um do you remember there's three parts to this verse six, verse seven verse eight, each have a a different aspect of salvation And it the first uh R is that we are anybody remember? The verse six is um well it says, you know, um Therefore say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians, I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, with mighty acts of judgment. First R is I will Redeem you, right? Okay. I didn't even dare to try that on the first service. I gave the first one. They get they got the other two, so You get even more points. You got all three. You know what to do with that. Okay, so he redeems us, that is, he delivers us from bondage. He gave himself as a sacrifice for us. But then verse seven says, And I will take you as my own people. Well I will be your God. You see, we're redeemed into a remember relationship. We're set apart to Him And just for those of you that, you know, kind of like a discordant note, if you don't get the third R, you're not going to be able to sleep tonight. Remember, redeemed into a relationship with a reward. He talks about Canaan, verse 8. So this is the idea that Paul's picking up on in chapter 5 of Ephesians. He's saying that Jesus is, he has given himself for the bride to make her holy, to set her apart to himself, you see. Call her into that special relationship. The idea of Song of Solomon 6. 3. I belong to my lover and my lover is mine. It's that mutual possession of the bridegroom to the bride. To make her holy, to set her apart to himself. And so Ephesians chapter 2, when he's been talking about the gospel, what does he say? Chapter 2, verse 21, in him the whole building joined together, rises to become a holy temple. This is now not talking about the physical building, it's talking about the people, you, me, his people, and the new covenant. We are a holy temple. We are set apart. In the Lord and in him you are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit He has set you apart for himself. So therefore in verse 26 of Ephesians 5, that's what he is opening up. He is saying Jesus gave himself in order to set you apart to himself. Therefore, basic principle that we see here in verse 26. Whoever has been cleansed is becoming holy. Those are the two blanks. Has it is. That's a basic principle, you see. Whoever has been cleansed is becoming holy. That means that your affection for Jesus, the bridegroom, is increasing And the attraction of the world is gradually losing its grip. That's what it's all about. So your affection is increasing, but only as you cultivate that relationship. And what's scary to me is how many Christians are satisfied to say. I have Jesus as my Savior. I'm going to heaven. But I'm not particularly interested in cultivating the relationship with the bridegroom, who says here, he is setting me apart. Brothers and sisters, I want to tell you with the greatest earnestness and seriousness, and there may be somebody here that God particularly wants to speak to about this, if you have been cleansed. By the washing with water through the word, the gospel, He will set you apart. You cannot separate those things. You cannot have the option that says that I want to live a kind of Christianity in which my values are pretty similar to my friends. In which I come time to time when it's convenient to worship, to catch a blessing, coming in late to get it and out early Don't need to really read the Bible on a regular basis, become part of the body. That's okay You know, it's kind of like the bride saying to the bridegroom, Well now I I want to marry you, but of course I can plan to continue to date my old boyfriends. And we'll become intimate at times, but that's okay because Jesus doesn't make any demands, right? It's unconditional grace. So Jesus, I know you'll understand because you're so loving, you know, and you just you accept all that and you're just you just never make demands, and that's what grace is all about Such a husband would not be a hero, he'd be a cuckold. And some of us want Christianity without cleansing. We want happiness without holiness. Verse 26 says, those who he has cleansed by the washing with water through the Word, He is making holy And if you belong to him, that may mean some kind of loving discipline. It may mean there'll be something he'll do to get your attention. It could be some trial, some disappointment, some reversals. Some disability, some illness. I'm not saying that whoever has trials and who has disabilities and illness is under discipline. Clearly, the book of Job teaches us that's not the case in other parts of Scripture. But the reverse is true. If you have no concern for holiness, he will bring discipline into your life. I was talking to just this week to a man whose wife left him a couple years ago. And these were his words. He said, Al. I have grown more in my relationship with Jesus Christ in these last two years than in all my previous life, all my life before that time. See, it's not an option to say, I want to be cleansed, but I don't want to be holy. And we live in a day Which is advocating that kind of popular, superficial notion of Christianity But you see, the good news is that Jesus is saying, I demand, as Hosea depicts, that you forsake your other lovers, because I know that they don't love you. They simply want to use you. Our idols will hold us in bondage. Jesus alone loves us. He alone wants to give us freedom and joy and peace. And so even as this man told me that this week, in tears of what's going on in his life, it was also the notion that he wouldn't trade what's happened for anything. Because of what it's done in his relationship with Jesus. Well, let me say a few things by way of application to you husbands. Because he says here in verse 25, husbands love your wives just as. So this is a pattern for you. Verse 28, in the same way, husbands ought to love their wives just as their own bodies a pattern for you, you see. So six lessons Now the rest of what I've said is for you to take and to apply before the Lord. I pray that you will. But now particularly for your husbands, number one It means that you may only marry a wife who has been cleansed and is being made holy. That is, only a Christian. Sometimes you hear people talk about, well, the you know, the Bible doesn't say there's no verse that says Christians must only marry Christians. But you see, even though there are verses that talk about that, the whole notion of marriage presupposes the covenantal context. And so there is, because of what marriage is, then it is both assumed and required That if you're a guy, a teenage guy or a single guy, uh older than that, that you vow and commit yourself before the Lord Without being in a relationship, Lord, I tell you right now, I will not consider marrying someone who is not a Christian. And the same thing goes for you girls, teen girls, you women. Did you make the same vow? Somebody come to me in tears after the first service, so God deeply convicted them. in this area, in a relationship they're already in. Great pain. But that you would see and you would commit themselves and praise God this person did. I will commit myself, I will not move forward in that relationship. Unless that person were to become a Christian, what joy that would mean, what heartache it would come if you don't make that determination Second thing is that you must see her then as one who is precious to Christ and cleansed by him. Verse 26. Having cleansed her by washing with water through the word. Let me ask you guys a question. Have you ever thought about your wife the way Jesus thinks about her? I mean, have you ever thought about how does Jesus think about my wife? How does he see her? You see all her deficiencies and her blemishes. You think he's not aware of those? You think he's idealistic? No, he sees exactly he sees far more than you do. Believe it or not. But he also has cleansed her. He is setting her apart to himself as precious And there's something there that we need to capture. I remember a time when I was feeling pretty critical of Kathy once. Well maybe twice. But there was one particular time that I remember that um having a difficult time and and I saw and she was walking away And I looked at her, and all of a sudden, I wasn't seeking this out, but there was this image that came to me of how Jesus saw her And I was gnashing my teeth, and I was angry, and I was feeling pretty critical, and all of a sudden I saw, Lord, you see earth as precious to you. You've given your life for her, you've cleansed her, and to you there's nothing more important than drawing her to yourself as someone who is precious. And I was deeply convicted about how I demeaned her, about how cheaply I saw her compared to how Jesus saw her. We need to capture that, because it's true. Thirdly, you're entitled to be jealous of her affections. Because you do belong to each other. Verse 26 says that he is setting her apart to himself. That's different from a selfish possessiveness, but it's true that It means you belong to each other, but particularly for you guys, that means to keep your affections on her, you must avoid at all costs any kind or form of pornography. Because pornography draws your affections to a fantasy with which your wife cannot compete. And you will always find her less precious to you when you've looked at pornography And it is so easy now. Used to be you have to buy a magazine or a video, you go to some seedy area of town. Now it's just a few clicks on the internet. I was just reading this week that it was just less than two years ago, there were a hundred and fifty thousand pornographic sites. on the internet, and they were being added at the rate of an average of 200 per day. Corrosive, rot, it focuses on self-centered gratification And making your wife less precious. She has a right to be jealous of your affections and to not tolerate that. Let me tell you, if you have a problem with that, I've got an offer for you. When the gray slip, you turn it into the offering. Just put down your phone number. Don't put down your name. Just put down your phone number and we will pass that to a group of men in our congregation and meet to help each other in holiness and godliness. So they can give you a call and invite you to join them because you need help. It's probably not something you're going to just lick on your own. That's why God's given us the body. Just put your phone number Put on the back of the grace lip where it talks about the prayer request. We'll know what to do with it. That's an offer. It's up to you whether you take us up on it or whether you stay in a bondage if you're in that. Then the fourth thing, real quick, means that you cooperate with Jesus in helping her to become more holy. Your goal is for her to become more like Jesus, setting her apart to him, not to become more like you. or manipulative devices, or we want our wives to become more like us because it's convenient and beneficial and you know and we can justify why that's better But the idea here is that your longing is that she become more like him. And there'll be some sacrifice involved in that. And so the fifth thing is that means that the means for accomplishing that is the word. It's through the word, he says. So that means you have as a priority in your life that your wife is able to get in the word. It means that you share with her Things that you're learning from the Word, to encourage her about the benefits. It means that you provide for opportunities that she can be away from the kids and that you'll take them for a while, particularly on the weekends, so she can have prolonged time quiet in the Word. It means you're interested in her getting into Bible studies and into a cell. It means that you're concerned for her to be under good preaching. That's not an advertisement for CPC. All it's saying is if you are thinking of moving I'm appalled sometimes at guys that get job transfers, and that's the only consideration. So they move someplace, then they find out there wasn't any good preaching. There wasn't any preaching of the gospel where they were. You'd be willing to start a church there or get her under a place where she's going to benefit in the preaching of the word. It's a priority for you. So all these things, you know, and then finally make sure you take the initiative that the two of you will be at the marriage conference. Next May 1819. Register now. We're already starting to receive registrations. We had to plan this thing almost a year ago to get the speakers that we wanted to get for this. It's going to be a quality conference, not for points Because you're simply offering yourself as a sacrifice to Jesus, love your wife, and you know that you can't, but you're asking God to change your heart. You're asking God to teach you how to do that just like I am. It's been a rough week for Kathy and me, I'll tell you. I realize how very inadequate I am. But like you I come to him. Let's come now. Lord, Lord, teach us how inadequate we are That we might see, Lord, become more aware, even this week, of those ways that we rationalize and manipulate We try to gain points and we realize, Lord, it's also self-centered. And we might come to you empty to simply focus on your great love for us. That you have delighted to set us apart to yourself and draw us into a relationship in which our affections are centered on you and you lavish your love on us. Teach us what that means. In Jesus Name