Hear God's word carefully from Ephesians chapter five. Once again, husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church. And gave himself up for her. I read that and I realize I have failed to love Kathy in any self-sacrificial way. I am So much more aware of what I want than what will benefit her And I don't even realize how poor my love is until the Holy Spirit opens my eyes from time to time to begin to see it. Verse 26. To make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word. I have failed to see her as cleansed, and being set apart to him as precious in his sight. And then verse 27. And to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle, or any other blemish, but holy. And blameless. And there is my hope that he will not fail to accomplish that either in her or in me. That she will be altogether lovely, and I will be altogether loving. You see why it is so important That you and I see marriage as not simply on the human level. Just uh this week I was I received in the mail a booklet Uh and it's about uh marriage called Marriage Work Marriage Works, Healing the Soul of Marriage. It's a series of courses uh put out by the uh American Association. for uh Christian counselors and uh a subdivision of that, the Center for Biblical Counseling. And uh so I I looked at this thing, looked through it, obviously catch my attention preaching on this. And I looked at their statement of faith, which is a basically uh evangelical statement of faith about God and scripture and human nature and substitutionary death of Christ, the work of the Spirit. But then I come to the last paragraph, which is about the purpose of Christian counseling. And it says this the ultimate goal of Christian counseling is to help others to move to personal wholeness, interpersonal competence, mental stability and spiritual maturity. Anything wrong with that Hey, who's against that stuff, right? Except this is the ultimate goal of Christian counseling, and there's nothing distinctively Christian about it. Wholeness, competence, stability, spiritual maturity, that's as close as you get, I guess. How do you define that? And it it would it reminded me of uh an article That I read this week by David Neff, who's the editor of Christianity Today. And it's an article called Beyond Self-Help Chatter. In this article, Neff makes the point that he says today it's harder and harder to tell the difference between evangelical churches and liberal churches. Not because they have the same theology, but he says because the sermons sound so similar. He says in both cases, in recent churches that he has visited, you have messages that basically teach you how to live more successfully, a better, more rewarding life, stripped Of any New Testament theology of the work of Christ. And I gotta tell you, when I go through a series like this, it's very tempting. To give you messages from Ephesians 5 that talk about how-to's and tips on how to have a better marriage. sprinkled with some moving illustrations about love and romance. But I would not only be shortchanging you I would be unfaithful to what Paul tries to do in this text. Because if there is one thing that ought to stand out to you, as it does to me as you read this, is how entirely Christ centered his instructions about marriage honor. And verse 27 is the climax of what he's been driving at. The husband's vision for his wife is to mirror Christ's vision for his church. And so you remember we said that verses 25, 26, and 27 talk about the three. Dimensions the three time references of Christ's love in verse 26 and 27. Yeah, the past, he has cleansed us by his blood through his word. In the present, he is making us holy, setting us apart to himself as precious. Making our affections more and more centered on him. And in the future, verse 27, he will present the church to himself as perfect. And that's what I want to focus on, verse 27, with you this morning. And I want you to see two things about Christ's vision for his bride, the church. That is the perfection and the personal. His vision is that it be perfect, that she be perfect, and his vision is that she is personally presented to him. Notice first of all then the perfection of his vision. There's two aspects to that, I think you see in verse 27. To present her to himself as a radiant church, that talks about her glory And then he says, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless, that speaks of her as being sinless. So she's both glorious and sinless. The glorious part of it is depicted also in two ways. I think in this verse there are two ideas, and I think uh that's That's amplified both you look back at Psalm 45 and you look forward to the book of Revelation. And that is that she is glorious both in her dress and in her inherent beauty. The idea there is she is a radiant church, and that idea of radiance, I think, has both the outward and the inward. If you look back at Psalm forty-five, whether you want to, or just listen to me, what we just used, and I'm glad we did for our responsive reading, in verse thirteen, take off here. In verse thirteen You read, All glorious is the princess within her chamber, her gown is interwoven with gold Actually a better translation, if you have an NIV and you look, you'll see that under her chamber, there is like uh somebody put the little corners of a frame there And they forgot to fill it in or something. It's not really a parenthesis, but it's just a little something that looks like this before her and after chamber. And what that means in the NIV when you see that is that those words are not in the original. Just means that Somebody inserted them to make sense. And I don't think those words should be there. Because literally the Hebrew of that reads, All glorious is the princess within with braided gold her clothing. So I think you have there the two aspects of her beauty She herself within her being is all glorious, and her clothing is bladed gold. You have then in verse 14, in embroidered garments she has led to the king. In other words, both the outward and the inward is beautiful, is glorious. Over ten times in the book of Revelation, you have references to the beauty of the bride's wedding apparel. Again and again, for instance in Revelation 19 and verse 7, let's rejoice and be glad and give him glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Fine linen, bright and clean, was given her to wear. In chapter twenty-one and verse two, I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride. So now I have the bride as a city. Obviously mixing metaphors here, but John does that, you know, you picture this. Here's the bride in New Jerusalem, God's people, coming down out of heaven, prepares a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And so this pictures the fact that he is going to adorn his bride with a glory and a beauty That you and I cannot begin to imagine now. You think of uh the description I gave you last year of the wedding of Mary, Queen of Scots, and how Scotland beggared itself in displaying to the world what true beauty would look like in her dress and her entourage And this is a magnificence that is beggared by what is described here as the bride of Christ. But the radiance, I think, more particularly has to do with her beauty of character. He's going to present her as a radiant church, and that you see is then displayed by this picture that he goes on to describe of without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. In Revelation 21 in verse 9, you have that picture of the beauty of the bride that's described, and then in verse 11 it goes and talks about her as being bejeweled in her character. a d as Jasper, clear as crystal. And um this essential loveliness of her character is also described in two ways, you notice. Look at verse 27 there again. She's, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, that's the negative, that's what is gone. And then positively, she's holy and blameless. First of all, notice the negative that there's no stain in her. The church, I think we'd have to agree, is full of stains. Historically, you look at the church of Christ with all the good that has been accomplished and certainly much in way of uh what's been done through the church and the gospel has been very positive and beneficial. But we also have to recognize that there's a lot of which we're ashamed, isn't there, when you look at church history. Look at how Christians treated one another, literally murdering one another, those they they disagreed with, as heretics. the denominations that had been formed. We had a Swedish couple staying with us on Friday night and they said one of the things they most noticed traveling around America is how many different kinds of churches we have around here. You guys really, you got overchoice. And each one, you know, thinks they're superior to the others, criticizing and Not that disagreement is wrong, it's the sense of superiority. We're Christian leaders that gather to themselves disciples to follow them Rather than being servants of Christ, the racism that runs rampant in the church The materialism, the fact that you see the church often as a narrow subculture that is ugly rather than beautiful And displaying Christ to the world. A lot of stains. And yet you read back in chapter 3. That he says in verse 10, his intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom, remember he said that the manifold wisdom is a word which means the multifaceted display like a diamond. His multifaceted wisdom of God is who is uh is which for the ages past was kept hidden, is now being revealed. And his intent was that Now through the church, this would be displayed according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. We say, huh, somehow we've fallen short of that, haven't we? Hey, you don't have to look at the church in history or around it others. Just look at ourselves. I mean, look at Columbia Presbyterian. We're not without stains, are we? I mean uh you think of our own body and do you love everybody that's in your cell because they're precious to Jesus? When you uh see somebody that you know in the body is hurting, do we offer them a word of comfort, a word that just says we care, just a touch Or do we avoid them because we might get into a lengthy conversation, we feel awkward? When 8 30 or 11 o'clock comes or are we all in our place and we're just waiting for that word that will prompt the praise to burst from our lips To minister the sacrifices of praise to Jesus for all he's done that we've experienced in the last week? Do we look forward to being equipped during the middle hours so that we can serve him more fully or Do we guard our schedules, looking at Jesus more as someone to empower and equip us to be successful in our own agendas and to give us peace that we crave? Do we look forward next Sunday to coming to the Lord's Supper, to hear again of his infinite sacrifice for us, and to whisper to him our love for what he has done? We're full of stains. I'm full of stains. And I'll tell you, I am so tired of sinning. So tired, so sick and tired of sinning, so tired of my feeble efforts to please Jesus that sitting so weak and divided. What about you? Are you tired of sinning? Let's just say it together, get it out on the table. Let's just say it together, I am tired of sinning. Let's say I am tired of sinning. Isn't that true? Yeah? But you know when Jesus the bridegroom comes and he presents his bride, of which if you're resting in Jesus and his finished work on the cross this morning, Then you belong to that body. And that day when he comes and presents the bride to himself, you will have confessed your last sin. We have every Sunday morning as part of our time confession of sin. Because one thing we know, we don't have to survey you when you come through the door. Have you sinned this week? We know. That you have like we have. But there will come that day when the confession of sin will be gone. And every intent of your heart will be fully and undivided to please Jesus Christ, and you will be full of an increasing affection and satisfaction with Him. That fills your being and every fiber of it. No stain. No stain whatsoever And if the angels were to look, they would not detect in you or me, no matter how closely they scrutinized your life, not one single defect. Because Jesus will have eradicated every stain. And it says every wrinkle too. What's the difference? Why does he say stains and wrinkles? When I read about the wrinkles, I kind of have to smile to myself while also realizing there's something very serious here. I think the serious Part of it is that wrinkles are an effect of the curse. You can remove stains You try to remove wrinkles? You know there's a billion-dollar industry that is moving into higher gear. I had an article that I wanted to go back and find that I couldn't about all the high-tech stuff that's being done now to remove wrinkles. And I'll tell you, the guy who learns how to remove wrinkles will beggar Bill Gates. It's already a multi-billion dollar industry, but here is a bridegroom who waits and you look, you know, some of you that are kind of toward where Kathy and I are, you look at your wedding album. You say, why don't we look like that anymore? Who is that in there? A little different. Less hair, more wrinkles, more pounds. You can't remove wrinkles. But here's a bridegroom that comes, and when he takes his bride in the flush of her beauty, the perfection of the radiance of her health. He removes her wrinkles. What a man! You women say there is a hero for ya He removes all wrinkles, and the bride will never become wrinkled. The only thing that will change in her Is that she will simply deepen in her awareness of his glory and his love, and her affection and adoration for him will become fuller and richer through the ages. That's all that'll change. A deepening awareness of his wonder and an increasingly love of our hearts drawn out to him. That's what chapter 2, verse 7. Remember? All the ages to come, he'll be showing us the riches of his glory, of his grace. And so he goes on to say not only every stain or any wrinkle, but any other blemish, anything you see. And I think that's just a way of saying it, just any kind of imperfection, all will be removed forever. And then he states it positively Any stain, wrinkle, any blemish, but positively holy and blameless. I think too often we tend to think of holy and blameless in negative terms But um holiness and blameless are not just what we're not doing. You know, you're not doing wrong stuff It's talking about a positive quality of Christ-likeness. It means to be like Jesus, free from every fear and anxiety and insecurity and bondage to sin. And anything that perverts God's original intention in his creation in Eden, it means being like Christ. And you see this is the climax of Ephesians. Turn for a moment back at chapter one Do you remember when he began the gospel after his greeting, praise to the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ? Then he says, verse 4 For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. Now, how did he do that? He made us holy and blameless. Verse 7 says, Through the work of Christ, in him we have redemption, through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us. So that what happened is that you and I recognizing all of our stains and wrinkles and blemishes and all that is in us that is so defiled Look at Jesus Christ, who is perfect and unblemished, unstained, unwrinkled. He went to the cross, took upon himself the curse you and I deserved, and God forgives us of our sins, and we become holy and blameless in his sight. The record of Jesus' life in its perfection is imputed to you. It is credited to you. And so in chapter 4, verse 1, he says, now begin to learn what it means to live out this calling that you've been given. Chapter 5, verse 26 He tells you that God, that Jesus is in the process of making you holy. That is, he is making your experience more and more to line up with that record that you have before God of holy blameless. But then you see verse 27 says that there's coming a day when he will make you without any stain or wrinkle or any other blemish. but you will be holy and blameless. And what that's saying is that your experience, every thought, every motive, every attitude, every action is going to perfectly line up with the record that you now have of Jesus' righteousness. No longer will you depend on the record No longer will you say, this has been a really rotten week, and praise God, I have the righteousness of Christ credited to me. But you will say, Praise God, this has been another perfect week. And I have lived exactly as Jesus has intended. You see, your life will match the record. And that's what he's saying. In that day it will be brought together in complete harmony. And it's important that you and I realize that this is not just individually You notice that verse 27 says that he will present her talking about the church, verse 25, which is his whole body. Think of a rose. Now, let's suppose I was holding up a rose here, and this rose was wilted. It had been in the hot summer heat. It had lack of water. Besides that, you look inside this poor wielded rose, and there's a few Japanese beetles in there. and uh it's black got black spot disease, the petals are spotted and they're dropping off and you'd look and you'd say, what a shame. That rose had such potential. I mean roses can be beautiful. It's too bad what it looks like. Now you contrast it in your mind with a fresh rose with the dew of the morning on it, and it's a bud, and it's just beginning to open up. And it's got the shades of pink and salmon or red and uh maybe pink and I mean uh salmon and yellows or reds and pinks in it. You look at this thing and it's just opening up and there's nothing, no spots. The leaves are green and healthy. There's no bugs on it, no aphids, no Japanese beetles. There it is, beautiful, and you say, that's beautiful. You don't generally see roses alone. Whatever I think of that, I'm sure I'll always think of an experience that Kathy and I had this summer in Belfast We were having dinner with some people after church and uh the husband said, Well, this was one of I think the two days that it didn't rain to the three weeks we were there. It was a pretty afternoon And so the uh the husband said, Well, well, why don't you go over to Lydie Dixon? We didn't know who Lydie Dixon was, but it turned out that Lydie Dixon was a park. It's quite nice. You know, enjoy So we went over there. We thought, well, there's going to be, you know, some town rose gardens and um some flowers there. We walked into the entrance and went and there was this huge circle of maybe um a few hundred rose bushes, all laid out in a formal pattern Went up to the circle, and then we looked, and as far as the eye could see to the horizon were nothing but unending rose gardens. I mean we're not talking hundreds of rose bushes, we're talking hundreds of gardens. Since the last century, they have added a garden a year. And each one laid out in a perfect pattern of symmetry with golf turf or grass Surrounded by hundreds and thousands of rhododendron bushes and fuchsia bushes and trees and rocks and streams On and on as far as the eye could see, thousands and hundreds of thousands of roses, the international competition of the world's finest rose producers, are in this garden. This is the finest of the finest. And as we looked at that, and I'd be glad to show anybody pictures if you want to see what it looks like. But as we looked at that thing Literally, my breath was taken away looking at this. And I thought, what a picture of the body of Christ in that day. When you and I, like the individual roses that have been made perfect with no spot or wrinkle or any blemish, are joined together Bush upon bush, garden upon garden, to look as far as the eye can see, myriads and myriads of his people joined together, saved by his grace, perfected by his power. joined in a harmony and symphony of praise to Jesus Christ and the beauty that will never end or be defiled. And you and I will be overwhelmed at that point, that this is, as chapter 2 talks about, that living temple in which God dwells by his beauty and by his power. Amen. What a day that'll be. But you notice it's also personal. You notice that he says here that he is going to he is going to present her to himself. Not just that we're going to be there. It's going to be that as John 14 says, do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God, he says, Trust in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back And I will take you to be with me, that you also may be where I am. Remember, Jesus longs for us. In chapter 17, his great high priestly prayer. He prays in verse 24, Father, I want those you've given me to be with me where I am, to see my glory. I remember my own wedding day. I remember Kathy designed it, she planned it. If any of you know my wife, Kathy, you know that one of her more prominent gifts is that of decorating and being able to arranged things beautifully and she went all out, I can guarantee you that for that day. It was a candlelight service at eight o'clock in the evening All the greens and everything that she had assembled were in perfect order. Everybody was dressed to their finest. But the thing that I'll always treasure in my heart Was that she said to me after the wedding, when I walked down the aisle, all I could see was you Not the beauty of all the decorations or all the people. All I saw was you And I guarantee you, all that I was seeing when that day was her. Psalm 45, verse 8: the king is enthralled With your beauty, the beauty that He has given to you. What will it be to look into the eyes in the face of Jesus And to know that there is the fulfillment of every longing of your heart to be with Him forever. Before I finish, let me just say a couple words to you guys, your husbands. You see that we're not just to admire this, to have our hope as Christians, to be strengthened in this. But Paul also says that this is a model for husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church. Verse 28, in the same way, husbands ought to love their own wives. So as you look at the vision of Jesus Christ for his church, That vision of what he is going to present in that day. And realize Jesus has a vision for his church and he is moving toward that vision every day. Working in your life, working corporately in the church to bring that to completion. And ask yourself, what's your vision for your wife? Do you see her In terms of that completion and wholeness? And what are you doing to help her to move toward that? Well, let me ask you another question: What is your vision for your marriage? What do you want your marriage to look like 25 years from now or 15 years from now? I think it would be a great thing if every one of us, as husbands at Columbia Presbyterian, had a marriage mission statement. That we would write out by the year 2010 or 15 or whatever it is, this is what I would want my marriage to look like This is what I want my wife to look like. And I don't just mean no more wrinkles. I mean this is what I want her character, what I want her and her growth and grace to look like. Now what is it going to take me to get there? See, that's what vision does. Vision gives you something to move toward. So what are you gonna what is it gonna mean? Is the schedule that you're keeping, the level of intimacy that you're cultivating, the time that you spend together, is that gonna be conducive to getting you to where you want to be 10, 15, 20 years from now? Or if you're honest and you look at that and you say, you know, if we continue the course we're on now, it's going to be pretty sad in 15, 20 years. We're going to be living separate lives. Now, if you want to see how you're doing in this, and you're really feeling brave, I've placed on the corner of the back table Little yellow sheet looks like this. It's called Rate Your Example. It's for you husbands. You wives aren't allowed to look at it. All right? But it's it's offered for you men. I put 150 of them back there. I'm gonna count and see how many were taken there. No fair taking twenty to save your brothers, you know. Clean out the pile. But w what this is for you to do is for you husbands to take this look at it. It lists five areas And each one has two or three questions. And then there are columns here, consistently true, generally true, occasionally true, seldom true. That's not for you to fill out That's for you after you've prayed about it. If you muster up the courage, you give it to your wife, and then she fills it out. And then you discuss it, hopefully over candlelight or some low-level stress situation. Just to see, where are we headed? Jesus has a vision for his bride, and he will, by God's grace, he will sovereignly accomplish it. Do I have a vision for my bride? Or if you're single, what would you want if God were to give you a marriage partner? What would you want your marriage to look like? It's good to put that down now. Lay it before the Lord. There it is, Lord. It's yours to take, to fulfill it, to not. But at least I have something in mind of what you would intend. If somebody asked Larry Crab one time, not too long ago, said, What have you learned in 32 years of marriage? And this was his answer. He said, I have learned to never lose the vision of what could be Where she feels beautiful in my presence, and I feel honored in hers, that in our worst fights To see something more precious which beckons, a vision of what could be And Ephesians 5. 27 says, a vision of what will be in your life and in mine. May our marriages begin to reflect it. Let's pray Father, as we think about the hope that we have of what you, Lord Jesus, will do in your church. You will bring us to that place. Where we have confessed our last sin and demonstrated the last stain, and it's been obliterated, the wrinkles removed, and we are standing perfect before you. Looking into your eyes of love for us. Lord, help us to live in the light of that hope. That everyone here would have that hope. And we pray, Lord, that our marriages would reflect something of that vision. That you would forgive us as husbands for not having a vision For not even thinking about what we want our marriages to look like five, ten, fifteen years down the road. Lord, that you would grant us grace To be able to model your vision, to be willing to talk to our wives, to give them this evaluation and To be able to honestly discuss how we're doing and whether we're moving toward that. And that you would use that constructively. Lord forbid that there would be destructive conversations But that they would be constructive, and they would bring us to rest in you, to not have to defend ourselves, but to simply realize Lord, that the glimpses of our heart are generally painful, but your love is always there to be able to cover our sin Speak to us in the particular ways that you want to, and help us to hear in Jesus' name. Amen.