I report to you that I put 150 of these yellow rating sheets out there yesterday for husbands to take this last week and give to your wives to rate your spiritual leadership. And uh there was only thirty-five left. So it would seem that a hundred and fifteen of you husbands girded up your loins and took your courage in your hands. to take one of those sheets. Of course I have no idea how many of you actually gave them to your wives. Um but I'll report to you that I did, gave it to my wife And I want to tell you, I told her, I gave it to her, and I said, honey, you just be honest. Of course I uh gotta tell you that I may quote you in the sermon what you tell about me next uh week, but So I don't know if that had any effect on what you put now. I didn't tell you. Actually one man emailed me a picture of uh two control panels and uh one was labeled the man Had a simple on-off switch. Then the other one said the woman. And it was filled with dozens of dials and switches and all kinds of stuff was impossible to fill out. somehow I had the idea his yellow sheet discussion didn't go very well this week. But if you missed it, you still have a chance. There's a few still back there even after the last service Now we want to continue in the fifth message that is particularly in Scripture directed to the husbands, but I emphasize this is for all of us Husbands, wives, single, divorced. This is for everyone that God speaks to about this picture But there are two more messages to finish Ephesians chapter five, and what I intended to do was to cut it this week and then next week to observe um persecuted church Sunday and had a message for that And then the Sunday after that, just before Thanksgiving, to do a Thanksgiving message, I was kind of excited about, but I decided this week that probably was in the best interest of everyone to actually finish the two messages. on Ephesians um in the next two weeks, on Ephesians five. Don't let your heart skip a beat there, but um Rather than uh do the Persecuted Church and the Thanksgiving message and postpone those till next year. So This year, instead of having a message on Thanksgiving, at least when you hear the message on Ephesians 5, you can be thankful that there's only one more chapter to go, and that's what we'll have for Thanksgiving this year. Um but um I want to pick up where I left off last week, this and then two more messages for Ephesians 5. Last week, last couple of weeks we've been considering Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25 to 27. So we could have that up here. I've put this on an overhead Because this is kind of a complicated passage, and I've said that uh this is a kind of message where you're either going to go out just you know praising the Lord for wow, this was really the gospel is just powerful, or you're gonna go out saying What in the world was that guy talking about? And so I've taken a couple of extraordinary measures here to try and help you. One is that you notice the bulletin is not an outline, it's more like a chart, and it goes a whole sheet rather than a half sheet, and then having this up here so that you can follow it. And that way, if there's any of you that don't have Bibles with you, at least you can be looking at this while I'm preaching to be able to follow along. So uh whether you're looking in your Bible or on there, let me uh point out what we had read before, God's Word to us from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word and to present her to Himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. We talk about how this describes to us the three tenses of Christ's love to us in salvation, the past tense, having cleansed her. Better translation, by the washing with water, that is, having cleansed you from your sin through his sacrifice on the cross. through the word the gospel preached to you that you believe on present tense making her holy that is he is setting you apart now to himself to become more like him and Increase in your affection toward him. And then, verse 27, the future, one day, that day when he comes, to present her to himself as a radiant church without any blemish, any wrinkle. Now that's uh that's all one thought. Then you move on to verse 28, and you have a connection. Because verse twenty-eight says, in this same way, and I was trying to check out in this same way as what's coming ahead or what's coming behind. The Greek is simply one word which means thus in this way, and it's referring clearly to verses 25 to 27. So In this way that I've just described, Paul says, husbands ought to love their own wives, but then he adds a new thought, as their own bodies. And so you have this second thought, which means there's really two commands here Verses 25 to 27. Now if you look on your little sheet that I gave you, it maybe become a little clearer here. Try to follow this thing. You really have two commands to the husbands. Number one, love your wife as Christ loved his church, which is his bride, verses 25 to 27. So you see her in red to help you to see this is talking about Christ's love for his bride, his church, as a person, that image But then the second command, love your wife as you love your own body, verses twenty eight and twenty nine In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, no one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for it, just as Christ does the church. And so that's the second command. But then what he does is something that's rather staggering, I think, and is often missed, I think, in the the profundity of it. I mean, this is something that you could think about for the rest of your life and not fully grasp what Paul does here. What he does is he takes these two images, the bride of Christ and the body of Christ, and what he says in verse 30 is that the bride of Christ is the body of Christ. You see, look at verse 30, as we said, for we are members. We who, the bride here, are members of his body. Then he says analogously now, think about this, husbands, your bride is your body. Verse 31, for this reason a man will leave his father and his mother, will be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. That's why he said in verse 28. Love your wife as you love your own body, because he's saying in verse 31, your bride is your body. You've been joined together in one flesh. And then, the climax of it, verse 32, he says, your one flesh union in marriage is a visible analogy of the intimacy of the church to Christ. This is a profound mystery. Now, mystery is something which has been before hidden and is now revealed through the gospel, but he's saying this is a mystery that is so profound. that it's not as if, okay, now I can grasp it. This is something which it takes the rest of your life to get your mind wrapped around this thing. This is a profound mystery, but I am talking about Christ and the church. And so the blanks are the bride of Christ is the body of Christ. That's the heart of the thing here. Which shows that as the wife becomes one with her husband in the mystical union of their lives, so the church becomes one with her groom, Jesus. This merges the bride body image to reveal what I believe is a mystery so glorious and so profound that you and I, as I say, could never, never really fully grasp it. The other thing is I think it helps to realize is that each of these explains the other. When you say, oh, how can I understand marriage? I mean who can understand a relationship of how two lives are joined together in marriage? And God says, well, it's a picture of the relationship I have with my people. Look at the relationship of Christ And his death for his people, the relationship we have with him, he understands marriage. He said, How can I understand my relationship with Jesus? I mean not just I don't understand. I don't see him. I can't feel him. I don't talk to him like another person. How do I understand? And he says, well now look at marriage. Look at the relationship of a husband to a wife. And this isn't just if you are married. This is even if you're not married. Look at a good marriage and see how that marriage operates. And Paul says, each of these helps you to understand the other. They feed on each other. And that's a pretty powerful thing to grasp, to see how what God has given us to see, physical marriages, and what he has given us that we don't see, the relationship of him to his people are pictures of one another. But ultimately, going back to the beginning, marriage is the visible picture of the relationship between God and his people. That's what's below all the stuff you see there on the on the handout. And so I say it's not simply a sociological arrangement. You must always understand that marriage is a sacred mystery. And you'll never grasp the import of your role as a husband or a wife. Unless you understand it as the mystery that pictures the relationship of God and his people. So therefore, husband, you are not simply to love your wife as if she were your body. But in the spiritual reality of life, she is in fact a part of you as an extension of your body. Grasp that. Think about that. Somebody told me after the first service, after their wedding, somebody had written on a card, from this day on When one of you cries, the other tastes salt. And that's the idea that Paul is picturing here. In marriage, you are fused together in an entity that is greater. Then you are alone. You are no longer an independent person. When I became married, I became a new being. I am now an Alan Kathy. That's the entity. So I can't think independently. To think independently is to think unbiblically. Because God has fused me to another person. Therefore, it is literally true that for me to love Kathy is to love myself in a way that I can feel, but can never fully explain. And by the way, I hope you see what a death blow this teaching was to the customary view of that day of viewing marriage, where the woman was simply property to the husband. Rather than attack that directly, where Paul gives some diatribe against social injustice or inequality or anything, what he does is he sweeps out from underneath the basis. So that by laying the foundation that marriage makes the husband and a wife an extension of each other as beings. You have utterly banished the notion of property. For each now is fused to the other, is an extension. And by doing that, Paul once and for all undermined any chauvinistic notion of property or chattel in marriage. That's still true today. Well, again, see what he's saying here. In the same way, then, let's go review it. In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, No one ever yet hated his own body, but he feeds and he cares for it, just as Christ does the church. Again, we are a picture of him, how he feeds and nourishes his body, for we're members of his body for this reason Quoting from Genesis 2. 24, man will leave his father and his mother be united to his wife, the two will become one flesh. We'll go into that more next week. This is a profound mystery, but I'm talking about Christ and the church. So the practical consequence of all this is that it teaches you how husbands to love your wives. You see, you are to love your wife, he says quite simply in verses 28 and 29, as you love your own body. And you see, I mean, Paul takes all that he's talking about in verse 25 and 27. He said, Now in case that has kind of blown your mind there and you you look at that and you say, How in the world can I grasp this? It's just too high and too long. He says When Ali says, let me give you something really practical and tangible, take a look at your body. You know, because most of us say Hell, I'm a man. I you know, I don't I'm not very good at this stuff of learning how to love a woman. And we need help, don't we guys? In fact, I believe that that's the first thing. that you need to understand that marks off a Christian from an unbeliever in a passage like this. And that is that Marriage is generally viewed as something that kind of automatically happens. You know, how do you learn to love? Well, you know, you're just sort of drawn to this person and you know you just sort of the chemistry kicks in there and you you know you just learn somehow how to love them. But you see the Bible isn't like that. Paul says you need to learn. Husbands need to learn how to love their wives. Reminds me of something somebody sent me that they had come across um From a guy that was writing tech support. This poor guy was writing tech support requests and he says, last year I upgraded Girlfriend 1. 0 to wife 1. 0, and I noticed that the new program began unexpected child processing. It took up a lot of space and valuable resources. No mention of this phenomenon was included in the product literature. In addition, Wife 1. 0 installs itself into all other programs and launches during system initialization where it monitors all other system activities. Applications such as Poker Knight 10. 3 and Beerbash 2. 5 no longer run. Crashing the system whenever selected. I cannot seem to purge Wife 1. 0 from my system. I'm thinking about going back to Girlfriend 1. 0, but uninstalled does not work on this program. Can you help me? Jonathan Powell. Dear Jonathan Powell, this is a very common problem men complain about, but is mostly due to a primary misconception. Many people upgrade from Girlfriend 1. 0 to Wife 1. 0 with the idea that Wife 1. 0 is merely a utilities and entertainment program Life one point zero is an operating system designed by its creator to run everything. Warning: Do not try to uninstall, delete, or purge the program from the system once installed. Trying to uninstall Wife 1. 0 can be disastrous. Doing so may destroy your hard and or floppy drive. Trying to uninstall or remove Wi Fi 1. 0 will destroy valuable system resources You cannot go back to girlfriend 1. 0 because wife 1. 0 is not designed to do this. And he goes on some other things. Well, isn't that where we are Somehow I have gotten into a situation where my life is fused to this other strange creature that I don't know how to love, but feel somehow that I ought to know how to do it. And so the first thing that the gospel teaches us is that Paul says here, you don't know how to do it. Admit it. The husbands that I feel most sorry for are those poor slobs going around pretending they know how to do this stuff. Because if we are not able to admit When I look at the ideal that God gives to me of my marriage, to my wife, as a relationship of Him to the church, and I somehow pretend that I can do it I become defensive, I become unteachable, I've got to prove to my wife or compete with her. Well, you think I do this, but you do, and the whole thing crashes, you see I need to come to that place in the gospel where I recognize that every day I fail in really understanding what it means to think As one life fused to another. And if I can admit that and I can understand the grace of Christ that he gave himself up for me, he has forgiven me, he has given me his record, I don't have to establish my husband husband righteousness and prove something, then I'm in a position to learn. And at that point, you see, Paul says, now let me give you a simple lesson. Look at your body. How do you love your body? And he says there's two things you do for it. You nourish it. And you cherish it, or the NIV less prosaic less more prosaically, less poetically says you feed it and you care for it. But you see, the idea is that we need to learn from how we relate to our bodies how it is that husbands and wives do relate. What do I learn from how to nourish my body? Well, how do I nourish my body? I tend to have high cholesterol, I enjoy food like most of you, and so I get a little thing called the Nutrition Action Health Letter. And uh the November issue, I again I forgot it's in the back, I was going to bring it up, uh is it got this nice chart in there. It shows you all the common dishes that we enjoy, you know, main dishes, side dishes, desserts, all sorts of And it lists them all in this nice chart that gives the calories and the total fat and the saturated fat and trans fats and the sodium and all that. It just rates them all. There it is, your life. Hey, do what you want. You know, you want to enjoy, you know, you know, I mean really You know, it makes you really enjoy a meal. Oh, that one's about fifteenth down on there, you know. I'll die in two years if I eat that, but sure tastes good. But you see, it's it's for my benefit. So I look at this thing And I say, I want to nourish my body. I want to I want to combine pleasure with something that's good for me. And then I think about that and I think, well, isn't that the way I look at my wife? I want to nourish her. I want what is going to be good for her. She's part of me. And yet there's got to be pleasure in that. What is something that she will enjoy? What do we enjoy together? And so how I nourish my body is how I nourish my wife. It's the same mentality. I don't think independently. You come up and you ask me Alan, how are you feeling today? I don't say, well I feel great, but my body has a terrible headache. You know, because I don't separate them Martin Lloyd Jones says that he's commenting on this, he said that um the idea of marriage as a partnership is a good idea, but he says it doesn't go nearly far enough. He says as as traiton hackneyed as the phrase is My better half gets at it more biblically. The idea is we are fused together, and even though generally the way I hear that used is not something that endears me to it Thinking about my better half, that other part of me, that part that I cannot separate myself from, that part that I nourish in order to be nourished is what Paul is talking about here. With the idea of cherishing, caring for it. How do I care for my body? I care for it to keep it in shape. You think I love getting up and running five miles at the crack of dawn? Yeah. But I do it. Why? Well, because running helps me to keep in shape. And so Friday I go in for uh my physical. I have one every three years about. I went in and you know she's taking my blood pressure and she takes my pulse and nurse says, hmm. Pulse is forty-eight. I'm thinking, is that bad? What is that? What what's the average pulse? What's the money? You know, why? 'Cause I'm concerned about my body. You know, this is a moment of anxiety. Well, you know, normal pulses would be a seventy, seventy five. Okay, well, how's forty eight compare? So well 48 is good, you know, you must exercise, you must do something. That means your heart's not working. So ah boy, that's good to hear. He said, I love taking care of my body. I enjoy my body. You know, and And God's intended for us to enjoy our body, to take care of it, to to run, to dance, to do things that we are able to thrive in our bodies. He says as you as you experience that. That's a picture of how the marriage relationship should function. And so when I was running this summer and I began to develop a pain in my hip, I checked it out. Well, you know, the same thing. What happens if there's pain in your wife's life? Do you say, well, I don't know, she's an adult. Better take care of herself. You know? But you see, care for your body doesn't work that way. The care for your body means if there's a pain, I'm going to check that out. Because that's me you're talking about. You don't tamper with my body without me getting very much involved. But we have a consciousness that is separate from our body, don't we? We talk about my body. And so Paul gives here a brilliant illustration for us to get a grasp on what it means. And then he says, the end of verse 28, something very profound He who loves his wife loves himself. Notice that that's not a command, it's an observation. He that loves his wife loves himself. But it's a powerful motivation, isn't it? In other words, he's saying, you are so united to your wife and you wives to your husbands That to love her is actually to love yourself. The best thing you can do for yourself is to love your wife. I'm reminded of some research that was done by a West German Dr. Sasbo, who conducted some research for a life insurance company And in this study, he found that husbands who kiss their wives every morning live an average of five years longer than husbands who do not. Write that down, guys. Furthermore, husbands who kiss their wives every morning are involved in fewer auto accidents, are ill 50% less time, and earn 20 to 30% more money. How's that's a motivation? So if you get nothing out from this message then that you can jot it down. Paul says To love your wife is to love yourself. Now I don't think that's what he's really getting at, but the fact is it is a principle of life. How you treat your wife affects you. So let me offer to you, here in conclusion, four statements That are on your bulletin handout, they're down there at the bottom, to try and get a handle on this radical and transforming idea that to love your wife is to love yourself. First of all, first is a paraphrase of John Piper, who's thought a lot about this, and today, you know, we began that series. course the pleasures of God. If you happen to miss it and you still have uh that hour that you're not committed to something else, I highly commend that. You're missing a real treat if you don't get that uh The Pleasures of God by John Piper, taught by John McCurley, sitting back there. But Piper says something like this. The reason there is so much misery in marriage is not because the husband and wife seek their own pleasure. But because they do not seek it in the pleasure of their spouse. It's not a matter of pleasure versus non-pleasure. Marriage opens you up to a new dimension of pleasure that goes beyond yourself. It's like learning when as a child I remember my parents saying, you know, we really get more fun out of watching you open presents than to watch open our own presence. And I thought, yeah, right What can be more fun than opening your own presence, you know? But as I have grown up, I find I actually do get more pleasure watching Kathy open what I got her than to open whatever I've gotten. The pleasure is extended through another person. It's enlarged. It's deepened. Your joy is enlarged in a fuller measure. So, Mary, second statement is not a dam against your pleasure, guys, but it is a channel for it to flow through the other partner. See, I tend as a male to protect myself against my wife's demands in order to preserve my freedom to do what I enjoy. That's how I think. It's like the couch potato who says, I really am happier if I just lay around and watch TV. He may feel happier, but he doesn't understand that there is something more to life. that he hasn't entered into. Anything else is a threat. Let me give you an example. Men tend to be more task-oriented And uh rather than relationship-oriented, if you don't believe that that's true, just come to Upward Basketball this winter and watch girls play and watch the guys play. The girls play basketball, they bump into each other, knock each other over, they stop the game. Oh, excuse me, you okay? Guys think that that's how you get points. You step on his face and keep going, there's the goal, you know, and Hey, go, man, you know, we have one less owl on the other team, you know. You know, men often uh will attempt or commit suicide because of a failure in competence, particularly in their work. Women will attempt or commit suicide because of failure in a relationship. Husband, wife, lover, friend. So there's these differences. Guys also tend to be more loners. Women tend to be more social. So that when God said to in Eden to Adam, I'm going to give you a helper because it's not good for the man to be alone, he gave someone who was going to combat the aloneness, going to fight the aloneness, someone who was always going to be there. Sometimes when we don't even want her to be there because she wants to connect. Kathy has said to me on a number of occasions, You're just inherently a loner. I mean I'm not only a male, I'm an only child, and I'm purpose-driven. So she has said on a number of occasions, you uh you're a loner and Seems like you always have an agenda when we're together. And my response is, so what's the matter with that? We used to have problems. We'd go to Ocean City for an overnight, and I'd always want to go down to acetic because I liked acetic. I want to see acetak. After a while, acetate became an issue You always have to go to Aceak? Well, am I just along for the ride? Gotta go to Asteteque. No, no, no, I really enjoy it. I just want to go to Assateque. After a while, I began to realize that she was trying to get through on something Something that maybe is captured in a little thing that a woman by the name of Dinah Craik wrote. It goes like this. Oh, the comfort, the inexpressible comfort of feeling safe with another person. Having neither to weigh thoughts nor measure words, but pouring them all right out just as they are, chap and grain together, certain that a faithful hand will take and sift them Keep what is worth keeping and with a breath of kindness to blow the rest away And my guess is that you women relate to that more than some of you guys. But as I have learned To admit that I need to learn something and try to love Kathy in a relational way rather than an agenda-driven way. I've grown as a person. I've learned more about love. It's affected my relationship with Jesus Christ rather than relate to him with an agenda. To simply learn to enjoy him as a person, to enlarge my capacity for relationship. So quite literally, to love her is to love myself, you see Now, what this means is that Paul is saying to you and to me, by the way, the third statement, third and fourth just simply sum that up. Marriage enlarges then your joy through union with another. Verse 28 then is a call to a gigantic step of faith to lavish yourself on another person and trust that God will show you. how you have loved yourself in doing that, which is a lifelong adventure. But this isn't just for married people, it's for all of us. Because you notice in verse 29 He says, after all, no one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for, just as Christ does the church. Jesus Christ feeds you, he cares for you. Whether you're married or whether you're not married, if you're married, you ought to be able to look at your own marriage and see: here's a picture of the relationship that Jesus has with me and intends to develop. If you're not married, you can look at another marriage, a good marriage, and in that you can say there is a picture in how that husband and wife are relating. A glimpse of what God has for me in relationship with Him expanded and deepened. And so as we come to the Lord's Supper tonight, what's it for? For Jesus to feed you, to nourish you. to draw you to himself so that in that moment, when he reminds you of his forgiveness and of his sacrifice for you, He is nourishing your soul and your spirit, and your heart is drawn to him. And you've experienced what marriage can only ever be the dimmest photo to represent. The reality of the bride being lavished upon by the groom. And he cares for you You think of your body. What is the one part of your body that you most care for, that you most protect, that you'll do anything to defend? It's your eye, right? And most particularly it's the pupil of your eye. You'll put your hand out, you'll bash your head, you'll do anything to protect something from invading the pupil of your eye. In Deuteronomy chapter 32, verses 9 and 10, God says, You are my treasure I care for you as for the pupil of my eye. Ancient language was the apple of your eye. Apple is simply an old term for pupil, because it's round. Jesus cares for you, sacrificed himself for you, gained his joy, and found it enlarged. God himself enlarging his joy. By seeing in his sacrifice you saved from your sin and drawn to him. And that's the picture. Of the kind of love he wants us to experience. Let's pray. Father, we repent of our selfishness to protect ourselves. We ask you to open our eyes that we would see Christ's love for his bride, which is his body. We are Lord Jesus, your body, not just your body, but in terms of protection and care and safety, we are as the pupil of your eye. And Lord, we husbands tend to want to think that we've got to pretend that we know how to love and we think independently, and Lord forgive us. Teach us what it means to love our wives as our bodies, as you have loved us, your body. May we learn what it means to lavish ourselves on another person and see the blessing that you give for that. For those that are married, for those that have never been married, for those that have, may your love come clearer through this picture. In Jesus' name. Amen.