Well, we just have uh today and next week on Ephesians 5, and then we're finished with Ephesians five, one chapter to go. And I'm glad to know that um by God's grace it's making a difference One man uh emailed me this week and said that he took last week's message to heart, wanted me to know that he was applying it, especially the part about the statistics of husbands who kiss their wives and uh living longer He claimed that by Wednesday he had added six hundred and twenty-five years to his lifespan. Glad to see you all get the point. Yeah. Tried last week to um Get us to see the remarkable point that Paul is making in Ephesians 5 by two commands that he gives. First of all That the husbands are to love your wives as Christ loved the church, his bride. And then secondly, the husbands are to love your wives as your own body. And then he makes a breathtaking connection. He says in verse 30, essentially, as he brings us to conclusion, that the bride of Christ. is a body of Christ. And when you first hear that, that can sound strange and you say, well, Paul, I don't understand. How can his bride be his body? And then he goes on to verse 31 and says, well, analogously, husbands, your bride is your body. For in marriage, you are one flesh. You're joined together. Your lives are fused. And your one-flesh union is actually a visible analogy of the intimacy of the church to Christ. So marriage then is a visible picture of the relationship between God and his people, and each sheds light on the other. So that you look to Christ in the church to help you to understand what marriage ought to look like And you look at a husband and a wife in order to understand something about the intimacy and the passion that is to flow between Christ and his church. Now it's very significant that when he talks about that intimacy, that fusing together of two lives into one that Paul makes a point of the fact that this is not a new idea. It's not something that he's just come up with. And he does that in verse thirty-one by quoting from Genesis two twenty-four, God's words of creation. And so you say it up here again, and um yeah, I'd be interested in any comments from any of you about whether having it up here is helpful or not. to help you to follow through, particularly trying to highlight keywords. So let me know if that's helpful or not to you. But the point is here that um Verse 31, quoting from Genesis 2. 24, states the biblical definition of marriage. It is the statement that God gives when He initiates it, when He uh authorizes, speaks of marriage. And then Jesus quotes this two places in the Gospels that you see as the statement defining marriage. So it's a very, very significant statement. And you notice that there are three parts to it. For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother, and he will be united. Old King James said cleave, believe father and mother, cleave to, or be united to his wife. And the result is that the two will become one flesh. Now, what's the significance of all of that? You notice that verse 31 begins with the words For this reason. And those are within the quotation marks because they're part of Genesis 2. 24. Why does he say for this reason? Why does Genesis 2. 24 say for this reason? Well, because of what preceded it. So if you have your Bibles, which I hope, uh, you may want to turn to Genesis chapter 2, because in order to understand this basic definition of marriage We need to understand why God gave that. For this reason, I believe refers particularly to verses 19 to 23 of Genesis 22. Which say this. Now the Lord God had formed out of the ground all the beasts of the field and all the birds of the air. He brought them to the man to see what he would name them And whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name. So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds of the air, and all the beasts of the field. But for Adam no suitable helper was found. So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep. And while he was sleeping, he took one of the man's ribs from his side and closed up the place with flesh. Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib or from the side that he had taken out of man and he brought her to the man. And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, Isha, for she was taken out of man, Isha. Now, in order to grasp this, you have to try and picture it a bit. Have you ever tried to picture what was going on there? Um, here's a brand new world. Everything smells fresh, looks fresh, nothing's decayed, nothing is old It's all pure, pristine, beautiful, unspoiled, and Adam is set out to discover it. And as he's discovering all this new world that no one has ever seen, it's only been in the mind of God. And now he's exploring it God brings a parade down Main Street, a zoo, comes past him. Now, a couple things you need to appreciate about that is first of all, a lot of species have gone extinct since then, so it's probably a pretty long parade because there have been a lot of things there, like dinosaurs and other things, but Are no longer around. But all these things come down past Adam. Another thing you and I need to appreciate is that Adam's mind was sinless And there was no deficiency. So my guess and strong suspicion is that Adam was a genius beyond any genius that we have seen in history. His capacity to absorb information To understand things, to penetrate, to observe, the sensitivity with which he observed is nothing like we have ever seen since the fall So Adam is absorbing all of this array that comes past. And he is given the privilege to name the animals. That means he gave scientific descriptions. It wasn't simply that he said That's a giraffe. Why is that a giraffe? Well, looks like a giraffe. You know, there was something giraffish about it. You know, the names were scientific, you know. So he's doing all this naming and he's and his mind is full of praise and adoration and all yeah Occasionally I get to go to a zoo. Have you ever gone to a zoo and you see a new animal you never saw before? You know, it's kind of like a new model just came out or something. You know, well, where'd that come from? I never saw one of those before, you know. And whenever I see that, I just stop and I it's hard to go on because I think, you know, it's cute, pretty, awesome, ugly, whatever it is. But it's just, you know, there it's fascinating Now, can you imagine Adam's capacity to absorb all of this? And remember, he's a pretty bright guy, so one thing that does not elude him. is that they all come in pairs. And then as he goes through all this, he realizes I don't have a counterpart, like elephants and dogs, and cats, and zebras, and jaguars and lions and bears. And so you have in all of human history, which is maybe a few days, the first lack ever. Adam's alone. And that's the first statement of God that is not good. And so the Bible says That God, in his mercy, caused Adam to fall into a deep anesthetized sleep, and he fashions out of his side Rib, maybe, yes, no, means out of his side, near his heart. He forms woman. Now, some people have said that Adam was the practice model and this was the masterpiece. We don't have any biblical warrant for that. God says that they were both exactly as he intended. What we do know is that when Adam wakes up from that, he lets out a Wow! Here is something to behold. She is like me, she is counterpart to me, but she is different. And my suspicion is that if you could have watched that moment of Adam and Eve meeting They would have stood a long time in awe of one another, particularly Adam of Eve, because he had been around a little longer. He could appreciate what a gift she was. So the two of them look at each other, and they are absorbing the mystery of alikeness and otherness. A mystery which we still stand in awe of, don't we? I can't help there's Grace Greenslift smiling at this. She once said, God gave us women to civilize you men. And I hope you don't mind me quoting on that phrase. You know, there is a mystery to this, isn't there, you know? And so um you have at this point the world's first poem, a love poem. And he says in verse 23, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. Now that may not sound like Shakespeare, but it says something fairly profound, which is that Adam is saying, she is really from me. This is from my bone, from my flesh. This is one who is one flesh with me because she is out of me. And now here is a separate creature, and the two of us spend the rest of our lives seeking to be refused. You see, and and Genesis two twenty-four says, it is for this reason That a man leaves his father and mother and cleaves is united to his wife. The word united there is a very interesting word. It's a word in the Hebrew that refers to adhesive, to glue. And usage of that word that perhaps well illustrates it's in uh Job chapter forty-one. In Job 41, God is probably describing a crocodile to Job And he says in verse 15, his back has rows of shields or scales tightly sealed together. Each is so close to the next that no air can pass between. They are joined fast to one another, they cling together and cannot be parted. Verse 17, the phrase there, they are joined fast to one another. Join fast is the same Hebrew word as the word cleave or be united to, in Genesis two twenty four quoted in Ephesians five thirty one. That's the comparison. Now be careful how you use that. Please don't go around saying that Harris says that marriage is like the scales of a crocodile. Understand exactly what the comparison is there. But you see, nothing can come between them. That's the point. The adhesion is so great, it is so tight That they are joined together as one flesh, spiritually, emotionally, all these things. So you see, um This is the nature of the male-female relationship that God gives in marriage, and it is a closeness which is uncomfortable, isn't it, at times? Mike Mason in his book Mystery of Marriage describes being married to a woman. He says it's sort of like having this large, beautiful tree growing up in my living room. It's beautiful, it's glorious, but it's always there. And everything I do, I have to take it into account. If I go to the kitchen, I have to go around the tree. If I walk from this place to You see, there is a likeness and otherness in the journal of two sinners, which is often inconvenient. But it's mysterious. And see, here is where you come back to the basic principle of Ephesians, the old indicative imperative principle. You know, the Commands based on the facts. You are one flesh if you're married to your spouse. Therefore, be one flesh. In other words, God says that in marriage, He has constituted you to be fused to another human being. So that you have now a new identity. When Rob and Laura get married this Saturday, they will no longer have the same identity as they do now. They will be Rob Laura. They will be a new entity. But we have a choice how much we experience that. So Paul is saying the fact is that God has intended, God has made you, constitute you in marriage. If you have left, you're united to, you become one flesh. You are fused together, but you choose how much time you'll spend together. You choose whether your schedules will be coordinated or allowed to conflict Whether you will bypass each other, whether you will travel a great deal so that there's not much contact, whether you eat meals together, whether you do ministry together, whether you raise kids together or apart Whether you do things efficiently or whether you do them fusedly. Because I can tell you That to do things together is less efficient. We all know that, right? There's a cost. But in order to experience one fleshness You choose to do that because you are one flesh And so you say, that's painful. It's not only inconvenient, but you're asking me to do that with someone who has hurt me again and again. In fact, do you ever feel like you were tricked into marriage by the attractiveness of one who seemed to promise to make you happy, only to find out that after you were married? That you felt like you were deceived. The pain seems to have outweighed the happiness. And it's at precisely this point that the gospel comes in. Did you ever think why would God want to join Himself to you? Did you ever think of the pain that it's caused him to love you? That's the analogy. For God it cost him an omnipresent spirit With absolutely no restrictions upon any whim or desire to become flesh, to live in our world And then to die. It cost him death to love you As verse 25 says, he gave himself up for you, because he had set his heart on you. But there's another difference. You and I set our hearts on our spouses if you're married. With inevitable illusions. You really didn't know that person. And maybe more than once you thought, if I had only known. God did know. There was absolutely nothing about you that surprised him. He knew exactly what he was getting into when he set his heart on you. To give himself for you, to fuse his life with yours. His life, the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, is so fused with you. Do you realize that there is not one reference to him in the New Testament? Apart from a reference to his bride, the church. You never read of Jesus Christ in isolation. It's always him as he is related to his bride. That's how inseparable we are. So I would like to offer that Marriage is to somehow reflect the grace of the gospel in that, you see. So if you're having trouble, hey, it's simply an opportunity to enter more deeply into the gospel and discover more of the riches of the grace of God to you and in your life, in Jesus' love for you. In order to be motivated to explore the mysterious otherness and likeness of your spouse. Let me offer to you three implications, implications of the three key words up here, real briefly. Leave, united, one flesh. First of all, one flesh refers to the fusion of two lives symbolized and expressed by the sexual union of two bodies. That's why Ephesians five all of uh this discussion in twenty-five to thirty-three follows Ephesians 5, 3 to 7, which talks about the importance of moral purity, sexual purity Quickly, very quickly, three implications and applications to mention about this. First of all, it is why, you see on your bulletin outline there, it is why serial monogamy And adultery are wrong. The idea of marriage, divorce, marriage, divorce, or adultery. Because sex is an expression of the most profound intimacy where there is only room for one. As Walter Trobisch said back in the 70s, in the heart where there's room for many, there is no room for one alone. And it's that union that is to be expressed in sex. Washington Times, October 15th, this past month Reported on a girl, Lana, age twenty-seven, marrying for the twelfth time. Her first wedding was at age sixteen. That means she's average better than one husband per year. I don't even know how you'd do that. You couldn't do it in Maryland. Um This is same in Paul's day. There's a record of a woman in Rome who was marrying her twenty-third husband, and she was his twenty-first wife. Marriage had fallen into a mockery at the time Paul was writing this. This was radical stuff he was writing. Reminds me of a cartoon I saw once where there's a guy at a jewelry counter saying, I'm shopping for a wedding ring, but nothing too expensive. This is only my first marriage. And that's the way we're looking at it today, isn't it? Just the first of a series of faithful monogamies. But that, you see, utterly goes against the idea that God has given. One man, one woman with a lifelong commitment. Some of us have not had the liberty to continue that. We realize that God provides for divorce But we don't have time to get into that. It's also why sex outside of or before marriage is wrong Um because that reflects the union of lives that are long lifelong joined together. And you notice the order. It is to first leave, to be united, the result is the one flesh union. And that order is important. It is not as if that's arbitrary. It's also why homosexual marriage, in quotes, is wrong. Genesis 2. 24 presents the only provision that God has made for sexual intercourse, and it's between one man and one woman. in a lifetime union. The whole point of verses 19 to 23 for this reason is the alikeness and the otherness. the difference between the man and the woman. And I would suggest that any discussion of homosexual unions and homosexual marriage would do best to start here at Genesis 2. 24 and Ephesians 5. 31 rather than where it often starts in negative prohibitions. Because this lays the groundwork in a positive, affirming way, which is the design of the Creator. Much more we could say about that, but we need to move on. A couple words about cleaving or being united to. Remember again, it's adhesive like the scales of a crocodile. Two things. The importance of communication. The importance of working at communication. Chapter 4, verse 15, he had said, speak the truth to one another. Verse 25. that we should speak the truth one another because uh said speak the truth um in love in verse 15 speak the truth because we're members of one another. Interesting we apply that to members of the body. And somehow forget how much more that should be true of a husband and a wife. But it it takes work. Communication on a heart level, not just as business partners, is something that you and I need to be committed to. It takes time, takes effort. Stu Weber in his book Tender Warrior asks a very penetrating question. He says, Men, what would your business or your work look like if you invested the same mental and emotional energy? in it as you do in communicating with your wife. What would your business be like? What would your job be like We're very motivated, aren't we, as guys, to achieve, to succeed in our careers Love your wife as you love your own body. See, it takes work. Nobody's denying that. Kathy and I run together. A couple weeks ago we're setting out to run and uh I always stretch and Kathy just takes off and then I catch up and I as I caught up and we were running together I said, Do you ever stretch before you run? Now I was saying that because I was concerned I don't want to get a running injury, but what came across was, do you stretch like I do before you run? Well, needless to say, my helpful advice and question wasn't received positively And at the end of the run, my thought was, you got a problem. All I asked was, do you stretch? Brain is in question. It was asked out of concern So why do you turn it that I'm saying you ought to be like me? Or somehow I'm implying I'm superior. That's your problem. But in further reflection, I believe the Lord showed me it was my problem. You see, it's so easy to say, this is what I meant, this is what I thought, it's up to you to figure it out. But love doesn't do that. Love says, if I have a concern, I want to express it in a way you receive the concern And I'm going to work at doing that. And if you don't, I'm not going to put the blame on you Maybe it's your problem, but I'm going to accept part of the responsibility, and as a man, most of the responsibility to learn how to communicate to a woman. Larry Crabbe talks about an example of a middle-aged couple, Christians he says, attractive, talented, financially comfortable, faithful, active church members, admitting that their marriage was in trouble. I feel like such a hypocrite, the wife stated. If you ask the people in our church to list ten most happily married couples they know, our names would probably appear on every list. We're sociable, we entertain church people frequently in our beautiful home, we sing in the choir together, we really play the role, but our relationship is miserable We get along, but from a distance. I can never tell him how I really feel about anything. He always gets mad, jumps at me, or he clams up for a couple of days. I don't think we've ever really had a close relationship. Her husband responded. I don't think it's all that bad. We got a lot going for us. Kids are doing fine. My wife teaches Sunday school. Lord's blessing my business. That's better than a lot of I interrupted. How much do you really share yourself, your feelings, your hopes, your dreams with your wife? Well, he answered, whenever I try, she usually doesn't seem all that interested, so I just don't bother. I'd listen if you'd really share with me, his wife blurted. But your idea of sharing is to lecture me on how things should be. Whenever I try to tell you how I feel, you always say something like, I don't know why you feel like that. I think our communication is awful. If any of you husbands have a wife that says, I think our communication is awful, you're not at liberty to say, I disagree, you're wrong, I'm right Communication is something to work at. You notice the second thing about uniting. It involves forgiveness. That's the second bullet. Importance of forgiveness. You see, it's often the hurt, the bitterness that builds up That blocks further attempts at communication, isn't it? And that's why Ephesians 5 follows Ephesians 4, where at the end of Ephesians 4 he had talked about the importance of setting aside bitterness and forgiving. even as God for Christ's sake forgave you. And so for some of you, you may not make any progress in your communication Until you're able to forgive your spouse. And you're not going to be able to forgive your spouse until you see their wrongs against you, which are inexcusable. In light of your wrongs against God, which are also inexcusable. And when you receive the gospel and you can forgive. You can move back into deeper communication. And that may be the issue for some of you, but I don't have time to further that. We'll pick it up next week again. I want to just say a couple things about the leaving. The leaving involves, first of all, public ceremony Some people say that there's no command for a wedding in the Bible, just between two people. It's often young people who will come and say that all that matters is that we've committed ourselves to each other, which is usually used to justify sex. saying that we're really married in God's sight. That's actually not the case because Scripture says in the basic definition of marriage that leaving Public leaving, it's always a public leaving. Different cultures do it in greatly different ways, but in any culture, there's always the public declaration that the husband is leaving. His household to initiate a new household which he takes responsibility to initiate and to maintain It's also an emotional leaving. It's the second thing. That is that it requires that each partner not be emotionally tied to parents because they're still bitter against them, or insisting that you be like my mom was or is or like my dad was or is If that's an issue for you, let me suggest another paper that I reproduced and put on the back corner table there. Have you left your parents? A test? has some questions on there that may be helpful for you to discuss again in a peaceful setting. We'll go on a little bit more about that next week. But let me close now with a necessary observation. What a connection. So far we've dealt with verse 31. But you notice verse 32 says, this is a profound mystery. But he doesn't simply say, but I'm talking about husbands and wives. What he says is, but I'm talking about Christ and the church. That means that verse 31 is somehow worked out in the gospel. And you see that in your bulletin outline. Jesus left his father. He left his father to come to head up a new family because he set his heart on you. By the way You can get into a long discussion on this, but I believe just in capsule form that that's why my personal conviction is that scientists will never find Life in God's image, and to find that specifically rather than intelligent, life in God's image on other planets because you can only be married to one bride. And God has married Himself to us puny creatures on this speck of a planet. That was his desire. Who can explain it? But he has cleaved himself, his heart, his body, which he took on, so that He could marry you. What love. Amen. Eternally forgiving you and loving you so that nothing will ever come between you. One day he's coming to consummate that union where we will become one flesh with him in the new heavens and the new earth. There will be a union of our spirits as our new bodies are formed to spend an eternal honeymoon in the place that He's created for us. So this morning I invite you to come back to Jesus Christ. Maybe you've drifted, your heart's drifted from Him. Come back to him who loves you so much and has given himself for you. And this is a picture. A vision for you who are married to empower you to live as God intended you in reflecting that It's a picture for all of us to know his passion. Let's pray. Lord, we confess to you that those of us as husbands and wives realize that many of us have lost the wonder of the alikeness and the otherness of our spouse. Lord, refresh in our minds and our hearts the wonder and the mystery of that, that we want to continue to explore the wonder of this other creature that you have given to us. And Lord, where forgiveness is needed because bitterness is set in, would you grant the grace to apply the gospel and to repent of our bitterness and to see What is keeping us apart in the light of what you have overcome in our own sin. For those of us unmarried, Lord, where we have compromised sexual purity We pray that you would forgive us and enable us to repent of that, particularly if there is a continuation, that we would be holy, clean vessels for you. That we would not compromise what you have given. Lord, help us to deepen in our communication with one another. And Lord, we pray that you would enable us to see Christ who has given Himself for us. Lord Jesus, your passion and devotedness to us. To look forward to that day when we will be fused with you beyond what our minds can even comprehend. to adore you and to experience your affection for us and to express ours to you. forever and ever. And whoever needs to come back to you here or to come to you for the first time this morning, grant that you would draw their hearts to yourself to see who you are. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.