I want to begin my concluding comments about marriage from Ephesians 5 by calling your attention to two very basic principles of Bible study. Number one, The principle of whole part whole, that is, what whenever you study a passage of scripture, you take the whole section, whether it is a book or a chapter or a section like this in Ephesians 5, you look at the whole thing in its context. And then you break it down to the particular parts. Look at the particular verses. See the uh interaction between uh various ideas there. Then you put it back together as a whole With new insight now and see it again in the context. So I want to do that this morning, very briefly. And then the second principle of Bible study is that after you have done the observation. That is, you laid out all the facts and understand what the passage means. You must then do specific application. It's not enough just to admire the passage to see that it's got some insights or to vaguely, generally apply it. I remember training students in a university, it was always one of the hardest things. You look at a passage like this and um You come to the end of it and you say, as a wife, yeah, I need to be more submissive. Or as a husband, yeah, I need to love my wife more. Or as a single person, yeah I need to be more content to look at marriage as a picture and not believe that I have got to be part of that. Um, whatever it is that you're saying You know, we need to get specific and honest. If we're not, then don't wonder why is it that God's not at work in my life? God is at work in power in the lives of people who are very specific and honest about applying the word to themselves, not to my spouse Not to somebody else here who needs it, but this is directly to you. So I want to do that. I want to help you out in that First of all, then a couple thoughts on the connections of this whole passage to the rest of Ephesians now that we've looked at it. Remember that Ephesians chapters 1 to 3 are About gospel realities, the facts of who you are, apart from Christ, dead in sin who you are in Christ, made alive by him, raised up and seated in the heavenlies with him, to understand your new identity in Christ, all those things that God has, the weight of glory that he has given to you in Christ. Remember chapter 4, verse 1, the end of that section then says, Now I urge you that you will bring your practice into equilibrium with your position. Here's what I've told you that you have in Christ now walk seven times use that word walk in that Experience it. Work it out by faith in your daily living. And he applies that to three areas. First of all, to the body living in community, chapter 4, verses 2 to 16. Then having done that, he talks about holy life, that is, learning what it means to put off the old sinful thought patterns, that self-centered A darkened way that we think that is drawn into ourselves rather than opened up to the glory of God and to be able to serve others as a way of giving thanks to Him uh to learn how to put off the old way, put on the new way. And he gives a number of specific ways. It's not just a general call to commitment, but there's some specific ways about lying and bitterness and the rest of this. Many climax is that, the seventh command is to put off the intoxication of artificial stimulants to produce joy, and to put on the invigoration of the Holy Spirit. To produce a genuine joy. And that has four effects, do you remember that he said? The speaking, the singing, the thanking, and then the submitting. The submitting to one another is a fruit of the spirit, that ability to to be able to submit to another person and not look at another person in terms of how can I control them or get what I want from them but how can I serve them, submit to them? And he applies that then opening up a new section to three kinds of basic relationships in life marriage, parenting, and work. And so in chapter 5, verse 22, he begins this first section about marriage. That's the context of it. And he says, wives, you need to do two things. Beginning of this passage, he says, you need to submit your will to your husband as the head of your home. Not because he's superior, not because he's smarter, but because that's God's order of things. That's the way he arranged it. And so you freely, willfully submit Wraps up the passage into verse 33 by saying, wives, you must respect your husbands. You respect him and honor him in that position. Two commands to the husbands, between those, to the husbands, he says, husbands, love your wives. How do you love your wife? Two ways. As Christ loved the church, His bride, and then secondly, love your wife as you love your own body yourself. Then he takes from that, you remember, and he brings a profound observation of majestic beauty, where he says That just as Christ's bride is his body, so husbands, your bride is Your body. You don't just treat her as your body, she is your body. In some mystical sense, your lives have been fused together So that as Eve was taken out of the side of Adam, so that he said, She is flesh of my flesh, we are one, but she is different from me. And I I must say that after 33 years of being married to Kathy, I am still amazed At the fact that we are fused together so that, you know, you get to the point where you can finish the other person's sentence and She gives me a look and I say, Yeah, you know, I know what she's going to say, you know. And there's that way that you've begun to think together, and yet there is always the exhilarating difference. I never can figure her out. Just when I think I have her figured out, I'm surprised. I'm off guard And that's a delight, it's a mystery. The likeness, but the difference. So, as Eve was taken out of the side of Adam So that she was like him, but different. So the Bible says that you and I are the fullness of the body of Christ. Now, do you think that's not related? Take a look at chapter 1, verse 22. Because there Paul said, and God placed all things under his feet, Jesus, this is, appointed him to be head over everything for the church. Notice now, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. So that just as Adam was complete as an image-bearer of God, nevertheless there was a fullness to Adam when God brought Eve out of Adam. So a single person is full and complete and does not need a marriage partner to reflect and enjoy all the fullness of God's presence. and of the life he intends, nevertheless there is a fullness that is brought about in some unique way as two lives are fused together. We are the fullness of the body of Christ. Now, who here would like to stand up and explain what it means to be the fullness of the body of Christ? I believe that when Paul says in verse 32, this is a profound mystery. I'm speaking about Christ in the church. The tendency is to think, well, in order to have a decent marriage, you've got to be a deep theologian around here. You gotta understand this mystery of the body, bride image, and the fusion, and how I'm part of the floor. And so Paul ends the whole thing Coming back to a very prosaic statement, in order to assure you that a good marriage does not depend on your being a deep theologian or philosopher, verse 33, he says, however Back to reality, basics here. Each one of you must also love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband. Okay? You understand that? You got that? Yeah. Oh, all right. Well, you know, I might be able to say, well, you know, he kind of lost me there at verse twenty-eight, but he comes right back to say, now, here's the bottom line. And so, what we need to do is to be able to examine that basic Sense of um what it means, you know, your marriage doesn't depend on the profundity of your being able to explain the mystery of this. It depends on what I call gospel obedience Gospel obedience, you see, is simply obedience that is rooted in faith in Christ. And so you need to grasp your new identity. You can't take chapter 5 out of chapters 1 to 3. It's got to fit together. And out of the grasp of your new identity as a new creature seated in the heavenlies with Christ. You then are able to look honestly at how you and I fall short and fail in the standard of chapter 5. And so on the second principle of specific and honest application in the spirit of that, I have made up for you what I call Ephesians 5, 22-33 self-evaluation forms. It's an inventory. And if you see that in your bulletin, please take that out. It'd be very easy for me to give you this and to say, um, you know, I made this thing up and so um please go home and look through it. And I know that probably ninety percent of you would not do that. You'd file it away and say, someday I ought to look at that. When I get a chance and I got the courage, I'll take a look at that thing. And so because I realize that's naive to think you're all going to run home and do it, we're going to go through it right now, together, in order that you will at least be exposed to the thing in the hope that uh God will help you to apply all that we've been talking about. Notice there's four columns, and those are the categories you fit yourself into. And um Going from the right side, you notice that uh it's growing and satisfied. You know, here's an area where I believe I'm growing. I haven't arrived, but I'm satisfied there Well next one over need some improvement. Next one over from that urgent need for improvement. And then the one over in the left, I feel like I'm an utter failure. Help! Alright? Now, you can't it's not fair, you can't do them all in the left column or the right column. You've got to make some distinctions Alright, so some areas are a little better, some are a little worse than others. Try to distinguish in your own life. You notice there's four categories of people. First of all, questions that deal with everybody, all of us here. All of us who hear the gospel. These are issues not related to being married, but simply the image of marriage Secondly, questions particularly directed to those of you who are single, whether never married or separated or divorced. Those are questions directed to you. And then one question within that to just men, one question to women. Then questions to wives, and on the back you see questions to husbands. Somebody said after the first uh service that's not fair. Why does the husband get more questions than anybody else? That's because the husband gets more verses than anybody else in the passage. So You know, just that's the way God intended it. Husband is the initiator. So there it is. Okay, now let's uh very quickly go through to look at these And I would urge you that uh most of you carry something to write with. You put a little dot somewhere in that uh box Um the box is designed so you can stick a little dot in it and use the rest of the room to write your excuses. Um but you know, whatever you do, just stick something there. If you if you really find that, you know Somebody's looking over your shoulder and you say, you know, yeah, privacy here, uh I mean this person over here, I mean you've seen them before and they're looking at what I write down, you know Uh all right, so then you go home, but I want you to fix in your mind uh where you would put that mark um if you had to set it down because it it really needs to be specific. First of all to all of us here. The first statement, Jesus is the lover of my soul. I am ravished by his love. What can you say about that? And then connect that to the second one. I see marriage Now, marriage in general, not my marriage, just marriage. I see marriage as a picture of my intimacy with Jesus, and I am pressing to experience intimacy more fully. I was talking to a pastor yesterday who said that as he talks to people in his congregation about intimacy with Jesus, he finds that people get kind of nervous and uncomfortable. And he says, you know, he says, I'm finding that really Christians are not comfortable talking about our intimacy with Jesus as a person. We talk about principles, we'll talk about Bible study, we'll talk about truth. But intimacy with Jesus is something that makes many of us a little uncomfortable because we're unfamiliar. It's a little threatening. What does that mean to you Mary's is given as a picture of the relationship between Jesus Christ and you as his disciple, as part of his body. Is that something that you are growing in that you desire? Maybe for some of you you don't know anything about that because you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ. You're like the person standing outside of the marriage. And so it may be that for some of you, you need to today settle in your mind the need to admit that you need a savior from sin. Who gave himself for you, verse 25, to deliver you from your sin, to forgive you, and to bring you into a relationship with himself. You need help for that? Please talk to me. That's the most important thing of all to settle. Can you see marriage as a picture of your relationship to Jesus Christ? Then to singles, a couple things to examine yourself for, and I am content that I do not need to be married to be a whole fulfilled person. And um are you able to say that? Not just say, well, yeah, it's easy for you to say you're married. No, before I was married. What about in your life? Are you able to say that? Because God made you that way. He has never exalted marriage above singleness. Singleness is a dignified, exalted calling in Scripture, a particular usefulness in the kingdom. And there are ways that a single person can know Jesus Christ in particularly intimate ways uh that is difficult for married people. Are you content with what God is where God has placed you? I can look at a good marriage and I can thank God for the picture that I should say it, not is, that it gives me. Of God's love for me without being jealous. Then, thirdly, I'm committed to only marrying a Christian, if God were to call me to that. It would only be a Christian, I'm committed to that, who is an active part of the body of Christ and seeking to serve Christ with abundant fruit as evidence, no rationalizing. They're open to spiritual things. I think you know if they just had the right training or something. Others agree this person's a Christian, a part of the body of Christ. And uh are you committed to marrying someone who is In that relationship with Jesus Christ. None of the things about marriage make sense if that's not true. Maybe you need to resolve that, settle that once for all. I'm committed to not engage in or cease sexual activity outside of marriage that in any way what do you mean by sexual activity any way that would defraud a future spouse of the one with whom I am now in or will one day be in a relationship with. Are you committed to that? Maybe you need to settle that issue. I will not feed, this is just to men, I will not feed my mind with any pornographic images magazines, videos, internet, and will hold myself accountable to brothers I trust or get into the CPC Ephesians 5. 3 group. What's that? Well that's a group that's just forming now because we've had a number of guys. who by God's grace over the last weeks have come forward and said uh this is an area in my life that um I'm in bondage I need help in this, and uh so very graciously Tim Flora has agreed to Uh head up to get started a group. We call it the Ephesians 5-3 group because if you look at Ephesians 5-3, you'll see it's about sexual purity. And so it's just a way of denominating the group. U But if you are a guy who is saying, I need that kind of help. Then if you look in the new directory, by the way, the new directory is back on the fact table there, you'll see Tim's phone number and you see his email on there. Just contact him, and that will simply be between you and him and the group. For single women, I will not feed my mind with romance stories that feed self-centered fantasies that are not pleasing to Christ. Not as if just this idea of fantasies and All the rest of that are only for guys. There's particular ways that that the writers and people today will direct information, literature toward you women to produce the wrong kinds of fantasies about what a relationship with a guy would realistically be. And so maybe for some of you that's an escape and you need to put that before the Lord too. For wives. I respect my husband as God's appointed spiritual head of our home, and I'm glad to submit to him in every area. That's simply a statement of what verses 22, 24, and verse 33 say. I don't think I'm reading anything into it. It's simply what Scripture says. Have you settled that with the Lord? Are you still fighting that? I trust Jesus Christ to lead our home. Ultimately my trust is not in my husband. I trust Jesus Christ to lead our home. And therefore I do not nag my husband out of fear or a need to be in control. That's the test, you see. If you're really able to trust the Lord, would you find that you're you're nagging out of fear, some need to be in control so it'll be done right? Maybe an issue. If I were given the choice, I would say I do joyfully to him again today. Wonder how many of us, how many of you women could say that Where I have emotionally left my parents. The leaving, remember, precedes the cleaving, the joining together. I have emotionally left my parents. That is, I have forgiven them for deep hurts. How many women have said, boy, the last thing I'm ever going to be is like my mother? Ah, boy, I'll tell you, it was such a terrible marriage of my parents and what my mother did. Ten years into the marriage, the husband's saying, Oh, you're exactly like your mother. Ah, it's like a curse word. How can you say that? Why is that? Because the mother is still the emotional focus. And until you forgive somebody, they will always be your emotional focus, maybe a negative emotional focus, but you will become like the person who is your emotional focus, positive or negative. The only way you get out of that bondage is Ephesians 4, to be able to forgive that person out of the gospel, your offenses toward Jesus and seeing his forgiveness to you to forgive. freely your mother, your father, so that Jesus Christ becomes your emotional focus and not that person. Then you're free to become like him because he's your emotional focus. Or secondly, uh, it means that you do not expect your husband to replicate your father. My father was a handyman, could fix up dishwasher when it broke. Why can't you, you klutz? Expectations that he'll replicate something that's just not him. I have forgiven my husband for the past failures. Again, the passage should be Ephesians 4. 33 to 5, verse 2. Left the fire colon out. And I desire intimacy and passion with him. That's the that's the test that you've forgiven him, that you desire the intimacy and passion To continue and deepen with him. I support my husband and I build him up in his efforts to lead our home rather than to tear him down with discouraging criticism of his failures. It's part of that respect and honor, verse 33. For husbands, a few things to look at I am learning how uniquely to love my wife in a way that she can feel and receive, which means, the second place there. that I believe and she has affirmed that I know her priority language of love and I am attempting to love her in those languages, the particular ones that are important to her. For example, time, touch, help, affirmation, gifts. How you doing Annette? Do that uh discussion we talked about, have you used some of the material, whether you have or not? Does your wife affirm that you know what's important to her, you're on her wavelength and communicating love? uniquely to her. If I were given the choice, I would gladly say, I do, to her again today. I see my wife is cleansed by Christ, verse 26. Precious to him. Being prepared to become his radiant bride. Or is your view of your wife something a little less flattering than that? You see you're simply with all the faults. And all the things that are wrong. But you've lost the vision that Jesus has of his church. You need to recapture that vision he has of your wife I'm learning to love my wife as I love and care for my own body, beginning to think in those terms. I'm learning to see her as part of my being rather than as a separate person to fend for herself. And I don't want to be misunderstood in that. I'm not saying there that she's not a separate person. The fact that you are fused together does not destroy your separate identity. Somebody asked me about that this week and it was a very good question. There's a problem with some people of codependence. I I need to do certain things to control that person's behavior And my identity is so fused with them that I take on wrong responsibility for their actions You're not responsible for your wife's sin. But what you do affects her deeply. And so your care for her is for somebody who is not there to fend for herself. But that you see that your lives are joined together. I've left my parents forgiving them for their deep hurts. Same kind of thing about the emotional focus. I do not expect my wife to replicate my mom. My mom always made me chocolate chip cookies. Why can't you? You don't love me. I have forgiven my wife for her past failures, and I desire intimacy and passion with her. Colossians 3:19. Paul says, husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter, harsh against them. I have a vision for what I want our marriage to look like ten years from now, and I'm taking steps to move us toward that vision. And I will not feed my mind with any pornographic images, magazines, videos, internet, etc. And I will hold myself accountable to my brothers that I trust. Or get into the CPC Ephesians 5. 3 group, same same idea. That groups for singles and marries I'm committed to lavishing myself on my wife with a conviction that to love her is truly to love myself and to enlarge my capacity for love and joy in doing that. When I was preparing for this, I came across a uh uh teacher who had um asked some kids in her elementary school what love is. And one kid wrote, When my grandmother got arthritis, she couldn't bend over and paint her toenails anymore. So my grandfather does it for her all the time, even when his hands got arthritis too. That's love. Lavishing yourself. Not saying, what do I need to do? What's the minimum to keep her happy? But lavishing myself on someone who I can't do enough for because I love her. Another kid said When someone loves you, the way they say your name is different. Your name is safe in their mouth. Lavishing yourself. I neglected lavishing myself on Kathy to develop her in early years of our marriage. And guess what? It wasn't just she who was the loser, it was me also. So I listen with my heart when she speaks to me, and I speak my heart to her in return. And my wife knows that she is the highest human priority in my life. Well now you go on from that to the last got three three inserts here today. I mean this is like pulling out all the fireworks at the end. There's a commitment statement. I'd like you to look at that. Because um, you know, maybe like me, you come to the end of this thing and uh you're feeling pretty defensive. And so my only urging to you, brother and sister, is to stop defending yourself. Stop pretending that you really are pulling it off. You've got to begin by bringing yourself honestly before the Lord and tell him without any blame shifting Lord, this is where I've failed. Lord, I've gone through this inventory and here's some areas that I'm just ashamed. Um I ought to be beyond this, and I'm not Lord help. You see, it's only as you do that that the gospel then begins to come alive in your heart. It's only then that you're really amazed by grace. It's only then that the idea that's reflected in this commitment statement really begins to make sense to you. And once you've done that, I'm going to go through it here in just a moment, then I'd ask you to meet Maybe if you're single or if you're married, there's a relationship you need to break off. Because it's it's not a holy relationship Or maybe you need to just set a time this afternoon to meet with your spouse after you've met with the Lord and confess to him or her the areas that the Holy Spirit is speaking to you about. And say, I just want you to know, God has shown me I have failed you in this area. And I'm coming to ask your forgiveness. It's not a time to point out their failures, but on the other hand, and I wish you, but just to focus on what God has been showing you about yourself. So what's it say? It says, I want now. To commit myself as a single man or single woman, single woman, single man, and this takes you all the way down, you kids as young as you can identify with that as a teenager, just a kid to say, hey. I'm committing myself to Jesus as a wife or as a husband, as a disciple of Jesus Christ To first of all look honestly at the inventory of my successes and failures above, and then to learn again what it means to sit, to rest in Jesus Christ alone for forgiveness And his perfect record credited to me before the God who has judged my life and now helps me as my Father. Jesus, you gave yourself for me. You know, when I think of some of the ways that I have failed Kathy, I wince with pain and shame. And all of us look at areas we've talked about here today that we wince at But Jesus is forgiven. On the basis of his finished work, everyone who asks him for that forgiveness. And so then I kneel, I pray for him to open his eyes and to see his power and love available to me. To then walk, to repent of the two or three areas. Don't lay them all out. You'll be overwhelmed. The Holy Spirit gently deals with us area by area. Look at two or three where you particularly sense That he is whispering, this area, now's the time, to please and to honor him with your obedience. Can you sign it and beat it? Because you're saying, I am specific. I want to bring myself before Jesus now in this way. Now I should have separated down there and said have my elder staff pastor contact me for helping us because what I'd like you to do is if you need help, if you're saying I'd like my elder to call me or if I'm not a member Could some staff pastor just contact me, see what kind of help I need, uh, to put your phone number, your email. Uh so just put that down on that lower part of the paper there, and if you want that help Fold it, rip it off. I want you to keep the parts you sign. And there's a basket back there in the corner where the two tables come together. It's a little basket that has this sheet in it. Just fold it over and stick it in there. We'll get back to you. Now give us a little slack, depending on how many respond. It's a holiday week, though we want to love our families too. But we'll get back to you as soon as we can to try and give you some help in this. Now it's time to pray. So I'd like for each of us to close our eyes and bow our heads. And I'm going to ask that if you've signed this or if you can right now just jot your initials and say yes, this is me. I want you to pray for me specifically on this. I mean business. I'm going to ask you, without anybody looking, for all our eyes are closed, to just stand with me For I'm surely one who needs this. Just stand quietly as an indication, not so I'll see you. I'm praying my eyes are closed. But just that you'll stand so that it's for you an act of commitment. It's saying, Lord Jesus, I want for you to make this day the end of these patterns. In the beginning of a new statement. So quietly now, anyone who wants to stand for that commitment, just stand as I pray. Lord Jesus, I come before you, and Lord, you know the many ways I have failed in my own marriage. It's only by your grace that Kathy and I are continued together after 33 years to love and to forgive one another. And I ask you, Lord, that you will continue to work in my heart to show me my failings, to not continue to defend myself or to blame shift. And Lord, I pray for every husband and wife here who is in that position. We've spent so much time trying to blame our spouse that it's their fault. If only they did this or that, our marriage would be better. And you've come to bring us to the place of realizing your word is to us. And so you've convicted us, and we come to stand and claim the forgiveness and the righteousness of Jesus. And for you to do a new work in us. Lord, some of us are here. Our marriages have failed. We're separated. We're divorced. We stand and we ask you, Lord, to give to us a new sense of your forgiveness and your cleansing and what you can do. The fact that Jesus gave himself for us That you've taken away the shame that you have produced, the clothing of his righteousness to wrap us Lord, we want to serve you. We want to go on to see what you will do in helping us, Lord, in whatever remains of the relationship that was and to go on in new relationships. to please you and to honor you. For those of us single, never married, Lord, we come and we commit ourselves to you as your disciples. Lord, that we would grow in our contentment and our ability to To serve you with all the fullness and the freedom that you have given to us in our position, to not worry about the future. Lord, for all of us, we come and we need Jesus. We need you, Jesus. We need the intimacy with you that binds us to you, to see you work in us in deeper and newer ways to restore marriages that are sick and broken, marriages that As we read last night, last uh last week, may look very good to others on the outside that are sick and languishing on the inside. So Lord, we ask you, would you hear us as we commit ourselves to you now to know your power To know what you can do as we give ourselves to you. Now I'm going to ask all of you who are still standing to sit down. You're still praying, eyes closed, heads bowed. If there's any of you who would like to come and to continue this prayer, confession, praise, intercession, whatever God's laying on your heart, you'd like to lead us You see that there's microphones in the aisles. Just step up to one of the mics and lead us. Lead us in prayer. Let's continue this time before the Lord. Feel free. As many as one can.