Well, it is good to be back. Right, Del Nora? I think we've been gone almost as long as Del Nora has when she left for West Point in July. But it is good to be back here at CPC. Kathy and I have Visited other churches while we have been gone and always makes us appreciate you guys more and long to be back with you. We've missed you, and it is so great to be back here again worshiping with you. It's especially good to be back the week after the sound system went out. And uh special thanks to our man John Baker, who's been working on that with Amps and Henry and Jeff that the system working on that. So glad that uh things are working now, and it's it's just good to be back with you all again, looking at God's word and worshiping him together. Before I had left, we had looked for eight messages on the matter of prophecy. and of Jesus Return, a series that has been occasioned by the coming of Y2K And the surge of interest in prophecy that that has produced. Amazing surge of interest. I was cataloging this as you know before I left for each week. Just many more evidences since Charles Stanley now has twenty-four tapes on the book of Revelation John MacArthur has just come out with a new book called The Second Coming, Signs of Christ's Return and the End of the Age. Everybody is in on this. And the good thing about this is that it's raising in the mind of the Church of Christ what has been a very neglected teaching over the recent years. The matter of the imminent, any moment, return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that raises a very difficult question in this matter of prophecy. And the question is this, could Jesus really come today? Or are there certain events or signs that must first take place? before he comes. And why does he delay his coming so long? Why is it that Jesus has delayed if if his coming is the setting of everything right, it is the bringing about of the new heavens and the new earth? If all these things, his lordship, his rule, his kingdom, are uh consummated and established and all evil is put down, why is he waiting so long to come? And let me say right here that the Bible seems to contradict itself in answering that question. The Bible seems to give three kinds of answers to this as we move on in this series now. First there are, and follow along in your outline there, if you're not familiar with these, to be able to not only follow my train of thought, but also to fill in the key ideas, words. There are three kinds of answers the Bible seems to give, and in some ways they seem to contradict. First of all, there are what I call the imminence passages Such as Mark chapter 9, verse 1, where Jesus says, I tell you the truth. Some of you are standing here, will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God come with power. It doesn't sound like he's talking about his resurrection, because it sounds like some of you are going to die, just some of you will be alive. But within this generation, you will see the kingdom come in all of its power Or take Matthew 24 in verse 34, which we read here that Lauren had for us. Where Jesus says after giving a number of signs, events that precede his coming, the coming of the Son of Man with the on the clouds in verse 30, he says in verse 34 I tell you the truth that this generation, this generation, will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. Now, in three weeks from now, we're going to be spending three weeks on Matthew chapter 24. A very difficult and key passage. So I'm not going to get into that much now. But you see, at least it seems like Jesus here is saying that within this generation The Son of Man is going to come. These are what I call the any moment passages. That's the blank there at the top, the few blanks. Any moment. Jesus is coming at any moment. You see down verse 44 of Matthew 24. So you must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. It could be any time. On the other hand, the Bible gives what are called the far-off passages about Jesus coming. Some passages seem to indicate that it is, the blanks there, not yet Don't worry, it's not not yet. You know, it can't be quite yet. Certain things have to happen. The man of sin, the Antichrist, must be revealed. You take again Matthew chapter 24 and verse 14. This gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. So worldwide evangelism must precede the Lord's coming. In verse forty-eight of Matthew twenty-four, Jesus says, but suppose that that servant uh is wicked and he says to himself, my master is staying away a long time. And then he begins to beat his fellow servants and the rest of them. Jesus is clearly saying here this is going to be a a long delay. It's not going to happen very quickly. That's in the same chapter where he just said this generation. How do you reconcile that? I got my word cut out for me in a few weeks, right? But Jesus is saying there it's it's going to be a long delay. Matthew chapter 25 in verse 5. He says the bridegroom was a long time in coming And they became drowsy and they fell asleep waiting for him. Verse 19 of Matthew 25. After a long time the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. And then the passage that Lauren already indicated or we're considering this morning, 2 Peter chapter 3, in verse 4, Peter says one of the problems that's going to crop up before Jesus returns is that There are going to be those who come, and they will say in verse 4, Where is this coming ye promised? Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it's been since the beginning of creation. He's still not come. Long time has taken a place. Seems like he's never going to come. How do you reconcile those two things? And then there are the passages that I call the uncertainty passages. The passages which simply say, who knows? For instance, again, 2 Peter 3 down verse 10, the day of the Lord will come like a thief. Now a thief doesn't announce his coming. I'm coming tonight, get ready. The whole point of that is that he's not going to know. It's going to come at a time when you don't expect him Matthew chapter 24 and verse 44 again, you notice what he had said, that you must be ready because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him, whether soon, whether late, who knows. In fact verse thirty six Jesus said no one knows about the day or the hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Jesus says, I myself couldn't tell you right now when I'm coming back. Only the Father knows at this point. Uncertainty, who knows? Clearly the Lord has intended that we will live uh in expectation of his coming and be ready at any moment. Again, verse forty-four, so you must be ready Because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. Now let me say that I believe that the Church of Jesus Christ has lost The sense of that keen anticipation and expectation of the Lord's coming. I think one of the sad marks of this generation Is that less than other times we have lost the sense that our priorities are controlled by the fact that as we leave from worship We're always thinking, maybe that was the last one. Maybe Jesus will be here before next Sunday. Maybe Jesus will be here before these plans that I'm laying out that Social Security that I'm concerned about, or my Medicaid, or my retirement investments. Maybe all those things will be irrelevant. Not because I'll die, but because Jesus will come back. We've lost that keen sense of anticipation, haven't we, by and large? You don't hear that much about it. Now you're hearing all these things. You know, and you're reading Tim Lahaye and Jenkins and all this about this. So there's a big surge of this right now. What's going to happen next year? I suggest that there are three reasons why I think the current church has lost its sense of anticipation of the imminent coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The three I's I call them. First of all, because I believe we see it as implausible. Implausible. The point for most people today is not the question of whether God exists or not, but simply whether or not he exists, he is mildly irrelevant To the daily business of living. Most people see that the God of the Bible is mildly irrelevant to the affairs of our daily living. We breathe the atmosphere of secularism. Where the Bible view of truth and miracles and God personally active in history seems, well, odd, right? Religious truth is kept to Sunday mornings. The real world is the rest of the week. Where we live by our wits and by our devices. So I say to you, Jesus could come back this week. Do you believe that? And you say, well, as a Christian, yeah. But do you really? No. It seems very implausible in the world of computers and cell phones, doesn't it? We look at religious truth as something that, by the nature of everything about us, is in a separate compartment. From where we actually live on a day-to-day basis. Jesus' return seems implausible. Secondly, Jesus' return is inconvenient. That's the second reason why we're not all looking for the most part expectantly with great anticipation for his coming in an economy that is booming Where our country is basically at peace, where there is almost no official persecution of the Church of Jesus Christ in the United States saying nothing about other parts of the world. This place seems too much like home, doesn't it? And when this place seems like home, why are we panting for the home that is in heaven? Those of you around back in July, remember Tim Flore's message back there in July 18th to talk about suffering, Spurgeon's five reasons for suffering, and one of them was to wean us from the world so that we might look forward to heaven. How much do we look forward to heaven? More when there is pain, more when we lose a loved one. But by and large, as A. W. Tozer once wrote, why should I want to lead the comfortable and familiar? for the unknown. And so this is unknown what's going to happen when Jesus comes And so it's inconvenient. Lord, come, yes, but after I get this thing that I'm looking forward to, after I fulfill these plans, not right now, unless I'm in great pain. The third reason why I believe that we've lost the cutting edge of anticipation of Jesus' return is because it is impersonal It's implausible, it's inconvenient, and it's also impersonal. Christianity today is often presented like a contract. Accept certain conditions and you will get God's blessings culminated with heaven. The focus in the church of Christ today is much more on the work of Christ than on the person of Christ. We seek his hand rather than his face. We seek his blessings rather than him as a person. Do you love Jesus? How much time have you spent this way this past week? In intimate discourse with him as the one whom you love. Notice how many of the songs we sang that Lauren had is singing this morning that talk about our love for you I love you more than anything. I want to love you and worship you. That intimacy which is precious. I love those songs, but how many of us find our hearts really entering in fully to that? Or does Jesus seem rather impersonal to us? We look at the blessings of Christianity, but not the blessing of the person. Who is the focus of our affection? You see, I look forward to Jesus coming simply because I love him so much. And where the church has lost the sense of the personal, intimate, affectionate relationship with the Savior, there is also a A consummate uh waning of our longing for his coming to see his face. And so I believe for many of us that when we think of Jesus coming, it seems implausible. It's frankly a little inconvenient And we're not really sure that we have as intimate a relationship with him that we long for his coming the way we would like to. So we need this message from 2 Peter. Well Now that I have used nearly half my time, let's get into the message. But we needed that, I believe, to prepare us for what Peter says. We've read the passage from God's Word, and uh let me now go through it, and I want to help you to see The flow of his thought, as you see it in the outline there, is just basically two points The first is the cynical charge that is leveled from the scoffers, the unbelievers, and then there is the reply that Peter gives to that. First of all, notice the cynical charge in verse 3 and 4. Peter says, first of all, you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. They will say Where is this coming, he promised? Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on just as it has since the beginning of creation. Long time after the New Testament. And the again, I hope you take comfort in that that the Bible acknowledged that there would be a long time after the writings of the New Testament before Jesus would come back. So the fact that he hasn't come back now does not in any way contradict what the Bible says. We'll deal with the Matthew 24 passages in a couple of weeks. But there is nothing that is contradicted by his 2,000-year delay. The problem is that because many Christians have either set dates or said we are sure it is this generation, That that robs the Bible of its authority because we've seen so many people be wrong, haven't we? I mean Probably seen a number of things. There was a major article in the Smithsonian about apocalyptic expectations at 1000 A. D. So many people were sure that Jesus was coming back at 1,000 A. D. and he didn't. Then there was a fellow Joachim of Piore, who in the twelfth century was very well known, a lot of writings was absolutely sure that Jesus was coming in the twelfth century because there were a number of very unusual celestial manifestations, comets and alignments and famines and plagues and all these things and many Christians were sure that Jesus was coming back and he didn't You go on for hundreds of years, and there was a fellow Charles Tayes Russell who in 1874 said he's absolutely sure that Jesus is coming back. And he didn't. He started the Jehovah's Witnesses and said he really did. You just didn't see him. And they still continue on. After World War I, many people were absolutely sure that after that great Holocaust, Jesus must be coming back within a couple of years. And then, of course, the Great Plague of 1918. People were sure. Even as great a Bible scholar as A. W. Pink was absolutely sure that the end time was upon us and Jesus would return within a couple of years. And they were wrong. And I referred you to a book that I received in the mail some years ago, 88 Reasons Why Jesus Would Come in 1988 Absolutely sure. He's 88 reasons. You know, even if 87 of them are wrong, there's one of them has got to be on target, right? But he didn't. I was teaching at Westminster Seminary in the fall of 1992. A number of Korean students were in my class and uh I would notice it was a bunch of bustling and people seemed upset and disturbed and I asked what what's going on here? Something's happening. And I found out that that there had been a prophet in Korea that had said that that evening, Korea time, uh that evening that Jesus was coming back and many people had sold their homes. They had all gathered on a mountain to wait for his coming. And uh these students, number of them had relatives that were back there and affected by this, and uh guess what? He didn't come. And there were a number of lawsuits in Korea over that incident. 1994, Harold Camping, Jesus is coming back. And he didn't. Grant Jeffery said it's absolutely almost sure that Jesus will come back by the year 2000. What if he doesn't? And so you see, these people in 2 Peter, you know, they got something that they're building on. They say, oh, come on. Where is this coming that they've promised? Where is this coming that everybody's been sure was going to happen? Ever since our fathers died, everything simply goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. He's not coming back. And then Peter gives his reply. First of all, he says there is something that they forget in verses five to seven. He says that they deliberately forget. This is not just doubt. They deliberately twist Speaking of those who scoff at the Bible, they deliberately forget that long ago by God's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water by water So what? Well, because, verse 6, there was a big surprise back then. By these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed. Do you remember? Noah's building an ark, and he tells the people around, God is going to bring judgment on this wicked generation. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right, Noah. You know, this is the dumbest thing I ever saw building this big ark up here on this hill and you know, miles from water and all of a sudden, verse seven Verse 6, that deluge came and it destroyed that world. And Peter then makes a comparison in verse 7. He says, by that same word. That occurred in a very unlikely time, in a very secular thinking time, where people thought that this was ridiculous that there would be a God of heaven who would judge the world for in his righteousness. By that same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved not for a flood. No matter how much Dennis continues this week, it will not flood us as the world. But are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men Fire. First mention of that. Hang on to that thought. But then why is it so long? That's the next point. Why so long? Why does he re delay his return For all these hundreds of years and now a couple of thousand years, could be this week, could be thousand years beyond. Why? Peter gives two reasons, the two P's in verses eight and nine. First P, verse eight. Do not forget this one thing, dear friends, with the Lord. A day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day. God's perspective of time is radically different from yours and mine. We lived for 60, 70, at most a hundred years. That seems like a long time to us. Peter says a thousand years for God are like that. He is not subject to time He is not up there waiting around. God's perspective of time is utterly different. But then even more to the point, verse nine speaks of God's patience for the lost. The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise. That's not the point, as some understand slowness, not that he's party, but rather that he's patient He's patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. He doesn't want that last person That he has set his love on to miss the opportunity to come to Jesus Christ. It's good for you and for me to remember those two reasons when you wonder, Lord, why so long? Perspective, patience. Those are the two things that Peter says to help us to understand that. But then he goes on in verse 10 to give us the assurance that in fact he is coming. So the next blank, see, is the assurance of his coming. Look what he says in verse 10: But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar. The elements will be destroyed by fire. And the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. Do you get it? Four times will. This will happen. He will come, the heavens will disappear, the elements will be destroyed, the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. All these things will happen. Two points about that to notice. First of all, That Jesus and that day will come like a thief without warning. I think that what is implied here is that at any point As Jesus said in Matthew 24, 44, at any point be ready. There is nothing that needs to take place that will be a warning so that we say, oh, it must occur after that. Now we expect it. He will come like a thief at the time when he is not expected. Secondly, at that time I think this is significant. And we will touch on this again. But let me just notice, call to your attention in this verse. There is no delay between Jesus coming and the judgment He doesn't say he will come like a thief, and then there will be a seven-year tribulation, and then there will be a thousand-year millennium, and then there will be the judgment. This verse only to me makes sense if what he's saying is that all these things happen as an event, as part of one event. The day of the Lord. That day is the day of judgment. And that will come like a thief. It's the thing that we're looking for. And when that comes, he comes and judgment comes. The heavens will disappear with a roar, the elements will be destroyed by fire, the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. That's nothing secret. There is nothing subtle about that. He's talking about all hell breaking loose at the time of the day of the Lord when he comes like a thief. Be ready for it Notice again how it will be destroyed, second time he says it, by fire. You notice that? Then Peter gives four applications of this for your life and for my life today. Look what he says in verse 11. Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? Four things he says about that. Notice them. First of all, you and I are to live godly, only and godly lives. This is not something abstract to correct our prophetic charts. He says in verse 11, what kind of people ought you to be? You ought to live holy and godly lives as you're looking forward to this. Do you remember in Matthew chapter 24, in verses 48 to 50, where Jesus said there Suppose that servant is wicked and says to himself, My master is staying away a long time. What's gonna happen because of that? Well he begins to beat his fellow servants, begins to eat and drink with the drunkards The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect them and an hour that he's not aware of. You see, when When we think that things are going to go on here and that Jesus return is delayed, what happens? We begin to lose that sense of Him coming. And are needing to live obedient, holy, godly lives in the light of that. Now, you kids, if mom and dad go out And uh they say, I'm gonna be right back. And they'll tell you the time. And so you know that at any time mom or dad could be coming in the door, or they say We're going away, we're going out, and it's lunchtime. We're not going to be back till dinner time. So we're going to be gone four or five hours. In which case are you most likely to get in trouble and do something that you shouldn't do? Right? You know, I mean that's nature, isn't it? That's human nature. If I know that the one to whom I g I'm accountable is not coming back for a while, well I can get away with something before I get things right. And so Jesus has said he's coming back at any point so that you and I live holy, godly lives. in the expectation it could be at any point. I'm living for eternity. I'm not living because this is home. This isn't home. You know, this past summer I was driving back from Pennsylvania into Maryland. And along 272, there's a sign that says, Maryland welcomes you. Enjoy your visit. As I was driving back, I thought, eh, it's kind of cute, and I smiled at myself and I thought, but that's not me. I'm a resident. Then I thought, wait a minute. No, that's true. I'm just visiting Maryland. I don't live here. This isn't home. You and I live in this state, but we are visiting. Listen, kids, I give you permission Whenever you're with your folks and you're out of state and they drive back into Maryland and you see one of those signs, Maryland welcomes you, enjoy your visit, call attention to mom and dad. See that, mom and dad? We're just visiting here. This isn't home. Heaven's home. Peter says, live holy and godly lives, because as John said, he who has this hope in him purifies himself This isn't home. We're pilgrims. We're passing through. There's a tension between us and the values of this world. When you and I begin to feel that we're at home here, we have lost sight of the coming of Jesus, haven't we? We need to see what Peter says. At any time, like a thief, he will come, and we'll be whisked out of here and brought into our home. That is home for eternity. Live holy and godly lives. Notice the next thing he says, which is a rather remarkable statement, in verse 12. He says that you and I are to live holy and godly lives as you look forward to the day of God and speed its coming. Now, how do you speed its coming? The implications of that are that you and I affect when Jesus comes back. That's rather staggering, isn't it? I mean we look at that and say, there's a day appointed, when he comes back, that's it. Is that uh is that uh Uh uh connected to Jesus saying no one knows the day or the hour, not the Son or the angels, but the Father. At that point he did not know. It wasn't like it was just a day that he knew it's going to be a certain number of years. But there's an interaction between him and the church. And so Peter says that as you look forward to this, you can speed its coming. Now, how would you and I speed its coming? The only thing that I think he could have in mind about that is, did you remember what Matthew 24, 14 said? Do you remember I read that that he said This gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to the nations, and then the end will come. It seems that Jesus has said, and we'll look at this more detail when we get to Matthew 24, that the gospel is to be uh spread throughout the world. And we don't know at what point we're going to say, oh that's that's the end. That's the last people group, the last tribe, the last person It's a little more complicated than that. We'll talk about that when we get into Matthew 24. But there does seem to be a sense in which you and I bringing in the lost from that destruction. affects that point where he is patient, not willing that that the lost person, remember what he said there in verse uh 10, or verse 9, uh, he is Not slow, but he's patient, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. So as you and I Share the gospel as we speak of Jesus Christ to those who are lost before that day of destruction comes. We are speeding its coming. Now don't ask me to uh To rationally harmonize all of that with God's sovereignty and his purposes. But I think there is something there that is significant for you and for me to understand. He says again in verse 15 Bear in mind our Lord's patience means salvation. So his patience is connected with the gospel coming to those who are lost. And you notice he says there in verse 12, as you speed its coming, that day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire. and the elements will melt in the heat. Sound familiar? You get the point? Three times he has said, the earth's going to be destroyed by fire. The earth's going to burn up in the heavens and all the foundations will be laid bare by fire. He's going to destroy the heavens and the elements will all melt by fire. So it looks like the end is going to come by fire, doesn't it? I mean, whatever else we know, one thing seems clear, when Jesus comes, there is going to be a fire and and the elements will melt with a roar. And with the destruction of cosmic fire, you know, people say, is it an asteroid hitting? Who knows what God will do? But there will be the destruction of this entire world by fire. Everything that you own and treasure, your antiques, the things handed down from grandmom, great-grandmom. Your new carpets, your new car, everything that you have, your most precious toys and jewelry, and clothes All of this is going to vanish in heat and fire. And you say, oh, how sad Well, I'd say that's about as sad as having a 1979 Chevy Cavalier, pardon if anybody here has one. And you are told that tomorrow you are going to drive to the Mercedes dealer and you're going to dump that thing off and pick up a 2000 Mercedes CLK SportCoupe. And you say, oh, but I'm gonna miss my shetty. Yeah, right. And you see, that's the perspective that Peter has. Is this something to be moaned? Look at what he says in verse 13. He says, but in keeping with his promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. Amen? That's where we're going to be. Home of righteousness means a home where everything has been set right. Everything is in conformity with God's intention and purposes. Everything is going to reflect his glory. In fact, it is not going to be just tinkering with this world to remake it This world is going to be utterly consumed and destroyed, and there will be a new heavens and a new earth that is totally reconstructed by the word of his power. And at that time you and I are going to live in that. But he says, fourth application, make sure that you will be there. Verse 14, Sir then, dear friends, since you are looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace with him. Does that mean you're going to try harder? You're going to live more devotedly? It's not what he's saying. He's talking about salvation, verse 15. The Lord's patience means salvation. It's what he has done for you. not what you have done or could do. He's provided his son to take your filthy record, to dine your place, to give you his spotless, blameless record And that peace transforms you. Do you have that? Do you have that assurance that if Jesus were to come this afternoon He would bring you into his new heavens and his new earth with himself. I thought just this morning, it was 40 years ago. Last night, that I heard for the umpteenth time a message from an evangelist, and I saw that I was playing with Jesus Christ. And I heeded his warning on that Labor Day weekend, and I gave my life to Jesus Christ. What about you? Are you putting it off? Do you see Peter's warning here? Let me tell you something. Sometimes I go to bed and I forget and I leave our garage doors up. Kathy's been warning me about that all all summer. You better not leave those garage doors up. Some of that gives you better not leave those garage. Yeah, I know, huh? I haven't left them up for a good while. But last night, I left both of them up She warned me, she said, something's gonna happen. I got down this morning, somebody had gotten in, stolen some stuff out of our garage. Mail keys, a few other things. What is that warning that I was stupid enough to not heed compared to the warning that God's giving to you this morning? My son is coming. And when he comes, history will come to an end in this world. And there will be a judgment and a new heavens and a new earth. Are you ready for that? Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would speak to our hearts. As we consider the warning that you have given to us and the offer of salvation that you offer, that you declared here to us twice in this passage, you are a patient God. And some of us, Lord, have been trying your patience. We want to live for ourselves. We want to put off that day. And we're ignoring the warnings. Holy Spirit, I pray that this morning you would work in the hearts of any who are putting that off, that we would no longer ignore that warning. We would see our need for Jesus Christ before the judgment comes. And we would receive the offer of your perfect record and your death for us. Lord, for those of us who know you and continue to live with our hearts so much focused on this world, it's still too much like home to us, Lord. Help us to remember every time we see that sign. Maryland welcomes you, but it's not home. Enjoy your visit. And you're telling us to do that too, Lord. You want us to enjoy our visit here, but to not make this home. Lord, for those of us for whom it is too much home, give to us a longing for that home that you have for us. Lord, help us that as we live with that value that you would also, Lord, work So that for those of us who need to warn loved ones, would not put that off. We would warn them that you will come like a thief And at that point it will be too late. Lord, I was stupid about my wife's warnings, and I paid the cost. May there be no one here who would pay the cost of eternity without you because of ignoring your warning and your invitation. Hear us, Lord, as we respond to you in all quiet of our hearts.