Look beyond the sea of mud over on 108. You will see that there is a building that is rising up there. Walls are beginning to take shape. According to a blueprint that's in the trailer over there. That building is the Columbia Presbyterian Church Ministry Center. The base of operation For the Lord Jesus Christ to make his transforming power known to lives here in our community. And so in conjunction with the construction of that building, we're considering the construction of that building Construction of another building, a living building, the living temple of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is also being constructed according to a blueprint, this blueprint, God's Word. And so we're looking particularly at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 16, excuse me, verses 11 particularly to 16, which kind of sums up Some basic principles of how God intends for his body to be built. And we're doing this in conjunction with our basic vision as a church that we are are holding uh at this point in our life as a body that we are saints being equipped for ministry. Now just again so that we make sure that we understand that that's what we are, let's all say Let's say that together. We are saints being equipped for ministry. Okay, that was practice. Now, so that the Lord knows that we understand who we are, let's do it together. We are saints being equipped for equipped for ministry. Thank you. I appreciate that. And that's who we are. We are saints that are being equipped now for ministry. And so we are wanting to be very clear on this so that as we take possession of that building, Lord willing, sometime this fall, so from that point on we will not be meeting at Howard Community College. We will be Over in the new facilities, we want to be very clear that we understand who we are. And so we've been looking so far, the first four weeks in this series, at four points. that I've been wanting four points that I've been wanting to make from each of these uh four messages. The first one, I tried to demonstrate from verse twelve that you You each are the ministers of Columbia Presbyterian Church. When you think of the minister of Columbia Presbyterian, you don't think of Steve, you don't think of me. You think that you are the ministers. Verse 12. He says, um, Paul says that he is given in verse 11, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people, the saints. For works of service or works of ministry. So you are the people prepared for works of ministry so that the body of Christ may be built up. And the second thing that we looked at, the second week was the purpose of that ministry, which was the purpose that summed up in saying to know Christ and to become like Christ. That's the purpose Of all of our ministry, that you will know Christ better and that you will become like Jesus Christ. Verse 13, you see that? Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God. And become a tour, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Third thing we looked at was that we all therefore belong together because we do this together. We belong together. We need each other. We affect one another. And we saw that there in verse 16. From him the whole body joined and heavily Held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. And then the fourth thing that we looked at last week was the The fact that we not only belong to each other, but God intends that we are accountable to each other. But the way we grow is by being open and vulnerable concerning our walk with Jesus. Christ, that we are accountable to one another. We are not like the person in verse 14, no longer like infants tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the kind of But rather were the person in verse fifteen instead speaking the truth in love, speaking and hearing, receiving that, accountable to what one another. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ. Now for the whole month of June, I want to focus on one word. One key word in these six verses. And so what's that key word? Well, in bated breath, I don't want to hold you in suspense. It's the word there in verse Verse 12 that you see translated in the NIV, prepare, where it's the word equip. That word is so important because it tells you what it is that we as elders are to do for you and what you are to receive. And that's very important because it's what we do to you that you do to one another And so what is it that God does to build the body? He gives elders to equip the body. What does that equipping involve because what that involves is what God's calling you to do as you duplicate what we do. And so we're holding ourselves accountable to you now as elders and saying, well This is what you should look for us to do. We're not a board. You know, we're not an executive board. We have trustees that handle the executive affairs of the congregation. We are elders to equip you. And that word equip is a very rich word. The word, as I say, translated prepare. in if you have an NIB translation to prepare God's people for works of service. The word is uh and I'll just mention it so that you kind of can at least hear it if I refer to it uh a couple of times during this month. Uh it's the word katartizo in the Greek. Now I don't expect you to remember that, but what I want you to see is this word The word catertidzo is a very rich word. It's a word that has a number of meanings, and we're going to look at those meanings. There are three basic meanings that we'll be looking at in a second. In four weeks to see what it is that this word prepare or equip involves. The root meaning in the noun form of that word means to be complete or to function as you're intended. If something is meant to function in a certain way and it's functioning that way, then it's Artas, that's the noun. It's complete. It's functioning as it was intended. The verb form of this that you see in verse 12, to prepare God's people, is a word which means basically Basically, to restore to what it was intended to be, to restore what is broken to wholeness so that it's able to function as It was intended. That's the basic meaning. For instance, in Matthew and Mark, when Jesus walks along and he sees the disciples mending their nets, the word mending is the same word that you have in Ephesians 412 to prepare to equip. The nets are torn. The nets won't work. They won't catch fish if they're full of holes. The nets are full of holes, but the holes gotta be a certain size, you know If they're too big, then the fish are going to get through. So they're not functioning as they're intended. And the word is used to talk about mending the nets. Or the word is used medically. back in that culture to talk about mending broken bones. Your bone you break your arm and the doctor sets that arm and aligns the bone. That's the word same word prepare or equip in Ephesians 4. 12. He's aligning it. He's mending it. He's placing it back into alignment so that the arm will function the way that Words used six times in the book of Ezra to refer to mending the walls of Jerusalem that were broken down. Or rebuilding the temple that was in ruins. For instance, in Ezra chapter 6, actually in verse chapter 5, verse 3, when you have have the governor coming and asking these Jews, what are you doing? He says, who authorized you to rebuild this temple and to restore this structure? The word restore there in Ezra 5. and five other times it appears in the book. The word restore there is that word in Ephesians 4. 12 in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. What are you doing preparing a Restoring, equipping these walls. You see, the walls were uh supposed to be a refuge. They were supposed to provide protection. But they were broken down. There were holes in them, there were gates in them, uh, and there were uh you know, uh rubble of stones that were in piles rather than in a wall formation. So they weren't providing any refuge. And the whole thing looked terrible, you know, it was just a a mess Yes, it was it was garbage that was laying around there and and so the walls had to be rebuilt. They had to be restored. The same word, Ephesians four twelve. They had to be restored to their original function. The temple itself laid in ruins. The temple had been burned. That which had been glorious People came from countries around to look at the Temple of Solomon and all its glory. And they said, There's no glory left to this. Beams are all burned and laying in ashes and rubble. And it's just one ugly sight. And so God said to his people that you're to go back and you're to Restore the temple. You're to rebuild it. You're to take those stones and carpenters were to hew for the beams and for the wood so that there would be cedar paneling again and uh the masons would come and they would cut the stones and they would place them back in so that the temple would be rebuilt and it would look glorious again. Then God tells us when he comes to the New Testament, I'm building now a more glorious temple. I'm now building a living temple. And that living temple You and me, as we are part of the body of Christ, are in the same condition, I think. God brings us out of rubble. And in our lives there's a brokenness, there's a burn. There's a charredness to us. In your life and in my life, we look at those patterns of sin that have been so deeply embedded in us, and there's a deep need for rest. Restoration. And so before you and I can ever talk about ministering and being prepared to minister in terms of carrying out ministries to people. most basic thing that Paul wants us to see in Ephesians 4. 12 is that to prepare us for ministry is to restore our lives. You see Jaded and cynical and secularistic Howard County and Central Maryland, when they look at the Church of Jesus Christ, they should be arrested by something. They should look And they should see a living temple that reflects by transformed lives our holy presence within this world. People should stop. And they should say there's something about those people at Columbia Presbyterian. There's something about the way they care for one another. There's something about the way that Their lives are functioning as families and as singles, people with kids and people without kids, people who share the same struggles and temptations and stresses that I face. And yet there's a resource that these people have. There's something that's restored them to a wholeness. You see, that's basic to what the church is to be in ministry. And yet when the people of the world look at the church, so often what do they see? Activities, programs, all kinds of things that business Busy people that can't stop to enjoy their neighbors or have fun, or we're so driven so many times. And I believe what God wants us to recap in this is the sense that the basic element of restoration is that our lives simply become a reflection of the holy presence of Jesus Christ within our world In other words, what we do in ministry begins by flowing out of who we are as a restored people. When's the last time you heard something somebody say that they chose a church based on the fact that I saw in this church that they were a holy community. They were a people who were transformed. They were people who were reflecting something of the image of Jesus, instead of saying they had good parking, you know, nice clean nursery. Like the singing, good instruments, you know, all the various convenience and consumer-oriented kind of criteria. And so what God is challenging us, I believe, is as a church, as we move into a whole new phase of our ministry and move into a new building, is to remember that the basic element of ministry involves character The basic element is that our lives are being restored. They're being restored out of the rubble that was what we were before we met Jesus Christ and we are continuing to be restored. None of us has arrived in that. But God is doing a work now that is a work to show that Jesus Christ is a work transforming us and therefore that can be of hope to others. But you can see maybe if he transformed you and all the problems that you have and I know what a skunk you've been and I've seen how you've changed Maybe God could transform me too. Maybe there's hope in my life with this Jesus. Now that word restore is used in the New Testament. This word Catertidza that I mentioned before is used 13 times in the New Testament. Two of those times it's used specifically to refer to restoration. And the kind of restoration is very simple. significant force, because it's used to refer to restoration from sin and restoration from suffering. And so I want to look just briefly at the Those two ideas this morning. The two kinds of restoration. First of all, restoration from sin. You see that use of it in Galatians chapter 6 in verse 1. That's just a couple of pages back in your Bible, before Ephesians 4. And so just turn back a couple of pages to Ephesians, from Ephesians 4, to Galatians chapter 6. And there you read in verses 1 and 2, brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you Who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourself, for you also may be tempted. Carry each other's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. Now probably you're uh pretty alert there. You've caught what the word is, of course. It's that word restore in verse one. You should restore the person who's in sin. Restore him. And so you see, you've got to make the connection now between that and Ephesians 4. 12. You are to equip the person who is in sin. You are to prepare the person who is in sin. Or if you look back at Ephesians four twelve, Paul says I've given apostles prophets Pastors and teachers to restore God's people for ministry, works of ministry. See, it's the same exact word here in Galatians 6. 1 as you have in Ephesians 4. 2 12. The idea of preparation, the idea of equipping, with a focus on restoration, the basic meaning of the word. Now what's interesting involved in that. This person is caught, you see? They're caught in sin. You notice that. This isn't something that this person is simply saying, well, you know, I don't really care care about what the Bible says. I don't really care to live under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. I'm just going to live the way I want to live. But this person is saying I want to live As a Christian. I want to serve Jesus. But there's something in their life. There's a rubble there. There's something that is a sin pattern. And it keeps tripping them up. They're caught in this sin. There's almost a reluctance about it. They're caught in the sin pattern. And as they're caught in that, they need to be restored. Now I want you to to notice two things. First of all, who does it and then how do they do it? First of all, notice who does it. First of all, it's the elders, of course, that do it. That's what Ephesians 4. 12 is saying. That it's the elders who prepare, who equip, who restore. Paul's writing as an elder to these people to instruct them in that. The elders are those who are Charged to watch over the person's life. The elders are those who are given the ministry of the word as an instrument of restoration. You see, you should be being Restored when Sunday by Sunday you come and you sit and you listen to messages. And if you don't sense that there's any restoration going on in your life after a few months of listening to my messages Preaching, then I wish you'd tell me, because I failed in my purpose. I'm not just here to educate you. I'm here that God's word would speak to you to restore you. So that when you are caught in sin and you hear God's word and you hear the power of Jesus Christ and his claims on your life, you come to him and you are restored by him. And so that's the function and the ministry of the elders. But particularly what I want you to notice from this verse is it doesn't designate the elders, does it? Who is it It does the restoration in Galatians 6:1. You who are spiritual. They say, well, yeah, that's the elders. No, no, no, no. You who are spiritual Who are spiritual simply means you who are controlled by the Spirit. New Testament word spiritual simply means controlled by the Spirit. Stop talking about somebody sort of washed around like a ghost, you know, and They're sort of uh thinking of uh their head in the clouds all the time. This is a person who's simply controlled by the Spirit. If you are a mature Christian, if you are control Controlled by the Spirit, in other words, all of you, this is the second point, the second blank, all of us as Christians should be those who are charged with restoring one another. What the elders do should simply be a pattern for what God's called you to do with one another in your small groups or those that you know in any context as Christians. Even if somebody's a part of another body. If you are in fellowship with that person, if you are spiritual, if you see that person caught in sin, you don't say, Well, I hope they're elbow. He doesn't say, Well, I sure hope that somebody who's got a better in with them is going to take care of that. If you are spiritual and you see that, guess who the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit is calling to be involved in the restoration. You're spiritual. You should then restore him gently. Now that brings us to how it's done. Notice how this is to be done. And each of you needs to notice this because each of you is called to be involved in it. First of all, it's to be done Gently. Gently. You see that in verse one beginning. Brothers, someone's caught in a sin. By the way, that brothers is a generic. And so it's brothers And sisters, all of you who are part of the body of Christ, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are controlled by the Spirit, who are sensitive to the Spirit, who are led by the Spirit, you should restore that person. Gently. Notice the second thing. Not only gently, but humbly. But watch yourself. For you also may be tempted. Carry each other's brother's burdens, and this way you will fill the law of Christ. And so when you see a person's in sin. You shouldn't say, well, you know, I don't have that kind of confront of personality. I'm not the kind of person that goes around like a prophet denouncing sin in people's lives. I just I'm just not built that way. But Paul says the way that you do it is gently. To restore someone from sin does not take a maximum truck personality. In fact, that can be counterproductive. What God is calling us to do is to be able tentatively, gently, recognizing we have the The same sinful tendencies and heart. I myself could be subject to that same sin. There is nothing that you are guilty of that I couldn't commit. There is nothing that any of us do that another person can't say in the root basic attitudes of that. I too have the same kind of struggle And so as I seek to call to attention to my brother or sister the fact that I have a concern, I do that gently. I do I do that after I've prayed about that person, and I say this thing may be bothering me, maybe irritating me, or it may simply be something I'd rather ignore. The fact is, because I realized that My own heart is so synthetic. And I realize that Jesus has been so merciful to me in restoring me. I want to be an instrument of restoration to the people. brother or sister. And so I'll take that risk. I will seek to make myself vulnerable and I will point out the problem Or I'll point out that the person has compromised sexual standards. Or I'll point out that There may be some problem in terms of priorities financially. Or I may have to point out the fact that this person is neglecting the body. I haven't seen them in fellowship for weeks. There can be all kinds of ways that you are aware. But you know, all you have to do is to say about that person That's bothering you. Is this person perfect? No, they're not perfect. What is it that bothers me about them? And then be able to move from what bothers you about them to What is the need in this person's life? And as I identify with that as one who is also in desperate need of the unmerited grace of the Lord, Jesus. I seek to raise the questions and to show that person that I'm on their side. I'm concerned for you. I will I want to see you grow in the Lord. We're brothers and we're sisters together in Jesus Christ. And I'm just concerned about this area. Let's talk about it, can we? Now there's a process that I believe that generally goes on in that, and you have it there just kind of basically outlined. The process I believe is that it first requires that We spend time together. You can't just some charging into somebody's life that you've not spent any time with and say, you know, I think you got a problem with lust. Oh, really? Well you know, I mean there's gotta be some correction There's got to be some trust built. And so as you spend time together, then you see there's a burden bearing that's going on. You see that in verse 2. Carry each other's burdens. In this way you'll fulfill the law And so as we spend time together, there's those practical things, the time when the person needs a ride or they need you to pick up their car for them, uh because it's at the shop. or they uh need a a meal or they need some sort of favor and you bear the burdens. And then as you bear the burdens there comes more of the trust that's built and so you begin more sharing. And that's That sharing becomes more of an open and honest kind of sharing. And that open and honest sharing leads to an honest kind of confession. You know, I haven't said this to anybody, but There's this problem that I have, and I just wanted to ask if maybe you could pray with me about that. That's a new level of fellowship, you see. And as that is open, opened up to you, you begin to realize that there's something very precious that's being given you. It's a trust about this person's life. And that becomes a key to restoration. And so as that confession is made, then there's the opportunity for you to begin, hopefully, to move in with that person, gently, bringing the scriptures to bear, so that there's repentance. Repentance about that sin. Then there can be restoration. And that restoration leads to a deeper understanding of grace. Because then we see that Jesus Christ has died Died for our sin, and that it's not based on how well we have lived after we have come to it. But that grace is always a grace that's unmerited, a grace that's unmer fully free and has nothing to do with our performance, but only the performance and the record of Jesus. And so you come to a deeper understanding of what grace means. And that Causes you to love Jesus more. And you love Jesus more because you've seen him work in your friend's life. And that friend loves Jesus more because they've seen Jesus restore them to a new level of fellowship with him. And there's healing and there's a growth in Christ's likeness, which is exactly what verse 13 of Ephesians 4 is talking about. Together we are growing up into the knowledge of Jesus. and into a measure of the fullness of Christ in our life. You see how that process works. You and I need to be available to God. in order to see him do that. Finally, the last thing in this is the restoration is not only from sin, but it's from suffering. A restoration from suffering. Peter uses the word in this regard in 1 Peter chapter 5, in verse 10. In 1 Peter 5 and verse 10, Peter says, And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, Will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. And of course, that word there, restore, is the same word as you have in Ephesians 4. 12. Pastors and teachers are to prepare God's people for work Pastors and teachers are to restore God's people from suffering so that they are equipped for works of ministry. The God of all grace, who's called you from his eternal glory in Christ, after you've suffered a little while, will himself prepare you and equip you in your suffering. So that you will be strong, firm, and steadfast. Do you see the connection? See, the idea here is that we're not only sinners, but each of us is Us are also victims of sin, the sin of others. We're simply the victims of the fact that we live in a fallen, broken, hurting world of sickness and death. And so as we grieve and weep with the wickers over the loss of Philip this past week, we realize that that's a suffering that has to do with the fact that we We are all in that time before Jesus has come back. Before Jesus ends the suffering. We are in a period where we are called to suffering. Suffering is Inevitable. And you know, as I was thinking about this message and I was praying through the congregation, and I was thinking of your lives, I went through and I was amazed again to see the deep way That family after family, individual after individual, I knew of particular pain and suffering, things that you're going through. Things that are causing you to almost wonder where is the power of Jesus Christ. And I found myself almost getting overwhelmed thinking of how much pain and hurt. And I had a comb Back to that verse, and so it would speak to me: the God of all grace, who's called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you've suffered a little while, he himself is going to restore you. Now who is it that does this? Well, first of all, again we see it's the elders and all of God's people who do it. So the number one There is the elders and any Christian. You see, we're all called to comfort and to encourage one another in pain. In fact, this whole letter, 1 Peter, is Peter's attack. to restore and to encourage those who are suffering that he's writing to. But of course what we see is that in the verse, that's not the references. In the verse, who is it that does the restoring? The God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ's After you have suffered a little while, he himself will restore you. And he will make you strong, firm, and steadfast. And so God Himself stoops to lift you up in your suffering. I think of a an example of God's tenderness, the ways that he shows uh times that he is so tender to us. I think of uh uh Edith Schaefer. Who many of you are familiar with from the writings of Francis and Edith Schaefer. Francis Schaefer died of cancer back in nineteen eighty-four. Two months after After he had died of cancer, uh about a week before what would have been Francis and Edith's forty ninth anniversary Edith was grieving and uh dreading that next week to come when she would be thinking of an anniversary without Francis, and that day her friend Mary Crowley, Paul, and she asked what Edith was doing. And so not wanting to say I'm sitting here thinking about weeping all the next week, uh, she said, Well, uh I'm I'm looking for a secondhand upright piano to have here when my granddaughter comes to visit. She says Mary's response startled me. Oh no, you're not. You're going to get a secondhand Steinweight for $6,500 And I'm going to give it in memory of Francis Schaefer. Oh well, it seemed kind of impossible to find a second-hand Steinway at that price, or to find one at all within four or five days. Days before I left for England? It was this side of ridiculous. Well, I called up some of the other Lebris workers, those he had worked with over the years, and I told them about Mary's phone call. Oh, someone said can Tuners here. We could ask him if he knows of any secondhand fine ways. So they returned to the phone and said, well the piano tuner says his fine ways for sale. Four musicians went with me to look at the piano. They agreed it was the best buy I could ever find. How much did he want? $6,500. The piano was rolled into my living room on July 6th. The exact day of our anniversary. Rather than weeping, I felt like someone had pulled a cork out of my head, and bubbles of joy had come out to my heavenly Father. Now, God doesn't always reach down in our suffering, in our brokenness, our sadness, and answer a prayer as dramatically as that, but I think it's It's an illustration of the fact that it's the same Heavenly Father. You've probably all seen that poster about footprints. It talks about the two sets of footprints. I was walking along, Lord, uh, you were always with me, but at those times when it seemed that I was in the deepest despair, there were only one set of footprints. What was that? And the Lord says, those were the times. That I carry him. That's meaningful to many of us as a reflection simply of what 1 Peter 5:10 is saying. God of all grace. You to his eternal glory in Christ after you've suffered a little while, he himself is going to restore you. And how is he going to do it? How is it that we restore? The first thing is that we put you in touch with Jesus. You see, there's nothing else that I can do. I can't be as a pastor, the restorer, for the wekkers Or for Dick Barnes, or for Tom and Evelyn Pixie, or for others who've lost family and relatives, for others who are hurting over contemplated loss. We can't be the ultimate restorer for one another. But what we can do is put that person in touch with Jesus. And that's what Peter does in chapter one. He says, I know you're suffering. He says, I want to remind you of him whom you have not seen yet you love. He's the one who will restore you. And so the way that we restore you is to put you in touch with Jesus. That you might see him, that you might come to him this moment, to restore you and your faith. Secondly and finally, is to remind you specifically of your hope in Jesus. You see what he says there in verse 10? The God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ. He's called you to his eternal glory in Christ. After this time of suffering, that Jesus has risen, He's ascended, and He's preparing a place for you and for me. And Paul refers to this again and again throughout That you have a glory that you're to share with Jesus. And that's your hope. And the time is so short, it's so brief, you can almost hear him at the door coming. To receive you. Almost the time is up when Jesus will say, Enough of suffering. I come to restore you completely now and to bring you into my kingdom where there will be no more suffering. And you and I have that hope, and when you and I are in that pain and it seems unbearable, and we wonder what God's doing, and we wonder where it is that's the hope that's going to restore us. I invite you to come to Jesus Christ. To look not only at the fact that he is with you in his presence, but what he gives you in his promise, the hope of the eternal will so soon to come. So I invite you this morning. Come, let God restore you from your sin. Come And repent of it that he might take you and restore you into the wholeness that he entails. Be available to him to restore one another, to pray and see the needs. In another person's life, to be willing to let the Spirit of God use you. Come and let Him restore you in your suffering. Come and let Him restore You through the body. Let him restore you by showing you Jesus, who suffered before, whose sufferings you participate in, and who will put an end to all suffering when he comes again. To receive it to us. Lord our God. We are a people who need to be restored. And we pray now, Lord, that you would restore us. Restore us, Lord, from our sin and the rubble in our lives that needs to be cleared away, that you might to rebuild the walls, that we would become individually and corporately a holy presence that would show to the people around us The glory of Jesus. Lord, we pray that you would make us willing to be used in one another's lives to that end. And think of someone rather than Right now, Lord, that we pray that you will use us as we take a step this week to gently seek to restore that person Lord, we pray now too that you will deliver us from that ail. Alienation or bitterness that separated us from you because Lord, if we are separate from you, who else is there to restore us in our pain and in our suffering? So we come to you now, Lord, and pray that you would be with us. Lord, as we have prayed for the Wekkers, for the Phixies, and for many others, who Been in pain, Lord. We pray, be their restorer. Be our restorer. For Jesus' sake. Until you come again.