We return now to a series that began back in March, series on delighting in God, based on Psalm thirty-seven, verse four. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give to you the desires of your heart. Let's pause for just a moment and pray for God to do that. Lord, I just thought as I looked at these people of what an overwhelming thing that is for you to communicate to us, to delight in you. And that you want to give and to be to us the very desires of our heart. And so, Lord, we pray that you will honor yourself by revealing to us. Jesus. In a way that we are overwhelmed with the truth of that. Use what I'm about to say and your word. To change our hearts and our lives, and to give us that true joy which comes from you alone. Amen. I'm trying in the series to combat two myths, two misconceptions about Christianity today. The first one is that it's easy. Christianity is basically compatible with my own agenda, that Jesus exists for me to be my comfort. to deliver me from guilt, from loneliness, to answer my prayers. And he doesn't demand very much. And most of his demands are in the religious realm because Because he's the quintessential religious person after all. And so those things, you know, you meet and fulfill those obligations, and it's nice to know that you have that comfort and that hope of heaven. The other myth or misperception, I would say, of Christianity today that's very popular is that it's very hard And that is that Christianity is essentially sacrifice. Christianity has basically to do with self-denial, with giving up things. In fact, the more you give up, the more spiritual you are Uh Christianity is kind of a hollow-cheeked earnestness, you know. It's that idea of duty. And there's nothing very much of joy in it. It more has to do with simply giving up things. And I'm proposing to you that Psalm 37 challenges both those ideas, particularly verse 4. Because in Psalm 37 you see a people that are so radically different in their agenda. From those who will be cut off and will stand under God's judgment because they do not follow the Savior, that you see in these people a temptation sometimes to think that their life is hard. Because the people that are following this world's agenda and their own pleasure, their own desire, seem to have things so much better. There's a marked difference in their lifestyle. But particularly Psalm 37 is saying, don't be deceived to think that your life is a hard one. Now the Psalm 37 verse 4 is saying, Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give to you, He will essentially be to you the desires of your heart. Now that goes against my natural thinking. You see, my natural thinking is to delight and to desire myself, my own pleasures In fact, my Psalm 37, verse 4 says, find your pleasure in serving the Lord and other people. My natural kind of thinking says, find my pleasure in serving myself and using other people. Now, what is it that's going to transform my thinking so that instead of finding my pleasure simply in myself and the things that are immediate gratification to me, I'm able to find pleasure, delight in the Lord. The Bible says that that process is a radical process which it calls conversion, that transforming process. And that process of conversion is described by Jesus in two parables, two pictures in Matthew chapter 13. And so what we're looking at this morning. And building in this series, trying to understand how Christianity, what it really is, the true Jesus versus the popular Jesus or the Jesus of our own misperceptions. To be able to understand that this process of knowing this Jesus involves a radical conversion, a radical reorientation of our values and of our thinking. Now Jesus, as I say, describes this to us in two parables in Matthew chapter 13: the parable of the hidden treasure and the parable of the pearl or the unique pearl. And these two parables are very brief. So let me read them. There are only three verses. If you have your Bible, please turn to Matthew chapter 13 and hear God's word. This is what Jesus is teaching us, and it's very, very uh i there these parables, this this teaching that he's giving to us is is kind of uh subtle in the way that you know you may not get the full impact just hearing it But I'm suggesting to us that what Jesus is saying here is something that we need to ponder because if we understand it aright, it's going to transform our understanding of what it means to follow Jesus. Jesus says, Matthew 13, 44, the kingdom of heaven is like hidden treasure, or treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again. And then in his joy he went and sold all that he had and bought that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he found one of great value, he went away and sold everything that he had and bought it. That's it. Two of the briefest parables in the Bible. In fact, you might consider them really one parable because they're essentially one parable teaching the same thing from two different angles. You see, she had a bullet in outline there. The difference is that with a hidden treasure, the person comes upon it unexpected, not looking for anything, and all of a sudden hits on it. In terms of the unique pearl, the distinction is that was sought out by a pearl merchant. That's the distinction between these two parables. Basically, the rest of it is teaching the one same basic truth. In the first case, it's someone who is just going along and unexpectedly hits on a treasure. In the other case, he's seeking for treasure and finds it. Now, get the picture of what Jesus is talking about here. Here you have a treasure that's in a field. You have to understand back in those days, there weren't safe deposit boxes, there weren't safes, there wasn't much security. And so if you had something that was very valuable, You couldn't just lock it up. They didn't have combination safes and all that stuff. So what people would often do is that they would dig a hole and they would bury something very valuable in a place that they thought was safe and they'd make sure that they remembered where it was so they're not like the squirrels that are all going around in our backyard digging up everywhere because they just think somewhere there must be a nut around there and so the whole yard's full of all these little squirrel holes. But you know, you try to find out where this thing is and you dig this hole and then you bury it. Now it could have been buried to keep the treasure safe from thieves, or maybe it was buried by thieves. We don't really know We don't know why the person was in the field. Perhaps he had rented this field to grow crops and here he was now about to plant his crops in the spring. And so whatever the case is, this this fella's digging Now put yourself in this situation. Here you are, this field that you've rented, you're digging now, and all of a sudden as you're going through this hot, sweat labor, you hit on something hard. And your immediate reaction is a little bit of frustration because you figure you hit a rock. Now how big is this rock and how are you going to get it out? You're kidding about this week uh in the office about there's a rock up uh the street from us that's uh that I saw when they were building this development Uh they took this boulder that was literally the size of a house. The boulder is almost as big as this room and they put this thing, they just pushed it, bulldozed this thing, it couldn't even move it really. It was just they dug this hole around it, and then they built a house on top of it. And I fantasize one day this guy is going to walk out his front door and he's going to see this rock and he's going to say, Mm, that thing's in the way. I think I'll get that out of here, you know. Well, you know, keep pushing aside, you know, it's a little bigger well, a little bigger than that, you know. You can go walk out the back there and see there's a rock here too. I wonder you know And someday it's gonna dawn on 'em, it's the same rock, you know, and the house is gonna split because it's gonna come down on one side of the rock. I don't know. But anyway, this person hits this thing And they think, well, how big is this? And then they look and they say, you know, it's not a stone. It it's it's a chest. And so, you know, there's a little bit of curiosity and excitement. He begin to build or dig carefully around it so you don't mess it up. And he finally uncovers it and he opens up the lid And his breath stops. There inside is gold and jewels and a fabulous treasure of wealth. You've hit the lottery. And you look at this thing and you say, nothing's ever going to be the same. And so quickly Before you go through it all, you cover it up again, and you cover up where the treasure was, put the earth back over it before anybody sees, and there's one thought in your mind, I gotta get this field Somehow I've got to obtain possession of this field so I can pull whatever's else is up under here, and it's legally mine. And so you begin to calculate. What do I have to buy this field? I don't have enough money. I'm running the field because I couldn't buy it. So what have I got to do? I gotta take everything that I have, every possession, all my clothes, my kids, you know, whatever it is, everything that I have Every possession, my house, and everything that I own, and I'm gonna just get rid of that, I'm gonna sell it for whatever it's worth, so I can buy that field, and then the treasure will be mine Or in the other case, you have this fellow who's a connoisseur of pearls. He's a pearl freak. And he buys and sells in jewelry, and he's an expert at it He has a particular uh liking for pearls because pearls are different from jewels, you know. A jewel you craft and shape and carve and Make it come out, but a pearl is not touched. It just the way it is. That's its perfection. Untouched by man And so this fella who's uh very cognizant about pearls and their worth and their beauty, uh is trading and he's always looking. You know, every time he's shopping, he's always kind of looking to see, you know, is there a better pearl here, better pearl there? All of a sudden this one day he comes across this pearl. Somebody has. It's in their display. He comes across this pearl, and he has never seen a pearl like this one. It is the biggest pearl, the most iridescent, with the most beautiful sheen. It captures, he understands pearls. He's been seeking all his life to find a pearl like this one. And he one gaze on that pearl and he begins to lick his dry lips as he goes in to begin to negotiate with this guy. He doesn't want him to know that he is desperate to have this pearl And so they begin to haggle on the price, and his palms are getting sweaty as he sees that the price is now beginning to settle on something far beyond anything that he can afford. In fact, he begins to realize that if he's going to get this one pearl, he's going to have to sell all the rest of his other pearls, plus all the rest of his other jewels, plus his house, his animals, everything that he has. But he's willing to do it because he says, I must have that pearl. I can't live without it. Now what is it that Jesus is teaching us? What is he illustrating through these two stories? See in a bullet and outline, two points. But I believe he's teaching us. First of all, notice that what he's teaching us is obviously not about treasures and pearls. He's teaching us about the kingdom of heaven. Verse 44. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure. Verse 45, again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. So these are two truths about the kingdom that Jesus wants us to understand. And what is it? First of all, that becoming a Christian, Jesus is teaching us, transforms your value system radically. Becoming a Christian transforms your value system radically in two ways. First of all, what was formerly treasure is now worthless. What was formerly treasure is now worthless. Yesterday somebody wanted to borrow your hedge trimmer, and you said Well okay, but you know, my dad gave me that hedge trimmer and it's got a lot of sentimental value. Make sure you take care of that thing and get it back in the same shape that you took it. And you don't rest real easy until you get that thing back Today, all you can think about is how much can I get for that hedge trimmer so I can get rid of that thing to get the treasure? Things that before you would not part with, now all of a sudden it's just a pang, a momentary moment of of uh just anticipating some missing of this thing that was precious to you, but you're ready to get rid of it. All you care is how much can you get for that to get the treasure. It's the treasure now that becomes the end. Everything else is simply a means to it. Your total value system has shifted. And this has two applications to us in terms of the kingdom. First of all, what it means is those things that what were to you pet sins, habits, idols, things in your life that you said, I can't imagine living without this I can't imagine my identity being someone who is not in bondage to this thing, who does it, who has this hobby, who captures me It takes all my free time and all the other time that I I take to dream and to think about how I can devote more to this, all of a sudden, that thing no longer captures me. Now it's Jesus that captures me. And that pet sin, that thing, you know, I find that when I talk to people about Jesus, generally as we talk, it becomes clear That it is not the matter of evolution or the authority of the Bible or how do you know that Jesus really rose from the dead or all this, those are ultimately not the questions that keep people from giving their life to Jesus. In fact, I once was talking to a person about these and we had gone through five or six of these different things and I was beginning to sense that the person was not able to answer, I mean I'd I answered to their satisfaction and they'd go on and say, Well what about this? And you know, maybe you know it's life on other planets and what about that? Or you know I finally said, you know, if I answered all of your questions, would you become a Christian? He looked at me and he said, No, I'd probably just think of another question. So your questions aren't really the issue, are they? There's something in your life you don't want to give up. Now that may be true for somebody, one of you here this morning. It's not a matter that you don't have all your questions answered about how you can trust the Bible There's something in your life that you don't want to give up, some relationship, some hobby, some habit, something about your lifestyle, and you're saying, I refuse to let that be tampered with. And let me tell you, until you see that Jesus is a treasure that you cannot do without, you might as well forget the rest of the intellectual arguments. You've got to see that Jesus is a treasure that you cannot live without. In order for you to put in perspective those things that are in fact holding you in bondage. Where you think that they are your delight. The Spirit of God wants for this morning, perhaps for some of you to see, perhaps one person here. To see Jesus as the treasure that will satisfy your life and your heart, like that thing which you are so attached to can never do, it's grasping its tentacles around you to say more, more, more. And Jesus wants you to see that He can set you free from that. Not only is there that shift in the value system, that those things that you say, I can't live without this, you're ready to give it up. For Jesus. But on the other side, those things, it's uh also um things in the world. Now, by the way, uh you notice that I refer you in um That idea of the pet sins to Matthew chapter 19. You remember that's where the rich young man came to Jesus and he said, uh, what do I do to get heaven? And Jesus told him some things and he sensed uh that you know this this really wasn't the issue for this guy. He says, Well, you know, I've I've kept all the laws. And Jesus senses what is the idol in his life, and he says, I'll tell you what Matthew chapter 19, verse 21. He says, Go sell all your possessions, give them to the poor, and come and follow me. He's putting his finger, you see, on simply that one thing in that fellow's life that he refuses to part with. All his riches. And the next verse says that he walked away very sad because he had a lot of stuff. Maybe Jesus is putting his finger on something in your life this morning. He's saying, This is the thing that you're saying, I refuse to part with this. You're missing to see what a treasure Jesus wants to be in your life. It's not only those habits, the rest of that, it it's the world in general. It's the possessions this fella had. But you know, the Bible talks in Revelation chapter 18 About how to get a perspective on all that stuff that so clings to us. In Revelation chapter 18, we read what's going to happen to all this stuff, the things in this world. In verse 9, you have this, all this stuff, all this world system, all its possessions, all of its value system, are summed up and symbolized in the city of Babylon. That's the picture of it. And in this city, you have the picture of spiritual adultery that we instead of Serving God and loving Him, finding our delight in Him, in those deep, satisfying experiences of our heart, the Bible says we crave these things to fill up the hunger And then the Bible says this is what's going to happen. Verse 9, when the kings of the earth who committed adultery with her, that's Babylon, the harlot, and shared her luxury, see the smoke of her burning. They will weep and they will mourn over her. Terrified at her torment, they will stand far off and they will cry, Woe! Woe, great city, O Babylon, city of power, in one hour your doom has come. The merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her because no one buys her cargoes anymore. And then it goes on to describe all the treasures of these cargoes. Jewels, pearls, and all the rest of these things. And the last of the treasures and the cargoes are the bodies and the souls of people. And then in verse 14, he says, They will say the fruit that you longed for is gone from you. All your riches and splendor have vanished. Never to be recovered. In one hour, such great wealth has been brought to ruin. All those things that you and I so crave. Want to see what's going to happen to them? We drive over to the Howard County landfill. It's all going to end up there someday. Sooner or later. Jesus is the treasure that he says will never, ever come to an end. The only treasure that satisfies. Now, not only is our value system transformed into what was formerly treasure, it is now worthless But on the other hand, what was formerly worthless now becomes treasure. Before the Holy Spirit works in your heart to see who Jesus really is and what he can do, he's not very valuable to you. He's a historical curiosity. He's a person that you may respect, but he's not a treasure to you. In fact, even as Christians, I find that there's a tendency today to look at ideas. To look at even living by grace or all kinds of things as things that become a substitute for Jesus They all become means, ideas, techniques, self-help programs to divert us from seeing that the only treasure that will really satisfy in your life this week Is the person of Jesus Christ Himself. He who was at one point kind of interesting, but not very important or precious to you. And the Holy Spirit comes to show you that it is only Jesus who can take away the burden of your guilt and your sin and that compulsive desire to do enough to feel good about yourself. To continue to seek to please whatever standard that you think will enable you to feel that you have arrived. In order to please God or other people or any of the rest of this, only Jesus can set you free by the forgiveness of your sins and his taking them upon himself. In his death on the cross. It's only Jesus who took your place as he took Barabbas' place that we looked at a few weeks ago. It's only Jesus who rose from the dead and becomes for you the key into the doorway of life. To allow you to enter into eternal life and to solve the ultimate problem of death. It is only Jesus Who can give that meaning and that purpose to call you to give your life to something that is beyond you and is ultimately satisfying. Jesus becomes the treasure. Jesus himself, as Colossians 2 says, He is the treasure of all the riches and the wisdom of God. And it's that understanding of who he is that produces in you and me the same kind of feeling Dick read about that Paul expresses in Philippians chapter 3, where he says concerning his relationship with Christ in verse 8. What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord For whose sake I have lost all things, and I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. What a treasure! The freedom of conscience, the freedom of having a righteousness that stands before God and gives to you the hope of heaven. Paul says for that everything else is like a garbage heap to me. Everything else is a manure pile of my efforts and my reputation and my accomplishments. Not only Jesus, but his kingdom. His kingdom was not of very great importance to you. Going to church was something that was an event, whether you liked the worship or whether you didn't like the worship Whether you felt like it gave you some sort of a hope for the next week, made you feel good or didn't make you feel good. You know, it was something that was very peripheral to your life. Now Jesus Christ comes into your life, and all of a sudden, church, Columbia Presbyterian is not something that you attend, it's something you become part of. It's a movement that captures your heart and your life to serve Jesus. Because his kingdom now becomes paramount to you. And so Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6, in verses 19 to 21, Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, here your heart will be also. Investing in and laying up treasures in the kingdom of heaven. Because that's where our treasure, that's where our heart is You see, in both of these cases, the person who was at one point, all these things that were so valuable to them, in just an instant, in just seeing something they had never seen before, a treasure, a pearl. Everything takes on a different meaning and a different value system for them. Now, not only is that true But the second thing that this parable teaches us, not only do our values radically change, but the motive for giving up all of our rights The motive for abandoning ourselves to Jesus is not duty, but it's joy. It's joy. Notice that in this parable. Verse 44: the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again. And then in his joy, he went and sold all that he had and bought that field It was because of his joy that he did. Nobody told him. They didn't say after he found this treasure, up, now you've got to go out and you've got to sell everything that you have. That's what you got to do in order to get this. You see, it was simply the the only thing that he could think to do. It was the only appropriate response. If you said to him, or to the fellow that sold everything for that pearl, what a noble sacrifice. That you've given up all this in order to have that treasure. What a spiritual person. Are you crazy? This is the best investment I ever made. I did this because of the worth of what I had to have. There wasn't anything novel about it And when you see Jesus Christ in all his glory and who he is as the hope of your life, there is nothing particularly noble about humbling yourself at his feet. When you see him as he is, it's the only appropriate response of the sinful creature to the Savior Creator. For you and for me to out of joy abandon ourselves to Jesus and to his kingdom. To take on the passions of his heart to become the passions of our own heart. So that when you see Jesus, you understand him, you understand what it is that he's called you to do. That you are then out of joy, willing to abandon yourself to that. Now I'm not saying that it's not appropriate for a person out of fear and a desire to escape hell to come to Jesus as Savior. I would that the church today had more of a sense of the fear of God. Something that made my blood run cold this week. It really did. I'm still not over it. I talked to somebody who had been part of Columbia Presbyterian some years ago. Hadn't had contact with this person for years. And I was asking them how their life had been going, and they said pretty good. And then I talked to them about some other things and then asked the question and I believe it would come up, how's things between you and the Lord? And she says, Oh, I don't believe that stuff anymore I said, you don't? He said, no. Used to be true for me. I understand it's still true for you. But it's not true for me anymore. I said, Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. He said, Don't be sorry for me. I said, but don't you realize if Jesus is who he says he is, if he's risen, that he said, don't talk about it. I don't want to hear it My life is fine now. I'm enjoying myself. My heart broke. I was shut off. This person's joy had been wrapped up now in this relationship that they had found. And Jesus was utterly shut out. And there was no fear of the consequences of that. You know, as we go on as a church through the years, we're seeing more and more people that have walked with the Lord, ones and twos, drifting off. And in ten years, I will tell you right now, that the statistics are almost certain. In ten years, there will be some that are right here in this room now, singing the hymns. Saying you love Jesus, and you will no longer be walking with him. Because you've never really understood him as the treasure of your heart. He was something in addition to something else in your life. It's not until God transforms our hearts. So that it's out of joy that we abandon ourselves to the Jesus who becomes the centermost reason for our being. That our hearts are fixed on Him. And even then, there is that cleaving to Him, and not the presumption that says, I've made a decision, and so I don't have to worry about that anymore And so my longing is for each one of us here that we will see that it's out of joy that we give ourselves to Him. You see the last point there. The selling all things was not seen as a sacrifice or as a duty, but as an irresistible investment. It was an irresistible investment. Like Jim Elliott once said, who gave his life as a missionary to the Auka Indians. And was shot down in his attempts to bring them the gospel. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. To give your rights, to your agenda, to all those things in your life, to run it your way, and to come to Jesus and to say, you are the delight of my life. You are a treasure. You are life. You've made me for yourself, and I've gone my own way, but you've given yourself for me to sacrifice your life on my behalf. You've forgiven my sins. You've transformed me. You've released me from the bondage of my sinful habits and burdens. And you've given to me the hope of heaven. What can I do but to abandon myself to you? Some years ago, an American communist in Mexico City Broke off his engagement to his fiancee. And he wrote her a letter stating why he needed to do this. And I quote to you that letter in part. He said, we communists suffer many casualties. We are those whom they shoot, hang, lynch. Tar and feather, imprison, slander, fire from our jobs, and whose lives people make miserable in every way possible. Some of us are killed and imprisoned. We live in poverty. From what we earn, we turn over to the party every cent which we do not absolutely need to live. We communists have neither time nor money to go to the movies very often, nor for concerts, nor for beautiful homes and new cars. They call us fanatics. We are fanatics. Our lives are dominated by one supreme factor, the struggle for world communism. We communists have a philosophy of life that money could not buy. We have a cause to fight for, a specific goal in life. We lose our insignificant identities in the great river of humanity. And if our personal lives seem hard, or if our egos seem bruised through subordination to the party, we are amply rewarded. In the thought that all of us, even though it be in a very small way, are contributing something new and better for humanity. There is one thing about which I am completely in earnest. The communist cause. It is my life, my business, my religion, my hobby, my sweetheart, my wife, my mistress, my meat and drink. I work at it by day and I dream of it by night. Its control over me grows greater with the passage of time. Therefore I cannot have a friend, a lover, or even a conversation without relating to them To this power that animates and controls my life. I measure people, books, ideas, deeds, according to the way that they affect the communist cause and by their attitude to it I have already been in jail for my ideas, and if need be, I am ready to face death. How do you respond when you hear a letter like that? Does it challenge the trivial, the passionlessness of our own lives? Jesus is the supreme treasure. He's not a wimpy Jesus calling us to follow along, sing a few choruses so that he can answer prayers at our convenience to show us parking spaces. It is Jesus who calls us into his kingdom because he is the unique pearl. He is the all-satisfying treasure. He is the one who calls us to be part of his kingdom, so that out of that you would find the treasure and the delight that nothing else can give. In 1959, out of a non-Christian background, I gave my life to Jesus Christ, and I have never regretted it since Let's pray. Lord, we pause to face those passions of our own lives And Lord, I pray that you would free some of us here from the conflict of many trivial passions to put before us the treasure of Jesus That unique iridescent pearl of all surpassing beauty, that we might abandon ourselves in this moment to him. And be freed from the conflict of passions that war against one another. And place you, Lord Jesus, not ideas But you, as the treasure of our hearts, in the center of our thinking. Free us, Lord From those distractions, that we would be like that person who found the treasure in the field and the merchant looking for the pearls, and see things clearly. Forcefully in their proper value.