The one unmentionable in public discourse. You think that's an overstatement? Think about the Fuhrer That has arisen over Mel Gibson's latest film, not even released yet, The Passion about the Trial and the Death of Jesus From what I understand, of course, nobody has seen the film publicly, but that it's an attempt simply to portray the gospel narratives, even spoken in Aramaic and Latin. simply to portray probably the most historically accurate and graphic portrayal of the events of the suffering and death of Jesus ever depicted But lawsuits and a furor saying this is not to be allowed in the theaters of America Because it divides. It's a hate film. It will produce reactions. Jesus name and his work, not somebody's agenda placed on that. We're not talking about some cult or somebody that's got some agenda to press something. Or, as we often hear, to jam the gospel down somebody's throat. Simply a historical portrayal of Jesus is now seen by many to be inappropriate for public discourse. In the May 2003 issue of the Atlantic Monthly, there was an article by a fellow by the name of Jonathan Rausch. And uh in this article, Raush says, let me quote from it, he says, I have Christian friends. Who organized their life around an intense and personal relationship with God, but who betray no sign of caring that I am an unrepentantly atheistic Jewish homosexual That's the end of the quote. Now, Paul Miller, who's written a number of materials that we use, this is uh in a prayer letter, September prayer letter of his, and he he goes on to comment. He says, I'm sympathetic with Roush's friends. I mean, it's hard to engage somebody about our faith when our culture demands that religious expression be private, and the mere mention of Jesus named makes people think you're a religious nut. Ralph sees his friend's attitudes as part of a cultural trend that he calls apatheism. He defines, and this is his word, new word here now, get it down, he defines apotheism as a disinclination to care all that much about one's own religion. and an even stronger disinclination to care about other people's. Now here's the kicker. Rouse sees that as progress. He applauds that. That's great. You know, more peace. Of course, Miller says we as Christians see that as significant decline. No wonder it's hard for you and for me to share the gospel, right? While you feel intimidated, you feel like you will be thought of as one of those people as soon as you mention Jesus and the hope that he is. And so I thought that as we think about our purpose and adapting ourselves to the Great Commission, moving forward in the future. That it would be good to hear today from Jesus the good news that he offers to us of the promise Of what he gives to us, so that you and I might with confidence share the gospel, even here in Howard County in 2003. So let me take us to Acts chapter 1. Acts chapter 1, where you have Jesus after his resurrection, spending the last days, 40 days, with his disciples, before they are going to take the gospel And as these people who are of no particular giftedness and consequence going to change the world through that. Look at Acts chapter 1. Let me begin at verse 1. This is Luke's second volume of what Jesus did. First of all, in his life on earth, now, Acts volume two, Luke Volume 2, the Acts of the Holy Spirit, of what Jesus has done through his body. Luke says, in my former book, The Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up to heaven, after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit. To the apostles that he had chosen. After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of 40 days and spoke about the kingdom of God. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command. Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my Father promised, which you have heard me speak about. For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So when they met together, they asked, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. After he said this, he was taken up before their very eyes, and a cloud hid them from their sight. They were looking intently up into the sky as he was going. when suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them. Men of Galilee, they said, why do you stand here looking into the sky? This Saint Jesus, who has been taken from you into heaven, will come aback. In the same way that you've seen him go, into heaven. I'd like to ask five questions, a verse eight that I want to focus on. But you will receive power, let's have it up here now, but you will receive power When the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and to the ends of the earth. Five questions. First of all, how do we get that power then? Well, you see, very clear in the verse, you'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. The two are inseparable, power and the Holy Spirit. In fact, he said in verse 4, wait For that. Don't do anything until you receive it. Second question: When does that happen? What do we do to get that power? Questions often asked, what do I need to do? Uh and the answers uh fill books and so many sermons Uh is it a matter of sufficient obedience? Is it a matter of my submission? Is it a matter of my longing? Is it a matter of my coming and yielding to the Lord? Uh innumerable sermons Now focus on confession of our hearts and being in the right frame, the right attitude to receive the baptism of the Spirit, which is what he calls it in verse 5. I would like to suggest that none of these matters are relevant. You notice Jesus doesn't tell them to do anything except one thing. What? Queen. That's only said they may say pray. It says wait. Um wait for the promise. And I would suggest that um It only depends on what Jesus has done, not what you do. It's kind of comforting, isn't it? Yeah, I mean it's not like you gotta Beat the ground and prostrate yourself and cry out and scream. Why does the Spirit come? Because Jesus has accomplished all that is necessary for Him to come. Look at chapter 2, verse 32. When the Spirit has come, Peter says, God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of the fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you see now see and hear. So, because Jesus died and was exalted, raised from the dead, he received the Spirit. He accomplished everything that was necessary. In order for the Spirit to come. And he now gives, he says, this spirit to you. So historically, at one point Pentecost, for some significant reasons we won't go into. Jesus sent his spirit to the church. He had accomplished everything necessary. You and I simply receive him. But how do we receive them? The second thing is, not only does he come at one point historically for the church, but he comes personally into our lives at the point of conversion. You see that at the end of Acts chapter 2. Look down at verse 38 after the sermon, declaring Jesus the need to repent. Peter says, verse 38. To you who are unbelievers, who you know, these people who are disturbed, they have rejected Jesus, they've crucified Jesus, and they say, What do we do? Peter says, verse 38, repent and be baptized. Every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. Obviously, this is conversion. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. So that gift is given at conversion. That is accomplished by grace. That is what Jesus gives to everyone who receives him. And so you and I don't do anything except receive Jesus in that, and you have the Holy Spirit. Anybody want to say thank you, Lord? Thank you. You know, I mean that should thrill us. We have the Spirit by the grace of Christ. Now the second, the third question. What's that power for? It's not simply to contemplate, to use at our discretion, as you will receive power and you will be my witnesses. Now the Spirit comes for a number of other things. But in this particular context, what Jesus is saying is this power that is received by the Spirit is so that you will be my witnesses. First of all, where? You notice he says, here in Jerusalem, Judea. That's their own culture. those that you are familiar with and comfortable with, then to Samaria, those of the half-breeds, those that live nearby you but are from a different culture. those that you're not comfortable with, where there's some cultural boundary to cross and bring the gospel to them. And then he says, uh to the whole ends of the earth, those that you don't even think about. That the Spirit is going to come and He's going to bring those people to become a concern to you. You will be interested in their welfare. Now, how do you do that? Now you do it all kinds of ways. Individually, you're talking to somebody and you know you just concern for that person. You may have known them for years or You may be seeing them at a checkout counter. Uh you may be just coming across them and doing some service in your house or whatever it is, but you're having some Some connection with somebody that God brings you into a discussion, a spiritual discussion, because you're open, you're waiting. Or it can be in terms of households, households that God places sovereignly in various neighborhoods. It's dawned on some of us that God has placed four families of Columbia Presbyterian within three streets of our cul-de-sac. And so God laid on Sandy and Lorna Sharp's hearts that um, you know, maybe God is doing something in this and we should bring the gospel to them. So they initiated and Lorna and Kathy uh going around to ask all the women in the streets to say, would you like to come to a ten week uh alpha course that talks about Christianity? What does Christianity mean? And you know, anybody interested in that? You know, pray that somebody will come, you know. Maybe you want to pray, pray for Tuesday, September 30th. And they had the first meeting to see if anybody shows up. But you know, it's just it's saying, Lord, we we care about the neighborhood and just mobilize what resources there are. Or or maybe it's in your cell, your small group, where you're saying, We got a group of Christians and God's working in us. We're certainly far from perfect, but we're seeing Jesus help us to live skillfully and in peace and joy and Got some friends, you want to bring them into some of those activities. So you have to think as a group about how can we bring these people to join with us or as as a congregation, what are some of the things that we're doing? You think about upwards, it's gained a reputation in the community. You know, I go various places, and if I mention something about Columbia Presbyterian, people will say, oh yeah, you're the guys that had that upwards program And really it's known in the community always. It's a positive. Yeah, that's a great program. My kids go to I know somebody that goes. And so invite people who's who has kids and they are interested in sports. Don't go to church anywhere. Bring them to that so they can come and hear the gospel. Or to the fall festival, the end of October. Bring friends, have a big party, you know, or or to some of the seminars, the weekend conferences we're having on sex in October, on marriage in November. It's not not not supposed to be in that order, but I mean, you know, the conferences are in that order. uh you know sex in October and marriage in November. And then Dan Alander, you know, solve everything, clear it all up, coming in March. Uh you know, people that are known, topics that are of interest to people, you know Take advantage of these things, you see. As impelled by the Spirit. This is how we do it. Now, um, fourth question How does this power work though? I mean, you know, here I am, I am having trouble with this. How does Acts 1. 8 work? Well, one of the first thing I want you to notice is Acts 1. 8 is not a command. Did you ever notice that? There's no command there. He says, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, the ends of the earth. You will. You will. No command. Now, this is where we plug in what our vision statement, which if you haven't received, it's on the back table His hand out middle hour last week, this week, don't miss next week middle hour. Next week middle hour is kind of a climax of what God's doing. Have an encouraging example of seeing lost people coming to faith. In an unusual context, don't miss that time. It'll really encourage your faith. What God is doing right here locally But in that vision statement, you see that we talk about a passion for God in Christ that's demonstrated in our worship, our love for one another, for the world. Fueled by the gospel, fired by the Holy Spirit. Two components. You see that first component, that's the first two blanks, the fuel of the gospel. What we witness to at the end of the of Luke, Luke chapter 24. Luke volume one. Where Jesus talks about how the Son of Man must suffer and die so that repentance and forgiveness will be preached in his name to all the earth. Sums up the gospel. The gospel which speaks of God's compassion to us in terms of the past, his forgiveness of your sin, of the present, his giving you power for living, and for the future, a hope that you have of heaven. Now people without Jesus Christ that you are close to you, that those three or four friends we talked about last week, they do not have that. And that is intensely relevant, no matter how they may seem like Christianity is irrelevant to them. Everyone needs forgiveness for their past, power to live skillfully, and a hope for the future. The gospel provides that. Not only does God give us that wonderful message, but he also commands us to go with it. Going, make disciples. But the gospel itself does not impel us to go. No matter how much we bathe ourselves in the gospel, we delight in it. It will not give us that boldness, that power to share it with the unbeliever. So Jesus said to those who had the gospel, wait. Wait until you get that second component, which is, second two blanks, the fire of the Holy Spirit. Fire, the fire of the Spirit, which is our power for witness. Now many of us are very keenly aware of the need of power after this week, right? How many of you still without power? I was talking about spiritually. I mean All right, all you come forward. We're gonna have prayer here with Yeah, forty-two thousand still without power in Howard County last night, uh nearly half a million BGE still as of last night. We were without power for about twenty-four hours. And you know, you it really makes you think about things you take for granted, doesn't it? I mean You know, you you there's all these great appliances, you know, nothing. I mean you still go on and go around kind of like idiots, you know, go around swimming on switches, you know You know they don't work, but somehow there's something that just says you gotta flip it on when you walk in a room, you know? Nothing happens, you know. Computer doesn't work, can't get your emails. That's you know Is that good news or bad news? I don't know, but you know, there's all this stuff that simply doesn't work. Of course all of that's in the noise compared to the food. That's the real concern, right? All what's happening in the refrigerator and the freezer and whether the ice cream was put in right side up or whether it was laid on its side, you know, that was the stuff we were thinking about. All of those great things, useless without power. So the gospel in your life and in my life won't go anywhere without the power of the Spirit. Isn't it great that God gave this hurricane just so I could use that illustration this week for you, God? Good timing, huh? Well, there it is. We need power. Jesus promises the Spirit, when He has come, He has come. Historically, He comes in your life and in mine at conversion to bring that power. Now What is fascinating when you read the New Testament, have you ever noticed there was a lot of witnessing going on, but there are almost no commands to witness? You know, you go to Acts chapter 4 verse 20. After being threatened to not witness, Peter says, we can't help but speak of the things that we hear and see. You go to chapter 8 of Acts and it says that the the apostles are there in Jerusalem. Everybody's being scattered. And so it's talking about those who weren't the leaders of the church. Acts chapter 8, verse 4 said they were scattered everywhere and they preached, announced the gospel wherever they went. Nobody told them. Other than the Great Commission, it's not like you see that. In fact, you read Paul's letters, and again and again you you just don't see it. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. He says, the word has sounded out from you, not only in Macedonia, in Achaia, but all over Asia Minor, so that we don't have to even speak to you about this. Now, why is it that something we seem to find so hard to do, the New Testament, doesn't command to be done? Doesn't seem like the New Testament believers had to be commanded or exhorted or pressed to do this. I think the answer to that is to understand the word law. There's two words you can use the word law. The first way you use the word law is in terms of external command. It's a command to either do something or to restrain you. Like a speed limit. Now, not long ago, I was traveling down a four-lane highway That looked to me like it was begging for 50 miles an hour. I don't know what it was, but I was doing 49 and I got a ticket because it turned out that the speed limit there was 35 miles an hour. I couldn't believe it 35 miles an hour? Everything in me said. Do fifty. You know? But there was an external constraint that said, no, you must not go over thirty-five So there are external constraints that jar, that are in tension with what we want to do. That's the first way we use law, a command to make you do or prevent you from doing something that you otherwise want to do. The other way we use the word law is to talk about the way something's wired, simply the way it works. Fish are wired to swim Babies are wired to throw things. You know, I mean you feed the kid, you don't say, stop throwing your food. You might as well talk to the walls. You know, the food's gonna go, you know, anything you give, you know Teenagers are wired to be attracted to the opposite sex. Whatever you do. That's the law of their being, you know? Now What is happening here is Jesus says you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. So what happens is when the Holy Spirit comes into the church, into the people of God. He constitutes the church to witness. So the witness of the New Testament Church is nothing more or less than the response of a healthy organism to the law of its being. Why is it then that we don't witness? Fifth final question. Why is it that if God's constituted the church infilled with the Holy Spirit to witness, to be concerned for people without Christ, to know that there's truth and there's error? That there is hope and hopelessness and that we can't just live as if those things don't matter. They're just part of your being. Why is it that we find it so hard to witness? The first reason, you see that listed there, is you may not have the spirit. Word have. You may not have the spirit. If you find That you have no interest in talking about Jesus. You'd rather talk about anything else in the world, you know, what's on sale, sports, you know, anything but Jesus Then there is serious reason to doubt whether or not you really know Jesus. Because if you know Jesus Then, like Pete said last week about his kids with the Christmas presents, as soon as you open the presents, you want to talk to your friends about that. God constitutes us that way. So, if you are finding this morning, I really don't give a rip about this. I don't want to talk about Jesus. It's not of any interest to me. I want to see what can help me here. Then I beg you. To be honest with yourself about your relationship or lack of your relationship with Christ. That you be honest before the Lord and say, Lord, I don't want to talk about you because I don't really find you all that Engrossing in my life. You are not the center of my thoughts or my being, and maybe I don't know you. But the Lord would show Himself to you If you would put on a grace slip, you know, I I don't think I do want to talk about Jesus. Can we talk about what that means? We'd be glad to meet with you and talk about that That's the first thing. Don't let that pass by. That is critically important. But then the second thing would be that maybe you're shaky, and by the way, the answer to that is Acts chapter 2, verses 28, 38, and 39 again. That Peter says, repent, be baptized, every one of you in the name of Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. You will receive Him upon your coming into a relationship with Him. The second thing would be that you're shaking on your conviction about lostness. That's the next word, lostness without Christ. Our world has seduced you to not perceive what is reality. It's kind of like the movie The Matrix. You know, that we're really all just energy cells for alien beings that keep us anesthetized through pleasure so we don't care, you know, and that Kind of the gist, right? And uh, you know, you so you're not really an energy cell that's being used by an alien for power source, so you know. But Are we in a universe which is centrally spiritual? And you are in fact being deceived by demonic powers. That there is a reality of a judgment of two kingdoms, the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Satan, and that it it matters more than anything else in the world which of those kingdoms you belong to. And you have been dulled to think that it really doesn't matter all that much, that lost people are going to miss out on some stuff and whatever that means. It's vague in general, but I don't really care that much because it doesn't sink in. The implications of that. Maybe you need to be sensitized by the Spirit to what the implications of the gospel are The answer to that is Acts chapter 4 verse 12 where he just goes on and says, Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name. Under heaven given to men by which we must be saved. That was vital to the church. That conviction was fired by the Spirit in their hearts, and they could not let it go What about us at Columbia Presbyterian? Are we fired by that conviction? Does it cause us to adapt ourselves to the Great Commission because we are compelled? Third reason, why else? Well, maybe it's that you're quenching the spirit. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, Paul talks about not quenching the Spirit Quenching the spirit is when the spirit who is in you from conversion prompts you to do things. And And by and by you make choices, and those choices have more to do with resisting the promptings than obeying the promptings. And that becomes a systematic pattern so that it becomes easier to just ignore the promptings of the Spirit. That's quenching the spirit. And as you do that, you become desensitized to the gospel and to the issues of lostness and salvation and Christ and his beauty and his wonder and his sufficiency for all of our needs. So if you're quenching the spirit in some area of your life, or generally you're finding it easier to resist his promptings than to obey them by saying, I want to please Jesus, and when I sense that prompting. From the Spirit of God, of some principle of Scripture, of something that I know pleases him, and I say, I know this is where you would want, Lord, but I'm going to choose what I want. Don't be surprised that you don't really care that much for lost people. You don't really find opportunities to share your faith Because a spirit quenched in general is a spirit whose power is going to be reduced effectively in giving you the boldness, the courage. to stand in a culture that is apatheetic, you know. It's different from apathetic, it's apatheetic. In other words, you don't really care about theology, you don't really care about beliefs. God deliver us from that. So finally, fourth reason would be a lack of prayer for the Spirit's power. See, even though we receive the Spirit of conversion, the book of Acts shows us that it's not as if this automatically just continues, and well, we have the Spirit, so we don't need to ask for the Spirit. If you go back to Luke chapter 11, let's just look at it so you don't have to turn to it. In Luke chapter 11, remember what Jesus said, if you then Though your evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? That's not talking about a once at conversion kind of matter. The parallel passage in Matthew is talking about daily Christian living in which it says the Father will give good gifts to those who ask. The Holy Spirit is, of course, the ultimate good gift. And what it's saying is that Jesus, who said, wait for the Spirit, Acts chapter 1, verse 4 So the Spirit comes in response to the promise of verse 8, chapter 2. Then you come to chapter 4, and you remember they're threatened. Don't talk about this Jesus. They're punished. They go out and what do they do? They have a prayer meeting. And in that prayer meeting, those who have been filled with the Spirit come now and what do they do? They ask for the Spirit to come upon them. and give them new boldness. The result, verse 30-31, is that the Spirit came and it says the place was shaken with his power. Oh God, may the Lord shake us at Columbia Presbyterian. You know one of my greatest concerns for us as a church after 25 years Is in the last few years, the church and its ministries has grown exponentially. The foundation of those ministries has always been prayer. Prayer in ourselves, prayer individually. But the two particular places that we pray as prayer ministries are Thursday mornings, and back there every Sunday morning, a group of people praying for the services. Those ministries have not grown in the last year or two. So we've got a bigger and bigger edifice on the same foundation That's dangerous. If our prayer foundation is not growing, how do we expect the Spirit to do extraordinary things to all the ministries that we're generating? I ask some of you to just not in your own own groups and your own individual lives. I know that many of you can't make Thursday morning. You know, tell us, we'll start another meeting some other time But you probably could, in most cases, some of you couldn't, with families, little kids, but you could, for many of you, come to one service to worship and come back there and gather with some brothers and sisters to pray. For our church and for the power of the gospel and the other service, whether first or second. But that God would move in us our sense of our weakness and the dependence we have upon the Spirit to come upon us in these next days and weeks and months and years, so that Jesus who has given the Spirit, that you and I, even in this culture that says, you don't talk about Jesus And there's subtle ways you get punished if you do say in boldness, we're going to talk about Jesus. We're going to talk about Jesus because people need Jesus. They need Jesus as much as 25 years ago when we established this place as a ministry to bring the gospel to Howard County. And you and I are committed to doing that. And see what God will do through us. You and me, weak sinners, through the power of the Spirit and the gospel. Amen. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would come upon us anew and help us to see what are those ways that we're disrupting the connection. Whether we have never known you, Lord Jesus, speak to us that we might sense the conviction by the power of the Spirit of a need to come to know you and confess that. Lord, it you would come upon us. that we would be convinced of the truth of the gospel, of a judgment. Judgment that got us expelled from the meeting house back in nineteen eighty four when we believed that and were told we didn't fit in the interfaith system of Columbia. We would continue to believe that there is a God before whom everyone will stand, and a Savior who longs to make Himself available to take our sin and to come and to fill us with your Spirit to live. If we have answers, not because we've got some great insight, but simply because you, the God of heaven and earth, have spoken in your word. We would obey the promptings of your spirit in that. Lord, if anyone here is quenching your spirit and therefore has lost the sensitivity, To the power of the gospel, Lord, we pray that they would come honestly before you and confess that. Repent of that and be restored and renewed to the control possession of the Spirit in their lives. Lord, we want to know you. We want to know your power. Raise up prayer warriors. Raise up those who will come and join us, whether Thursdays or other times or Sundays. But that we as families, as groups, will cry out to you that we might see in our congregation not just ministries. Lord, to pray for the study in our neighborhood, to pray for upwards, to pray for the fall festival, for the conferences that we have, to see what you will do to work in our midst, because you are the God of power. We believe that. We want to see it for Jesus' sake. Amen.