Well on September the seventeenth, nineteen seventy-eight, twenty-five years ago this month, Columbia Presbyterian Fellowship held its first worship service. It was an Oakland Mills Interface Center. And uh thinking Wendy is singing here, wasn't even born yet. Uh I had just left intervarsity staff, came with my young wife and two daughters, ages seven and four, didn't have a son yet. Columbia was just 11 years old as a city. I believe there were 93 people at that first worship service, and uh 25 of those were committed to starting a church to bring the gospel to Columbia. We run into a lot more detail about that in the middle hour. I hope you were here to hear that. If you missed that, I believe it was taped. Uh believe there was an audio, Kendall Yes? Yeah. So you can hear it, ten things, ten of the highlights of the history of the 25 years and particularly how we got started, told by those that were here before me. But um those were exciting times. Um everything was new. I preached that first Sunday morning on Ephesians Of course, right? Twenty five years been preaching. It was Ephesians uh one seven Well what we have in Christ, uh to speak about his work and the passion that we had for him and how this whole new endeavor was for him. Well, about one year ago I uh asked Glenn Mitzel, Glenn and Pat were among those who were with us from the very beginning. And and I asked Glenn, who uh said to me this morning, he probably uh probably of those in Columbia Presbyterian knows me the longest from at least inner varsity circles. I knew him when he was a student at Hopkins 1969 when I was Ivy staff. And so I thought Glenn was a good one to ask, not just for that, but for his gifts to see if he could coordinate a a month-long celebration this month of our twenty-fifth anniversary. to thank God for what he had done, to refocus us on the basics and to re-energize us for the future And I was very grateful when he accepted to do that, which is why we're going to have this celebration. Uh Glenn coordinated um what we're going to be doing. Gonna be a lot of i events and a lot of things to um I think to help us to to thank God and to see perspective. This week we're going to focus on the past, and next week we're looking at the present The next week we'll be looking at the future. And then the fourth week, we're going to bring our first intern Back, who is now the regional home missionary, Dick Ellis, to bring God's word of talents, prophetic word to challenge us, he knows us, but has a little outside perspective, and to uh also build our faith with some exciting things God's doing. Well, shortly after Glenn uh agreed to do that He sent a letter to some of the leaders, and I would like to quote a couple of sentences from what he wrote. to the leaders um last fall. He said, In considering how we should celebrate our twenty fifth anniversary, my attention has been drawn to David's celebration when he brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. After Great preparations with great fanfare, the celebration included music, singing, dancing, sacrifices, blessing, gift giving, petition, praise, and thanksgiving in first Chronicles fifteen and sixteen. The highlight of the celebration was David's new psalm in first Chronicles sixteen, where he calls the people to remember the wonders he has done. Verse five. The more I thought about that, the more it seemed appropriate to me to preach this first Sunday not from Ephesians one, but from First Chronicles chapter sixteen. Um you notice that uh and so if you had your Bibles you might want to turn to that. But I want to read just two verses from that chapter. Verse 7 says, That day David first committed to Asaph and his associates this psalm of thanksgiving to the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord, call on his name, make known among the nations what he has done. Let's have that up there. And um verse 7, you notice um it says That day, before we look at the verse eight, what what day is he talking about? Well, it's the day, as Glenn mentioned in his letter, that the ark was brought into Jerusalem. It was that day after um years of fighting and conquest, David, under his leadership, had expressed Expanded the land from about six thousand square miles to about sixty thousand square miles. God had blessed them with peace. The ark was brought up. But you remember the first time they brought it up, a few months before, there had been tragedy. Do you remember that on that day the ark was being brought up on a cart pulled by oxen And you remember the oxen stumbled, the cart moved, and Uzzah reached out to steady it, and God struck him dead. And David was scared and angry. God, what in the world are you doing? Sometimes I think I know you, and sometimes I feel like I don't know who you are. I have felt like that a number of times through the 25 years times I feel like I know who God is and then there's times I wonder what in the world is he doing? And do I really know him? Do you ever feel like that? Sometimes you just wonder if you really know this God you thought you knew. David wrestled through that. But he did what we all need to do when we are in that kind of confusion, when we're all stirred up. After raging and fuming, he went back to Scripture. And he found that they had missed something. They it had seemed a good idea to them to bring the ark on a cart, but he found out that God had in fact instructed otherwise. The God said that the ark is supposed to be carried on poles carried on the shoulders of Levites And so you read in 1 Chronicles chapter 15 in verse 15, and the Levites carried the ark of God with the poles on their shoulders, as Moses had commanded, in accordance with the And so now they're finally doing things right. They got it the way God said to do it. But because they're doing it, in the way God said now, they have re-energized the congregation. There's loud music, there's singing, there's dancing. It says that David dressed up special for the occasion with the elders. to rejoice. That's why I put on a coat for a change, you know. When I had the first service I used to wear a coat all the time. I wore a coat for years, and it was a special occasion. David dressed up for it. Now the staff said that I should wear the same coat that I wore on September seventeenth, nineteen seventy eight. Assumed that I still had it. I actually got rid of it maybe a year or two ago. But this one's pretty close. It's over twenty years old and the tie's In fact, the tie doesn't even have one of those things to hold it in, you know. So I'm I'm getting back there to that, but um the point is that this is a special occasion You dress up. We're going to be having a banquet on the 26th, and we'll dress up to celebrate God's goodness. There's loud music Verse 25 of chapter 15. And it says that David and the elders are rejoicing Passionate Presbyterians, right? Amen, eh? Well, I'll get an Amen out of you later on. Anyway, uh he uh he gives out uh favors, you know. Chapter 16, verse 3 says he gave out raisin cakes. Those of you who can follow along with the Song of Solomon study, remember that raisin cakes are a party food. Moses says he gave raisin cakes to every man and woman, basically saying, Go home and have some. Some fun. And you know, we'll get back to that in October. But anyway, the great time of celebration. And David writes a new psalm for the occasion, takes parts of some other psalms he had written, adds some new material. So chapter 16 of 1 Chronicles 16, you have a psalm that goes from verse 8 to verse 36. Now, fortunately for you, we don't need to study the whole psalm because verse 8 sums it up. In fact, the Psalm really is an unfolding of what he says in these three points in verse eight, which are give thanks to the Lord, secondly, call on his name, thirdly, make known among the nations what he has done. I want to apply those three things. to CPC as we reflect on our own celebration this month. First of all, notice we are to give thanks to the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord. First point then is we need to have great We need to have grateful hearts for the past. He goes on in verse 9 sing to him, sing praise to him, tell him all his wonderful acts. Glory in his holy name. Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice. And then verses 12 to 22, he unpacks that some more. One thing I want to just call attention to. You notice in verse 13 he says, O descendants of Israel, his servant, O sons of Jacob, his chosen ones. Who's Israel and who's Jacob? Well you remember they're the same person. Uh Abraham, Isaac, then there is Jacob. He was born Jacob. But God changed his name to Israel after he wrestled with him that night So whenever you see that pair, which you often see, Israel, Jacob, that's speaking of glory and grace. Because Israel was the name of glory. It was the Prince of God. It was the name that God gave him to exalt him, to say, You are to be so prominent in my people that from ever after they'll be known as little. Only the children of Israel, your children. But don't ever forget that you were Jacob. Jacob signifies grace. Jacob, you were born a scoundrel, a self-centered schemer. You didn't have a heart that sought me. I turned your heart and humbled you to seek me. So whatever you read of Israel and Jacob, it's speaking of God's grace to sinners who he exalts to a position of glory. And that's what they celebrate, you see. As Tim said, God's taken a bunch of motley sinners, formed a community transformed by his grace We called it Columbia Presbyterian Church, and so we give thanks to him. Now those of you who are members are familiar with the fact that um back in nineteen seventy eight we adopted a purpose and it was from Ephesians chapter one Ephesians chapter 1, um that's the blank that you have there. I asked the first service, but I knew you guys were awakened to get it. Ephesians chapter 1. Anybody remember what verse is? From verse Seventeen to twenty-three, the ends. Right? Okay. Now this this again will let you get. You better get it, or else you won't hear the rest of the sermon. Three purposes are the three H's through these twenty-five years. is first of all to know him, secondly to know our hope. Good. And thirdly to know his power. Great. Thank you. I can proceed. Appreciate that. To know him, to know our hope. hope and to know his power. Now our plans, our strategies, our vision statements change. The purpose has never changed. The purpose is from Scripture. It abides. That's always the purpose of Columbia Presbyterian. We will be unveiling a new vision statement next Sunday. The session's been working on it for nearly a year. Struggling through this thing, we're excited to present it to you. But the purpose will stay the same. And all the times we've revisited that purpose because we need to remind ourselves of it from time to time. I don't recall ever paying attention to the two verses that precede it, and I want to show you those right now for a moment. Notice that Paul says in verse 15 of Ephesians 1 For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. And for this reason, the reason that I've seen your faith in Jesus The kind of faith that Debbie just professed. Faith of people whose lives have been changed, drawn to Christ, looked in the middle hour and asked how many can trace their conversion to CPC, a number of people were able to. Maybe you can. Maybe your faith precedes your time with CPC. But your faith and and your love for all the saints. Paul says, for those things, I thank God for you. I don't thank you. I don't thank you for your faith. I don't thank you for your love. I thank God for his work of grace in you. Now I am very grateful for you. And some of you have had a profound effect on my life as examples. Of faith in difficult times and examples of loving in difficult circumstances And you have literally changed my life by association with you. And there is no reason why I can't thank you or we thank each other for certain things. But David says, give thanks to the Lord for his work in our midst. Paul says, I thank God every time I remember you for you. And so our primary gratefulness is to the Lord for his work. So the the first point then, next blank, is be thankful. Be thankful. We celebrated ten things to be thankful for in the middle hour. If you missed that, please don't miss next week. Next week we'll unveil the new vision statement as we talk about the present. And look at where we are. But we need to be thankful. You know, it's so easy to see what's wrong To complain. You know, CPC is far from a perfect church. Look at all its deficiencies. Look at all the things we could do better. But we need to start By giving thanks. Same way in your life. You know, it's so easy to see what's wrong in your marriage or in your singleness or with your kids or with your job But we need to start by giving thanks. That puts things in proper perspective. Thank God for his work of grace in us. In fact, I uh before we go on to the next point, let's just pause. I'd like to pause for just a moment. Now if it's your first week, there's not a whole lot you can give thanks for about CPC, but You know, some of you have been here since the beginning and some for many years. Let's just pause for a few moments to thank God for how he's used TPC in our lives and what it's meant and how his grace has been evident. Let's just take a moment quietly. Amen. Now I know why I haven't worn coats for the last few years. Second point, after giving thanks to his name, we call on his name. Verse 8, call on his name. Thankful hearts for the past, call on his name for the future. Second thing then is dependent hearts for the future. Dependent is the next blank. After he says, give thanks to him, call on his name, look again, verse eleven. Look to the Lord in his strength, seek his face always. The recognition that God has been faithful, that CPC would not even exist, or continue to exist, do you realize that every day in this country dozens of churches go out of existence? Dozens. There are many churches that I've known that have started after us or some that started before us that no longer exist today It's by God's grace that we've continued to exist through all the things Satan would do to tear churches down. One of the things we thank God for was there's never been a church split in twenty-five years That's by God's grace. That's not some inherent goodness in us. And so as we thank him, that should produce a deeper sense of awareness of our dependence on him. At the end of this psalm, he says in verse 34, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His love endures forever. And then verse 35: Cry out: Save us, O God, our Savior. Gather us and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name, that we may glory in your praise, you see. We see your power. We recognize in our weakness one of the things that God has done to me particularly. And for many of us here is to show us how weak we are and that His power is only known in our weakness. Amen? Hope you can say that in your heart. Ephesians chapter 1, our purpose, the third thing that we declare abiding, is that we might know his power. Power that raised Jesus from the dead that's at work in you and me. His power. You need his power to resist temptations this week. You need his power to be able to go out in the world that you work in, live in, and live purely without compromise You need his power to be able to love unlovable people. You need his power to bring peace into your home rather than turmoil. and dissension. You need his power personally, and we need his power as a church. We're going to be talking next week, as I said, about this new vision statement. We'll be talking about that on the 14th, the 21st, and then continuing on the 28th, just looking at where God is taking us that we might know more of his power I thirst to know more of his power. Don't you? Don't you want to see more of his power in your life? Lord, thanks for what I've seen, but I want to know more. There's more that you want to do, more that you want to do in our day. And so the second thing is to be prayerful. Lord, we want to see your power. We want to see what you're doing. It's so easy to coast on our size and our health and our programs. We need to cry out to God in a time when it seems like this was Much as we see healthy churches and we look around, there's a lot of healthy churches in Colombia. But to realize that somehow the big picture is we seem to be losing the battle for our culture, don't we? You look at the nature of music and movies, the nature of public life. And you see a deterioration. And we don't seem to be having much influence. Here's the church with all the resources, all the money that the American church has, and all the power and the influence And yet we seem to be utterly marginalized in terms of really impacting mainstream culture, don't we? Why is that? I believe it's by and large, there's other reasons you could give, but I think one of the main reasons is because we do not live as disciples of Jesus Christ. Christians don't live Christianly. The church isn't acting as the church. Let me give you an example. Just heard a couple days ago about a couple, Columbia Don't go to our church, go to another evangelical church, call themselves Christians, and say, you know, sure we love Jesus and He's our Savior and He's our Lord. Uh God's blessed them. By the age of thirty, they've acquired three houses and five cars. And uh the wife is this week decided uh she's going to divorce her husband. Because he's not aggressive enough. Tired a little of this guy. She would assure you that she's a Christian and that she has prayed about this and that Jesus has given her peace to divorce her husband. When I heard that, uh I thought of wrenching in my gut and I thought of a a jive singing group uh that Uh you know, they they're kind of neat. The group called No Secrets. I don't know if anybody knows them, but they got a song in a couple of you know. They got a song out called Here I Am. It's really catchy. I mean if you hear it, you just find you sing this thing, you know. There's a line in that That song that says, I've got a little voice within my heart telling me just where to go. And I thought, you know, that We sort of look at that and say, that's not very Christian, but how many Christians are living as if we got this little voice inside our heart that tells us where to go? And so we're not we're not observably different from the world. We're not living in a way that the world says, you know, there's people that you can you can like 'em or you can hate them, but you gotta respect they live by principle. These are people that live by different standards than we do Until they see the church as unique and distinct, we're not going to make much of an impact on Howard County. Amen. Got to believe that. We need to cry out to God. While we thank him for what he has done, we need to thirst for more and cry out, God, visit us With a new awareness of your presence and your majesty and your holiness, so that we stop toying with protected sins and are willing to forsake them to live more radically. As followers of Jesus Christ. And so we need to be prayerful Christians. Verse 35. Cry out, save us, O God, our Savior. Gather us and deliver us from the nations. Lord, help us. Call on his name to make a difference here. When we first started this church, one of the big things was we want to make a difference, an observable difference in Columbia. Do we still long to do that in Howard County? God can do that. Our best days can certainly be ahead. I pray that they are. We won't look back and say, oh, the first 25 years, but we'll say, oh, that was nothing. Boy, after that The Spirit of God came upon us, and we began to see Him do things we wouldn't have dreamed of. In order to do that, you've got to look at the third part. See? Because he starts, give thanks to the Lord, call his name, and then make known among the nations what he has done. So you start with thanks. Move on to trust and then finally to telling. So the third thing is evangelistic hearts for the world Evangelistic Hearts for the World. He unpacks that all in verses twenty-three to thirty-three, calling on the nations to praise him with us, because he alone is worthy of praise. Look at verse twenty-three. Sing to the Lord all the earth, not just you guys here who are religious, you know, all the earth. Proclaim his salvation day after day, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. For great is the Lord. And most worthy of praise. He is to be feared above all the gods. He alone is the God. He is the God who can bring order and peace. And as our culture more and more moves from Christianity, To despising Christianity as some little cult of religious people who are quite carryovers of the past or irritants And maybe even uh alarming because of some of the things they want to impose on us. As we see the deterioration in Christian values and values in general in our culture, it should not simply irritate us. It should make us weep. This past week I read in Washington Post they had a an article that we're celebrating our 25th anniversary. You know who's celebrating their 50th anniversary this month? Playboy Magazine was started in September nineteen fifty-three. Adonar on Hugh Hefner. I've followed Hugh Hefner for many years because of the the uh very significant influence he has had on our culture. And they interviewed him talking about looking back over his fifty years and I learned some things I had never known about him. I did not know that Hugh Hefner is a direct descendant of Governor William Bradford, who wrote of Plymouth Plantation and was the leader of the pilgrims. Then they came here to establish the gospel in the Plymouth Bay Colony. Hefta claims to be a direct descendant of Bradford. He said his family carried on that tradition, and he had made it his life's goal. To rid our culture of Puritan values. And he said, after 50 years, I can tell you I have succeeded. And by and large, he has. We gotta admit it. And as I see that, I think, and you are now in your 70s, even though you live with seven girlfriends in their twenties. And soon you will stand before Jesus. And that will be a day of terror for you. That ought to move me. That ought to make me concerned to pray for him and to pray for those that I know You know, evangelism is the kind of thing that um we can somehow we never get to it, never convenient Um this past week we had a fella do our floors. Had I had him redone and um Did a great job in the process of it. We were talking and unchurched family and mentioned that his son had gone to Christian Service Brigade at Columbia Presbyterian Make that connection when Ron comes and talks about Christian Service Brigade is significant outreach to unchurch folks. But I never really directly confronted him with where you stand in your relationship to Jesus. You know, somehow it's hard to get around to that direct question. I thought about um when we first started, we were very eager to proclaim the gospel And I looked at some of my early messages. You know, this first message I preached on September 17, 1978. There it is. That's the message. Um anybody want to look at it, you know? You know, you look at that thing and uh two things really struck me about it. Number one is uh how uh immature I was in my preaching and would hope to be able to say that uh through the years there's been more depth and insight as I go through Scripture. But the second thing that impressed me was that the truth here didn't change. What we have in Christ is exactly what we have in Christ and what he has to offer today. You look at this message, it's handwritten on notebook paper The outline was typed on a typewriter and run off on a mimeograph machine. Didn't know anything about how we would be doing that stuff, word processor computers, PowerPoint, you know, all this stuff. And somehow there is this press in us that in some subtle way says the gospel doesn't fit in today's age. Somehow it's just not relevant the way it was. It's something from the past. But in 25 years we need to reaffirm Jesus Christ is still the same Savior, changing lives still as necessary for your need and my need He is still as powerful, he is still changing lives today the way he did back then. Amen. We need to affirm that and trust that and believe with the people that we talk to. When we go through this month and we say, declare. Share his name among the nations. Make him known what he has done. That's still as needed now as it was back when we started People may sound like they have outgrown that stuff, but they haven't. Our world is in deeper trouble and more lost and needy More evidently needy than when we began. And we need to proclaim boldly, Jesus Christ, as we talk about the strategies and the ideas that we have for the future, that the days of our effective Ahead will far supersede, surpass what we have ever done to this point. So let's affirm it again. Be evangelistic. You remember back in 1991 when we were praying for this facility and establishing it, we adopted Psalm 115, verse 3. Remember it's on the cornerstone right out that? front door. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Do you remember the context of that? Verse 1, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. And then why do the nations say Where is their God? Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And then he goes on to say, they worship idols who can't see and speak and hear and touch and feel and are dead. And all those who worship will be like them. Dead in sin. That you and I have the message of life We have the message to bring. It says, our God has been faithful to us. Our God can be dependent on. Our God is able to change lives. Jesus is still a Savior, delivering people from bondage. And we bring ourselves anew. It's so easy after twenty five years to begin to adapt the Great Commission to what we're doing, you know. What whatever we're doing, that must be it, because it seems like it's okay and you know, we're effective and it seems like We're fairly healthy and growing. We have to stop. We have to see have we adapted the Great Commission to what we're doing rather than adapting ourselves to the Great Commission? To look and examine everything that we're doing, is this really in fulfilling the Great Commission, or is it to make us comfortable And so the motto that we've adopted for the month as we go through this is that simple motto, adapting ourselves to the Great Commission May God bring that deeply into your heart and my heart as we see what we can be thankful for to him individually, corporately, how we depend on him individually, corporately. And how we declare him individually and corporately for his glory. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we stand at the threshold of this month of celebration. And we want to declare, as we did in the middle hour, Lord, you have been so faithful, so kind to us. Great is your faithfulness. Thank you, Lord, for what you have done. Lord, that prompts us to depend on you, to realize we need you Lord, if there's somebody here who has never given their lives to you, who still holds you at arm's length, break down those barriers to show them, Lord, that whatever the culture says about our self-sufficiency, Lord, that you are the God who grants our next breath. We stand before you, as Hugh Hefner will stand before you, so every man and woman and child will stand before you. We need the covering of Jesus. Lord, stir in our hearts again how our community needs Jesus. We have not done a very good job penetrating the unchurched. We have attracted a lot of Christians, particularly families. And Lord, we're very grateful for that. And Father, we want to with that also do a better job of attracting unchurched people, people who are lost We pray that you will show us how to do that better, that you will give us hearts that trust you and look to you and are expectant as we were in those early days. For the power of the gospel, not ashamed, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. We believe that and affirm it in Jesus' name. Amen.