One thing that just kept coming home to me again and again is that our main job is to put you in the Word and in touch with other Christians. God uses his word. And he uses his body to equip us and to prepare us for ministry. So our conviction is that God intends to equip you and He's doing it as we've been looking at this word equip and what that word means We're seeing that it has three sides to it. So far we have seen that the first side that you see there on the left is that he intends to what? Anybody remember? Restore, thank you. He wants to restore you. He wants to restore you from sin. He wants to restore you from the sin patterns of your life. The word remember uh there in Ephesians 4. 12 to prepare God's people for works of service. That is the word to equip. It is a word which means to restore something that has been broken. It's used of mending broken bones. It's used of mending torn nets, of uh rebuilding broken walls, of restoring a broken temple. So God wants to restore your life from the sin patterns that have uh captured you and have held you in bondage. And that's his intention. And he wants to use the body to do that. That just this week I was talking to someone who mentioned that they had been a victim of sexual abuse by another believer, not in their family, some years before, and that God had uh convicted them that they needed to seek to be an agent of restoration in that person's life until recently wrote a letter, very, very difficult thing to do in which they brought this matter up. And then shortly after that the person called and began the process of repentance and dealing with that sin in a way that they had never So we see that God uses us as a body in restoration from sin in one another's lives if we're willing for God to use us and sometimes very difficult situation of God. I cannot do this, Lord. If you want me to do it, then you're going to have to give me the power and strength to do it. But it's deciding to see what God does. And uses From those kinds of human situations. He also intended to destroy he said from suffering. Not just from sin, but also from suffering in your life. He himself Remember, 1 Peter 5:10 will restore you, that he will strengthen you, establish you, that he is the one who uh works in your life to Remind you that he is with you and that he is in control of your life, that he is absolutely wise and all-loving, and he is always for you and not against you in the situations of your life. He wants to restore you from that suffering. He wants also the bottom word there to you see to supply you. Now that's written right there, so I won't ask the second, to supply you. And that's what we're dealing what we dealt with the last uh last week and then this week also. He wants to supply you with what you lack. The word equip means to supply someone with something that they need to do the job And so we saw last week that he wants to supply you uh with two things. And the first we looked at last week is faith from 1 Thessalonians 3. 10. And what you see at the bottom of your outline here is This is kind of a summary of what we talked about last week. That faith is foundational not only to bring you into a relationship with Jesus Christ, in order to gain you forgiveness of sin and eternal life, but faith is foundational for living day by day in the Christian life. And it's a faith that we said is so foundational that the most important question at any point you can ask of yourself is how is my faith again this morning how is your faith how is your faith this morning in Jesus Jesus Christ, not your faith and confidence in yourself. How is your confidence in Jesus Christ this morning? And we looked at those three areas that we need to see his sufficiency. How's your confidence concerning the fact that you have died to the curse of the cursing the requirements of the law. Jesus Christ has fulfilled those all on your behalf and you have a new record of requirement record which is perfect and God holds nothing against you. Just this week I was thinking about this and how I often tend to think that God will forgive Me and he will continue to love me after I've sinned and at the point where I am sorry for that sin. But what hit me afresh this week is that God loves me as I sin, even at that point when I am blatantly saying, Lord, I am going to do this and I don't care what you think about it right now At this moment. At that very moment, he's not turning his face away and saying, Well, as long as you have that attitude, you can just stew in your own juice and then come back to me and I'll love you. But at that very moment, he is still cherishing me. Because I still have at that very moment of that sin and disobedience the righteousness of Jesus Christ before my heavenly Father. By having that, you say, I mean, how can I continue Continue then to walk in that sin. And here is my father who has paid the price of the blood of his own son, that he continues to love me in that situation. How's your faith this morning? Makes all the difference, doesn't it? In your walk and your joy in Jesus Christ. Secondly, we talked about your faith and the Spirit of God. How is your faith in the fact that He empowers Do you really believe that God could use you? As we talked about the person who was involved in restoration that I just talked about a couple of minutes ago. How How do you have confidence that the Spirit of God could use you in ministry and other people's lives? What is your confidence that the Spirit of God enables you to obey Him? Ways that you know you are not able to obey what God says in his words. And then thirdly, we talked about that simple confidence that God is sovereign, all-wise, and a loving Father. Father for you in every situation. It enables you to be able to step out and take risks, to enable you to live in the light of eternity and not try to find your gratification. take care of yourself in this world as if you are alone. How do you get that faith? We talk about the fact that you are supplied with that faith as you spend time in God's Word. because 1 Thessalonians 2 13 says God's word is at work in you who believe. As you believe that word and you take it by faith and say I I I d I've never experienced this, but Lord, this is what your word says. I believe Jesus is risen, and therefore that seals the truthfulness of the rest of this. I'm going to trust you. And so it At that point, you step out on faith in that word and it works in you as you believe it. To change you, to transform you, to create you. And that you build your faith, you're supplied with that faith. As you spend time with Jesus, consciously sharing your life with Him, day by day, sharing your thoughts, your anxieties, your joys, worshiping Him. uh reflecting those things that are happening in your situation moment by moment to the Lord so that your life with him is is cultivating a relationship of conscious closeness. Well that's how it has to do with faith. Now this morning I want to look for the rest of the time at the second thing that God supplies us with. And that second thing is not what you might think. You know, when you're thinking about what God supplies you with that's lacking for you to do ministry, I would tend to think faith and maybe gifts. God has given to me gifts for ministry, but that's not what what his word says. Now he does supply us with gifts to do his word, to do his ministry. But the other way that that word equip, prepare, is used from Ephesians 4. 12 to prepare Prepare God's people for works of service. The other way that word is used in the New Testament is a very interesting way in Hebrews chapter 13. So if you haven't already done it, please turn to Hebrews chapter 13. And notice what God says there. It's that benediction that we often hear at the end of services, where the author of Hebrews is pressing A blessing. And it goes like this May the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. Equip you with every good thing for doing his will. And may he work in us what is well pleasing or pleasing to him through Jesus Christ. Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. And there you see it. First word in verse 21. Catch it? He equips you with every good thing to do his will. To me what that's clearly saying is that God equips me for obedience to him. And so the second thing that He supplies for you in order to be involved in serving him is obedience. God Himself supplies you with all you need to obey Him Now that's pretty powerful when you think about what that means. Consider your own life. Perhaps your life has plateaued, you feel. as a Christian to some degree. You uh feel that uh there are certain areas that you have come to grips with in terms of scripture. in your walk in the Christian life. Certain areas that you are obeying, they become policies to you. They're not any longer negotiable. They're things that you do. You give Ten percent or more of your income to the Lord and His work. You spend some portion of time in His Word as much as you can, want to increase it. But you pray, you look to Him, you're seeking to be part of the body, whatever it is. There's certain areas that you said I've become convinced this is what God intends for me, that it's right and it's good, and I do it. I don't do it consistently, but basically I'm committed to it. There are other areas of your life that you are not obeying Jesus Christ. These are areas that are kind of still up for grabs, and maybe you even feel hopeless in those areas. In fact, you're not even sure that you want to change in those areas. You're ambivalent because you know that to believe the Bible says that in In that area that God has seemed like He's been nagging you about it, you know, for months or years. There's that probing and that prompting and you you hate to look at scripture That deal with that because you're always saying, I I I get confused and I I don't know what to do with that. Because it seems that God would say that my life would be better off if I did it this way. If I wasn't Able to forgive that person and not be bitter against them or something about a relationship or some step of obedience in some area. But I'm not really sure that I'm convinced I'd be happier if I I did that. I really deep down suspect that it would make me more miserable that I really wouldn't be happier if I went God's way rather than Rather than my one. I'm really not sure about that. In fact, I know that I'm not happy now. I feel guilty in that area. But at least the pain is familiar. You see, more radical love or more risky obedience would be so unfamiliar to me in that uncharted territory of what it would mean to to really give my life over to Jesus Christ. Let him crucify the flesh in that area of my life that I feel like I'd be a different person and I'm not sure I'd like the person I'd be. I'm comfortable with who I am right now. There's the pain, there's the guilt, but I'm really not sure that God would be sufficient to enable me to do that and to be glad that I did, right? Identify with that in some area? I mean I can think of areas in my life, but I'm just really not sure to give that area totally over to the Lord would be something that if God could say, I would will enable you to do that right now. It's well, you know, let's talk about that a little longer. We're comfortable with areas of our sin, aren't we? Sin in our lives. Now I want first to take that area. And you're thinking of an area, right? There's something that you're saying, okay, well, you know, it's all kind of big. Pick one. Any one, all right? You got three or four of them rolling Pick one. Now I want to take that one area and in your mind, nobody's reading your mind, don't worry about it. You can think about it. Nobody's got there's nobody here's telepathic that's gonna say, oh, you think about that real hard, but that person's going to know your sin. Just between you and the Lord. But I want you to take that area and I want to show you five ways God has supplied for you victory in that area. Victory in obedience and conformity to his will and that is now these are the things you see listed here. First thing he has supplied according to these two verses is that he has supplied for you his will Word to reveal his will. He has supplied his word to reveal his will in that area. See what he says? He says, may the God of peace who through the blood of the eternal Covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep, equip you with every good, everything good for doing his will. And that will The will that he is talking about is not something secret. It's something which is revealed in Scripture. It's something that he has shown us. There's no guesswork to it. Now, whether or not you feel convicted or guilty about certain things you're not doing, the fact is that's tremendously good news. You can know God's will for you. See, today's Father's Day. And one, by the way, happy Father's Day, guys. Now, one of the things that we struggle with today about dysfunctional families is the fact that in a typical dysfunctional family, one of the greatest problems is you never quite know how to please your dad is unpredictable. You don't know when you can please him, you don't know if something that you do is his will, and that he's consistent about that. And that produces all Kinds of anxieties and insecurities if you've ever grown up in that kind of situation. But you see, Scripture says that our heavenly Father is not like that. We know how to please him. He's really revealed his will and that will is consistent. And so when you look over there, for instance, at verse 4 of that chapter, where God says marriage should be honored by all, and the marriage bed kept pure, for God God will judge the adulterer and all the sexually immoral. You don't have to guess what that means, do you? It means chastity before marriage and faithfulness after marriage That pleases the Father. That's his will. And his wrath comes upon the disobedience to that. And so we don't have to sit around and guess what what God's sexual standards are for us. It's simply revealed. He says he has revealed his will to us. The next verse he goes on to say, keep your lives free from the love of money. And be content with what you have, because God has said, never will I leave you, never will I forsake you. And so your attitude toward money and things. That's just one verse. God spells it out in lots of ways. Whatever is going to make you more obsessed with money, he says, get rid of that. Put that out of your life. Contentment is his will for you. That's an act of the will, isn't it? To be contented with what you have, to determine that you're not going to covet. Now you see, all through scripture, God is revealing Revealing his will, he says, This is what my will is for you. You don't have to guess. But now, having known that, that's not enough. So the second thing he has supplied us with is his gospel to us. free you to do his will. He supplied you with his gospel, or you could say there, his son. He supplied you with his gospel, his son to free you. To do his will. See there, verse 20. May the God of peace, who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. What does that mean? Well, that blood of the eternal covenant is that blood is the uh covenant of life that was sealed with the blood of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ, when he died as a substitute for your sin, to pay for that sin, the curse of God's wrath for all your disobedience, attributed to Jesus as That point. And so by attributing that to him, as we said last week, you are freed from the curse and the condemnation of the law. You are freed from its requirements as a way of gaining God. Now you are freed from all of that bondage. Therefore, what do you do? You say, great, now what's the most that I can sin and still go to heaven? Right? You see, that kind of attitude hasn't known the forgiveness of Jesus. When you understand the depth of your sin and the radical nature of the forgiveness of Jesus Christ for you, the thing that you're Heart and as far as you lord, how can I serve you? How much can I do to try to please you? I am free, a clean slate in my life. I am freed now. To love Jesus and to serve him with all that's in you. He is my life. And so the gospel has freed you now that you will be enabled because of God. Loving gratitude to do his good. But even that's not enough, did you know? Because a lot of times we're not grateful enough. There's a lot of times when we still want to just simply go our own own way and we forget about the goodness of our God. And so the third thing he has supplied is his spirit to enable you to do his will. He has supplied his spirit To enable you to do his will. You see what he says there in verse 21. This God, the God of peace, will equip you with every good thing for doing his will and may you May he work in us what is pleasing to him through Jesus Christ. Now that working in us is what his spirit does to enable us That's amplified in chapter 10. If you look over at chapter 10, verse 15 and 16, you see there that uh the author of Hebrews quoting from Jericho Jeremiah chapter 31 and verse 33, he says, verse 15, the Holy Spirit also testifies about this. First, he says, This is the covenant that I I will make with them after that time, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will write them on their minds. You see, it's the spirit who changes your desires. Changes your desires from the selfish, self-centeredness that simply seeks to please you without respect regard to other people. Use people in order to love yourself. But God changes that so that you intend rather to love people and use things in order to And so that changing of your desires, you see, is linked with what he says before about the freedom of the law. Look what he says in verse 17. Then he adds their sins and their Lawless acts, I will remember no more. I will no longer hold those against you. If you're in Jesus Christ this morning, God does not hold any of your sin against you. But He's in In the process now of by his spirit working in you what is pleasing to him, changing your desires, changing your nature. And so when you feel utterly helpless, that's good When you feel like Lord, I I really feel so low now, I'm disoriented with the realization of how rotten and selfish my heart is. That's good. A lot of times we think that's so depressing, but that's putting you in touch with reality. It's at that point you then can turn to the Holy Spirit and say, I am unable to do this. Lord, you Give me now the desire to obey you, to do this, to turn this area over of my life to you. And then act on it. Simply step out on faith to say no Now I'm going to believe that you will hear me and that you will change me. And to then get involved in that first step toward obedience. Thanks, brother. Now this one I think is rarely understood, so listen carefully to this one. I believe he gives you his perspective to motivate you to He gives you his perspective to motivate you to do his will. Look carefully at verse 21 there. What does it say Read it along in your mind with me. It says that he will equip you with everything that's not fun in order to work what his sour quirks have in mind and his sting Which is never pleased with anything. That's the way many of us read it, isn't it? You know, this idea of obedience to what God wants me to do is That he's up there in heaven, and anybody that's having a good time, he says, Cut that out. That's not the Christian life. The Christian life is service and duty. And if you see anything that you're you're enjoying too much, then that must be sinful somehow. You know, because he's equipped us with everything that is going to crucify any Many positive desires that we have, in order that his sour, stingy nature, that's never really pleased with anything, nothing really fully pleases it, always sufficient. You know, that that way we will then be always kind of kept under his thumb. That's what some people feel. Now you see that's Satan's lie in order to tempt us, just as In the garden. Has God said? Ah, what God's will for you really isn't going to free you. Let me show you a better way. But what in fact does it said he has equipped you with everything good for doing his will and may he work in us what is pleasing to him I believe it's For many of us as Christians, one of the breakthroughs that will come in our lives in our obedience to Jesus Christ is when we come to believe that God is pleased with Himself and us. all his works and his chief desire is to share that joy and delight with us. What God intends for you is that by conformity to To his will he will work in you what is good, and that that goodness will be pleasing to him to enter into the pleasure that he has As in himself and all of his works and all that he's doing to transform you into the very best thing possible in all the universe, conformity to the likeness of Jesus Christ. I look at that, and we don't get all excited about that because we don't understand goodness. We don't understand delight. Our minds are so warped and twisted, you see. But God is in the process of changing our perspective. To show us that in every case, in order to crucify my own desires and submit to the desires of Jesus Christ by his spirit, will in fact bring me greater pleasure and delight. Does it mean I will Have to defer gratification. It doesn't mean that I won't have to put to death certain desires that I have, but it will always be for a greater delight and desire. In being joined with The desire of God that He has in Himself and all His work, chiefly in His glory, which becomes then more and more as I understand this the consuming passion of my life, because He is my life. Now you see, you've got to spend time in scripture to get that really worked into. That's the secret of his covenant. And he reveals that to those who spend time with him. In cherishing the presence of our God as He reveals His Word and His Kingdom and what's on His heart here. I really have found that through the year. drift away from it, but it's when I come back to that perspective that obedience to him becomes a delight rather than simply obedience. And finally the last thing that he gives me Yeah, I I don't know how much in I I wish we could discuss that for a while, you know. In fact, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna preach on that through the fall. You know? I really am. I've decided, you know Uh I'm not giving you it now. But but w I that's what I hope to do 'cause I I believe I believe that when we have that new facility, which God looks like he's gonna provide for sometime in early maybe mid-fall. But one of the best things we can do is as we kind of recheck and and look at ourselves is to look at the whole Christian life in the terms of what that means to enter into his delight. And did you see how that infuses all the things that we do later on. Fifth thing that he supplies you with is his shepherds to lead you in doing this work. He provides you with his shepherds To lead you in doing his will. Verse 20: May the God of peace who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. A shepherd leads the sheep into green pastures and quiet waters. And he has given his under-shepherds to serve under the chief shepherd Jesus in order to equip you And supply you for doing his will. Now we're right back to Ephesians 412 and see. How is it that we, as elders within Columbia Presbyterian, seek to supply you with obedience? I believe that there are three clues in a fe in Hebrews chapter 13 here for how his undershepherds, his elders, his pastors and teachers, as Ephesians 4 calls them, uh do And they're not just clues, they're spelled out. Look what he says in verse 7. Verse 7, the first thing you see there on your bulletin outline is that we teach the word Word. We teach the word to you. Verse 7. Remember your leaders who spoke the word of God to you. Very clear. Right? That's our That's our function. We speak the word. So my job, Sunday by Sunday, and whoever the session designates to come up here and bring God's word to you on any Sunday morning, our job is to teach His will, to teach his gospel, to teach his power in the spirit, to teach his perspective, to reorient us about what glory and delight are, to teach the means that he has given within his body for us to be accountable, to belong to one another, to use the gifts of the spirit, to restore one another from sin and from suffering, and all the rest of that. We teach his word. And as you are taught that you should be changed, you should find yourself changing in your perspective and in your orientation. One of the most delightful things that I hear from time to time is when people will come and they'll say, you know, I've noticed that Since Columbia Presbyterian, my perspective about God has changed. My perspective about the Christian life has changed. I feel more free. I feel greater liberty as a Christian. That's that's tremendous. Rejoices because you see, that's what God intends. That's what He's called me to do. That's what He's called us as elders here within this body. But now the second part's a lot harder. Look what he says for end Verse 7. Not only are we to teach his word, we are to exemplify the light. The Under Shepherds are to exemplify the light. Verse 7. Consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith. That makes me shudder whenever I read that verse. You know what makes all shudder the difference to me. If I read that verse that says, you are to follow me as an example of what the Christian should look like in conformity to Jesus Christ, I'd be utterly discouraged It doesn't say that. It says you're to imitate my faith. You're to imitate the faith of the elders. You know what that means? That means we've become for you a model not only of how to do It but we're a model of repentance. We become for you all a model of our own inability and insufficiency. And so when you look at our lives, you see not simply our lives Oh. Well that's the impression that a Christian ought to give of having attained. If you look at the elders of this church and you say, that's what a sinner looks like who's trying to follow Jesus. And when you look at my life and you see all the deficiencies and you see all the holes and the gaps of my own faithfulness to Jesus and you see all those things that after being around for fifteen years are pretty obvious to you, at least those of you who know me well. You see those things and you say, I can imitate his faith. I can imitate the outcome of his life because I've seen God work I've seen God work in our elders. I've seen God work in the other believers within this body. And as I see that, I see God at work in a way that I can identify with. And I see that the elders outcome of their way of life is good. That encourages me to be obedient to Jesus Christ. Finally the last thing is even the scariest of all. And that is that he calls us to watch over your life. He calls us to watch over your life. Look at verse 17. Obey your leaders and submit to their authority. They keep watch over you as men who must give an account. Obey them so that their work will be a joy. Not a burden. That would be no advantage to you. I just said that one of the greatest joys in my life is to see a person who's in whom God is honoring Obviously at work and over the periods of months and years, you've watched the fruits of that obedience. You've watched the fruits of faith transforming that person and becoming a a more gentle humble, loving, victorious person in their own walk with Jesus Christ against him. But the beginning of verse 17 goes against our grain, doesn't it? Obey your leaders and submit to their authority. You know that that kind of is written out of American culture, isn't it? Obey someone and submit to their authority? I mean that really good is against the brain. How do you obey the elders and submit to their authority? Say, hey, listen, God speaks to me through his word, you tell me something different. Later for you, man. What it says is exactly that's not the attitude. We don't blow off God's elders. I don't, I can't. My the protection in my life are my fellow elders, those who watch over my life, because I know I have an infinite capacity for rationalization and excuse. And that What Satan wants to do is to get me into a position where I feel like I've got a private pipeline with God and I don't need to listen to anybody else. We need to listen to all our brothers and sisters. But particularly Particularly, he says, that those who the church has placed in the position of elders when they speak to you about something in your life, you do not blow that off. Only if the scripture gives you Explicit command in a contrary way, so you can say that person is commanding me to do something that Scripture does not command me to do or is something which is sinful. Can I then in conscience bring before someone else to find resolution, not just go my own way? But you know, that idea of keeping watch over And it does work. So think of an example in our uh church uh not very long ago in which there was a marriage that was in deep trouble. And uh th this family's not with us anymore. They've moved, so you know it's not like they're here and I'm embarrassing them, but they wouldn't mind me telling this from talk to talk about it. Uh in this particular case the the husband was being very neglectful. He was being borderline abusive. It was just a very, very sad situation. I spoke to him and he would talk about, yeah, I need to change, but there wouldn't be any change. His elder talked to him, same kind of story. Finally we decided God has commanded. We must give an account. And so as a session, we called for him to appear before the session. How'd you like to have that? Come and appear. Next Tuesday evening before the L Columbia freshman year. Wanna talk to you about some things in your life? He kind of figured he wouldn't show up, you know. I mean he's gonna show up for a meeting like that, right? Like give me a hammer to hit me on the head, you know So we figured, well, that's that's the end of that. You know he showed up? He showed up, we talked about the problems, he repented, and the marriage was restored I'm convinced that if God hadn't provided us as a supply for his obedience in Jesus Christ, he would have gone his own way, and that probably would have been the end of the day. But from time to time, God uses us and one another's lives to bring about that obedience. Now the question simply comes back to you as we conclude that how's your faith? And what about that era The area that you're still not convinced that to turn that area over to Jesus Christ is really going to be something you'll be glad that you did. He has supplied his word for you. He has supplied his gospel to free you. He has supplied his spirit to enable you. He's given us perspective to motivate you, that that would be your delight. And he's given the body, particularly the elders as under-shepherds, in order to lead you in doing that. Now the ball's in your court. What are you going to do with that area? How are you going to use what God is supplying? That's great. Lord, as we think for each one of us of an area in our lives that uh we've been resisting you. We have not been convinced that to follow you in that area would bring us joy. Lord, we want to bring that area before you right now and we want to face it square in the eye. We want to acknowledge what our real attitudes are. And we want to confess to you, Lord, those attitudes do not honor you, and they are distrustful of you, and they dishonor you in the most blatant way because it says that you really don't know what's best for us. You who have not spared your own son and have said that you would freely give us all things. How can we possibly charge you with wanting to make us miserable by conforming us to your will. So Lord, we want to now look at what you have supplied and we want to give us That area over too. Lord remind us that even as we wrestle with this It doesn't just affect us. We as brothers and sisters together are affected by the decisions that are going on in people's hearts right now. Because whether we are responsive to you and whether we trust you in that area will affect how much you are able to use us as part of this body. And we don't want to deprive our brothers and sisters of what you want to do through our lives toward them. And so, Lord, even if not for our sake, for their sake. The most of all for your sake that you would give glory and honor to our lives. We want you to win this battle in our hearts. We want for you, Lord, to enable us to trust you this week, that we will look at your word and what that means and what it calls us to do and to take that first step. To repent of our disobedience and to seek the Father. Hear us, Lord, as we dare to trust you now