Why don't you say that to somebody? Somebody next to you, right around you, say, you're a saint being equipped for ministry. Go ahead. Good. I hope you gave a chance to hear it as well as to say it. Yeah, you both say it at the same time. You don't hear it very well, but Yeah, I want you to see that so that we understand That's part of my identity. I am a saint that's being equipped for ministry. Now, you gotta realize again that that's only true if you You belong to Jesus Christ by faith, because a saint is a holy one. And so if somebody just told you you're a saint that's being equipped for ministry and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ, then that's not True of you. But if you have, by faith, trusted in him, the salvation of your sin, transformation of your life, and your hope of heaven, you are a saint that's being equipped. for ministry within God's body. And we're looking at what that means in the passage that John read to us a little earlier from Ephesians chapter four, verses eleven to sixteen. That's God's blueprint for the building of his holy temple, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so since he's read that, I want to just focus your attention. on the fact that within that whole scope of that passage, we are focusing in the month of June on just one word, and that's that word In verse 12, he's given some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service. And that word prepare there is the word service equip. He's given elders, pastors, teachers to equip God's people, the saints, for works of service, works of ministry. We're looking at what that means during this month. Now, you notice uh put a little diagram there so you'd be able to see it. That's kind of what verses uh 11 and 12 And then the things that flow out of verse Paul we're talking about. So make sure you notice that there's an arrow there where it says elders, pastors, and teachers. You may want to make that a little bolder so you know notice that that's what we are doing. We are equipping you, and then that is for the purpose, you see the arrow going over there, to do ministry. And as you are actively participating in Columbia Presbyterian. I hope that you're experiencing that you are being equipped by the Spirit to be able to do ministry to God and to other people that is satisfying and that is fulfilling and productive for the Lord Jesus. Now how is it that we do this? How is it that we as elders equip you? That word equip has three sides to it like the three sides of a triangle. And this month we're looking at those three sides. Last week we looked at the first side, which was what? Restore. Thank you. We restore you. And so under the number one there on the left side of that triangle, write the word restore. We saw that that word restore is used in In the New Testament twice uh that that word uh which is the word equip in verse uh uh Ephesians four twelve or prepare, that that word twice is translated Translated restore. And we looked at that. The word means to restore something to its original intention so it functions the way it was intended to function. It's used of mending nets that are torn so that they can still catch fish. It's used of mending a broken arm, setting it so that it's able to function again. It's used of rebuilding walls in the book of Ezra that had crumbled down and been destroyed. It's used of rebuilding the temple so that it's once again dedicated to God's service. Now that word to uh which is equip or prepare, which is particularly there, restore, is used two times in the New Testament to refer to to the restore restoration of your life and mine from sin and from suffering. Remember we saw in Galatians 6. 1, God says that He restores us from sin. If we are to do that as part of the body for one another. Galatians six one, brothers. If someone's caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently Watch yourself, or you may be tempted also. And that's the same word as Ephesians 4 12. Equip one another, prepare, restore from sin, restore back Into the place of walking with Jesus Christ, that sin's not going to defeat you. We all have sin patterns, and those patterns in Jesus have been broken. But we have to experience the gradual overcoming of those patterns as we are restored in the body of Jesus Christ by one another in the accountability which as John talked about is a And then we uh also saw that that restoration is not only from sin but also from suffering. Not only from sin as the agents of suffering sin but suffering as the victims of sin and the brokenness of this world. We saw that word was used in First Peter chapter five in verse ten, where Peter tells us That the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. word restore you that God himself will restore you. It's the same word as Ephesians 4 12, to equip or to prepare you, to restore you from the suffering. God himself will restore you does that. And so when we had the memorial service with Philip Weker on Wednesday evening, the purpose of that service as I spoke was to put you in touch with Jesus Christ. Christ that he would be able to restore you as you uh entered into the Wek's grief and particularly to restore them and their family uh in that way. And whatever suffering, whatever grief we have it's God himself who restores us and we will not experience the healing from that unless we are in touch with Jesus Christ himself. Now that's the idea of the restoration. This morning I want to touch on the second idea, the second side of this word equip or prepare. And this second side is the meaning of the word to supply. And so under the number two there is the word supply, the bottom line of the triangle. Because this supplying is the foundation foundation of what this equipping is. This idea of supplying, in addition to restoring you from the brokenness of sin and suffering by the power of Christ God also intends in the body to supply you with what is lacking so that you'll be able to function as God intends to intended you. And so the idea here is to supply someone with what they need to function properly. To supply them with what is lacking. And that word supply Translated is the same word again in Ephesians 4. 12. He has given pastors and teachers to supply God's people for works of service. what is lacking in God's people for works of service, to supply what's needed for works of ministry. That's the way you should translate that. And that word is translated twice supply that idea of supply in the New Testament to tell show us two things that you and I need to be supplied with in order to function within the Bible of Christ. The first of those two things that you're needed to supply to be you that you need to be supplied in order to do ministry, the first one is faith. The first one is faith. The second one and is we need to come next week to find out. Okay, go into that one. You gotta come back next week, find out what's the second thing that you need to be supplied with to do ministry. But the first one's faith. And you see that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 verse 10. John referred us to that Let's take a look at that again. So turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, verse 10. Do you see there? Paul says, now John read the whole 10th Thessalonians verses, but I'm just trying to call your attention again to verse 10. Paul says, night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you again and supply what is lacking. Now guess what word that you have there that's Ephesians 4. 12? Well, it's the one I just told you, of course. See, it's a supply what's lacking. And that word supply is the same word that you have in Ephesians 4. 12. That's what Paul's saying. Very clear, right? It's going to supply what's lacking in your faith. Let's stop and think about that for a minute. Is that really clear? How does Paul supply what is lacking in the faith of the Thessalonians? How do we as elders at Columbia Presbyterian Church supply what is lacking in the faith of the Thessalonians in your faith so that you're able to serve Jesus Christ more effectively. How do we do that? Well I believe that in order to answer the question how we supply what is lacking Lacking in your faith, you need to ask two prior questions. Those are the questions you see in the basic three points of the outline. The first thing that we need to ask Is that you see on the back side there? A, B, and C. We need to ask why faith is so foundational to the Christian life. And then after we ask that, we need to ask secondly what is lacking in your faith? Why is it so foundational? What's lacking? And then thirdly we ask, how can I supply what is lacking in your faith? Now that's what I've got to grasp as an elder in order to do my job. That's what every elder in this body has got to grasp. And let me just mention to you that we are going to be having a session on retreat this uh Saturday. We'll be taking the whole day to basically consider that question. How do we equip you as the people of God? look at all three sides of this triangle. The idea of how do we restore you more effectively, how can we supply you? And so they'll be dealing with the second part of the person, third side of the triangle. So if you think about it us at all this week. You might want to pray that God will enable us as the session of this church to be able to come to better understanding of how we can improve as elders to be able to equip and to prepare you. But particularly this morning thinking of this idea of supplying what's lacking in your faith. Now you see, the first thing we have to ask then is Why is faith so foundational in Christianism? Ever think about that? Why is I didn't say why is faith foundational to become a Christian? See, I I think that we all all as Christians believe that faith is absolutely foundational to become a Christian. We all recognize that you need to believe that the Bible is the word of God. God, that Jesus is God's Son, and that He came and lived the perfect life, fulfilled the law on your behalf, and that when He died, He died as a substitute, to take the curse that you would do for the law you didn't keep, but that he kept it and was therefore eligible to die in your place, and that when he rose again, God had raised him to show that he had accepted that sacrifice and you believe all those things. By faith you accept those. And when you do that and recognize that you are a sinner in need of the forgiveness of Jesus, Jesus and for him to take your life, by faith you become a Christian. But I think that even though we understand that faith is foundational for becoming a Christian, Christians. Many of us do not appreciate how faith is foundational in our daily life as a Christian. How faith is foundational to live the Christian life. uh in a moment-by-moment experience with Jesus Christ. Realize that every day you are living either by faith or in non-faith or unbelief. And that if you're not consciously living every day by faith, walking by faith in Jesus Christ, there's a gravitational pull for you to deposed back into unbelief. And so if you are not consciously affirming the faith that you have in Jesus Christ, you will always be drifting into knowledge. Now that's so important, you see, that Paul said, again look what he says in verse 10, night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see with Again, for what purpose? To supply what's lacking in your faith. Paul sees this as a crucial issue in their lives. Now you see, this is not just a faith. to get to heaven he's talking about. These people are already Christians. But he's saying you're lacking something in your faith. And I want to supply that. I want to be involved with God in doing that. You see, that's so important that you look what he says in uh the first couple of verses of that uh same chapter three. Paul says, When we could stand it no longer, we thought it best to be left by ourselves and after You know, I really wanted Timothy with me, but I said I sent him on. Verse 2. Sent Timothy, who's our brother, God's fellow worker. Boy, I really needed him, but I had to send him. I sent to find out about your faith. I was afraid in some way the tempter might have tempted you, and our efforts have been useless. Everything would be useless if you're not standing and walking in your faith. And so as you and I look at that, we need to appreciate faith is foundational to our walk in Jesus Christ. In fact, faith was referred to seven times in chapter 1-1 up to chapter 3. 10 by Paul in this letter. Notice in chapter 1, verse 1 Verse 3. It's faith that produces their works as Christians. We continually remember before God and our Father your work produced by what? Efforts, slugging it out, spiritual spiritual disciplines now by faith. The things that you do that are worth anything to God were produced by faith, he said. Look at uh chapter one verse eight. It says your faith was known everywhere. The Lord's message rang out from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia. Your faith in God has become known everywhere. Not what great people you are and how how much you accomplished building programs. It's your faith that was known. That's what impressed the culture. That's what people saw Producing the works. It was a faith that was distinctive. It was that faith that enables God's word to work in them, to transform them. Transform them. Look at chapter 2, verse 13. We also thank God continually because when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it actually is the word of God, which is at work in you who believe, who have Faith in it. And then chapter three, verse two, again he mentions this idea of uh spent sending Timothy to strengthen encourage you in your faith chapter three verse five we sent out to find out about your faith because I was concerned that if that had failed everything else was useless. But he says it was good news. Verse 6. Timothy's just now come from us, from you, to us, from you. And he's brought some good news about your faith and your love Told us you always have pleasant memories of us and you long to see us just as we long to see you. Therefore, brothers, in all our distress and persecution, having a rough time here. Nevertheless, we are in Curious about you. Why? Because of your faith. See, everything centers on that. Paul's whole concern throughout this letter is how's your faith been? How Now, why is that such an important matter? Why is it that that's what produces their works? Why is it that's what transforms it? Why is it that faith is vital for you and for me? Day by day, but the most important question you can ask yourself, the key question right now is is not how's your quiet time going? How's your being kept up on vision level Not how effective are your ministries, not what are you doing for Jesus Christ, but the most important key question is how's your faith How's your faith a smoke? Is your faith confident? Is your faith resting? Or is your faith something that's kind of shaky? Intangible. Why is that so fundamental a question? In order to understand that, you need to understand, and if you want to pursue this on your own some letter suggest that the basic definitive New Testament book on faith is the book of Galatians. In the book of Galatians you see why faith is so important. And in this book Book of Galatians, it's all summed up in Galatians chapter 5, verses 5 and 6. Turn to that for just a moment. You see in Galatians chapter 5, verses 5, five and six, a basic statement about why faith is so vital. In Galatians chapter five, in verse five Paul says, out of this um excuse me uh for of this you can be sure. No, this one Ephesians here, why don't I? Galatians. Chapter 5, verse 5. Paul says, but by faith we eagerly wait through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. Now that's saying that you are justified through faith. You're justified through faith. Now uh Anybody that's in my kids communicating. Uh they got a few that uh you know are taking that class with them. Come on kids, I'm counting on ya. I did not tell them I was gonna ask them. Kids, what does just Justify means somebody just call it out. Thank you. Okay, see that? You got some budding theologians here. Justification is to declare righteous. Now did you hear what she said? She said this doesn't make you righteous. Justification is to declare you righteous. Now what does that mean? That means justification is to declare that you have met all the requirements of God's law for how to live. That's what it means. And Paul says there in Galatians 5. 5 That fundamental in your life is that you are waiting for that final verdict of your righteousness Before God's throne in that final day. And that's because you know you have come to him on the basis of your faith. You see, that's what he said in chapter 2, in verse 16. Galatians 2. 16, Paul had said, knowing that a man's not justified, he's not declared as having met the requirements of the law by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ, not by observing the law, because by observing the law no one will be justified. Paul says that it is not my record that will ever gain me the verdict of quitting. You've met the requirements. And so I must rest in the record of Jesus Christ. His record is perfect. And by that record I am set free. I have a clear conscience. Nothing is against me from God's standpoint. God is for me. He is not against me. Most of us is Christians are basically clear about this, but what we what far fewer Christians are clear about is verse 6. We say, okay, I I understand, I'm declared right now. On the basis of what Jesus has done. But then, and and I am justified by faith. But what verse six tells us is that you're not only justified by faith, you are justified by are sanctified by faith. Look what he says in verse 6. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision. religious uh rituals, these things required by the ceremonial law, any of these things, none of that matters. Doesn't have any value. The only thing that Counts is what? Faith expressing itself through love. Now, what does he mean by that? The only thing that counts, Paul says, is faith expressing itself through love. He means bluntly that if you're looking in your life this morning And you look, am I growing in sanctification? How do you know if you're going in sanctification? What is sanctification? Sanctification is conformity to Jesus Christ in your behavior. It's your holiness. It's your becoming like Jesus. Ephesians 4. 13. Growing into the fullness of the measure of the stature of Christ. And how's that ex how's that seeming? By love. Love is the fulfillment of the law. Now if you look at your life this morning, you say, I look at this past week and I just feel all crummy about this that I didn't do. You know, I I really believe that most of us as Christians who go on with the Lord for a while, what we feel guilty about is not so much what we've done, it's what we haven't done, right? It's all those things that we believe I should have done this and I should have done this done that and all this other stuff. I should have been more loving in this situation. I should have been more considerate. I should have gone out of my way. All these things I should have done. That's love. You say saying I'm lacking in love. But you see, when you and I look and we say, now what's wrong with my life? I'm lacking in love. We tend to think, therefore I should have done more. Paul says, he says, no, if you're lacking in love, that's a faith question. If you're lacking in love, that means you're lacking in faith. Because it's faith that expresses itself in love It's not efforts. Now what does he mean by that? How is it that faith expresses itself through love? Two things we need to understand There's two things you need to realize by faith that will enable you to walk with Jesus Christ in love. The first thing you need to realize by faith Is that you have died to the law. You have died to the law. You've died to its curse. You've died to its condemnation. You've died to all the requirements of performance. For God's approval based on your performance. You're keeping the law. You have died to that. When Jesus Christ died on the cross, you with him were crucified. And the law judged you, and you are now dead to its requirements. You are dead to its condemnation and its curse. And therefore, by faith you rest In the record of Jesus Christ on your behalf. Therefore you are now free to serve Him motivated simply by loving gratitude. Not by performance. Not by establishing your own record. You have died to that. It's a non-issue to you. That can only be ever be true by faith. You and I are constantly being gravitationally pulled back to this idea of establishing our own record before God. not resting in the merit of Jesus Christ alone. So by faith you need to realize that you died to the law. This person is coming That freedom by faith expresses itself through life. The second thing, the second way that that's true, is that you You need to realize moment by moment that you depend on the spirit to enable you to do those things that you're loving. You don't do them in your own strength. As soon as you begin to say, Well this is what I need to do, Lord, help me out, you know, here's what I gotta do, and so you just sort of you know get going to do it, then you you you drop back into the flesh. I do it all the time. I haven't had quiet time. I I haven't really been in touch with the Lord. I haven't really looked to him. I've lost a immediate sense of his presence presence and of his spirit in my life. Excuse me. And so what happened? The sinna sign faced with some sort of a requirement, some demand, some challenge in my life, something that irritates me. An intrusion or whatever it is, some demand placed on me, I immediately respond in the flesh. I've forgotten that I've died to the law and I'm trying to do it on my own. And so literally Living by faith is to say, no, I've died to the law. I don't have to do this to please Jesus. I don't have to do this to be pleasing in his sight. If I do it lovingly, that will please him. But I am not No less loved by him or accepted by him, whether I respond lovingly or don't respond lovingly. Now, Lord, if you are going to enable me to do this simply because Because I want to please you, because I love you so much. Then I've got to do that in your spirit. Because my heart is so rotten, so self-centered. There's no possible way that I'm going to love in any pure sense in this. And so moment by moment I come and I say, Lord, you know my heart. It's selfish. It's demanding. It's controlling. It's easily irritating. It doesn't have love, joy, and peace, and patience, and kindness and goodness. Those are fruits of the Spirit, and those fruits are released by faith Love is a fruit of the Spirit that can only be released by the realization by faith that I have died to the law and I live by the Spirit. I stand in my justification with Jesus Jesus and I walk in my sanctification by the power of the Spirit. Those are only done by faith. So you're not only justified by faith, you are sanctified by faith. You walk in Jesus Jesus day by day, moment by moment by faith. And that's why Paul says in Thessalonians that I night and day pray that I will be able to see you again to supply what's lacking in your faith. That's the crucial Issue. Now then that leads to the question then what's lacking in your faith? What is it that's lacking this morning? Well, I believe that what's lacking is in various categories. You think of our anxieties. That reflects a lack of faith, doesn't it? Anxieties about money, about a job, about my health, about the fact that I believe for whatever thing in my life that God's not really for me And maybe against me. I've got to kind of wrestle this blessing from heaven that God doesn't want to give. So I have to somehow try to overcome the resistance of heaven to get this. That produces anxiety. And that anxiety is overcome by faith. Believe that God is a heavenly Father who wants to give good gifts to his children. Or maybe it's a matter of compromise in your life. You're afraid to stand on some principle. Why? Well, because Because you're afraid that if you stand on that, you're gonna be hurt. And so you're you're lacking faith in that. Your boat's gonna sink. Look what Paul says in First Thessalonians in chapter five, right after he's talked about the importance of faith here. In chapter five, he says in verse six so then let us not be like others who are asleep but let us be alert and self-controlled for those who sleep sleep at night and those who get drunk get drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let's be self-controlled, putting on faith and love as a breastplate. as a helmet. Putting that on enables you to stand on principle rather than the waffle because you believe that you've got to do defend for yourself. You've got to fend your for yourself in this world. You don't have a father, a heavenly father, it's going to take care of you if you simply walk in here for you. Or maybe for you it's a lack of hope You're not living in the light of eternity. Because you really believe that now is where you're going to get your gratification. The Thessalonians were characterized, you notice in chapters, Chapter 1 is those whose faith was known all around. Why? Because you remember, brothers, he says. Chapter 1 in verse 9, he says, you were characterized as Those who had turned from God to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven. You were waiting for his son from heaven to be rescued from the dead. Jesus who rescues us from the coming wrath. That was your hope. And that hope enabled you to have a broader perspective than just living for what I can enjoy today, this weekend. And the things that come up next week. Make the most out of this summer, you know? You only go around once. Paul says you've got a a larger hope. And that hope you what motivates you, it's what enables you to live in the light of eternity. Now what's the issue for you this morning? You feeling anxious? Are you aware of compromises? Are you aware of a lack of hope in your life? Then you need just to be supplied by faith, with faith. Now how are you supplied with faith? That's the last thing finally. How can I, how can the elders he, how do we supply you with faith? How do we supply you with what's lacking in your faith? I believe there are two clues. Here in First Thessalonians, because that's an interesting thing, isn't it? I mean, I can't give you faith. You can't even give yourself faith. Faith is a gift from God. So how am I the world is Paul saying I'm going to supply what's lacking in your faith? There are two things that I believe God calls us to do. Number one is that I can warn you of the inevitability Of three things it will come to rob you of faith. And they're right there in chapter three. I can warn you of the inevitability of trials in your life. Look, see what he says there in chapter three. In verses two and three, Paul says that we sent Timothy to um it's uh to strengthen and encourage you in your faith verse three so that no one would be unsettled by these trials we know quite well that you were destined for them so there's trials that are unsettling you. The kinds of things we talked about that produce anxiety. And what I need to do, and what we need to do for each other is to warn each other that when you have the flat tires and the things that break and all the things that happen in your life to frustrate you. Don't think why'd that happen to me? I'm a Christian God's supposed to protect my tires that they never blow. My cars aren't supposed to break down. The rest of the things in my house are supposed to run better than other people. No, he says we all are subject to to the trials. Don't let those trials make you lose faith that God cares for you. It may be a way for God to show his power in your life. It may be something in character, whatever it is. But don't let me Don't look at trials as inconsistent with the trustworthiness of God. The Bible simply says it's not the case. Or there's the matter of persecutions, verse 4. I need to warn you of the inevitability of that. In fact, he says, when we were with you we kept telling you that you'd be persecuted. And it turned out that way, as you well know. I don't know. Can you imagine sort of, you know You know what I'm talking about, right guys? You know, people resist you because of your stand for Jesus Christ. You say, wow, I don't know why this happened. Why is it? that it seems so hard to walk in this culture as a Christian. And I'm tired of standing out and being different. Hey, that's what God says is going to happen. Don't let that shake your faith. Don't let that be to you a disturbance that you wonder where God is in that. He says it's going to happen. It should rather increase your faith because You realize that you're in that battle. And this what's happening is exactly what Jesus said would happen. If they hated him, they're going to hate his disciples. Don't let it shape your faith. The third thing he says is I never saw temptation yet in my life that came to me that said, I'm a temptation. Look out. They're subtle And so he says in verse five there. He says, Now, for this reason, when I couldn't stand it any longer, I'm I was so anxious I had to send and find out about your faith, I was afraid in some way the tempter might have tempted me There's something gonna happen. It's gonna happen to you this week. Something this summer. It's gonna come upon you and you're not gonna notice it. Just going to shake your faith, and you're going to want to walk in the flesh, and you're going to want to deny what Jesus Christ clearly has told you to do. And that's going to have the effect of taking your faith and just turning It away from Jesus. It's a temptation. And so you've got to recognize temptations. Now, supplying your faith is to help you to see if those things are going to come. So then you And the final thing is that I can encourage you concerning the trustworthiness, the provision, and the promises of the risen Messiah for all of your needs. But you see that he is trustworthy. He will never leave you or fail you in that time of trial, temptation. That he is with you. He'll never let your boat sink. Trust Jesus. He's here as a real person to protect you, to defend you, and to walk with you. His provision is sufficient to provide for all of your needs. will not let you go. He will take care of you. Look to him. Look at his promises. Look up the promises in scripture. Pertain to your own need and situation. Memorize those promises. Look at the conditions. Claim those promises in prayer. Hold God to his word. So, how is it that we as elders Practice verse 10, that we may see you again and supply what is lacking in your faith. We bring you to the Word. Because chapter 2, verse 13 says it's the Word of God. which is work in you to believe. And so we keep hammering home to you. Be in the word. Spend time in it. By faith as you spend time in the word Day by day. Kids communicate in class, we talked about our summer plan. How are we going to spend time in the Word each day? That's what builds our faith. If you spend time in the Word, My s my most important task is to put you in touch with Jesus, to bring you to Jesus, to show you that Jesus is the one according to chapter five and verses eight to one eleven. He's the one who died for us so that whether we're awake or asleep, we live together with him. Therefore, encourage one another. Build each other up. Just as in fact you are doing doing in looking to Jesus. So the question this morning, how's your faith? How's your faith? As it's expressed in love, how's your faith in Jesus? Let's pray. Lord, we want to look right now in our own lives for the moment. and just see how is our thing. We tend so much to look at what we're doing, what we're achieving, what we're not. We feel so guilty and deficient in so many ways. Did we forget that the tempter is simply wanting to get us to have our get our eyes off of Jesus? And to forget that we have died to the law by Jesus. And that we live by the Spirit through Jesus. Lord, for each need, we pray here this morning. Build faith. Supply the faith that is lacking. We might be able to walk this week in your spirit because our faith would express itself through you. Oh Lord be Do it.