Let's give our attention to God's holy word, remembering that He Himself is addressing us through this Word from Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 to 10. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him And he will make your paths straight. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your crops. Then your barns will be filled to overflowing, and your vats will brim over with new wine. Now having looked at these three precious promises that we have stated here in a kind of an overview, three promises relating to three great concerns that we have: contentment, health, and money. And seeing that the Lord has promised to provide these, and then looking at the first one particularly, the last couple of weeks. to see his promise of saying that the Lord himself will guide us personally into straight and pleasant paths that he chooses. And then seeing last week the three conditions that we need to fulfill in order to be able to claim that promise. Do you remember the three conditions to cultivate Christ's confidence? To repent of self-confidence, and then to cultivate Christ's control in our lives. There's three lines. Trust the Lord with all your heart. Lean not to your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him. And then you and I can feel secure in claiming that promise that He will direct us. He will guide us into those straight and pleasant paths. Having done that, I want now to zero in, sort of microscopically, onto that first word of the whole series of promises there. For I think that first word is so crucial, that word trust, that we're going to spend three weeks looking at just that one word. Now, I promise we will not spend the same comparable time looking at every successive word in these verses, but we are going to look at this one word with that degree of care because I believe that this word is foundational to our understanding how it is that you and I can claim that promise of contentment and of the Lord himself being with us to guide and to direct our steps. So I found when I was meditating on this that I so little understand what it means to trust the Lord with all my heart. I'm so divided in my trust. I so little understand that wholehearted rest and reliance on him that I needed to check out how that word is used through the Old Testament. And having done that, I have found that the word breaks down into three kinds of categories of alternatives to trust in Jesus with all our hearts. The Bible talks about the alternative of trusting Jesus being trusting things, trusting people, and trusting religion. And so those are the three subjects we're going to look at in these three messages. Now unfortunately, the third message isn't going to come till January. And the reason for that, of course, is that uh after the second message we're going to start into the holiday series. I would have been able to finish it, but Steve Green preached that one week and that threw everything off, you know, so what are you gonna do? You either just jettison it or you do it and figure it out, do it in January, and I'll remind you of the rest of it anyway. So we will pick up the first two this week and next week, and then the third one after the holidays. I want to look at this word because it's a very interesting word. It's not the word that's normally used for trust with regard to salvation in the Old Testament. But this word trust is a word which has to do with reliance, with confidence. It's a word which means to rely on someone. to find your security in them, to place your confidence in them. And of course that's not very far afield from the notion of trusting Jesus for salvation. But primarily this word is not used for salvation. It's used for trusting the Lord as opposed to trusting things, people, and religion. This morning we're going to pick up the idea of things. Trusting things rather than the Lord. And so the question I have to ask myself and that I pose to you this morning, to ask very practically to yourself What things are you trusting rather than the Lord with all your heart? What things tempt you To place your confidence, your security, your reliance on them as opposed to Jesus Christ as the ultimate source of your security. What is that? Now, conveniently, the Bible breaks down the idea of things into three rough categories. And so I want to look at those three kinds of things that we tend to trust in rather than the Lord this morning. The first one, point one, is armed defense. Armed defense. We trust the Bible says in armies, in weapons, in man's protection. rather than the Lord. Many, many references to this kind of thing, but because of time constraints, I'm only going to refer you to one of those, Psalm 44. In Psalm 44, you have the use of this same word from Proverbs 3, when the psalmist is recounting God's victory in bringing Israel into the land and defeating the Canaanites. And the psalmist is recounting how the Lord brought victory to Israel over their foes. And in doing that, what he says is, verse 3, it was not by their sword that they won the land. Nor did their arm bring them victory. It was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, for you loved them. You are my king and my God who decrees victories for Jacob. Through you we push back our enemies, and through your name we trample our foes. And so he says in verse 6, I do not trust my bow. The word trust there is the same one as used in Proverbs 3:5, trust in the Lord with all your heart. You see the contrast. I don't trust in my bow, he says. Now he's not saying, hey, take the bow away and break it, throw it. I don't care. He's saying, no, I'm going to use that bow. But on the other hand, my security is not in the weapon. My security is not in the arsenal. I do not trust in my bow. My sword does not bring me the victory, but you give us the victory over our enemies. And so you see that there is here the statement of the alternative of trusting armed defense of one kind or another versus trusting the Lord. Reminds us of David and Goliath. That's David and Goliath there, by the way, not Daniel and Goliath. A couple stories there mixed up. But you remember when David went out to meet Goliath? Goliath was an intimidating character to Israel. Goliath was like nuclear weapons in the arms of third world countries. Goliath was the foe who challenged Israel. Totally unpredictable. What is this guy gonna do? I mean this monster stood over nine feet tall, and he was armed to the teeth. And he called out to Israel, You send your best to come up against me. And the one that wins, that's the nation that wins. And so they send out again this little stripling David, a teenager, a shepherd boy. He doesn't have any armor on. All he's armed with is a slingshot. Five smooth stones. And you remember how Goliath roared out from being insulted by such a kid coming against him. And he said, Why a dog did you send me with this? Slingshots and stones? Come here, and I'll give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field Do you remember how David, unintimidated, man, I wouldn't have been even standing around there to hear the end of the sentence. David stands up against him and he says, Ah, Goliath, you come to me with a sword and a shield. But I come to you in the name of the Lord. For it's the Lord who gives the battle into my hand. The Lord will give you into my hand this day that all the world may know that the Lord does not save by sword or by shield. But that all the world may know that there is a God in Israel. He is going to give you into my hand And you remember how he let go with that stone, and one stone miraculously hit the one vulnerable point in Goliath's armor. Hit him smack in the temple. And how he was stunned and fell to the ground, and before he could get up, David had taken his own sword out of his hands and decapitated him. Because the Lord gives the battle. Now what does that mean to you and to me? I think there's a number of applications in this, personally and nationally. Personally, I find that we as a people are very security-minded, aren't we? We trust in locks and guns and in our police force, among other things, in which to find security. I've told you the story of the woman who had locked her apartment With more locks and you could almost get up and down the side of the door. Alarm systems installed and to add to all that she had somebody call her every fifteen minutes to make sure she was okay And how she was found beaten to death in her apartment because her locks and her alarms and all her security were not enough. The Lord is our security. And nothing else can really protect us. We need to remember that, lest we place our trust in our security systems. We're in our guns. I mean we're a nation that's armed to the teeth. That's why we're having us a referendum this Tuesday. The gun ban law. Because we're a people who are obsessed with our weapons And whatever you think of that law, the fact is that we're a people who find our security to a large measure in being able to protect ourselves. And the Lord says, that's not going to protect you. I'm your security. Trust in me. Doesn't mean that you and I disarm nationally On the national level, same thing with police force. We don't trust in them, but think of the national level. Now I'm for a strong defense Don't get me wrong in that. I think for a nation in our kind of a world to unilaterally disarm is as naive as the New York police force, thinking that if they put down all their arms, the criminals will put down theirs and go home. And there's no question that we need to have, and I have my own opinion, a strong national defense. But I also think that there is a tendency for evangelicals to place their trust in how strong that national defense is. We need to have an administration that's going to arm us ten times over to the teeth. And if we can just get that strong enough, then we'll be able to rest more easily. But the problem with that is what Psalm 33 tells us. In Psalm 33, God warns us in verse 16 that no king is saved by the size of his army. No warrior escapes by his great strength. A horse is a vain hope for deliverance. That'd be like tanks, missiles, uh, you know, aircraft carriers, planes in our culture. And despite all its great strength, it cannot save. But the eyes of the Lord are on those who fear Him, on those whose hope is in His unfailing love. to deliver them from death. And so he says in verse 21, in him our hearts rejoice. For we trust in his holy name. He is our hope and our shield. The word trust there is the same word that's used in Proverbs 3. 5. It's the Lord that we trust, not how large a nuclear stockpile we can accumulate. Do you know what the very best strategic weapon of the United States would be today? I mean this with all seriousness. It would be revival coming to our land. History has shown that that's the case. I could give if I had time, but I don't because I need to go on to the other points. Example after example of how in the life of Israel God made the difference in miraculous ways that depended not on how much armaments they had. And how that's been true in history after the Bible Particularly in the history of England, and in some parts of the history of the United States also, from revolutionary times right on up through the current day God is able to deliver apart from what seemed to be the strategic balance of weapons. Or whatever other things people thought were going to protect them. The Lord is the security of a nation because Psalm 33 says, it's those who fear him who he protects. You want to contribute to national defense in the United States? Come to the 6. 30 Thursday morning prayer meetings. Where we pray that God would bring renewal and revival to our land. Where we pray that God is going to do a new work in humbling us as a people. Who look to the Lord and not to our weapons, to our own defenses, to our own securities, to those things that you and I can manufacture or contribute to that we can see. And I realize that a number in our congregation are are involved. in strategic weapons research. And I realized that this is something close to the hearts of many of us. And again, I'm not saying that the man says, put down my bow, I don't need it. But I think we have to be careful as evangelicals not to place our security and our trust in the armed defense. The Lord says, trust in the Lord with all your heart. For those who fear him and trust in him, he protects. But there's another whole level of meaning to these verses. And it's the meaning that's related to the fact that whenever you read about battles in the Old Testament, those battles are speaking not simply about physical security. But they're speaking even more deeply about the spiritual battle of the church against the kingdom of Satan. And I think that In that same way, you and I have to be careful that we don't superstitiously trust in physical things, in our spiritual battle. Both personally as well as corporately. There are Christians who trust in crosses, amulets, statues on their dashboards, and other things to protect them and give them security. As evangelical Protestants were more inclined to trust in having an NIV study Bible to ensure my Christian growth, the fact that I have lots of Christian books That I subscribe to Christian magazines, that I listen on end interminably to my large collection of Christian tapes. Some Christians listen to Christian tapes ten times faster than they can absorb or apply them. Or I listen to Christian radio or whatever it is. Something that I place my security and my confidence in in the spiritual battle, and it in some subtle way divides my heart from looking to the Lord Himself. Beyond the things. Corporately we can do the same kind of thing. As a church, we can be tempted to trust in that day when we'll get our own building. as the thing that will really give us security as a congregation. Sometimes visitors will come and they'll visit and say, um, it's really nice to be with you folks. When are you going to get your building? And sometimes I hear that question, it sort of sounds like when are you going to become a real church, you know? But we have to be careful that we don't trust in the things to give us spiritual victory. The things that may even relate to the size of our congregation, the number of programs that we have going, the church growth manuals for advertising and assimilation. In order to ensure that we will be a growing congregation, no thing is going to ensure that. Only the Lord Jesus and hearts that are humbled before Him. A congregation that knows what it means to pray and to love the Lord. For us to have that spontaneous joy of Jesus Christ that comes through us because we understand justification We understand that we're sons of the living God. That kind of a relationship and trusting Jesus with all our hearts brings about spiritual security. And so remember that this week Physically, it's Jesus who wants to protect you and who is able to protect you. Spiritually, this week, it is Jesus Who wants to and who is able to protect you and to take care of you. Know him. Remember David and Goliath. Remember the trust in the Lord that delivers. That's the first thing. The second thing that we need to understand in this is that the second alternative to trusting the Lord with all of our hearts is to trust in insurance and investments. Money. Insurance and investments are the two blanks there. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your insurance and your investments. Verse chapter 11, verse 28 puts it this way, using the same word, whoever trusts, that is, relies upon, finds security or confidence in his riches will fall. But the righteous will thrive like a green leaf. Psalm 49 uses the same word to describe a man who trusts in his wealth for his security, uses the same word and says he's like a beast. It doesn't know anything beyond what things he's able to feel and see and touch and eat. Like a beast it says he'll perish. Psalm 52 uses this same word. It talks about a fellow who is in GQ magazine, you know. He's been featured on lifestyles of the rich and famous. And they've uh photographed his house and his Mercedes-Benz 500 SED and his uh house down at the shore and all the rest of that. And then it says about this fellow in Psalm 52 That one day he's going to be uprooted. He's going to be plucked like a weed right out of his riches. And the reason that's given for that is that he trusted in his great wealth. And did not make God his stronghold. His trust was in what he had, was in his insurance and in his investments And all those things that he thought would give him security, the good job, the secure position, and a portfolio that was designed for diversification that could never fail. The Lord says, He's going to be uprooted. He's going to be plucked out. And it's interesting because the next verse says the righteous who were intimidated by this guy, who saw that he had and said, boy It's nice to have the Lord, but man, it sure would be nice to have that kind of security. He said the righteous will see him plucked up And they will fear, and they will laugh at him saying, This is what happens to the man who makes God his stronghold, and tr did not make God his stronghold, but trusted in his great wealth. Yet you and I know it, we say it, and still we are so tempted to trust in our investments and our money rather than more than Jesus, don't we? I think of uh the wisdom of actress Terry Garr. She was speaking at UCLA campus, and somebody asked her What's it like to make so much money? This was her answer. She says, Oh, it's just like Buck Henry described it. He says it's not true that money can't buy happiness. It can buy happiness. For 20 minutes. That's true. She says the first 400 jacket that I got was a real thrill for about 20 minutes. And Astereo is a real thrill when you first get it home, and then after 20 minutes it just turns into a record player. And yet we continue to think it will give us security. We continue to think if only I had, then I'd be secure and happy. Reminds me of Niagara Falls, I don't know how many of you have ever seen Niagara Falls in the springtime, but it's an awesome sight. In the spring, the Niagara River flows down, and not only are the falls like you see them at any other time, but there's these huge ice flows. that come down the Niagara River. And if you've ever stood by that river, it's an awesome thing. I've never seen a river flow so swiftly. You stand there and the water just sweeps past you. It looks like it's going at about sixty miles an hour And down the river will come these huge ice flows. And in the spring there's fish that are trapped in those ice flows frozen. And on this uh one day, this fellow was watching these flows going down there And the gulls would land and they'd ride down these things. So like surfboards, you know, going down the Niagara River. And they would eat these fish out of the flows and then just as the thing was about to go over the falls, then the gulls would take off, and there would go down some more fish, smash the smithereens at the bottom of the rocks. This one particular gull was really enjoying his meal on that float and he would not let it go. He just kept riding that thing down and this fellow's watching, he's getting closer and closer, and the gull's just gotta have one more bite You know, it's such a tasty morsel and he keeps hanging on, keeps hanging on till he gets to the end. And his feet had frozen fast in the ice flow He tried desperately just at the end to take off, and he actually lifted the ice floe a few inches out of the water until he fell back in and tumbled over the falls into the abyss. You look at that and we say, How we like to clutch on to things. But those things are not only not our security, those things can be our undoing if they're apart from Jesus Christ. And yet we're so deceived. I think of the little girl who had a pet raccoon and a zookeeper told her, you know, honey, when you have that raccoon after two years, you're gonna have to get rid of him. Because raccoons go through a glandular change about 24 months and they become unpredictably vicious. And the response was, oh no, not bandit. Bandit would never hurt me. Three months later, she was in the hospital for plastic surgery, her face cut to ribbons by an unpredictable, uncalled-for attack by her friendly Pat raccoon. And those things that you and I think that we can hang on to, those things in which we subtly inch by inch begin to give our security and our confidence to, thinking, but I'm a Christian and it won't get me. Those vines won't get around my heart and separate me from a trust and love for Jesus Christ. And in such a subtle way, they begin to grip us and they drag us down. Imagine just for a moment. What would it be like in your life if you were to take away all of your life insurance, all of your health insurance? All of your retirement plan, your social security, and all of your investments, what would that leave you? You know what it would leave you? It would leave you in the same position as about ninety five percent of all humanity through history and through the rest of the world Because you and I find it hard in our society to imagine that most of the world has lived without any kind of insurance, any kind of a retirement plan, any kind of securities. In which people could place their confidence. And so because we have become so used to those things In a subtle way, we can begin to place our security in them that weans us from the Lord. Now I'm not saying if you're a Christian, you're going to go And you're going to get rid of all your life insurance, your health insurance. You know, Gordon Calvert will have a uh an apoplectic seizure back here. The poor guy's been trying to help the congregation to live more responsibly. in there taking care of their families and I'm not trying to undercut that for a moment. But you know I knew a friend once worked for IBM and after ten years with IBM, all the securities and the benefits that they have uh become guaranteed to you. This fellow found that his heart was becoming so wrapped up in those things that after nine and a half years, he quit IBM I asked him why did you do that? He said, because he said, I know that some people would say that was an utterly foolish thing to do. But he said, I know for me it had become between me and my relationship with Jesus Christ. I was no longer free to consider alternatives in ways the Lord would have me to serve him. My whole security was wrapped up in IBM. I don't know what it is for you. I know some things it is for me. But I think there are things that if you're honest with in your life and in mine, you'll say, these things threaten my confidence and security in Jesus Christ. And I've got to stop rationalizing them. It may take radical action. It may take simply the repentance that sees things in their right perspective again. But if you're going to trust in the Lord with all your heart, there cannot be a rival for that security. And finally, briefly, the last thing is the matter of possessions. It goes right along with this other idea. Possessions. Again, several scriptures talk about our placing our confidence, our security, our reliance on our possessions. You can look up some of those for yourself afterwards, but just for example, Job chapter 11 talks about the one who places his confidence in his things. He says it's like a person it leans against a spider web to hold him up. He says you sort of go over and the thing just gives way. And he said not only does it give way, but it tangles you up in it He says that's what it's like to place your confidence, your security in things. As I've said before, there's no U-Hauls behind hearses. Things will never give you and me security. You know, began to think about that as I was reflecting on this, and I was um struck again by the fact that my things don't care for me. You know, people talk about how their car is loyal to them. Your car's not loyal to you. It could care less who drives it. I once had a car that I traded the thing in and the next guy that drove it had bit him. It actually this he he turned the steering wheel and there was blood flowing from his hand, you know And I thought, my goodness isn't that tremendous. My car was faithful to me. It could not stand the fact that somebody else was going to take it. But you know, that's just pure emotional sentimentality. And The car didn't care who was driving it. Your clothes don't care that they make you look beautiful Your things, no matter how much sentimental attachment you and I place on them, could care less who owns them. There's only one person who cares for us without fail. And that's Jesus Christ. He's the only person who cared for you enough to die for all of your greed and misplaced insecurity. Jesus Christ is the one who came and gave his life, gave up all of his security and all those things that he possessed. And Jesus came and he died, so that you and I could be forgiven of our misplaced securities, and that we would be able to find our confidence and our security in Jesus Christ alone. If you've never tasted that kind of security and confidence, I invite you to come to Jesus Christ this morning. I invite you to come to Him for your security. For your sin forgiven, for the sense of being washed and cleansed as you've never known before, and to have him give you a new security that only he can give If you've walked with Jesus for some time, I ask you to ask yourself this one question. When do you find that you're down? What is it that you turn to for comfort and security? What's the first thing that you turn to for comfort and security when you're down in order to feel better? The first thing that comes to your mind is the greatest rival for the affection of Jesus Christ in your heart. You know that Is it your house? Well, at least I can clean the house and have it look nice and I'll feel better because of my home. Is it your car? Well, at least I can go out and wash the car or wax it or ride it or do something. It will make me feel better. Or is it food? Some people say, just give me some food, man, some chocolate, something. It'll make me feel better. See now you're starting to meddle. What about clothes? No, well, you know the old bumper sticker and things go tough, the tough go shopping, you know. Things are rough, well I'll get some clothes. That'll make me feel better What is it? What thing is what you go to for your security, for your confidence, for your well-being. Whatever that thing is, it will hold you in bondage. Because it will never give you the security that you crave. It will addict you to more and more and more of it. The only thing that satisfies is Jesus Christ. To come to him for our security. To come to him and know that he wants to give us that security. That he loves us enough to meet all of our needs, to wrap us in his love, to protect us, and to give us that sense of well-being that no thing can ever replace. I invite you this morning to come with me and to lay that idol on the altar and to give it over to Jesus that he might give you true security in Jesus' name.