Let's hear God's word as He Himself addresses us through Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him And he will make your paths straight. My word to you this morning is simply this In order for you and for me to walk with the shepherd close enough That he will be able to direct us into his smooth and pleasant paths, his straight and pleasant paths. We must be trusting him alone. And not other people to find our security in them. You remember that we've been looking at this first of three promises here in Proverbs chapter 3. This first promise concerning how we can know God's will and in being in his will directed by him Also, no contentment, no peace, no security. We've talked about how the first word in verse 5 is the key word in fulfilling the conditions. in order to get to that place where we are secure that we are in God's will, being directed basically by Him, not perfectly, not able to say that everything I do every day is God's will at all. But to be able to say that basically I believe that he is directing, channeling, controlling my life. The first word that we saw was so key is that word trust Trust. You remember we saw how that word is a word which means in the original to rely on someone? To find your security in them, to place your confidence in them. And how the Bible tells us that there are three alternatives to finding our security in Jesus Christ. Those three alternatives are things, people, and religion. And last week we talked about the alternative of finding our security in things rather than Jesus. This morning we consider people, as you've heard a number of times now. And then eventually, not until actually after the holidays, believe it, next week begins our holiday series. But after that, we will get back to this and then we will take up the matter of religion as an alternative to security in Jesus. Larry Crabbe, in his excellent book, Inside Out, has said that some of our most disappointing moments of our life, some of our most painful moments Are when we come to honestly face the disappointments in our relationships. When we honestly face The yawning gulf between what we wish our relationships were like and what in fact they are like What we wished that our relationships with our parents could have been, and what in fact it is or was. What we wished that our relationship with our spouse was, what in fact it is, or our children. Or our closest friends. Crab says that when you and I honestly face the pain of the disappointments of those relationships They are among our most agonizing moments that can be overwhelming to us in the pain of the disappointment. And often I believe that that pain is so intense and we become tempted to despair or to depression because we have forgotten this simple phrase in Proverbs 3. 5. Find your security in the Lord. Rely on Him with all your heart. Place your confidence ultimately in Him and not in people. I say not in people because the Bible uses this same word, trust. in a number of places in the Old Testament to warn us against placing our confidence and security and reliance in people. And to contrast that with placing our reliance in the Lord. There are two main categories or classes of people the Bible warns us against trusting or relying on. All other people and ourselves. Everybody else is okay. But everybody else and ourselves are the two kinds of people that you dare not ultimately find your security in. I want to take a look at those two kinds of people. First of all, then, following along in your outline, beware of trusting other people. Do not place your trust, your confidence, your reliance ultimately in other people, the Bible says. There are two kinds of other people that the Bible says that you have to be careful you don't trust ultimately. I'm not saying we don't trust people, I'm saying ultimately to find our security and our reliance in them. The first kind is unbelievers who seem to promise you security. That's the first blank there. Don't trust unbelievers who seem to promise you security. Proverbs 25, 19 uses this same word, and it's translated there in the NIV, reliance. And it talks about the person who places their reliance in someone who proves ultimately unreliable. And it says, when you do that, when you place your reliance in someone who ultimately fails you. The verse says, It's like an aching tooth or a lame foot. Isn't that descriptive? I mean, do you ever have a toothache? You know, the kind that makes you do what you would not do on any other occasion. Sorry, Don, but that's the way it is. Don't a dentist. That's when you go to the guy like that, right? When the agony is so great, you know. Nothing else is gonna drive you to him And the verse says that that is an apt description of when you and I say, I thought that I could trust that person. I placed my confidence in him. I thought he would come through. I thought that I knew him. And in fact he let me down terribly. He was thoughtless, at least, mean, or even stabbed me in the back at worst. I thought that I could trust that person. It's like a lame foot, like a rotten toothache. That's why the Bible says it is when you and I think that we can ultimately trust any other human being who promises us in one way or another security. And we're tempted then to become cynical, aren't we? Never going to trust anybody again. Rather than seeing, in fact, that what God is doing is his weaning us from that false sense of security to in fact rely more on Jesus. The Bible uses a picture in the Old Testament. Make this graphic to us. It's the picture of Egypt. And again and again and again, Israel was warned against trusting Egypt for her security. For instance, in Isaiah 36, Isaiah says, Israel if you lean on, uses the same word, trust in, rely on, Egypt, he says it's like putting your hand on a sharpened bamboo spike. And you sort of try to lean on it, and it goes right through your hand, Isaiah says, and you say, that was a dumb thing to do. And Isaiah says, that's what it's like if you lean on Egypt rather than on the Lord It seems like it's going to hold you up, but in fact it's going to pierce you through. Jeremiah puts it even stronger. He says, if you trust Egypt rather than the Lord, God Himself will turn against you. Because he realizes that you should be trusting him and you've turned away from him to trust someone else, the world's power that seems to provide security. And so God's not going to let that succeed. And Ezekiel gives us a different picture. He says, you trust in Egypt. Now, you remember that at this time in history, Egypt was one of the most powerful nations on earth. And Ezekiel says, God is going to bring Egypt down. He is going to humble Egypt so it will be a weak nation. And you will look back and you'll say, why were we so foolish as to ever trust Egypt? Political events in the Near East to this very day bear out that prophecy, don't they? And yet you and I look in our own situation at work. How often do we trust in an Egypt? Something in the world that seems to promise security, a boss, a corporation, some company. And we think if I can just find my security in that, I'll be set up My life will be secure. I remember back when uh my wife and I were first married and I was working for University Christian Fellowship. The salary was very meager, but not only was the salary meager, it was also unreliable. Oftentimes our paychecks would come one, two, three weeks late. And when you're living kind of hand to mouth, that's kind of difficult to balance a budget and to be able to live that way. Wasn't a whole lot of human security in that situation. Our trust had to be on the Lord in a way that it hasn't quite been since that time. It wasn't a time I would choose to live under again, and yet we learned a lot of God's faithfulness in that time. I remember a fellow that we were working with at that time was a guy that worked in the army, and he had an extremely secure position. It was a position, I remember Kathy saying she was tempted to covet this guy's position because he was so set up. Good position, good salary, early retirement, benefits, the whole business that he had as an officer in the army I remember two months later, after our talking about this, he lost his job. The Army went through some unexpected cutbacks. And he was out. All the preparation, all the things that had been promised him, all came to nothing. And I remember again our seeing that the Lord was our security and not our boss, not our company. And yet, many times as Christians, we're tempted, aren't we, to lower our standards, to compromise some value in order to stay in good with the boss. Perhaps this last week or this last month or sometime recently, you have been tempted to compromise some conviction of yours Tempted to do something that you really knew in your heart you could not be at peace with doing. And if you were honest with yourself, the reason that you were doing it was because you didn't want to risk your boss's disfavor. You didn't want to risk the possibility that you'd be passed over the next time they talked about who was faithful and loyal to the company. And so because of that, you were placing your security in your boss rather than in the Lord. Maybe you didn't see it that way, but that's what I want you to see. Proverbs 3 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And that means you don't go to Egypt, to any other power in this world and say, That's my security. But you say, Ah, the Lord is my security. If Jesus is the one who's going to put the bread on the table, Lord give us our daily bread. And I really believe he does it, then I am very free because I know that ultimately there is only one boss I have to please, and that's Jesus. And I know what he expects of me. And when I please him, that means there will be a number of things that I will do in my loyalty to that company. But it means ultimately he has my allegiance, and I trust him to take us through whatever disfavor we might incur. Not my boss. Not my company, not the U. S. government, not who issues the contracts, not anyone else, but Jesus Christ ultimately But this word is used particularly of princes. We read one of those, and that's the second blank there, in case you missed it. Princes in particular. Princes are warned against. Psalm 146 that we read, just to review what we read together before, in verse 13. He says, excuse me, verse 3, do not put your trust in princes, in mortal men who cannot save. Or Psalm 118, verse 8 and 9. It's better to take refuge, same word, you see, in both these cases, same word used in Proverbs 3. 5, to trust, rely on, place your confidence in It's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man, to find your confidence in man. It's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in, find your reliance on, your security in princes. I think of how many single Christian women that I've counseled who have placed their confidence in some prince. Who have said that uh there's this guy, you know, and uh boy it's awfully tempting to find my security in him. Well he doesn't know the Lord now, but I'm sure he's close I'm sure he's moving in that direction. Or he says he's a Christian, and there's not much evidence that he's a Christian leader, that he has a whole lot of interest in Christian things, but he says he is, and I'm sure that down deep he really believes. And it's so hard to find my security and my confidence in Jesus who I can't see or feel or touch when there's this real prince. Who I can see and feel and touch and I feel so secure when I'm with him How many times single women especially seem to be tempted to compromise their values because of a security that they would find in some prince I think of a woman by the name of Jerry, that's with a G, that Chuck Swindle writes about in his book, Strengthening Your Grip. Talks about Jerry as a Christian woman, young, trusted Jesus Christ, but began to live out of fellowship with Christians and with the Lord. And soon after that. She began at work to pursue a married man. He was unhappily married, so he didn't put up very much resistance. The next thing you knew that Jerry was involved with this fellow. And she was warned by a number of co-workers, particularly a couple of Christians. This was a very foolish thing for her to do. But she found so much security with this man that she couldn't resist. She was disciplined at work. Her lover intervened. By this time, uh he was living with her. He had moved out from his wife. The two were living together So he intervened for her at this disciplined work. In fact, he threatened the life of the foreman over the matter. As a result, he was fired When his divorce was final, the two of them married, Jerry and this man. She dismissed his violent threats toward the foreman as all talk. and is having beaten his former wife as the result of extreme provocation, of course. The husband's two children came to live with them. The elder of those two children was only eight years younger than Jerry herself. Children lacked discipline, asked hard questions about their father and Jerry's relationship. At this point, Jerry confided with this Christian who's telling this person telling it to Chuck Swindle confided that she knew that she had done wrong, and she had now repented. Interestingly, she was surprised that the repercussions of her sin continued even after her repentance. What does God want? I said, I'm sorry. Why am I continuing to suffer for this? Within a few months, this marriage had disintegrated into a bitter feud, each returning hurt for hurt. Jerry filed for divorce, moved back home. Last Tuesday morning, as she was leaving for home after her graveyard shift, she told a fellow worker, I finally got it together now. When my divorce is final, I'm going to marry this really neat guy. That was yesterday. Yesterday Jerry was happy. Today, Jerry is dead. Shot by her estranged husband, who then turned the gun on himself. Maybe a rather dramatic illustration, more than most of us will see, of the folly of placing our security. in some prince who promises that security. But throughout this story, the theme comes again and again, I can't give him up Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and He will lead you into a straight and pleasant path. How many times I have seen single women who have said, I refuse to find my security in a man, and how the Lord has honored again and again that trust. Person that uh many of you know is Beth Branham. Now Beth came to our church As an unbeliever who was divorced recently, got involved in our singles group, and came to know Jesus Christ as her personal Savior and Lord. She was cleansed, forgiven, given a new life by Jesus. And Beth really wanted to know what it means to trust the Lord with all your heart, to not lean on your own understanding. As she grew within our singles fellowship and came into some leadership within that. She had relationships with a number of men, but Jesus Christ was the center of those relationships. In some cases, there were men who were not Christians that wanted to pursue her. She always put that aside, saying, I will not get entangled in that kind of a situation. Jesus Christ is the center of my life. A couple of years ago Beth moved out to California. We have kept in touch. She's told me about all the different guys that she's had relationships with there, some kind of dating or friendships or whatever. We sort of evaluate them together, you know, and we've talked about these different situations. And uh just a couple of weeks ago, I got this note from her. She says after some of the preliminaries, I have grown to love, yes, have fallen in love with a guy that goes to my church. He's been a good friend of mine for one and a half years He's so special. He was a youth pastor for two and a half years, but recently has resigned with the desires to move on, possibly seminary at Trinity in Chicago, possibly. Alan is like God made him just for me and me for him. It's incredible. We have vowed to concentrate our friendship on our friendship and have Christ as the center of our relationship And we are doing it. It is wonderful. So many times relationships fall into those fail in those two areas. And so far we are succeeding at it and have been so blessed. It is the neatest, most wonderful, and healthiest relationship I have ever had. His name is, and she tells about him, and then she says, we both agreed Even if things do not work out, we have seen the fruits of a God-centered relationship and could never expect anything less. My spiritual life is great, and I'm very involved in the singles group here in other areas of the church. You believe that he can do that for you? Whether you're a single woman here or a single guy, or whether you're a person who's in Some other kind of relationship that says I have got to trust the Lord when I'm tempted to find my security in some person. I will not reduce my loyalty to Jesus Christ for anyone. He is able to direct me into straight and pleasant paths. Beth is a testimony to that. And you can be too, if you trust Jesus with all your heart. There's another kind of person that this verse warns us against trusting, and that's people that are even closest to yourself. And so that's the next blank. Even those closest to you. Jeremiah 9:4 says, beware of even your friends. Don't even trust or rely in your brothers. Because chapter 17 verse 5 tells us that cursed is the one who trusts in man. Same words, Proverbs 3, the one who relies on, finds their security in man. who depends on flesh for his strength, and whose heart turns away from the Lord. But contrast that with verse seven. But blessed is the man who trusts, relies on, finds his security in the Lord, and whose confidence is in him. Why? And because it goes on to say that even our own hearts are deceitful and wicked, we can't know them. Psalm 41 David writes about a time that he trusted in a close friend. David says, that friend betrayed me. Most painful time of David's life. His own son, Absalom, had turned against him, led a rebellion against David and his his regime. Absalom had driven David from the throne and was after his life. But beyond that, David's closest friend, Ahithophel, a counselor who he relied on daily for his loyalty. Abandoned David and went on Absalom's side. David says, Oh, how foolish. My friend whom I trusted And then he turns to the Lord and he says, Only you, O Lord, can I trust. Not even those That seem to be close to us. Not that we should be cynical, not that we should say that you can't really trust anyone. But you know what I mean. There's a difference between trusting someone And giving your loyalty and your security completely into their hands. The latter will always be disappointed. Because Jesus alone never fails us. And you and I can dare never place our security in another person. In fact, Micah says, don't even trust your own spouse. Don't even trust the person you're married to. Because Micah says even that person is ultimately going to let you down. Jesus, you remember, John 2 tells us, did not trust himself to man because he knew what was in man. And when that time of ultimate testing came, you remember how all of his disciples, who he had invested in three years, left him. One of them betrayed him. Don't look at Judas as an outsider. He was a close friend, a disciple of Jesus. He betrayed him. And even Peter disowned him three times. And so Jesus knows what it's like to find his security not in people, but only in his Father. But Jesus gives himself totally to us. That we can always find our security in him. Trust in the Lord, the Lord Jesus, with all of your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. But in all your ways acknowledge him, and ye will. Direct you into a straight and pleasant path. He will not fail you. Finally, the Bible says: don't even trust yourself Don't even trust yourself. And there are four specific ways the Bible tells us that we cannot trust ourselves. First of all, it says, don't even trust your strength. Don't trust your strength. Isaiah 30, interesting chapter, you might want to read it later on. Isaiah 30 uses this word to contrast trusting our own strength with the real security that comes through quietness and rest in Jesus. You know what I believe is for us the real test of whether we're trusting our strength or whether we're trusting Jesus? I believe the test is whether you and I can take a Sabbath rest. The Sabbath rest is a statement of faith that I can trust Jesus and I don't have to be busy seven days a week. I don't have to keep relying on my strength and my energy to get things done. But I can take as a statement of faith that I can rest one day in seven. And the kingdom will go on. And Jesus will still be in control, and he wants me to rest, knowing that my reliance is on him, not on my strength or my energy. If you don't take a day and seven to rest in Jesus, then I wonder if you're really relying on him or whether you're relying on your own strength to get you through. The second thing that he says is that don't trust in your own looks. Don't even trust in your own looks. Dan will get any looks to trust in. Think of Ezekiel chapter 16. Ezekiel there, the Lord says He gave to her a great beauty, talking about the Lord with Israel. And he said, but instead of glorifying me with your beauty You trusted in that beauty to get what you wanted. Same word used in Proverbs 3. 5. You relied on that beauty. You found your security in your looks. To get what you wanted. Began when you were a little girl and used to flirt your way out of spankings. And now you continue to use your looks as a way to get what you want. You rely on them. And if you're like many of us and you say, but I don't got any looks to rely on and that, what happens? You feel very insecure, don't you? You're insecure because you say my looks aren't up to par. My looks aren't good enough to get me what I want in this life And so we develop very critical self-images. We can't rejoice in how God made us and we feel very insecure about our looks. Why? Because our security is in our looks rather than Jesus. Say, well, that's the way he made me, and I'll do the best with what I got. But my reliance is on him, not what I can get through my looks. Third area that he talks about, he says, don't even trust your mind. Don't trust your own mind. Remember, trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding. Don't trust your own mind. Chapter 28, verse 26 puts it this way. He says, He who trusts himself Excuse me, whoops, wrong spot. He who trusts in himself is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom is kept safe. You see, trusting in yourself, your own understanding, contrasted with trusting in God's wisdom, how you and I rationalize what I want or think is best. With what God says is the way that I need to live. Trust Him, His wisdom, His direction. Finally, the Bible says, do not even trust your own goodness. Fourth thing. Do not even trust your own goodness. Ezekiel 33, verse 12. God talks there about a person who thinks that their good will outweigh their bad when they ultimately come before the Lord. And they trust in their goodness. But Isaiah 64, verse 6 tells us that our goodness, our righteousness, is even like filthy rags It'll get us nothing before a holy and absolutely righteous God. You and I have got to be more realistic about ourselves We've got to be more realistic about our flesh and our hearts and our what our human nature is really like. We have got to begin to take seriously what Paul said in Romans 7. 18 when he said, I know that in my flesh there dwells no good. thing. We don't believe that, do we? We think there's a little bit of good there. Yeah, some good, you know, some of it's sort of rotten, but you know, it's sort of like I got this two parts, you know, a little bit good, a little You know, and we don't realize that as Christians, the only thing good about us is the Holy Spirit's transformation in us. In our flesh, there is nothing good to work with. And so the only thing that we trust is in that righteousness of Jesus, which we receive undeservedly as a gift from Him. And trust his work in us to produce anything that's good and pleasing to the Lord. But that's our trust And when you begin to be realistic about yourself, it sets you free from being disappointed in what your heart is really like and being continually surprised about how rotten you are. You know, sometimes I think that the reason that I enjoy such a good uh relationship that I feel I have with you as a congregation over the past ten years, when the average pastor moves on two, three years, you know, after a little bit of time. is because I realize to some extent how rotten I am and I don't have so many illusions about what I can do for you And I think probably you've gained some of that, and uh you don't have so many illusions about what I can do for you either. Because there's a mutual understanding of how rotten and limited I am. And we all need to have something of that. That we might be freed up to be secure in Jesus and not always disappointed in why did I fail again? Of course I will fail again I think Mark Hartz will put it really well. He wrote in a recent letter he wrote to me about some sin he was struggling with, and he says, but you know, he says, I've learned now to not be so surprised. at my own failures, as I am surprised in God's grace that He enables me to do anything. And that's the way we need to be, relying on the Lord to find that Jesus Becomes then your strength. Psalm 28, 7 and 8. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him and I am help. Same word. The Lord then becomes your beauty. You see that Psalm 27 says, I gaze upon his beauty, and that becomes the focus of my attention, not my own looks. The Lord then becomes your wisdom. 1 Corinthians 3. 30. Christ is our wisdom. He becomes your righteousness. The same verse. Christ is our wisdom and he's our righteousness. And I receive that passively, and I rest in it, I rely in it, I trust in him, I'm secure in him. And Psalm 13, 5 says. I trust in, same word, Proverbs 3-5. I trust in, I rely on, I place my confidence in your unfailing love, Lord Jesus. And my heart rejoices in your salvation. Turn from others, yourself, in your security to Jesus Find that when someone lets you down or you let yourself down, rather than making you cynical, you say, Thank you, Lord, for weaning me from that security, that I might realize once again only you. Will never fail me. Perhaps you've seen those old plaques around used to say, Jesus never fails. The only thing I would add to that is that we remember that it's only Jesus That never fails. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Some of us are really disappointed and we're tempted to be cynical this morning Because we've placed our reliance, our confidence, our security in some other human being. And they've let us down terribly. My Lord, your word tells us we should not be surprised. Cursed is the man who trusts in man, but blessed is the one who trusts in you. Lord, we pray that this morning you would help us to see Jesus again and how He is the one who died for us to give us security in Himself. The security of a righteousness received by grace, being our strength, our beauty, our wisdom. Lord, turn us away even from our self-confidence, that we might rely on Jesus anew. And that this week you might free us up to believe that you are on our side, and that you want to direct us into straight and pleasant paths, as we trust you. With all of our hearts in Jesus' name