Well Dick, I did see one person this morning that uh one pair who had come an hour early sitting in the parking lot. Won't say who they are. But they forgot to set their clocks back ahead last spring too. Came an hour late so they made up for it, you know I uh you might notice my my throat doesn't sound uh any better than last week. In fact it's worse I was on uh antibiotic last week for another kind of infection. Turned out that was just suppressing a strep throat. Finished the antibiotic Thursday. In Triadia came back in full flower, but I'm not back on an antibiotic again, so now I got it in all its full force. Therefore, I would suggest to you that that fine old custom of shaking the pastor's hand at the end of the service this morning, you might want to just wave at me and say, Hi. Try not to breathe too hard in the first row here at you, Gary, but uh I I pick up my um antibiotic uh on the way home this afternoon, so I'm not even on anything yet. I hope I'll be able to get through this without dying out into nothing But it will once again not be a rousing pulpit pounding kind of uh delivery. Last week we looked at uh God's promise For his will and his path for us from Proverbs chapter 3 in verse 6. We saw at that time, God says, He will make your paths straight. And three things we saw about that path, you remember, were that first of all, that it is a straight path. It is a way of holiness. It's a way that follows neither to the right or to the left, but according to the rule of Scripture. In every item. Secondly, we saw that it is not a lonely path. The Lord Himself takes us by the hand, and as a shepherd, He leads us, He directs us, He channels us. in that path of his choosing. And then thirdly, we saw that it's a pleasant path. That it's a path that if we were to be able to look back on that compared to any other paths that we could go in. We would always be able to say, Lord, that's the path that I would have chosen, the one you chose for me, the way you led me, the way you directed me. As verse 17 here says in Proverbs 3 Her ways are pleasant ways, and all her paths are peace. Not easy, but peace. But how do you know that you're on this path? How do you know that you're in the will of God, that you can claim this promise? Well, maybe you feel this morning that in contrast to a smooth, straight, pleasant path, that your way is headed toward a dead end full of rocks and potholes. And you say, how is it that I can claim that? What does it mean, these Christians that seem to claim that they know they're in the will of God? You ever heard somebody ask you that when you're having some trouble? Do you know that you're in the will of God? It's always sort of disturbed me because I don't think the will of God is that simple. I don't think it's an either-or. Either you are in the will of God or you are not in the will of God. I think it's much more complex than that. God is always interacting with us in how much we want his will, and so he's always more or less directing us according to our own desires and how much we're submitted to him. But having said that This promise has three conditions that enable us to know whether in fact we can claim the promise given to us in verse 6. It's preceded by three lines. And each of those lines is a condition. So let's read them from God's Word. This is His promise. These are His conditions. His own reputation and faithfulness is at stake in fulfilling this. So give attention to it. Solomon says, trust in the Lord with all of your heart. That's number one. Lean not to your own understanding, number two. And then number three, in all your ways acknowledge him. And then the promise, he will make your paths straight. And so you see, the question for how do you know the will of God is really not so much how do you know the will of God, but how can you be in the will of God Because one of the things that this passage is trying to teach us, I believe, is that you can't separate knowing the will of God from being in the will of God. The will of God is not something that is revealed to us. It doesn't say in verse 6, do all these things, and then he will reveal his path to you so that you can decide whether you want to choose it. But rather, fulfilling those three conditions is choosing his will. And then you will find yourself in that will. You cannot separate the knowing from the following. And so the question for us is simply, how can I then know whether I can claim this verse that He will direct me in the way of His choosing? It was very simple, you see, because even though these verses don't teach us everything about how to know the will of God or being in the will of God, they do give us three very simple questions that we can ask ourselves Number one, are you trusting in the Lord with all your heart in your daily living? Number two, are you consciously turning from your own understanding in how to lead your life? And turning toward the Lord's direction revealed to you in his word. Are you consciously turning from your own understanding to follow him? And then number three, Are you in all of your ways, in the various things in your life, various areas of your life, are you acknowledging Jesus as Lord of those areas? Well of course not. You're not doing that. Don't kid me. You know, yeah, well, you know, I think No you're not. I'm not either None of us are doing those three things in anything like perfect, consistent ways. But if you are a Christian, a follower of Jesus Christ. You are wanting to know more about that. You are wanting to know a bit more about trusting with all your heart, don't you? You want to know More of what it means to not lean on your own understanding. You want to know more of what it means to acknowledge him in every area of your life as Lord. And as you and I learn to grow in that, we then gradually learn more of what it means to be channeled into those straight, pleasant paths with a conscious sense that Jesus is with us. That's what I want to talk about this morning then. I want to talk about those three conditions so that you and I might learn to grow in them more, not perfectly. That's why we trust Jesus and His righteousness. We're not perfect. But to learn more about it so that we can be able to claim this promise with greater confidence. First of all, then what I've done is I have reduced these three conditions to three phrases. The first phrase is to cultivate Christ's confidence. To cultivate Christ's confidence. Beginning of verse 5. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. You notice it's to cultivate Christ's confidence in every area of your life, in all your ways, with all your heart. This is the opposite of the man that James told us about in chapter one, verses six to eight. Remember the fellow that's double-minded, who's like a wind, who's tossed about by every wind and wave. And who is two-souled, double-minded, two-hearted, you see. He is unstable. This person is trusting the Lord with all his heart. In contrast to the person whose heart on the one hand seems to follow the Lord, but on the other hand, he's always got one foot in the world and his own resources to be able to know what else he can do if the Lord doesn't come through. He's like the person that James talked about in chapter four, you remember, who flirts with the world even though he is engaged to his bridegroom, King Jesus. He's the person, therefore, that James tells us in chapter 4, verse 8, purify your hands, you double-minded, unstable, wavering, never really sure you can trust the Lord with all your heart. You trust him. But you've always got to have plan B in the back of your pocket in case Jesus doesn't come through the way that you hope he might. And you're so quick to jump at plan B You and I are like Saul, aren't we, so many times. Do you remember in 1 Samuel chapter 13, we read the story of how Saul was to lead Israel out against the Philistine army? And the odds were overwhelming. The Philistines had them vastly outnumbered. The Israelites didn't have weapons. The Philistines had state-of-art technology and warfare. And Saul was given one command by the Lord to test whether he would trust him with all his heart. Samuel said, Saul wait here seven days. And after seven days, by that time, I will come, and I will offer sacrifices to the Lord, and then you will lead Israel into battle. Do you remember how Saul waited five days, six days? The seventh day comes, and Samuel's still nowhere in sight. The Bible tells us that the mighty soldiers of Israel's army were quaking with fear. They saw the Philistines about to attack, and they began to desert, they began to run away. And Saul's already started with a pretty small force. And even that force is abandoning him now, and he sees his soldiers dwindling down to nothing. And finally, as the afternoon comes on late, he says, I can't wait any longer Give me a sacrifice, anything, I will do it. And so rather than offering a sacrifice of faith to the Lord in worship, he offers a superstitious ritual. How often do you or do I substitute superstition for faith in our Christian lives, don't we? We don't trust the Lord with all our hearts. But we want to do something religious. And so we do some thin veneer of religious activity and ask God to bless it, and then we go in our own resources. We work out our own plans, the thing that we're going to trust in. But we do it superstitiously, hoping that we can justify that it wasn't really turning away from the Lord. And after Saul has just finished offering that offering, Samuel comes on the scene. Do you remember how he confronted Saul and he said, Saul, you have acted foolishly. Why couldn't you wait? Why couldn't you trust the Lord with all of your heart? So Saul Rather than God channeling you into his pleasant straight paths, you're gonna go down a rough road. It's gonna get rougher and rougher until finally it leads you to disaster. Saul loses his faith and he turns utterly against the Lord in the end. You and I have to decide this week, little ways. that you will be deciding whether you're going to follow the Lord or whether you're not. In contrast to that s example of Saul, a negative example, take a look this afternoon at a positive example I've listed there in Second Kings eighteen and nineteen. Positive example of Hezekiah, and that same word trust that's used here in Proverbs 3:5 is used for Hezekiah, as he also faced overwhelming odds of the Assyrian army. But how Hezekiah in fact did trust the Lord with all his heart, and how God brought out of an equally impossible situation utter victory. Because of a man who trusted him with all his heart. There's no limit to what God can do. For those who trust him holy, for they who trust him holy find him wholly true. My question to you is to myself this morning is what or who do you first turn to when you're scared or insecure? I plead with us to be very honest about that question, because only in being honest about that question can we begin to grow In facing what it is that we substitute for our trust in Jesus and how then we can learn to trust Him more with all our hearts rather than that thing or person that we substitute for Him. That plan B that you always tend to rely on. What is it in your case? That you substitute for the Lord Jesus when you're scared, when you're insecure. This next week There will be little tests, little opportunities for you tomorrow morning, this afternoon To trust the Lord. They won't be very obvious. They won't come down from heaven written on it, exam, to see if you trust me with all your heart. They'll be just subtle things And you'll know, well Nort, I could do it this way, and I'd feel better about this because I'm more secure in it. Or this way may involve my stepping out on a limb a little bit more. And Lord, I sense in me that that would be the way of faith, but I can easily rationalize and justify this way as being okay. And in doing that, you will determine whether you are growing in trusting the Lord Jesus with all your heart or with just part of it. National Geographic recently ran a article on the bull moose. They talked about how in the fall the bull moose comes uh to their giant um clashes and combats for you know which bulls get all the calves and all that ki I mean uh get all the uh you know the women, the cows. Uh you know, and that's all determined by cow moose. That's what they call them. What else they call moosees, you know, I don't know. Anyway, these you know the the moose come clashing together and they break their antlers and the one who's the heftiest who's going to come out the winner The article pointed out that the battle really isn't won in the fall in those contests. The battle is won in the summer. When the moose decides whether he's going to give himself to a good diet, whether he's going to build himself up in his muscles and in his antlers and in his sheer bulk. Because the moose that doesn't eat the diet that's going to build him is going to be the moose that's going to lose in the fall, but he won't know it until the fall. This week you're going to have opportunities, little things, little choices. We trust the Lord. And those little choices are what prepare us so that when we come to the big decisions in our life, then we can know, Lord, I can trust you. I don't know where to go in this. But I can trust that because I've tried to learn what's pleasing to you and follow your way, that you will direct and channel me into your straight and pleasant paths. The second condition is given to us here is to repent self-confidence. To repent self-confidence. The end of verse 5. Lean not on your own understanding. Again, it's something that deals with all of our life. Lean not on your own understanding in any area. And I believe that there are at least two ways in general that you can look at to see how we tend to lean on our own understanding as opposed to leaning on the Lord and his wisdom. The first is in mistaking my thoughts for God. Mistaking my thoughts for God's. This is the whole area of the leading of God, God's leading in my life And I think today in the church we see a case of classic irony. Boy, if you wanted to ever define the word irony, you could do it through the illustration that I'm about to give. There's a lot of teaching in the church today that says, concerning verse 5, lean not on your own understanding means don't use your own mind. In rational understanding of scriptures to find out the way that you should go. But leaning not on your own understanding means to simply let the spontaneous thoughts of the Spirit in what you feel is God's leading direct your course. Because that's in contrast to your own understanding the leading of the Holy Spirit. Do you think I'm making this up? Here's a national publication. There's an article on this in this uh publication called How I Learned to Hear God's Voice. Let me quote some part of this article and what this fellow says is the way to find guidance in your life. He says, finally, during a year of searching and studying, the Spirit brought revelation truth to my heart. He showed me that God's voice is sensed as a spontaneous idea appearing in my mind. The keyword is spontaneous. He has that in italics. The voice of God I've discovered is spirit-to-spirit communication. That is, the Holy Spirit speaking directly to my Spirit. It is sensed as a spontaneous thought, idea, word, feeling, or vision. Thoughts from my mind, on the other hand, are analytical and cognitive. I reason them out. Thoughts from my heart are spontaneous It's an intuitive process. So he sums it all up by saying, When I am listening for the Lord's voice, I am listening for spontaneous thoughts that simply pop into my mind. Well you see, I think that's a classic example of irony because I think that is precisely what Solomon is saying here not to do. That is leaning on my understanding. That is leaning on what comes into my mind Verse 7 goes right on to say, don't be wise in your own eyes. Or as he goes on to say in chapter 28, in verse 26, He who trusts in himself, same word, trust, he who trusts in himself is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom Is kept safe. You see, the contrast there is trusting myself, my own thoughts, my own understanding, with the wisdom that is revealed in the scripture. The wisdom is a technical term. It's not just doing something that makes sense. It's going God's way. Wisdom is personified in this book. Listen to me. Hear me Follow my judgments, my counsel, and either we follow this, this word, as the Spirit applies it to us by insight and understanding. Or we listen to our own understanding, our own thoughts, our own words. That's what Solomon's counseling us against. And so don't just go by your feelings and common sense to say this is where the Lord would lead me and direct me. I did this because I felt that it was right. Sometimes we don't have much more than a hunch, but it should be a sanctified hunch directed by the Word of God. The second way, this is very closely related to that, we follow our own way, rather than the Lord's, is trusting my ways. Instead of God's ways. Trusting my own ways over the Lord's. Lean not to your own understanding. Means that I need to be careful that I don't fear that God's sovereign goodness is not going to be good enough. That I really can't trust him in all my ways. You see, verse 5, the beginning is simply the positive, and the second part of it is simply the negative. Trust in the Lord with all your heart The negative, don't lean on your own understanding, your own schemes, your own agenda. As Jack Miller has said, anxiety reveals our self-centeredness. The key to the fact that you and I are leaning on our own understanding is the feeling of anxiety, isn't it? The feeling, excuse me, that I've got to fight for my own agenda. I am going to advance my career. I am going to get the kind of house and the lifestyle that I have set as my goal, and that is my agenda. And if God wants to bless it, I hope He will. And I will make room for him to serve him. Around the corners and the edges of that, but my agenda is what determines my priorities. That leads to anxiety. That's according to my own understanding. Or it may be fighting for my desires. It's okay to go to bed with that special person, even though we're not married, because we're committed to each other in our heart. That's according to my own understanding, because God specifically speaks to that And says that that is wrong. But I go by my own understanding and I rationalize what I think is okay with God. Or perhaps it's fighting for my own reputation, competing, comparing myself constantly with other people Always trying to look good, to present my image, so that you will think well of me, so that you will respect me, always fearing That you won't respect me, that you won't think well enough of me, desperately fearing your criticism, that I'll crumble under it. Because if in fact you criticize me and show me where I'm wrong or that I'm inadequate, I have nothing left to help me to be able to feel secure. Leaning on my own understanding in that. Fighting for my schemes for success or my crutches for security or my defenses for my own self-protection. I remember this summer when we were at Cape Cod, coming toward the end of that time. You know, I was out on a uh it was behind some sand dunes, a little swamp, Marconi area. and there's no phone there, you know. Nobody can get ya. I mean, you know, you just totally alone. You just have this time to think, to relax, no demands. Anything that you want to do, just our family enjoying one another, those precious days together. And I began to think about going home. I began to notice I was getting anxious about going home. Hey, you know, this time's supposed to refresh me and get me ready to go back. I was dreading going back. Hey, wait a minute here. You know you're supposed to love us. Hey, I was feeling anxious. I was dreading going home, dreading going back to Colombia. Why? Because I began to dread the guilt of phone calls that weren't completed. When any given day it's an axiom that there are three to five more phone calls to make than you should have made in my job. Began to dread the tension between the community and the body's needs and the needs of my own family. Translated when I'm not walking in the Spirit as church demands and family demands, dreading that tension and how to juggle it. I was dreading the fear of my own reputation. Fear for a lack of time. to spend for poor me, because I'll be swallowed up by other people's requirements. Dreading the lack of power in my ministry, that I will just do a lot, but I won't see lives changed. And I won't really see any power of the gospel or of Jesus Christ. Dreading the burden of thinking that We have three kids who are preparing for college and one that's beginning next year. How am I going to finance that? How am I going to be able to work all of that out And feeling more and more like an abandoned orphan than one who is able to trust in the resources of my father, looking for all my plan B's, you see, looking to my own understanding The Lord got a hold of me and showed me how foolish and how unbelieving I was. And then he reminded me of Jesus in Gethsemane. Do you remember the heart of what Jesus taught his disciples to pray was not my will, but yours be done. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding. It's another way of putting it. Do you remember that time when Jesus came to Gethsemane? And in Gethsemane, Jesus was tested to the ultimate with whether he would in fact follow Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, or whether he wouldn't. Because Jesus as a man dreaded death. And he was looking ahead to death on a cross. Who wouldn't feel anxious about that? Who wouldn't feel the horror of that? But the test comes to Jesus. Will you trust the Father with all of your heart and not lean on your own understanding? But in all your ways acknowledge him. Do you remember how Jesus wrestled, the very Son of God wrestled? Without in Gethsemane. And he specifically and explicitly renounced his own understanding. And he said, Oh Lord, my Father, if it be possible, by my understanding could this cup pass. But no, Lord. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. And he trusted the Lord with all his heart. And he committed his way to him on a way that led even to crucifixion and death. But what did God do in that? I think the lesson for you and for me with regard to these verses is that the very thing that Jesus longed for The very thing that he dreaded would not happen, that he would have life instead of death. The father answered, not simply by extending his life a few months or years. But by taking him through that death to a new life, a resurrected life of a new glorified body. In which he would never die, and not only would he never die, but he would gather with him many sons in his train He would have a whole kingdom of people, you and me, who are brought and purchased by his death and by his resurrection, so that he would establish an entire kingdom because he was willing to trust the Lord with all his heart. and follow the plan that the Father had for him. So God vindicated himself. He gave Jesus more than you or I could have ever guessed would have been possible if we had been standing with him at Gethsemane. And what is it that Jesus wants to do in your life? Who he's died for? Because he loves. If you're willing to trust him with all of your heart, And not lean on your own understanding and schemes and fears and anxieties, your own agenda, your own plans B. So that you might see him work out his way and channel you into his pleasant path as you follow neither to the right nor to the left what the scripture says day by day. The last condition, of course, is to trust him, then, by acknowledging him in all your ways. And I say that is cultivating Christ's control. Cultivate Christ's control. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And again, it's in every area of your life, in all your ways. Literally, the Hebrew here means to know him intimately in all of your ways. The word there to acknowledge is the word know, which is used of sexual intercourse in the Old Testament. It means to know someone very intimately. To want to know Jesus intimately in all the things that you do by acknowledging his control of that area. To say, Lord, in this area and that area, I want to know you. I want to know what your control is like in that area. I wonder if in writing this Solomon's mind and thoughts weren't going back to a scene several years earlier in his own life. When his old father David stood Solomon before the entire congregation of Israel, David, as an old man, stood Solomon, a very young man at that point up. And he charged him in 2nd 1 Chronicles chapter 8. David said to Solomon, so now I charge you, Solomon. In the sight of all Israel, and of the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God, be careful to follow all the commands of the Lord your God. That you may possess this good land and pass it on as an inheritance to your descendants forever. And you, my son Solomon, acknowledge the God of your father. Serve him with wholehearted devotion and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches every heart. And understands every motive behind the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found of you. Solomon thinks back on that day, and he writes the same word here in Proverbs 3:5-6, Acknowledge Him. In all your ways. Did you pick it up in David's charge? Acknowledge the God of your father with wholehearted devotion in every area. Perhaps Solomon thought back to his own desires that day, in which he said, I commit myself to follow the Lord my God in every area. And he looks back and he sees how he's failed again and again, and how he depends upon the grace of God to cover that failing. Perhaps there's been a time years ago in your own life when you committed your life to Jesus Christ. And you said at that point, Lord, I want to acknowledge you in all my ways. Or perhaps it was some meeting when you were especially moved by the Spirit. You dedicated your life to Jesus Christ. You perhaps put up your hand or you went forward or you did something. But in doing that, you were saying, I want to acknowledge you as Lord of every area of my life. What's happened to that resolution? What's happened to that commitment? We look back those things we intended to be and then survey our lives as they are. It is very humbling, isn't it? It thrusts us upon the grace of Jesus Christ. To know that he will cover that, that you have passively his righteousness, no matter how much you fail in that But he's still wanting to train you. And Solomon goes on here and he begins to spell out the specifics in the rest of this chapter and the rest of the book About the ways, the areas of our life that we acknowledge him. He talks in verses 9 and 10 about acknowledging him as Lord of our money and our finances. He goes on after that in verses 11, 12, and 25 and 26 to talk about acknowledging him in adversity. He talks in verses 27 and 28 about acknowledging him when you're called to do kindness and it's not very convenient, like Kevin and Bev last night. He calls upon us in verses 30 and 31, excuse me, 29 and 30, to put away all meanness. Toward other people. Or in verses 31 and 32, to not envy the wicked who have more than we do. Talking about the various areas of our life: money, priorities, relationships. Daily tasks. Billy Graham Crusade some years ago made available a little plaque that you could get and you'd hang it over your kitchen sink. And it simply said, Divine services conducted here three times daily. The message of that little plaque was simply for those that do the dishes and clean up the kitchen, acknowledge him in all your ways. He's Lord of the dishes. He's Lord of the diapers. He's Lord of the recreation as well as the daily tasks. He's Lord of every area of your life. And the more you and I learn to submit those areas to him, The more, as Ephesians 5 says, we learn what is pleasing to the Lord, and by doing that we learn to make the most of every opportunity, and to be in his channeled pleasant path. His will, as Romans 12 says it, his good and perfect and acceptable will for our lives. That's the only way you can be in God's will. The only way you can know it is to decide beforehand that you're going to follow it. And by deciding that you will know of it just as much as you want to know. No more and no less. But he stands available to you this morning to reveal to you as much as you care to know. By trusting him this week in one more area than you have last week. By deciding this week To put away plan D in one more area and not lean on your own understanding, but go to the scriptures for your direction and determine to follow it and to acknowledge Him in every area. You and I cannot do this of our own. Only the Holy Spirit can enable us to want to follow Him this radically. And that's why we pray, even as Jesus taught us to pray, Thy will be done. In my life, even as it is in heaven. Let's pray Lord our God, we want to have you search and examine our hearts. We want for you to reveal to us those ways that we're not trusting you. Show us, Lord. Lord, give us grace to want To trust you more this week with all of our hearts, to not compromise that trust. Lord, we want to learn more this week of what it means to not lean on our own understanding, but to let you direct us. Lord, I thank you for dealing with my anxiety this summer so that I was able to look forward to coming back because Of trusting you and not my own reputation and my own resources. But Lord, I'm still learning so much more about that. I fail again and again. Help me not to lean to my own understanding. Help us all who desire and long for that right now. And Lord, we pray that you will show us those areas that we're withholding from acknowledging you. We really don't want to know you intimately. In the videos that we watch, in the recreations that we choose, in the various daily tasks that we're involved in Lord, help us to see that that very shutting of you out brings us into a rocky and stony path that you have no desire for us to walk. But that your desire is to channel us into your smooth and pleasant path. Help us to trust you, to believe you. To be able to know that you are our Father who is in heaven, that your name is hallowed, and that your kingdom will come, and that your will will be done, and so we pray that it will be done in us. A bit more completely this week, even as it is in heaven. Amen