Four weeks, which we're going to this month, look at God's global purpose and your place. In his purpose of evangelizing and bringing people to Jesus Christ, to see the bigger picture of what God's doing. Let's face it, I'm fighting uphill on this. You thought I had a tough time with baptism Imagine getting a bunch of people in Colombia with all the pressures and stresses that you have and saying, I want you to get outside of your own world of interests and concerns. And begin to think about what God is doing through the world and your place in that. I want every one of you to be involved in missions. Now that's fighting uphill to get your attention for something like that. With all that you're doing, with all that you're preoccupied with now. But I believe that every follower of Jesus Christ has got to be concerned for his priorities. When you follow Jesus, you adopt his concerns and his priorities to be yours. And he's made it very clear that the Great Commission is at the center of his concern. And so it's got to be at the center of the concern of his followers. And I pray that every one of you would be his followers. That there wouldn't be one of you here for whom one more day would have you separated from Christ if he were to come then, for whom one more day, if you were to die, would find you without Christ. But you'd all be followers of my Jesus. And being followers of him, that you would adopt his priorities. Now, the typical approach or strategy of a missions conference is to do that by guilt. You know how it goes. Hordes are perishing without the gospel and without Christ. Don't you care? You sort of squirm a little bit, you know, and you say, Well, yeah, I really don't but I guess I oughta feel guilty about that and so you know, you try to block out the guilt and try to get something of it and maybe be open to a little bit of what God's going to say and sort of thinking like, well, you know, I don't want to just miss the next four weeks, but how do I sort of slide through this without too much guilt or too much change? Well, I'd like to suggest, you've heard me say many times, that the primary motivation of the gospel is by grace rather than by guilt. And so what I would like to do is to show how Jesus gives to us three incentives. He does it in one particular occasion. In his interaction with the fellow that we call the rich young ruler, today we'd call him the rich yuppie, and how Jesus, in his interaction with the rich yuppie of Mark chapter 10, gives three incentives for you to be involved in missions. A heart interest involvement in that. Whatever your place in it that every one of you would be world conscious as God's people. Now I'm going to do this by giving you the first two incentives this morning. And then we'll have two missionary speakers for the next two weeks. You'll see this in the mission's brochure. And then on March 25th, the last Sunday of the month, I'm going to wrap it up by giving you the third incentive. So you've got to wait for that one. But then let's take a look, first of all, at the scripture to understand in this passage and see as you look at this, if it's if it's obvious to you what are three incentives. For being involved in God's global purpose of building his church. Mark chapter 10. Let's pay attention. It's God's word. Let's hear it carefully as I read it. Beginning with verse 17. As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. Good teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Why do you call me good? Jesus answered. No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. Teacher, he declared, all these I've kept since I was a boy. Jesus looked at him and loved him One thing you lack, he said. Go. Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and then you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me. At this the man's face fell. He went away sad, because he had great wealth. Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said again, Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. The disciples were even more amazed and said to each other, Who then can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said. With man, this is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God Peter said to him, We've left everything to follow you. I tell you the truth, Jesus replied No one who has left home or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me in the gospel will fail to receive a hundred times, as much in this present age, homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, and fields. And with them persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. This is God's word. May He give us understanding to hear and to apply it. The first incentive that Jesus gives us here, then, is that following Jesus means number one. Letting him set my agenda. By the way, the first blank there was that he gives us three incentives for developing an active interest in missions and making it your delight. To make it your delight. Not just a burden, but a delight And the first point is that following him means letting him set my agenda. You see that in verses 17 to 22. See, I think that we come as Christians to Jesus generally and say, You are my Lord. I want you to lead my life. But you understand, Lord, that that's within certain boundaries, with certain conditions that I've placed on that. We come with our agenda, our givens. We set the agenda. The agenda sets what is allowed to be discussed. And we give Jesus an agenda. He doesn't set the agenda. We do. What do I mean by that? Well, generally, we decide our career. Well, this is what I like to do, it's what I enjoy doing, just makes sense. We decide the job we'll take, where we'll live, the level of our lifestyle These things we sort of come into. And then we say, now Jesus, you are my Lord, and so I'm going to ask you, show me which house I should buy, in which neighborhood. Lord Jesus, you're my Lord, so you show me whether I should lead a small group or teach a Sunday school class. You're my Lord, so I want you to make the decisions. That I don't particularly want to make, because I just don't know which way to go. But the things where we have a vested interest in our hearts, we've already determined. We've set the agenda for those And so we totally miss the radical implications of calling Jesus Adonai, as we talked about the last couple of weeks. That Adonai provides for all, and therefore Adonai directs all. Everything, our whole orientation in our life. He wants to set the agenda in your life. Have you ever considered letting Jesus set the agenda in your life? Very few Christians, quite honestly, are willing to let him do that. It might be too radical. Now, what's the incentive for doing that? I would suggest to you that the incentive is that he is utterly good, he is utterly wise. And he utterly loves you. Those are the next three blanks, A, B, and C. He is utterly good. He is utterly wise. And he utterly loves you. And you see this in verses 17 to 22. Jesus is on his way to something, and he's stopped by this man. Matthew tells us it's a young man. This young fellow comes up to him. He says, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus answers him, why do you call me good? Now why does he say that? Jesus isn't disclaiming that he's good. He's trying to show the man the implications. Do you realize what you're saying when you call me good? And I believe that he has not only in mind there that you realize that when you call me good, you're implying that I'm God, because none is good except God. But I think there's also a more pastoral concern that Jesus is saying, you're saying I'm good, okay? You're asking a difficult question. If you really believe I'm good Are you ready to take any answer that I give, no matter how hard it may seem, because you've already assumed that I'm good in giving it? Do you call Jesus good? Or in your heart do you think of him as harsh? And you're not ready to take the answer when he begins to set the agenda? But Jesus from the very beginning of this says, okay, you said I'm good. Let's understand the implications of that. Because you're saying that I am then like God, utterly wise and utterly good. Now Then he begins to give him a start of an answer. And what's he do? Well he gives him five or six commandments of the law. Why does he do that? I think because he wants to see the effect that these have on him. Jesus wants to find out where his heart is. And by stating the law, he wants to find out, is this a person who is convicted and needs the gospel, or is this a person who is complacent and needs conviction? I suggest to you that that's what Jesus intends for every one of us to do with the people that we interact with day by day and week by week. The unbelievers that you rub shoulders with this next week, he wants you to be asking that question. Is this a person who is convicted and needs the gospel? Or is this a person who's complacent and needs conviction? And Jesus does that by stating the law, because the law will always search out the heart in doing that. And so in doing that, he reveals exactly where the person's heart is, because in verse 20 the fellow says, Well, hey, I don't have any problem with those. I've been doing that since I was a kid. Now, very interesting when he gives that kind of analysis, and you and I go, right. Look what Jesus does. Look at verse 21 closely to see his response. Jesus does two things. He looks at him and he loves him. He looks at him. I believe that means he's studying him. He hears what he's saying and he's looking at this fellow to think, do you really mean what you're saying? But then the second part to that is very precious to me. There's few places in the scripture where the Bible talks explicitly about God Jesus loving someone. But it says that he loved him. Now why that's precious to me is because my intention, my my thought, and perhaps your thought, if it just said that he looked at him and said Would be that you'd be thinking what Jesus is really thinking as he's looking at him is, you arrogant creep, that's the most shallow analysis of the law that I've ever heard in my life. Your guilt stinks. Get away from my holiness. Who do you think you are? Isn't that the way you think he thinks about you? But look what he does. He hears such a stupid, shallow answer, and the Bible says he looked at him and he loved him. He wants to help him. That should be a tremendous encouragement to you and to me as we deal with the hard issues of our life, the issues where we're stubborn and recalcitrant and set the agenda. Jesus looks at you and me, and he loves you. He wants to help you with that. Now look what he does. He gives them counsel. He says, one thing you lack Don't sell everything that you have and give to the poor. And then you'll have treasure in heaven. And then come follow me. I believe that that council is not a general principle. It's not general directive to rich people like you and me. So you can all breathe a sigh of relief. Ah man. So he's maybe one of these guys that tells us we gotta go out and sell everything that we have and give it all to the poor and You know, that's gonna settle the church's financial problems, you know. I mean, they they're getting desperate here now, you know. Offerings fall behind, so he's gonna preach Mark ten. Sell everything you have and give it to the poor in the church, you know, the church is poor, so then, you know, that's a general directive. No. No, you can you can you know it's good news, bad news, good news, you can relax. But then you've got to see what Jesus really means. It's not a general directive, it's never stated as a general directive to do such a thing in Scripture. What's Jesus therefore doing? Jesus is discerning the idol in this fellow's life. And so he's giving him a very specific and personal command. To say, this is your problem, this is the idol, this is what is coming between you and to me, and I want you to get rid of it. And he says that utterly good, utterly wise, and utterly loving. Now that is important because when that man heard that, his immediate response was his face fell. You see, you and I have idols. There's things this morning that are keeping you in bondage. Just this week, the Lord finally broke through to me about an idol in my life. That was just sitting, wasn't he particularly thinking about, and all of a sudden he brought to clear focus. rationalizations, the ways that I felt when this subject came up, my defensiveness about it, and the fact that I was rationalizing this as an idol in my life. And I could see that what Jesus was trying to do was in his gentle way to free me from the bondage of that idol. Every idol holds you in bondage. And Jesus wants to free you from that bondage. And so in speaking to him, Jesus is getting right to the very heart of the issue in this man's life. And he says, things are your idol. Our idols are very personal, aren't they? Our idols are usually good things. They're not things, particularly as we go on with the Lord after years, that are in themselves evil. But they are simply the things that violate the first commandment, you shall have no other gods before me And Jesus has put his finger on why this man will not let Jesus set the agenda in his life. And in doing that, he has gone right to the very heart of this man's problem. He's done it within a space of perhaps two minutes. And the man's face fell. He didn't take the advice. You can imagine him saying, hey, let's get practical, Jesus. I came for advice, but not that kind of advice. I mean, there are certain things that I'm open to, but I didn't expect you to say that. That's ridiculous. That's utterly impractical. How in the world could I sell everything that I have and just go leave and follow you? Don't you realize I have responsibilities, I have commitments, I have on and on and on and on, and it simply reveals the defensiveness. You see, if his heart was open, he'd say, Okay, Lord, how can I do that? But his face fell, and it was the end of the discussion. The Bible says in verse 22, he simply went away sad. There was no more discussion because he was not willing to let Jesus set the agenda and to remove the idols. For the sake of fifty to sixty years of more wealth that he could enjoy, he lost eternity. Do you realize that let's assume that he lived to a decent age of that time and he might have had 50 or 60 more years to enjoy that wealth? He's had over nineteen hundred years to this point in hell apart from Jesus Christ. What were those fifty or sixty years worth in contrast to eternity? Even in the Christian's life What are 50 or 60 years worth of clutching on to the idol so that you only ever know the second best of what God's will and purpose for you is in your life? I'm not saying that it's to give up your career and to go into missions. All I'm saying is that you and I cannot be part of God's global purpose. and mentally and emotionally be involved in fulfilling the Great Commission to disciple the nations if we're not willing to give up our idols. Because until we do that, he can't set the agenda and have us open to the things that he wants to teach us about that. 1900 years Of agony, because he wouldn't give up 50 or 60 years of the toys he wanted to play with. What's the idol between you and your Jesus this morning? What conditions are you placing on his will for your life? Perhaps it's a member of the opposite sex with whom you have a relationship. Perhaps it's your career plans. Perhaps it's a house that you must have, a car that you've got to have, clothes that you've got to have. Jesus says, lay it on the altar And follow me. Trust me to give back to you what you've laid on the altar and yield it to me. And let me sanctify it and return it to you as under my lordship. For he looks at you and he loves you. You can trust him in removing that idol to replace it with something infinitely better. I've been rejoicing in just the degree of freedom that I've experienced since really facing in my life this week, an idol in my own life. There is a freedom in coming to grips with our idols and laying them on the altar. But perhaps you say that you're afraid that if you do that That Jesus is going to say to you as he said to that man, Come follow me. And you're going to say, Fine, Lord, where do I follow you? And he's going to say, in making the Great Commission a more central part of your life. And you say, Lord, that sounds suspiciously like evangelism and missions. And you know that when I gave my life to you, I told you it was right there in the contract, the asterisk and the fine print, no evangelism and missions. Lord, you know my motto's always been, never invite a missionary to a party. They'll spoil it every time. Those people are weird and they are boring. I want nothing to do with that whole area of my life. I've got plans, Lord. Lord, I'm too alive for that kind of thing. I've got too many desires, I've got too many possibilities, too much potential here. There's so much to do here, Lord. Why would I even think about something in another culture? Or just being open to this whole radical area of what you're doing throughout the world. Lord, I don't relate to it. And he says again, Did you call me good or didn't you? Did you say that I was your Lord or didn't you? Do you trust that my will for you is going to be delightful or don't you? And you and I have to settle that with him. For Jesus looks at you now, and he loves you. And he wants you to lay your all your idols on the altar that he can take them. And that unlike the rich young Ruppi Yuppie, you would be able to set those things mentally aside To follow him where he takes you. Where is he going? He's died for sinners. Died that those who are without hope, who are full of guilt. And you have nothing but hell to look forward to. Can be forgiven and given a new life. Perhaps that's your need this morning. Perhaps you need for him to work in your life in that most radical way, to give you new life, forgiveness, and hope in Jesus Christ. Or having settled that to follow him in being the agent of that toward others. And that leads us to the second incentive. And that is that following Jesus means watching him do the impossible in changing lives. Following Jesus means watching him do the impossible in changing lives. That's in verses 23 to 27. Remember, Jesus didn't chase the man. He went away. Jesus let him go. But he uses the opportunity to teach the others something. And so he says in verse 23, Jesus looked around to his disciples. And he said to his disciples, How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. Verse 22 said that the specific reason the man went away was because he had great wealth. Jesus says how hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom. Now the disciples were amazed. Why were they amazed? I believe they were amazed simply because the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 28, and many other passages, teach that riches were the blessing of God. Riches are the reward of God, the rich are the favored of God, according to Old Testament teaching. And Jesus is saying, the rich will hardly enter the kingdom. It's impossible. How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom. And so they're amazed. And uh then he says it again, and he says it even more strongly. Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of an evil. than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. He says it's not only hard, it's impossible. I believe that that eye of the needle is quite literally the eye of a needle. It's not referring to the gate. into Jerusalem that was narrow and caused the camel to have to kneel down with no burdens to pass through, that would be saying that it's difficult. He doesn't say it's difficult He uses a bizarre illustration to sort of jolt their minds. You know, imagine picking hair by hair of the camel and trying to get it through the eye of the needle, you know, you splinter the bones, you know, core puzzle by core puzzle. It's impossible And he's saying, yes, that's just as possible for it is as it is for someone who is wrapped up in this world to get into the kingdom of God. It's not difficult, it's impossible. You can't do it. And so they immediately then respond, who then can be saved? You just said it's impossible. Wait a minute, Laura, I thought we were giving good news here to people about How they get into the kingdom. Now you're telling us it's impossible to get into the kingdom. What's the good news about that? Who's going to be saved? And then Jesus, boy, we're waiting for you guys for a year to ask that question So then he comes and he says in verse twenty-seven, With man it is impossible. You can't change your heart. You can't get rid of those things You can't even bring yourself to faith and repentance. With man it is impossible, but not with God. All things are possible with God Even changing your heart and my heart. That's possible with God and it's impossible with man. Now do you see what he's saying? Follow me And watch me do the impossible. Because when you follow Jesus, what's he call you to do? He calls you to become fishers of men. He calls you to be an ally, a help meet with him in the greatest work that God is involved with in this age. The changing of lives from life from death to life. Bringing people who are headed to hell to have a place in his kingdom in heaven. Jesus is saying, I want you to see what I can do in changing lives. Now you think of that. And you think of how he's demonstrated that in the history of missions. God doing the impossible I think one of the most exciting things is to read Christian biography and Christian missions, to see what God has done through 2,000 years of his activity through his church. Just uh in the last couple of weeks, our small group has been passing around a tape and a book about a missionary who is an Indonesian taken prisoner of war in World War II by the Japanese. And how God used that person in their close relationship with Jesus Christ in an utterly helpless situation to change the life of a sadistic Japanese commander. That's doing the impossible. That's God at work in people's lives in a way that you and I are staggered by the power of the gospel. You know, back in the fourth century, when the Christian church was just beginning to come out under the persecution of Rome. There was one point in history that's not well known. There was an emperor after Constantine called Julius the Apostate, who decided to crack down on Christianity. And the way he decided to do it was a twofold strategy. He decided, on the one hand, to put a lot of pressure on the Christians. He decided, on the other hand, to have a revival of paganism, old Roman paganism. And Roman paganism and Greek paganism had a lot of virtues that they preached, a lot of things that you did to make yourself a better person. And he imitated Christian virtue on a pagan base base. History records that his attempts utterly failed. And so you had all these people following Julius the Apostate on a pagan base to try and live the Christian life. And they were utterly unable to do it. And Christianity, history records at that time, made great leaps forward because Christians outlived the Romans. Their lives were changed. The power of the Holy Spirit in their lives was evident as it could not be in the lives of the Romans who tried to imitate that. And Julius the apostate died a defeated man. And Christianity leaped forward with greater strides. Why? Because God was doing what no one else could do. He was changing lives. The history of missions is the history of God doing the impossible in changing tribes of people, whole cultures of people. 19th century Korea was a barbarian and pagan country. God swept through Korea in the early revivals and the prayers of the 20th century. Korea became not only a nation that was serious about Jesus Christ, but serious about prayer, believing that only God could change lives. Today, 25% of Korea are professing evangelical Christians. Korea has been revolutionized. 50% of the Korean army are professing evangelical Bible Christians. You take what's happening in Eastern Europe in our day. It is said that the revolution in Romania was started primarily by Christians. A Hungarian congregation saw their pastor beaten and bruised, captured by the secret police. And worked over. And they said, That's enough. Our lives are on the line. We will not tolerate this anymore. And they stood up and people followed them, and that was the beginning of the Romanian Revolution. That has issued in so much change in just the last months. God is doing the impossible in this day A pastor went into the Soviet Union just recently, was given opportunity to preach the gospel in factories, not in churches. In factories. He said he expected to see that these people were all atheists and going to were going to uh give them a hard time and hostile questions and debate them. He said he didn't hear a single hostile question The questions were all sympathetic. They gave him a gift afterwards. There is a seminary being established by the Baptist in Ukraine. Uh Intervarsity is conducting evangelism conferences. In fact, uh there is a whole coalition of Christians who are going to have an evangelism training conference within Soviet Russia the Soviet Union in the months to come. God is doing the impossible in changing lives and in changing countries. God is saying right now, I am beginning to do a work that's unprecedented. Are my people awake to begin to see how they can be part of that? More than almost anything that's needed in the world today, I believe, are Christians who are willing to say, I will go to Eastern Europe and see what God is doing there. We have somebody in our congregation who's there right now serving and seeking to declare the gospel of Christ. Would you consider even thinking, Lord Jesus, I'll go anywhere you want me to go because you're Adonai, you're Lord. You set the agenda. Or is there something that's keeping you from that? It begins in your own life. It begins in your own concern. Your own ability to believe that God could change a life through you. Do you believe that? Do you believe that somebody you work with or lives in your neighborhood or that you have contact with in one way or another, that God could change their life, could do the impossible, you say I can't do it. I've tried. They they don't listen to me. They're not interested. All they care about are the things of this world. They complain, but they're just not interested in spiritual things. Jesus said, Man, this is impossible But not with God. All things are possible with God. And Jesus is saying to you this morning, you notice that after he looked at that That Rich Yuppie, in verse 227, Jesus looked at the disciples. And the Greek there means he fixed his gaze upon him. He fastened his gaze upon him. And he says, Do you believe I can do the impossible through your life? Do you believe that in your weak stammering witness I can use you right now where you are to bring a person to Jesus Christ? Say, no, not me. Jesus says, then you're looking at your own possibilities. I didn't say it was possible for you to change their life. I'm saying do you believe it's possible for me to change their life and even use you to do it? And you and I need to begin to expand our faith. But our faith is related to our idols. If I give up the idol, he will increase my faith. If I grow in my faith, he'll take away the idols. But it comes to the willingness of letting Jesus set the agenda, to believe that He can use you personally, that He can use you as part of the ministry of Columbia Presbyterian Church, joined with your brothers and sisters in strategizing. Did he can use you as part of the coalition for spiritual, let's just say renewal. I don't know what the word renewal I left out, sorry. But it should be part of the coalition for spiritual renewal Seeing that God can use us together to change Howard County, beginning at Jerusalem, moving out, changing this area where God is working. He has not abandoned this area. And God can work here as he mobilizes together as a people who believe that he's in the business of doing the impossible and changing people's lives. Is your Christian life boring this morning? It's stagnant. Let me suggest that you begin to follow Jesus in his business of changing people's lives. And as he does that, we'll find that he's able to do all that he has said. But it involves you and me as willing to follow him. Let's pray. Lord our God, make us willing. Make us willing now. Take away those idols. We've rationalized, and you've said, even if it's your hand or your foot, cut it off. For I want to set you free. And we haven't believed that you're good. We believe you're harsh when you say those kind of things and you want to hurt us. And Satan whispers that our idols are our friends. Lord, help us to get rid of them, to believe that you are able to use us in the work that you are doing of changing lives. That we might begin to grow in our vision of what kind of a God you are. Hear us in Jesus' name