All dream in life is a full of gospel. God tells us that even love has been brought up on those times. But that doesn't come instantly upon conversion. It takes time to develop. It doesn't take a lifetime. In some sense, it takes generations for the maturity of the love of the gospel. the right, particularly in a man's relationship to the woman. We see this in the Bible. Firstly, even though God called Abraham out of a pagan culture and Abraham faithfully followed God, Abraham began a faithful offer quite willing to give his wife and her body to Pharaoh rather than to live his own safety. I put his son following in his footsteps and did his own thing. But by the time this suggestion, the third generation of grace, To have a man who's willing to work seven years to raise them. In fact, he winds up working for four years for them. You have a man who's willing to be the present rather than to violate. the fantasy of a feeble marriage. Until you see the ups and the downs through the generations of God's people, until it comes to basically to a man like Tom, who in his early years was able to give us a fit of God. The remote protective our own culture. But we come from Adam saying this the word that you gave me the eager to me. For Eve, he desired was to ask for her husband to follow me and to thrive where she said I am my beloved and she his life is for me. Now if the that we looked at last week in Pong Psalms 710. Solomon then was on to describe to us different facets of love. And he describes to us three kinds of love. Each kind of love, each facet is necessary to a marriage, and each is sustained. And so now let's give attention to God's word in 4 chapter 7, beginning there in verse 10. on to chapter 8 verse 7 as we notice the three kinds of love in a godly marriage. John 710 to 87 must hear God's words. I belong to my mother. And his desire is for you. Come, my lover, let us go to the countryside. Let us send the eyes on the villages. Let us go early to the village to see the divine subject. If they blossom to open, but if the polygrans are in bloom, there I will give you my love. And Andrew sent out their presence. And that I do is very delicate. Both new and old that I have stored up for you, my lovers. To me like a brother. To the place with my mother's breath. Then if I found you outside, I would quit you and no one would despise you. I will bring you a brain to my mother's house, see who has taught me. And I will give you spice wine to drink, the next year of my pomegranate. His left arm is under my head. And his right arm is graceful. Jerusalem, I charge you, do not arouse or wake him off for the purposes. Who is this coming up from the desert? Meaning until the apple tree I aroused you. There the mother who sees you. There she who is in labor gave thee birth. Place me like a seal over your heart. Like a seal in your arms. Its jealousy unyielding degraded. It burns like a blazing fire, like a mighty flame. Many waters cannot quench love. Rivers cannot wash it away. The one would give all the wealth of his house in life. It could be utterly gone. In chapter seven verses eleven to thirteen verse ten with the refrain from the last time we talked about Verses eleven to thirteen, you see hero, erotic love. In chapter 8, verse 22, you see Phila, the love of friendship. Then in verses three and four, you're Which goes back to erotic love. And then in verses five to seven, you see a dotter, the love of grace. In the first section, she calls him her lover. The second section She calls them her brother. In the first section, she thinks she wants to be his feel for his heart and arms. You must notice these three different pictures that we had of the development of them. First of all, the Eros in chapters seven verses eleven to thirteen and then the plane of eight verse three and four. Eros speaks of sexual, romantic, or physical love. It speaks of other things too. It speaks of a love in general which finds the desirability of the person that it places its love on. But particularly it has reference to this romantic aspect of love. But there are a couple of new points here that I want for us to notice in these verses. Notice first of all in verse 11 that she's taking the initiative and she says, Come my mother, let's go on a little vacation. Let's go on a new honeymoon again. And she wants to get away. She wants to get away from all the distractions, all the things that are on his mind. So that the two of them can simply focus on each other. Have you ever had that kind of desire, you just wanted to get away, you wanted to put away the stress, the law the distractions, you wanted just to focus on your husband or on your wife. But you wanted if that was right, you wondered if maybe you should feel guilty for that kind of a feeling. Maybe that is wrong, maybe that was lazy, maybe it was escaping. Maybe God was thought on that. He said that you're just backing off of the race and the discipleship. You really aren't allowed to do such a thing. God tells We can do it. It is your wife, I think we need to get away for a couple of days as a mountain. We can't afford to do that. It's not on the budget. avoid it in the time, what we're going to do with the kids, all the rest of that. Then you're going to find that that person's going to come back to you, cell and phone, seven order, and they're going to say, God said to do it. And he flees us up in that. Doesn't have a frequency. A lot of people find this twice a year is a good kind of frequency. Well that every six months seems like uh for Kathy and I and for many others, our batteries sort of get run down and you need to get that time to focus on each other. But it's also wife is initiating it. What about that, basically? Why do you think of white? First thing is she's really initiating it. I think that's because for the white it seems to be more important to do this kind of thing. And mostwise, whether they work or not outside the home The Holy Spirit using this place. Because it's very hard to just be focusing romantically, you know, now the wife looking up and saying, I didn't see those covers on the ceiling before that ceiling really needs to be painted. It hasn't been painted for live years. You know, all the various things are going to her mind because she's thinking of this place as a place that she has responsibility for. Because you need to get away. You need to go into the countryside. Need to be able to focus on whether the blooms have come out, whether the vines have studied. We need able to spend that time in the bullets. Time is totally undistracted so that you can focus on each other. And then those when we She becomes even more aggressive. She's taking some initiative here now, from the romance. She's not simply leaving that to him. Remember that the context means that she has found herself to be absolutely secure in his love. And so now she's beginning to initiate some love nature. She's saying, there I'm going to give you my love when we get out there. And as she says in verse 13, that she stored up those old things and some new things. He hasn't seen yet. So when she's gone out shopping or has some new ideas, we're not told. The fact is that she's being creative in the romance because she's secure again. Someone has gone to ask a sexy meal at the most involved. part of a woman's body is I'm not going to embarrass you all here from Sunday morning present is her mind. And when a woman feels secure in a man's love, then she feels free to take that initiative. And that's what God is saying here. This is good words telling us this. Telling us she knows the security of knowing that she belongs to a mother because it's the rightly for her. She rests in that. Now she becomes more free. And so then she comes back to that refrain in chapter 8, verse 3 and 4, where she says, His left arm is under me, is under my head. And his right arm embraces me. Go into Jerusalem. I charge you to not arouse and wake him up till its same desire. Remember she had said that same thing in chapter two, verses six and seven. The exact same words. And then the last part of it she had said in chapter three, verse five. two places in the call. I believe it because right there in chapter two, they were still quoting. But it was a statement of belonging at what he would do. She was speaking to herself, but it was also a warning, do not arouse love until it is appropriate. until it desires, until it is appropriate within the bonds of marriage. Now she's reflecting back on that. She has seen it in her wishes. She's seen the truth of not being impatient and all that God has done to the used to be caused of that. And there's not given us knowledge. Longly she anticipates this little vacation that they're going to go on. And she as she reflects on that, says to herself the same thing, do not awaken love until it sees you. And I believe That that is now a statement of gravity. It is now a statement I am so glad to be in fact following God's principle in that. Because if there's one thing we're absolutely sure, you can find out in counseling. Premarital sexual activity will always power the couple into the marriage. Capronized and dealing with a couple who have shared with us that after about twelve or thirteen years of marriage, there'll be pre married of sexual activities that they engaged in. They felt so very matter of haunting. And they raise difficulties in their love nature. Difficulties in their relationship in general. With these fellows you do need. But it's very easy for us as Christians to presume on God's grace and simply say, well he produced everything. Well he presumed it, God says messed up. Christopher Grace, God will produce that, no problem. That's like a man who goes from a drunk and draw into a bar. The way that's in a fight and has to have his hand agitated. They say that because Jesus has forgiven that, he should also restore the hand. There may be the grace and the peace and the forgiveness. The kind of thing that Michael Lisa have shared so beautifully with us this morning. But there are still the thoughts. There are still the time that it takes to heal. There are still your facts. And you have your images of grace. Get out of the ones until it's sleeping. It is free to fruits of God's grace and her longing of the morning that is free of those psychological stars. Many of us have those stars when God's grace has so much improved. But for those of you who We're still making choices and we're writing you do not agree on testimony to speak of God's grace to think of it allowing the cross. definitely the first couple verses there to speak of a second kind of love. The love of friendship. First, the Greeks call it friendship. Comradeship. Very important, she says, I wish you know my brother. And part of it she's saying, you know, then I could kiss you outside and nobody's lying, you know, it's not right in society, particularly that society, go around kissing your husband in public. But you see a playful kind of attitude here. She said, Oh, you know, I wish we could just sort of chill out and play like brother and sister. Then she switches between the movement in verse two and she says, I bring you in the change to my mother's house. Now that second stage there, the NIV has she who has The other way it would be easy to has taught me. It doesn't say what the reference is. It could either be her, mother, or him. I believe personally that it refers to him. And it should be translated out of reading. Because I think she's changing here in in preparation of verse one, uh, this is picture from the playfulness of playing with her brother to the kind of satisfying intellectual stimulation of the mutual interchange of their mind. There's two other facets you think of the relationship here, the play and the interacting. Very teaching, very stimulating intellectually. Who would be able to share things together? And here I find a very necessary instruction for us as couples in our day. force of depression among American housewives is loneliness, boredom, and isolation. Loneliness. They're married. They're living in a one-flesh relationship with their husbands. Lonions. Bordness and isolation. A letter written to Deer Abbey one time in the column went like this. Do all marriage is going to fail after 25 years? and I don't seem to have much to talk to each other about anymore. We used to talk about our kids. But now they're grown and gone. So we're out of conversation. Or having a major complaint, but the old excitement's gone. We watch a lot of television, we be we have friends. But when we're alone together, it's pretty dull. We can sleep in separate bedrooms now. Is there some way to be captured? that old magic. Science, the song has ended. When the words of the cospick TBM, my marriage was so dull that when my husband left, it took me two months to leave it. From marriages, two people can be living together. Typically you can smile at that. But he says all because two lives are grown apart and there is not the placefulness of the intellectual simulation. We might have grown up finding it hard enough to share our feelings. Do you add to that that if two fillers move together, there's always going to be the hurt, the facts, and misunderstandings. And then they may use that as a as a simple way in self-city to withdraw, to hold off, because there's a further emotional distance, a declaration that I'm not going to open up because to just criticize. I'm not gonna let myself in for it. The service is distancing. Besides that, there's a developing of different interests. His interest may focus particularly on his career, the advanced unit, particularly in the competitive society that we're in now in so-called yucky generations. Current interests may be somewhat in its rear, may turn more towards the homes of the children. The further worlds are more and more apart. There's lots of romance as he talked about in a formal message. He gets crowded out of his circle. There's less communication. He comes home tired. He's had a lot of stress at work. He's had a lot of hassles with people that have forced him to relate. Because the last thing he wants to do now is have to relate and listen to somebody else and their problems. Because he's soon her out and she seems just the message. And she's had a tough day. Don't bother telling him because he's not interested. Because it becomes a bitterness. An alienation. Adultery scene cuts in, which the necessary things are communicating. But in terms of hard shares, there's very, very little of it. Someone has once written, adultery has slain her salads. But parents for tens of thousands. The marriages can wither away because of lack of purification, lack of friendship between the husband and the wife. But the fact that they made it a pattern in their very busy life in the early part of their marriage to almost share at the end of the day what had been going on. have a cup of tea before they went to bed. I guess it's incapable. The last thing they would do is say have that old cup of tea, maybe some little sweet to eat. And they get uh only their pocket full of memory from the bed. Empty them out together and look over them. Toy with them and share them one by one. So they would reflect on what God had done that day, how they felt about it, they would interacted with it. But that helped to keep them together. So that would serve them. They would like to. At the end of the day. Whether they were counseling, or whatever they were doing, there would be that little bit of time each day to be able to share together what God was doing in their lives and to listen carefully to one another. I think this is particularly important. For us husbands to hear. Because it's so easy for us to tune out of it. It's so easy to look the other way, to be distracted. We've developed in a generation in which we received nearly 800 advertisements. messages a day on the average, that's how much the average American receives, a tremendous ability to teach things out and to focus on something else while feeling like we're paying attention. They're very important. the ability to give eye contact, focus attention to our lives and their shares. For us to be able to listen to someone who said to love is to listen. And to listen means Meditation, little focus contact, eye contact, asking thought reflection to draw that person out a little closer. Being able to just sort of feel in love, not just discovered things. Being able to understand our wives as Peter has written, 1 Peter 3. To work with an according to understanding. To make it our goal is then to say, I have one life and it's going to take me my whole life to learn everything I can about. I want to know that wondrous creature alone. And so taking my whole life to do it and never to assume that I can read her letter book, that I can know her without having to ask, because she's always changing. And I always want to be discovered more. more about what she does and why she does. Every time I find that Kathy does something totally unpredictable and said, Why is that something that I didn't totally understand? Why did I totally miss that feel? I need to understand something better. I need to go back and I need We need to be able to listen more carefully. We need to develop it. And we also need to have the fun again. The faithfulness that she talks about. Being able to just do things together that we enjoy. Some of the things Kathy and I particularly enjoy doing is just walking together. Going through a particular walk whenever we can, as close to daily as possible. It doesn't work out that way, but to try and be able to walk through the same little agents which we share the things with a day. Just have some fun. There was these spontaneous things. Like from the evening just going home instead of just driving straight down two more drive on the wind just took a turn and explore some winds. We've never driven along in Columbia just to see what is there. Don't be open back a few places. Just to do something spontaneous, to not be tied to the machine which still suspense of a man's inflation. To see our wives and to see our husbands is about friends. comrades, for those who are interested in it. This is the kind of thing that she's describing here. And then she goes on in verses five to seven. And he goes on Solomon to describe the third kind of love about them. The moment's girl. Now I'm going to send a whole message next week on verses five to seven. But I want to make just a few comments about it. now to feel tied in because the things that we looked at in the verses before. Agape is not the love of feeling. Agape is an unconditional love of the heart and the will. It is set upon another person. It doesn't depend on what the other person does or is like. It is really changed as the other person changes. Now why says, Tell me why you love me. The whole reason he gives him this long list of things like chapter five and seven and he goes through this lesson, but why are you reading them? The ultimate reason can only be because I stuck my heart on it. Because if there's anything else about you This somebody said, but why if I love it anymore? Did you still love me? So you see you're caught in a circle. But the person without the gospel has no way out of that circle. Only the gospel can see of the supernatural love. of a gospel. Where unconditional as becomes by God through a sinner, be able to set it to that person's heart or be someone else. Now this particularly came home to me in this week's copy of U. S. But there's an interview in here with a psychiatrist in the BC area. And uh the article is on the uh psychic call of the Yuppie lifestyle. And uh This fella has interviewed uh many people in the DC area clients and uh so this type science has talked about what he's noticing about men and women in their relationships, uh because of the kind of lifestyle that uh we're experiencing in the Baltimore. He talked about one fellow that he was meeting with who I treat women like you would a can of soda. You can save it and then you crush the can when it's empty and so way. His comment on that was this. Some fast track professionals actually have a checklist of traits that they want in a friend or number, almost as if they were going out to buy a car. Rather than looking for a sheer sense of values or a desire for real intimacy, young male or female careerists will often ask, will this person help further live success? Where are they turns from the time and the energy that they invest in others? if we're a human human money market fund. And then when the return on the investment is a voice, they'll move on to someone else. You see there in the bulletin outline, the world sense of value. The AP A stand for the doctor. The word values say that the most important thing in a relationship is that sexual attraction, that passion that turns you on about that other person. Yes, it's all also important beyond that to develop a friendship and camaraderie. And yes, there has to be that unconditional acceptance. But if they were to look at their values, they would place them holding it on this way. The foundation is the erotic one. And then in addition to that you should develop some unconditional love. That's the worst thing. Uh knees more than 40 days, like same particle. What are the results? of this kind of a of a value system. He thought that the people who come to him for therapy often complain about not being able to feel anything. They're loved, detached. passionless. River getting its capacity to show emotion. Until they try desperately to find some excitement either versionary pleasure, whether it be a new data map or BMW or a sort of cocaine. But one of these things provide any lasting satisfaction. This is about Billy Graham. This is a secular psychiatrist in the DC area. Such people have the same attitude towards therapies. They want a quick fix without really gardening to re-examine their values and what is going on in their lives. Interesting, isn't it? The fruits of the wisdom of our age. You contrast that with God's value system. In God's ideas system, there is the erotic love. We see much of that. The whole book has it going through it in the worth and loops with standards. But then more important to God is the friendship. The camaraderies that it's about, the relationship of two human beings who value and esteem one of us, and so much in scripture has to do with that. But most important to God is the adoption. In fact, the thing it in a transpect is take your thoughts and outline and turn it on its side. Because there you see that the agape is the foundation. The unconditional agape love is the foundation of the relationship between the man and woman. And so that you build the camaraderie, the ability to be open and vulnerable to another person. Because Lord is here secure the love of Jesus Christ who has forgiven you all your sins. And therefore you're able to open yourself up to another person. And then the proofs of that are the erotic ones. The security that comes from knowing I am my beloved, that he or she is mine. I belong to my lover and his desire is story and therefore unsecured, but opening myself up in passion and being able to employ that other person's fully. Just the opposite of the world Christians. And we see this Because of Jesus Christ. Because it's Jesus who has that passion to use the needs, who desires it. He uses this and also the expressions of his love and desire for it. Well, Paul said, I speak concerning Christ in the church. These are his statements of his love to us. Jesus is the one who said to his disciples, I don't call you slaves anymore. I call you slaves. That's what? Friend. Jesus has taken us into a relationship with himself where he is our friend and our brother. Most importantly, it is Jesus who has taken these last words And made them the relationship that he has with us. It is he, versus verse 6, we see, has set us as a seal, an eternal seal by the covenant upon his arm and upon his heart. It is Jesus who's loved for us. is a strong of death. In fact, so slow that it even goes into death. So slow that it caused him to take or he put upon himself, so that we would not endure the death that he deserved. under God's judgment. But so that Jesus can look at his life, so that you and I will have the life that he offers to himself, along with the still irrevocable. So the death he has So that you and I could have life within us forevermore. It is Jesus whose jealousy for us is unyielding as the grave, whose love for us is a burning fire consuming all the full of our lives. And he will make us to be a people like himself, faith in person. Many waters cannot claim people. Rivers cannot wash away, even the rivers of our own sin and call us unfaithlessness to him. Could never take away from sense the love of Jesus Christ. If one were to give all the wealth in his health for his life, it would be utterly scared. You can't die for love of Christ. can only be seen as grace. It can only be seen as grace with the empty hand of safety. And that is the length of the love between a man and a wife. If you ever see The greatest love the world has ever known. It took in a morning, dying on itself, and killed called Calvary outside of Jerusalem. There you see the world's greatest love. Where do you see Jesus giving his life for you and for me? Not because it's something desirable in us that we have to offer to us, but because he's satisfying that. And because he is Please for let us go. When I was preparing for this too, I thought one time, for the only other person in the world I've ever heard of who preached the series on the song of Solomon, and he did it as I reminded me. We talked together in his my car as I was taking him somewhere. But I asked him about one of his scenes, the world's greatest love between a man and a woman. He said that is a space. Which stands out to me as the one place where I saw the greatest love and demonstration of the fallen form, given a rest tone in the state of Kansas. The rest tone is a place where the great eyes, which is known as public. place that he said existing. And it was a ministry that his church had that the most well-milling ministry. People would go over things, they would be go there, and they would preach the gospel and they would have a little service class. And he said we will go over there each month. He said it was one fellow that stood out to me. He was a very just solid and handsome gentleman. A very solid man, but very dignified, erect, and uh very much in ill good health. And I was always saying push in a wheelchair when it's this disfigured, crumped old woman who was an average sight to look at. She had obviously had several strokes when she was out of her mind. When he would push her along, she would yell at him. She sat out and scream and curse at him. Sometimes he was a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a But it said I never saw a threat him so fast to speak a harsh word to him than all the money he went on. He called her here tenders. He said, He spoke lovingly to us. It is obvious that the two of them have once shared erotic law. The body's gloss. It is obvious that the two of them have once been very close with friends and comrades, and we've shared much together. But they're no longer for Jesus. She could never convert my hand. And I'm going to hope to see everything. All he has is a little bit of what she wants. No. And he has determined for others, for the rest of the world. For better or for worse. I saw in him that love the most part. I saw the telling God. My saw was promoted to the man of the woman, to the reflection of Christ in mystery. You can't live like that without Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Think of that man and that woman. And realize one of that woman. Maybe we're trying to turn our back on you. We're trying to have to simply go our own way and then we get in trouble and we want you to get us out of it. The time there may be even screwed back to and pushed back to by our mouth or by our thoughts. Oh God, we can see the line. Lord Jesus, become the God in your heart. You decide only saving us. Even if you are the same. Anyone here who doesn't know about kind of life. Because it was one of the keys by not even available, nobody expected life. And even with the bill of reflection to me. I think we tell you that pointers to the first of our third of the few. So I received thankfulness. First, that we might come before you and receive that love for you. Those of you might be able to reflect it. Lord Jesus says, leave the by her determination by your spirit. To listen, to go out of our way, to celebrate. Because you first love that. Personally. A hymn is one three nine in verses one and two and nine. Jesus, I am rested. Resting in the joy of what thou art. I am finding out the greatness of thy loving heart. In number 139, verses 1 and 2. I don't have one ready to declare. Blast God in his mercy and grace to glorify himself by resolving a number of issues that were concerned about. But it's hard. Our God we pray for the president and for leaders of federal and state governments. We humbly asks you to direct your work so that it will advance. Your glory and your kingdom. We pray that these leaders will take seriously the responsibilities you have delegated to them to establish peace, happiness, and Truth, justice, and holiness in this country and throughout the world. Lord, if you think of our congregation, we pray today for the Sunday free country. opening your word to our children. Lord, we thank you for their faithfulness and we pray that as you use them to explain your love to our children. That we would bless that ministry, that it would multiply as the children take on more of the character of Jesus Christ and as they proclaim the gospel. among their friends. We pray the day of order for Robin Smith. We pray that you would soon restore her to full health again. for Lisa Bertie, we pray that you help her to minister in that new Bible study for elderly ladies. We pray that you give her wisdom and sensitivity, that you give her boldness and insight. She opens the word. Lord, I pray for the ladies too that they might become excited by understanding more about you. Lord that we move, ladies that will be saved through that Bible study. Father, we know that a number of people in this congregation really need to get a job. And we pray for them. Father, we pray for Gary Helens, for Donna Adcock, for Mike Lowe, for begin to be and for others who need a job now or later in the year. Lord we pray that you would help them and us to trust you in this. That you leave them to job that you have set aside for us. Help us to trust your providence in this, to trust your love. Father, we pray for others who have needs that we don't know about, for those around us and in front of us and behind us. Or we pray that your love would be precious to them, that you would minister to their needs. We pray all these things in the name of our Savior, who is first son, that he rose from the dead. Amen. Ahead in 547. We've heard so much this morning about God's blood for us. So let's finish our worship expressing our love. up for him in the words of this hymn five four seven, my Jesus, I love thee. I know thou art mine. So we'll commit verse three, and we'll sing verse two in harmony without the canvas. Hymn number five hundred forty seven.