Well, this is my last message before I finally leave a few minutes presentation plan to finish an entire series on forgiveness in August. So we've seen some major aspect of forgiveness that I haven't covered then uh you better speak to me in early August. Uh but be careful what you make from August who could be on for Christmas. So uh only moon two topics that have been omitted something that's uh really think we ought to touch on whether I can see this. We consider continue now, if we consider Luke chapter seventeen, verses three to ten, as we can During these uh three weeks because we separate two passes and forgiven one another. Luke chapter seventeen Verses three to ten on rebuke and forgiveness. We through the word of God If your brother sins, repeat him. And if he repents, forgive him. If he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times, comes back to you and says at intent forgiveness. The Prophet said to the Lord, do I say he replied, They're so small as a mushroom tree. You could say that it's mulberry trees. Be uprooted and planted in the food and it will obey you. flowers and looking after the beasts. Did he say to the servant when he comes in from the field, come along now and put on beasts? Did he not rather say, Prepare my supper and get me thought And wait on me while I eat and drink. And after that, all you may eat and drink. Should he thank the service because he did what he's called to do? Because you also, when you have done everything that you were told to do, could say, we are unworthy servants. We have only done our duty. That's why the word of God Now let's consider it even. We spent the last few weeks on the first part of verse three. This is brother since him. And now I want to spend this week and remain in seven and a half verses concerning Forgive him. If he repents, forgive him. You know what if their verse he says, if he repents, forgive him. Does that then imply that if he does not repent? We don't have to forgive us. How do you square this with Matthew eighteen or Stephen 332 to be talked about? Colaphimes 33 to talk about about the necessities of our having a forgiving attitude for another person who is sinned. So nothing in those classes is about their retention thinking says that our attitude must be forgiven. How do we square this than with that? Well it's simply by realizing that human forgiveness in the New Testament is spoken of in two senses First of all, there is the attitude of the heart of Pergunts. The first thing we see in the easy four life and We this kind of idea is current is speaking of our attitude of Christ, which was crystallized in Mark chapter eleven. Think about just a second. Remember in Mark 11 when Jesus is there speaking about prayer, he says in verse 24, Therefore I tell you that whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have and see it, and it will be yours. Verse 25, and then you stand saying, If you hold anything against anyone, forgive him, so that your father in heaven may forgive you your sins. What he's speaking of here is an attitude of heart. Some translations of an easy than reason. If you're holding anything in your heart against someone, if you're holding something against somebody. against someone, you have volume. Then you can't really pray to God if you haven't forgiven them. The Lord's prayer, remember, has the commentary at the end of it concerning the petition forgive us as we forgive our letters. You do because we don't forgive others, neither will your father forgive you. Because truth we have an attitude in our hearts of forgiveness. But such Secondly, the scripture also speaks of giving forgiveness, not only an attitude of heart, but a reconciliation of relationships And that's what Jesus is speaking about here in Luke seventeen, where you and I give forgiveness to someone in a transaction of relationship. The process is something like this. A person sins against you and you're hurt. You react. And so what you must do in that immediate reaction is deal with your attitude You've got to deal with the bitterness so that you don't hold that against that person, so that you're not bitter against them You say that you don't want to get even again. You lay that before the Father. You submit that to Jesus. And you take that before him, but the relationship's still broken. And so we start to go and we start to rebuke the person, we start in a in a loving, concerned manner to raise that issue again. And we go to that person, we raise the issue, and then if the person we can't then we can give that person our forgiveness. Then there is a reconciliation with the person before But if it's not a year, then there is a transaction that takes place. We say then I forgive you. And the relationship is in give. You see, this is doing nothing more or less than mirroring our relationship with the Father. When you and I, as children of our fathers His attitude toward us is not that of a judge, we talked about that, but as a father who has forgiven us as a judge His attitude toward us is one of forgiveness. Nevertheless, he can't give us his forgiveness and restore the broken relationship of the Father to a child until we repent of that particular matter that has alienated us from him. Until we go back to the Father and And we receive his forgiveness as a father. This is what Jesus is talking about to be reflected in the church. The person sins against you You then rebuild them, to repent, and you give them your forgiveness. Notice also that he says there that you are to forgive the person In other words, you don't say when the person comes to you and they repay if you simply sort of like stopping the doing a bit of a floor for all that's going Okay, but it's nice by a pinch. But for many times we do this, I think because we're uneasy at that point There's a little bit of tension, a little bit of embarrassment when a person who comes to you and they say, I wrong you. I'm sorry for that. Would you please forgive me? It sort of puts you in an awkward position here. You feel like well I I sort of want to get out of this and and I want to minimize it. And we do the person a great disservice if we ever take that kind of approach We need at that point to do exactly what Jesus has said to do. We need to look the person in the eye, and we need to say I forgive you. We need not to back out and to try to be a nice person and um maybe not indicate that they really didn't have heard us. That we need to look them in the eye Forgiveness with eye contact is five times as effective as forgiveness when you're looking off some other direction. I want you to be aware of that. We need more curious interchange of witness in our relationship Well you get that person's attention where the two of you are somehow avoiding each other, even in the words that you say. But you're able to look right at that person and you're able to kindly and meaningfully say to them, yes, I presume But that's how we see something happens between the two of you. Something happens that could never happen if they just apologize and say that's okay. Something happened in a relationship that brings the two of you together in a more meaningful fellowship that you experience in the bodies of Jesus Christ. Because there's been true forgiveness. And that's what Jesus is saying is needed here in the church. You can repent, forgiveness. Now there are three misconceptions, however, about forgiveness that we need to deal with and that Jesus deal with you. Three misconceptions today that I come across at time and again when people talk about difficulty in forgiveness. one another. The interesting thing is that the three prominent misconceptions that we have today are the exact same three misconceptions that the department has And of the exact same three that Jesus spoke to in this passage. The name are these three that psychology deals with today. The first of these things is that biblical forgiveness is not a matter of finding out whether the repentance is for sure. I place it in 3F to help you remember. Biblical forgiveness is not a matter of finding out whether a person is ready. Secondly, it's not a matter of faith, and thirdly, it's not a matter of feelings. These are the three big misconceptions about forgiveness in our vision And the exactly the same one as the disciples have. Fortunately, so we'd have this instruction. So often I'm thankful for the obscenity of the disciples because that raises the exact questions that I need to dealt with and it's exactly what happens here. Did you ever say to a person, this is the third time you've come to me about this matter And when you're asking me to forgive you again, I don't think you've really repented. How could you do this three times and tell me that you're really sorry for it? I don't believe you. I've got to see some evidence. And the fact that you really repent before I can give you this one. In peace. The way Jesus had props this peace in here quite clearly and purposefully exactly rules that out. It's precisely that which you have had in mind that is not what the The way you have structured it here is so that we cannot look for the evidence of repentance Rather Jesus instructed it here so that you see he says in verse 4, if he sins against you seven times in one day. And seven times that same day he comes back to you and says, I repent. You must forgive us. Reminds me of the story of our past children. The great preacher of the 19th centuries. There is an remarkable man of God suffered terribly for many years with God. One day a friend who came to him who had rumatism. And this friend made the mistake of telling further that rheumatism was a greater affliction than God. Version says, Ben, let me compare it to what demonism is God enough. You take your finger and you put it on a vise and you turn that vise as hard as you can until you can't stand the pain anymore. And that's luminism. And then you twist it four more times. That's God. What Jesus is saying here is that's what He says if your brother sins against you and he repents, you must forgive us. So that's that enough And then he twisted seven more times and he says, even if he comes to you seven times in one day, he says, do it again. I'm sorry, forgive me. forgiven. That's twisting the screw seven more times you say that's unbearable. It's bad enough to person, but that's totally unreasonable. You can picture yourself in the screen situation. You're standing there along. And now here comes Ned. Here's from the moon. You're standing there mining your own business. Well with some power And a fella walk past him and then, oh wait a minute. So you don't judge him, you walk to him, you present the evidence. I got a flat nose. What were you doing? Oh I'm so Sorry. I I had this terrible feature. And I just won't seem to control it. And I was just so enraged and I saw you saying, I know you have nothing to do with it, but I just couldn't do this hitting you in the nose. So well wait a minute. That's wrong. I find three forgiveness. I had a bad attitude, I too badness. Okay, I forgive you You're standing there, finding your own business and about a half hour later along comes the same fella. Pow the tip again. Same nose, I mean the right same spot. Heard enough before he can come back and say, Hey wait a minute, wait a minute. I I Oh I am. I really am. I I just I lost control again. I just couldn't help myself. I I really need help in the forest. I really apologize. I am sorry. Please forgive me. What Jesus says, he's he's gotta forgive them. You take him at his hands, you say, Okay, okay, just watch out, okay? About an hour later You're standing there again. Along it comes, you're looking to an out of the corner of the eye, but he said he's really sorry for it. You don't have to worry about it. Oh power in the future again. You know you get a little bent out of chase at this point and so are you. But so you come back to him again for the third time and you say, Hey, hey, wait a minute, wait a minute. understanding each other or something. I mean, this is the third time today you've hit me right on my nose. I get a little tired of it. But I I I understand that I'm wrong. What can I do? Yeah, you know, I'll get a link, I'll help your nose, I'll do anything I can do to make it up. I'm sorry, I'm really forgiven. But he just says there's no option. You forgive him So you see, at this point after the sixth time he comes along in that same day and he hits you wait in that same nose, the same spot, your nose is totally flat, there's nothing left to put into a sprint Jesus says that seventh time he comes along with a glassy stare and through the pain, you've got to say, Yes, I forgive you. I say I don't think we've taken that as seriously with Jesus is giving him seriously. He's saying this is an unreasonable situation. But you notice what else he has said here. And that's written down here because I want you to get it. In the bulletin. Seven times in one day preclude only forgiving when he has proven that he's really sorry. You must accept his repentance on his naked word alone. That seven times When your nose is plastered all over the front of your face and he says, I really am sorry And you say, Well let's we're gonna take Some steps now in avoiding noses. I want to give you a course in discipleship on this, and we're going to talk about some of the steps of correction are involved. And he says, I'd be glad to have it. I really have a problem here from telling me. And we begin to work with him on this thing. Jesus says it's still not an option, you must forgive him. That's what he's saying is the nature of biblical forgiveness. Seven times in one day. You don't judge his motive. You don't say, get taught you. Six times before you said the same thing and you've done it each time. By studying his motives, you're saying you're not sincere this time. Yes, he gives you every possible reason to believe that he is sincere that seventh time. You must judge his actions and his words. You say, Okay, tomorrow morning we're gonna meet first thing in the morning. We're gonna start this course on avoiding noses together. Because I'll be glad And you take him at his word, and you don't judge his motive. Now of course that's impossible in your own faith. It's impossible for anyone to behave like that. That's precisely the point of goodness of business. Something which is impossible in our own life. That which must be accomplished Jesus Christ alone. Now notice the second misconception that he gives us here. He says that biblical forgiveness is not a matter of faith. It's not a matter of faith. Verses 5 and 10. Yes. Your parties, they've got the point, you see. They're a little more constructive in some ways than we are. And we do this for sometimes a seven eight They hadn't heard this. And he said again, seven times in a day that guy smacked in the pitch and he got it from And they immediately responded, Oh Lord, that's too much to me. Increase our faith. What is Jesus saying? Basically he says, not a matter of faith. He replied that you had faith as small as a mustard seed. You could faith as a smallberry seed be uprooted and planted in the tree and it won't obey you. It's not a question of faith. It's a question of obedience. One begins to spell that out in verses seven to ten. talks about the whole matter of obedience rather than faith near the instance. Now this question of obedience studies is We spells it out, leaves it to refer misconceptions. Back to misconception, that would also invoke the seven is biblical forgiveness is a matter of This one is the most common and the most subtle objection of all to biblical forgiveness. The gesture says, I can't really forgive the person if I don't feel forgiving for them, can I? I would be a hypocrisy to say to the person, yes I forgive you if I don't feel like forgivingness. If I don't really feel forgiving in my heart, that would be wrong. He'd be telling a lie. Jesus corrects that mercy. These verses. Now that story that he tells to illustrate this is a story that is almost as grossly misunderstood generally by Christians as as the one about two or three gathered together when we can imagine two support circumstances small families. Is it a story here to seek humility? This guy comes in from the farm and get this meal and uh says you don't think it's tele that uh says there in verse ten, for you when you've done everything you've told to do, say we're unworthy servants, we've only done our duty You see there Jesus is teaching us that we should go around as Christians saying, Well, when I served the Lord and I've laid everything on the line and I did everything possible and I forgive this guy seven times whatever else I do when people say, boy, fellow is really at work and oh no no no I'm just an unworthy servant. Just keep you humility Yeah, who think it would do it to me. Very tenure thrown in in a way that has nothing to do with saying that's a point of it because one word is This is a parable's about forgiveness. Let's take a look at what he's really saying in these parables. Notice in verse 7 and 8, what the picture is He says to them now, he just said to him that that uh forgiving is not a matter of finding out whether the person is really sincere in the resentment. It's not a matter of whether the person of whether you have enough faith, whether you whether you're willing to obey. And it is the fifty. So let's first one if you had a servant Plowing or looking after the sheep. Would he say to that servant when he comes in from the field, Come along now and sit down and eat? Would he not rather say, Prepare my supper, get yourself ready, and wait on me while I'm even drinking? And then ask him. After that, you may eat and drink. Picture what's going on here. His servant plays hot and tired. It was all day in the hot sewers. Now, we haven't had the kind of weather that will help you to enter into the as much as a normal July Fernand to enable you to picture this, but somehow picture what it's gonna be like. It's gonna get over ninety out there. And you've been out ploughing and working in the farm all day All you think about is ice teas. You want to come in, you want to take that messy sponge or whatever it is that all your heart's all you think about. You're gonna think of ice teas, ice teas, cold water. All you can begin to go through your mind constantly. You come to the end of a furrow in the field and you see your glass of ice cream. You turn around and you fall around you. That's what you want. When you come in from the field And when you come into the field after that hot day, you walk in and you say, ah, give me that ice piece. I'll build the whole kitchen. Just give me a straw. Forget the straw. Hug it down. Just give me the whole thing. No, that's not what you do. The job's not finished. Girls are responsible to get the master's in it. Everything in you says you want to indulge in feelings. But what does he gotta do? Because he wants furbers and order to it. And so you pull out the ball and see how to further there. You could finish off the rest of a half gallon with no problem at all. Uh you could just rip right through the box, you know, prevent the bowl. And but you put that bowl there on a table and you say, uh Go ahead. When you're watching, you can't see a little bit of brief about it. Did you ever smell roast beef when you're very hungry? You know roast beef is bad enough, but you also got some bread baking in that basin Now all the real people tell you if you want to smell a home, you put some bread baking in the oven because people can't resist the smell, that's the whole one if you want to uh you know, make everything else look better. But I think the bread baking and what the growth design, the inside, you know the stomach feels like the slow something. And the inside is more And say, What are you trying to do to us down here? This load better stop sending signals. And you watch this load keep cooking, you get it out, you put it on the plate You serve it up to you. Don't touch it. Because that's not too easy. To obey is to give it to your master, sis. And so you take that rope seems in and you lay it on his table. There it is. Yeah. He's standing there wiping the meat of all beef, cutting through that succulent beefy meat, packing himself off some bread and putting on it some nice goosy butter with slowing down and about formula. You gave him some nice homemade masterpiece, loads of brains leaning over it from the nose piece and stand there watching And why can your tongue begins to hang out further and further? A pretty cool rule covering your throat your tone sort of hanging out on the table and you're beginning to be embarrassed about whipping the tablecloth and you just stand there trying to serve him while everything in you is crying out to indulge the feelings he had in somewhere, that's not what it was. For him to eat. Then he says, bring on a dessert, you say it serves him dessert. Strawberry sweat great. You bring it in, and there it is, strawberry slow says the diagram is a whit screen cascading down along the the white tape of the cellbury the third two feet if you would two want it was forced in the eye. You stand there watching and use the strawberry shortcase thinking that surely this is the cruelest of all things anyone ever had. And you can see the wheel and then if you can. Now that the theme success. Notice we're smart. Because you really thought you had a bad, wouldn't you? What does your master then say, uh thank you so much for serving me that meal? Well, you're just the best servant in all the world since you serve me. But the point is, you did what you were told and expected to do. Would he then thank the servant before he did what he told to do? So you too also, as my servant. A call. to obey. And to obey when it runs counsel to your feelings. To simply say we've only done our duty, not what we've done. He reserved and acted in every position in this against his feelings. He didn't indulge him, he didn't say, I couldn't do it because I don't feel it. We did it because it was an obedience to advance. You see there in the bulletin the contract of two models The undegenerate mind and the regenerate mind. So often today we as Christians have adopted the undegenerate mind See the person without Jesus Christ operates in the pattern of feeling. Feeling leads to will, leads to mind. That means that the person says, What do I feel like doing? It feels good, do it. What I feel like doing is what I determined to do. And then with my mind I rationalize the determination. All of the non Christian philosophies and religions constructed today are simply mental semantics and philosophies constructed in order to We can rationalize that people want to and have determined already today. Some people are more curious in their admitted to others But what it comes down to is this is the way I want to live, this is what I want to do, I want to do it, and then with my mind I say you are, I do. Biblical mind, the Christian, the disciple of Jesus Christ, reverses that. So you see that the regenerate mind operates in this time. The mind To the will to the being. With my mind, I see what God says to me, and I bring my will into submission to that. But if I brought my mind into fibrillations here, into obedience is saying that Jesus says, therefore I'm not feared. But I bring my will into fibition and my mind And I do it, and as I do it, my feelings follow. My feelings don't come into line with what I determined to do The joy of satisfaction and the fulfillment of obedience to my master and my feelings in the act of love that I perform, willing to come around and be conflicted with what I have done as an active man of forgiveness. You see, what I'm really saying here is the biblical forgiveness is not a matter of healing. But rather biblical forgiveness is two things. We see it look together. Biblical forgiveness and views a matter of promise and grace. First of all, biblical forgiveness is a matter of promise. Jay Adams in speaking of this calls it a formal declaration. In biblical forgiveness, when I forgive a person, what I say to them is that I will remember the wrong no more against them. I promise that Christian. I give you my promise. I will remember this wrong no more against you. That is. You will never, you will not ever bring it up to either the person forgiven and Promise you that. If you say you offens me, it is gone as the morning mist when I drink. It is gone as when that mist is dissipated by the sun. And I will no longer ever hold it against you, or bring it up to you, either directly, indirectly, overly. Or by anyone it is gone. I promise you to rest a primary appealing to the problem. Secondly, I promise that I will never bring it up to others. I promise that when somebody says to me, that led the pretty good guy, you know. But I won't say you are here to put some people too close to him. You know, every once in a while he has a tendency to haul off. Let me tell you, you know, one time that guy didn't so times in one day. Three the night. Yeah, yeah, I yeah, I agree. We don't talk We don't ever bring up to another person for any reason that they don't need to know what this person is from what. There are cases when a person needs to know something about If you don't ever bring up out of any motive to simply lower that person or to tell something against them, And then finally, becoming that you will not ever bring it up to yourself. Now this is the most difficult, but it's the root of it all. You see, if you dwell on it, you have evidence inevitable We will bring it up to somehow, somehow. You think that you have forgiven the person. You said that you forgive us But to torture yourself thinking about what they did for you. Think of the wife who has forgiven her husband of adultery. He said, Yes, I forgive you of But he continues to torture his back. And then you talk to her and see her long face, you say, but I just keep thinking about what it was like. So this is forgiven? Yes. Then you are since I continue to worry from what that is. And the person who has given forgiveness to another person and then dwells on the first sense makes others miserable and sad by their Why never make him why never talk to him about it? I live if you take it as long as a wet week. You don't decide the thought to come into your mind, but you do decide what you do. well. So the person must realize that once they have forgiven another person, they are responsible under God to put it away. And if you dwell on it, if you bring it up again, then you and not the person you send the reason is the one who is now at fault anyway and must be concerted. Confront to not break your promise of forgiveness. How many Christians in the church of Jesus Christ to earth were going around things living at Christmas Jesus? But then have broken the left promise of forgiveness. You need to realize again that what the scripture teaches is the essential motion of forgiveness is the limitation. A formal declaration that you will remember the offense no more. And if that hasn't come across You can scan your difference. Scan is your content. Make sure it's good and you can see it's full of different systems. When we do forgiveness. Finally, this forgiveness is a matter of grace. A matter of grace Just as Christ forgave me, so let it forgive. Which is taught in Stephen, 433, Lost 313, and other classes. It involves three steps, the three of forgiveness. First of all, it involves our thinking on Christ's grace of forgiveness. Because the only way But I am going to forgive Nud after massing my moon for seven times out of one moment. I have to think about Meg. Not to think about my nose. I think about that, all I do is wallow and talk too about how much my nose hip before it. The only way I can produce in that very past is to think about me to us. To realize that in that world that's what I do to you. every day. Every day as it were I'm putting you in the mood. Every day as it were I'm involved in you by my disobedience, by my going my own way, by my misery. And I say you don't really care for me, you have really taken care of me. By that I will talk to you every day. Without peril, we forgive. Every day without irritation, we wrote me back and we fell in forgiveness. And when a person's hooked and won about seven times in a day, it's a unique opportunity for us to learn about things. Because the more work hurt and the more unreasonable the hope seems to us, the more we can learn the guts of our own things. Well I look at Med and I say, Med, I forgive you. I realize that I'm forgiving him for matching my nose. But when he does forgive men, He not only forgives him for the hit on the nose, he bears the guilt of misdoing this. Jesus not only says I forgive you and restore the relationship, but Jesus has taken the event on himself. When I have taught Jesus, he has had to take that guilt and he's had to bear the penalty himself. And therefore his forgiveness is infinitely greater cost. In any position that you and I will do. No matter how deep truth, the first, no matter how great a truth, you and I have never borne the guilt of the other person who has never born. Well once I've done that and see the ultimate cost of and understood what races, then the second I do it to I pray for grace. I pray to God for grace to forgive. In other words, I need to realize that biblical forgiveness is not the natural way to behave. In fact, biblical forgiveness is very unnatural. In fact, biblical forgiveness is supernatural. The only way that you and I can forgive is by the power of the Holy Spirit. And if you and I forgive it in a way that doesn't cost anything, in a way that hasn't really involved our depending upon God to do it. We probably haven't forgiven in the Christian Jesus. Forgiveness is the mark of a new community, the mark of the people of God, and it's something which is supernatural. If we give a purpose to tickling, you have to repeat it as taken the material window. And then exactly in that lifts that matter in the Biblical forgiveness for us is supernatural and only the Holy Spirit can give you a means of life to consider. It's not simply a matter of thinking about these things, it's also a matter of praying for those things to work in them. Then finally, thirdly, we need to prepare for them. A lot of Christians fall down here, they'll say, yes, I've thought about Christ's grace, I've thought about his forgiveness, that really helps. And then I prayed that God would enable me to forgive that person But you know I've gone out and I still find that those thoughts keep coming up. Uh I have fought the bitterness, I have prayed that I would remember it no more. How can I do it? Week after week, month after month, year after year, they go away from the discipline and comes back. And I find that I'm just as dear as I ever was How can I keep the mind keep my mind from drifting to thinking about what that person has done to me? Well, I would suggest uh according to the suggestion made by Jay Adams, who the person at that point may want to develop what he calls a Philippians for eight simply. Now Philippians for eight tells us two things. First of all it tells us what to think about, and secondly it tells us that we can determine to do it. He says there, finally, brothers brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is Whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or pleasure, then think about such things Well the New American standard has it, let your mind dwell on these things. How is there a thing that you determine what your mind dwells on? A lot of other The father is saying that you can determine with your mind not to not think about that person's sin. That'll never help. You've got to replace the consumption. See if it's all ideas we talked about in the easy lot of each other. You put off the bitterness and put on cleanness. Putting off the dirtiness whenever it's gotta be something put on in its place. And so apply this the person says, but I just can't get that out of my mind. Read Philippians 4 is and I'd like you to develop a Philippians for a template. Now Philippians for a template is a list of things that you put down. that will be loving acts towards that person. So things you can do to demonstrate to that person that you really have to do in obedience to the Lord. And the person says, well, I don't know where to begin. You say, well I got the first item for the Philippians 4-A cynquist already for you. The first item, number one, is to construct ten things for the Philippians 4-H cyclist. That's a big help. This is something to think about. You see, every time your mind begins to drift onto what the person does use, you begin to think, what can I put on that loop in order to return love What can I do to make our relationship more pleasant? What would that person really enjoy? What could we do on our vacation if we'd make it a pleasanter time together? Various other things that you could place on that list, not just in some void thinking on the glory of God. But in some specific and practical manner, replacing the bitter thoughts, the thoughts of love and sin. Now the application then is this is simply you to consider the three items you look to there. First of all, have you ever returned to God And we think it was if you had never come to God under his regime and said, God, you're good. I deserve your wrath. I deserve your judgment. Jesus Christ has born back from anyone who will come under the For anyone who will come and say, I need the sacrifice. I can thank my earnest And I guess that's not the answer. Then you flash it meaning a way. It's not just a good eye. You will see subscribing. That's the heart of the matter. And then you've got the relationship with someone. Second decision. How would you know the dualities of what the difference is about? And we suggest that we look to be able to ask God to correct. But to pick this up more than one acceptance tonight. So if you're a member of the late group, you'll have an opportunity. How in your experience have you held these students with examining? And ask that, change your mind about that and then in your practice form. And finally then, practice, not just think about, but some good forgiveness, without sufficient rationalization of God's You see these three things related to the context. You see there it's when you put the one person's name. It perhaps you have not forgiven. You say, Why has somebody not been willing to forgive you? Because of what a thing. And listen, what is the wrong that they've done? And what you put down. Have I been supporting this because it's 15? And if I'm looking to find out, it's really difficult to do Look at someone with the separate. You put the one. Come on in with the subject. Then come into the I thought I thought to do that. Now pulled up. Lived up to their repentance. In fact, we call it the rational found No, but that's a few people. I want to listen to this. You might do this. Because it's very called this philosophy. I don't know what this is. You don't want to give them the presentation. Sky promise that is the exact one. God again we're we are aware of a hundredth part of our things toward him Oh and then participate in heart. Clean all the heart from A hundred years sounds more than you and the original world. He's given. I was no reservation to the being. But he has taken you as he cards and to keep I think it's fun. We are not real to our consent and down to not lost. So we reply our limits. So we try it in the way we find us. The way he's time as the way he specifically and his distances sins in the seat