This month completes five years of our meeting here in this room As a church to worship. For five years we've been meeting here as a Presbyterian church. And a Presbyterian church means that we have elders. That's been new for a number of you who have joined with us in our fellowship during these five years. And I've personally been greatly encouraged as I've seen your response Because we've talked about what the Bible teaches about how God has provided for the leadership of His church to be done in His way. Surely we've all been learning through the five years what it is that God has for. how his church is to be run, how it is to be led, how ministry is to take place. There's a number of things that I think we've gotten a real handle on. I think that as a church we've gotten a handle on the fact that elders have authority, that we're not simply private individuals. Independent and somehow living only with a private accountability to the Lord and a private pipeline to God for our direction. We see ourselves as accountable to one another, and as the eldered particularly as having responsibility for us, and being accountable to submit to the elders Then they're concerned force, for they must be accountable to the Lord. We see that we don't simply run our congregational life by a democratic vote. But that God has delegated, the Lord Jesus Himself has delegated leadership to the elders for this. We've seen also that the authority is equal among the elders. I have no more authority than any other elder in this congregation. And I'll tell you frankly, there are many times I'm very glad for that. That we are all equally responsible for what happens here in Christ Church. And simply because I am the pastor does not mean that I have any status different from any of the other elders. Simply that you have seen fit to set me apart full-time to minister in teaching and in pastoring. But our authority is absolutely equal. I think we've got a real handle on that. I think we've seen that demonstrated in our congregation again and again. I think we've also gotten a real handle on the fact that elders are active as servants in ministry. But our session is not an executive board that simply makes decisions. And then those decisions are just passed down to you And then we simply carry those things out. But that the elders are active in ministry in your life to help you to grow in Jesus Christ. But in these five years, particularly recently, as I've listened to a number of you, I have become convinced that there may be three ways in which we have misled you as elders. Three ways that we perhaps have given you an unbalanced view of what an elder is and does. Perhaps we've oversold the position. It's been presented to you perhaps too exalted. Where there has been a way that we have given you an understanding that the elders to do things that the Bible doesn't say that he's to do. And so, what I want to do is look this morning at three misconceptions that are possible and common about elders. And that I want for us to see the correction of scripture. We're able to come into a more balanced view as we enter into our second five years of ministry together. To do that, let's take a look at Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4, Paul's Letters, is a key passage in understanding the dynamics of ministry in the local church. So I want for us to take a look at Ephesians chapter four now, verses seven to sixteen. Let's give attention to God's word, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 7 to 16. But to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned. This is why it says when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens, in order to fulfill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers to prepare God's people for works of service. So that the body of Christ may be built up, until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants crossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching, and by the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheme. Instead, speaking the truth in love. We do that all things flow up into him who is the head, that is Christ From here, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part Does its work. Now let's consider what God has to say for us here. In order for us to attain to our growth potential as a church, I'd like to suggest that if you take the G T for growth potential and put the three little letters RAS in the middle of it, you have three things being the grass. And those three things begin with the letters RAS. Now you all may be thinking, oh, now that's pretty corny. But I'll bet you that next week if I were to ask you what are the three points of this message, I don't know what they are, but they begin with RAS. And maybe hopefully hopefully that would take a little go a little further and you remember what they are. I want for us to grasp these three points That I think will bring us into a more balanced understanding of ministry in the church. The first is the question of responsibility Now, with all the things we do understand, here's how I think a common line of reasoning may proceed. The elders are pastors. I read that in verse 11 It says to me right there that Jesus gave some to be apostles, prophets, vandalists, and some to be pastors and teachers. And that's what the guys here are who are elders of this church. God says that. In fact, Paul, when he was leaving the elders of Ephesus, do you remember that cloudy day on the shores there of the seas? He was just ready to take off from the beach. Go into the boat and lead them. One of the last things he said to the Ephesian elders as they were gathered around him there, were you are to shepherd God's flock. And to be careful to keep it from the wolves and the rest of those things. He said to the elder, Shepherd God's flock. Peter. In 1 Peter 5, verse 2, and his instruction to the elders says, You elders are to shepherd the flock, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God. So scripture is absolutely clear that elders are to shepherd the flock. Right, no question. But then a line of thinking goes on, therefore I don't test them. That's the elder's job. You see? God says, I call the elders to pastor. That means that I don't pastor. So if I see a need in somebody's life, I say, boy, I sure hope an elder finds out about that I sure hope that that person's elder is able to understand that that person's hurting there, or that they seem to have some problems of attitude in that area. I sure hope their elder gets to them No. That's not what that passage suggests. Look closer. He says in verse 11, he gave some to be pastors and teachers, but the sentence goes on. To prepare God's people for works of service or ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up So that the purpose of the Lord giving pastors and teachers in the church is to prepare all the saints for those same works of ministry, to prepare you as the whole body to pastor with us. That's what the word is calling us to do together. Two applications of that. Number one, it means that we as elders of this church Think that the Lord has called us to particularly concentrate on a few people at a time to prepare them for works of ministry. Don R. Mott once said that the effect of Christian labor does not simply reproduce ministry, but ministers. We are simply called by the Lord to multiply workers and not simply work. If we as a church grow in numbers without growing in training pastors, and by that I mean not the office, but I mean what the word means. Pastor comes from the word shepherd. I mean people with shepherds' hearts. People who care for people and get involved in other people's lives because they care for them and are willing to be involved in those lives, then our congregation won't simply grow up, it'll grow back. We will be a fat congregation, but not a mature congregation. Consider. Suppose, as is the case right now, each of our elders has about 40 communicant members to pastor. That's the current ratio. About 40 people for each elder who are communicate members. That's not counting the children who are not communicate members or visitors, people that we're involved with who have to join. It's talking only about communicate members. Well suppose we divided that up so we saw each of these 40 people twice a year and we had some quality time with you talking about how your life's gone twice a year and then we gave everybody absolutely equal time At the end of the year, you'd have 40 people who'd say, well, I see my elder every six months. Doesn't help me a great deal. And you don't have anybody who's more prepared to pastor and to do work of ministry. And so what the owners would rather be to say is to say, now let's suppose that we each invest ourselves in three people. By seeking those people to produce the ability, the skills, the heart for ministry. And in concentrating on those people while also giving attention to as many others as we can, but also delegating and counting on you. To be ministering to one another, what do we have at the end of the year? If God's people are in fact caring for one another, we have not only people who are cared for, more effectively. But we also have for each elder now three others who have some skills and abilities in pastoring. And those people eventually, perhaps some of them, will come who are men to be elders, with us, and others who go on to various other kinds of ministries. You see, our job, this is not simply our strategy that we've concocted in some of these deep dark session meetings that you see are held on Tuesday night. God's Word says, verse twelve, that our job is to prepare of God's people. So it's when you come to us and you say, What are you doing with your time? Hopefully we'd be able to say to you, we're preparing God's people for works of ministry. We're preparing us as a ton congregation to be able to care for one another in a more significant, strategic, and helpful way. Well, that's going to cost It's going to cost in terms of perhaps sometimes you're feeling like you haven't gotten the attention that you need. And let me remind you of a story. That was written by a friend of mine who came on university staff together and he went on to pastor a church. And remember this experience in Leadership Magazine Sandy called me with a simple request, Derek, a friend of mine's in the hospital. Would you go and share some comforting words? When I'll all for hospital visitation and helping a friend, but at that moment my ministerial priorities outweighed my ministerial guilt. So mustering up my courage and attempting to be as empathetic as possible, I said, Sandy, my job is to equip you to do the ministry, not to do all the ministry myself. It's your job to visit your friend. Now that's three-pound rule for hospital visitation. Don't sit on the bed, don't stay too long, and pray and read the word with your friend before you leave. When you've done these things, call me back and I'll share some more tips. Well, you can imagine what I felt like when that conversation ended. All afternoon I wondered if I had done the right thing. Am I just being lazy? Well I didn't pay for. Am I not a pastor? Don't pastors march hospital hallways every visiting hour? But after a few hours, new thoughts began. I'm committed to the full employment of every believer. Putting that into practice may create a few awkward moments and relationships with people, but if I love them, teach them, and have confidence in their ministry Someday they will be off the spiritual welfare roles and be full active partners in ministry. That's what we're trying to do. And so when you see us at times delegate to you something that you may feel like, well Is that really what I'm supposed to do? We want to help you, but we want to prepare you so that we as a congregation can minister together more effectively. Now this doesn't mean secondly, simply that we will delegate, but it means also that you will need at times to take initiative Now you say, oh boy, now you really laid a heavy on me. Now I've got to not only accept the call to look after some of my brothers and sisters, but I've got to go and look after needs that I myself see. That's overwhelming. I mean, you know, I have a full-time job, and I've got a lot of other things that I need to do. I can't be just going around counseling and pastoring and doing all these kinds of things That just opens Pandora's box every time I see some need to think, well, how should I get involved in this and should I begin to minister in that way? I'm not trying to lay down That would be sort of like coming to a lecture on jogging, and I tell you about all the benefits of jogging until you decide that having never jogged before, you'll now go out and jog five miles a day every day of the week And so you go out after that first week and you've done it for five miles a day and somebody says to you, An idea that jogging uh adds years to your life if you think that's true, you say, Well, I don't know if it adds years to my life, but I sure feel ten years older after doing it this week and I'm never gonna Do it again. And so you quit because you try to take on too much and you aren't equipped and prepared to do it all. I'm not saying that every time you see a need, take it off. All I'm saying is when you see a brother or a sister coming, critical, or gossiping, that you don't buy into it, don't enjoy it, or that you stop and you say, Now wait a minute. Have you told this person that you're having trouble with? Well, I don't think they'd listen. Well, wait a minute. Why do you think I'm going to listen? I enjoy it too much, frankly. I'd rather not. I don't need to hear that. You go and tell this person directly, and I'll pray for you. That's pastoring. That's doing works with ministry in the body. When you see a brother and a sister coming, and this person's really hurting over a discouragement, some problems they've had in their life. And you say, I don't know how to help this person. But as you listen to them telling about all of their disparities and their difficulties, what you find out is that they don't really need answers so much as somebody who will just listen to them. Somebody who will care for them. Somebody who will simply be there and say, I understand what you're saying. That's pastoring. That's caring for people. The ways that God can enable each of us to do it, and I'm confident that you can do it, as God brings people into your life to do that. But then you say, wait a minute. Second point, I don't have the authority. To be an elder. The Bible says that elders have authority to pastor and to counsel. You see, it says there in verse 11 that he gave some to be pastors and teachers. It was the Lord who delegated these people to do that. He was giving them this authority. Therefore, I have no authority. I don't have the authority to do that. I'm not an elder who can go and confront somebody's sin, who can get involved in somebody's life on that level. I don't have that authority. And again, I would like to suggest no. That does not follow. And here I think there is a grave difficulty in the church today in striking the balance of this question of apartheid. Look at the scriptures that are listed there. Verses 15 and 16 of this same passage tell us that each one of us are to speak the truth in love. So the word of all things brought unto him who is the head, that is Christ. From him felt hell body in this speaking the truth in love. Help each other to grow up in Christ. You have the truth to speak in love, as I have it. The truth, the scriptures are your authority The elders do not have an intrinsic authority of themselves. God has never given to an elder the authority to say, you do this because I say you do it. Every time we as elderly say to you, you should do this, you should always say, Why does God say that? Where does he say that? And we should share it from Scripture. And you and let all have the truth in the scriptures to speak at love. You remember when Jesus gave the Great Commission? How did he begin it? All authority in heaven and earth is given to me. Therefore, you, all my disciples, go and make disciples He didn't say, I have given God authority to go and make disciples only to a certain subset of my people, but as to all of his people Because the authority is in Jesus Christ. You go and represent him. And when you use the word in each other's mind, you represent Jesus Christ in the authority of that word. And nobody can, when you say, God says in this verse, say, buzz off, you don't have any authority to tell me that. Because God's authority is intrinsic and he speaks. And we speak that truth in love. In Romans chapter 15, Paul was speaking to all the saints. But he said in chapter 15, verse 14, I myself am convinced, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness. Complete in knowledge and competent to instruct one another. It's the phrase from which Jay Adams gets the title of his book, competent to counsel. It's the word that could also be translated, to counsel directively. You are competent to counsel and instruct each other. Why? Because of two things, he says in that verse that you have. One, goodness. That's speaking about your character and your motivation. Paul said you care about each other. You have a character of godliness. You can't speak with authority from a shoddy mind. But then he says, secondly, you also have knowledge. And what's that knowledge of? Well, it's clear that he's talking there about the knowledge of Scripture. You're not just simply saying we've got a lot of good opinions. You know, every one of us can tell each other how to run our lives. We're all good at that, aren't we? Just be like me This is not talking about that. This is talking about the knowledge of Scripture. That's your authority And every one of us have the scriptures and dare not go beyond the scriptures in seeking to help one another, in pastoring and ministering to one another. 1 Corinthians 12 tells us that God has given gifts to the whole body that will all grow up in the exercise of those gifts together. And we as elders never dare put a stumbling bond. In the lives of the people of God to make it difficult for you to use your gifts fully in building each other up. And so, turning over to the application, be clear. The applicant, the authority For discipling is ultimately in the word, not in the person. I know of churches where the elders tell people who they can marry and who they shouldn't marry. Where they should live. I remember one fellow asking what kind of car he should buy, and the elders brought that before them and decided. And we can all have that tendency to become little poets, can't we? Power can corrupt. Even elders. And the authority must always remain in the word. And you may occasionally need to call us to account in that and say, brothers, don't let your authority go beyond the word. But you have that word the same as us. Use it. Secondly, you may be saying, yeah But I don't know how to use it. I don't know how to do that. Aha! Anticipated that. Two opportunities for you to get help. That's what you need, and that's what you want. First of all, there are basic counseling foundation growth groups. If you are interested in finding out about these materials and about the kinds of groups that there are, possibility of having these groups You could talk to Ruth Olson, Jerry or Maddie Boss, Kathy Harris, my wife, or others who are involved in this. Those particular ones are involved in either leading or thinking of leading such groups Dave Bolson, Gary Boss, Maddie Boss, Kathy Harris. Talk to them about what these groups are. How do they give me help in knowing how to use the word to solve problems in my own life and in other people's lives Also, we'll be having a disciple-making seminar beginning October 14th. Big crash course with a Friday night and Saturday morning, and then five successive Tuesday evenings. Spread out over a couple of months to help you in how to build basic skills of discipleship in the life of another person. These are simply the training in that how-to. So I have to use you wherever you are, but this is simply to give you some help in how to use the word in another person's life. Then I want to come to the third and perhaps the most important point of all, and that is the question of satisfaction. The question of satisfaction The elders are to care for us. No question. We gave some to be pastors and teachers. To pastor means to care as a shepherd for the sheep. No question that the Lord has given elders to care for and to pastor the people of God. But then And let me also add to that, I think that most of you receive that kind of promise, either explicitly or implicitly, if you've come to join this church. But Deception probably said to you at one point that now that you're coming, you're coming particularly in a relationship with us in which we pledge ourselves to seek to care for you, care for your growth and godliness. And we have a responsibility. But is it possible that we misled you in that? For you can conclude from that statement that therefore I am to look to my elder for my needs. And to look to my elder to meet my needs. And I must say that that is not the conclusion that we intended for you to draw. Maybe that was our biggest mistake. So there is always the tendency, isn't there, for us to look to men, to people, to meet our needs, rather than the Lord. And again and again, we need to emphasize to you as to ourselves, don't look to us. Look to Christ. He alone is able to satisfy your needs. Look to Jesus Christ for both the satisfaction and the solution to your problems. Don't look to man, not even elves. We're not special. We're not priests. We have nothing that we can give to you beyond what others have here by the power of the Holy Spirit. Man is insufficient and always ultimately unsatisfied. Let us then verse 13. He goes on to say he gave pastors and teachers after saying to prepare God's people for works of service. So that the body of Christ may be built up. Until what? The sentence goes on again. Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God. Our goal, brothers and sisters, is to know Jesus Christ better. Our needs are to draw us to Him so that we take them to Him to know Him better in His capacity to meet those needs. In Psalm 118, verse 8 and 9, we read: It's better to take refuge in the Lord. than to trust in man. It's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. Now who were the princes? In Old Testament Israel, the princes were the counterpart of the elders. In our day, in the New Testament church. The princes were those who were set up under the king to oversee the church, to oversee the people of God and to care for their needs. They were the leaders of the people. And this psalm back here is saying, it's better to trust in the Lord than in any person. In fact, it's better to trust in the Lord and take refuge in him than to try and find your refuge in an elder. For ultimately, your elder will always let you down. We don't intend to. We're sinful. We're limited. We're limited in our caring. We're limited in our capacity, we're so limited in our wisdom, and only the Lord can meet those needs fully. Only the Lord is without limit in his love-being The Lord Jesus Christ came, and he became a servant, taking on the form of a man, so that he would live for you and die for you. I haven't died for you. I've never loved you enough to care to give my life for you in the way that Jesus Christ gave his life for you. Jesus Christ came and he gave his life to die for you. Jesus Christ lives and right now intercedes for you. Get on his heart, and he cares for you infinitely more than I or any elder could care for you. for you. And Jesus Christ has infinite capacity and ability, infinite wisdom to meet your needs. He said, but I can't see him and I can't touch him. It's so much easier to grab my elder and talk to him. At least I get a response, you know. Gave up me the response I want, but it's tangible But all let me encourage and exhort you. Go brokenly to Jesus Christ and cry out as Jacob, I won't let you go until you bless me. Remain with him in prayer. Seek him in his word. And go to him determined to seek his face and have that sense of his presence as he speaks to you. And you do broke into him. with your problems, your discouragements, your disillusionments, and all those things that weigh you down, I promise you. That if you go to Jesus Christ, he will meet those needs. He will meet those needs in a way that no human being could ever meet those needs. And he will give you full satisfaction. 1 John chapter 1. John speaking about fellowship Puts it all in perspective when he says in verse 3, We proclaim to you that what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. John's saying, we want to have fellowship together. You and I, as brothers and sisters in the body, having a relationship. But then he says there's something prior to that that enables it to happen. Our fellowship Is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. You and I, as a group of people in this church Seek simply to be fed spiritually by other people, whether in a Bible study, in a prayer partner relationship, in hearing the messages Sunday by Sunday, in any other way. And by our going to Jesus Christ in his word and facing him squarely, I'm honestly directly saying, Lord Jesus, no other person is between us now. And I'm coming. to you because I need you. I'm coming to you now because I'm confused, because I'm insecure, because I've made a mess of this thing in my life. And Lord, I come because I'm hurting. Because I'm angry. Because I'm bitter. Because, Lord, I feel hurts that I don't think anyone else could understand. And I bring it to you, and I can't say you don't understand, for I know you do. But I promise you, you will meet you eat At its deepest point, I know. I can testify to that first hand. They are fellowship. They are fellowship engaging out of the well springs of our own finding, each of us finding satisfaction in Jesus Christ. We're able to use that word with spiritual authority in the lives of one another. And we're not so concerned about our ability. That's simply our availability to him to simply use us where we are in any way that He chooses. Let's pray. There are some of us now are realizing that we That means that we have not been taking to you. We've been looking to people to solve them. We've been looking to others. And we've been dissatisfied. We've been disillusioned. And Lord God, we want to come to you now. We want to come to you, Lord Jesus, and cry out our needs and lay them before you. And we bring them to you now. Ah Lord, help us to know satisfaction rebuking you, Lord Jesus, for you loved us so much. You're always so tender with your disciples as they came clamoring to you for their foolish questions. With all of their insecurities and all of their foolish statements. Lord, how we know that you will receive us. You won't reject us or turn us away. And so we come and thank you that you meet us right where we are. And we pray, Lord, that you would give to us The confidence in your word that we might use it with authority, with spiritual authority. The beginning Become more knowledgeable in that word and how to use it in solving problems in our own lives and in the lives of others Lord, we pray that you'd speak to some even now who need that help and want that help to be able to get into doing. a basic counseling foundation growth group, or to take the disciple-making course, time out about these things, and at least be open to you now, to say, Lord, I'm open to get that training. I'm open because I want to be used by you. Lord, we pray that you will help each of us. To see the balance of the responsibility and the authority and the satisfaction that you have called us as elders to provide as we care for your people. And that which you called us as a body of your people, who your spirit has equipped, and whom we've seen, Lord, in these five years, can so ably minister to one another in so many ways, so many times. Lord, we pray that you would help us. Help us even more. Help us, Lord, fully as your people. Lord, we're excited when we think of what you can do to a group of people like this whom your spirit is filling. If we might grow up into the Lord Jesus and His likeness, this is what we long for in Lord. This is our praying. In Jesus' name. Amen. Two things that the Lord has spoken to us about in this his word that we want to give him praise for now. One is