On Sunday morning. And the message that I want to bring to you this morning is one been one that's been long on my mind. Thought about this for some months. I feel a particular urgency in delivering this message to you, and yet I'm somewhat fearful about how some of you may receive it. So I'd like to begin by praying. Let's join together. Lord, we've just heard how your grace is sufficient for us in our weakness. You know, Lord, that I feel great weakness in bringing your word. Maybe it's partly because it's been a while since I have brought it to these people. And so, Lord, I feel keenly my weakness. I feel that you have a message that you want very much for them to hear and to know. Lord, we pray that your word would come to us and give to us teachable and open hearts. That we would not evaluate, that we would not spectate. But Lord, that you would make us hearers and doers. Pray that the power of your Spirit would come upon us now and lift up Christ in our midst. Amen. Just heard a song, beautiful song, My Grace is sufficient for you. Grace is very big in the evangelical church today. A lot of churches choose that name. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised to find out that it's maybe the most popular name for churches, Grace Community, Grace Evangelical, Grace Presbyterian. Grace is often used in vision statements. One church in the area says that their vision is to be a grace-rich community. Uh grace is very important. Um I find that um when I preach on grace, God's grace, the um magnitude of it, the extent of it Generally I will get responses at the door where people will say, boy, that was really great. I needed to hear that. I need to hear that every Sunday. And we do. Because our hearts are so law-bent. We are legalistic and superstitious by nature, aren't we? Grace is not the way we normally think. And so we need to be constantly reminded of the gospel that cuts against the ways that we normally operate. We need to be reminded of the gospel again and again. And yet, how much do we hear in our day about the cost of discipleship? Now, discipleship we tend to contrast with grace. We hear about grace and our immediate response is to relax. We hear discipleship and we get a little tense. Particularly if I talk about the cost of discipleship. And where do the rigors of discipleship fit with the notion of grace? Last week in the Bulletin insert, uh I think it was last week, might have been a couple weeks ago, uh there was this um uh Christian history insert uh on the life of Dietrich Bonhoeffer. A man who was a committed Christian and though he could have remained safely in New York during World War II as a German Christian decided that his discipleship Following of the Lord Jesus Christ required him to return to Nazi Germany, and you may recall how he was hanged by the Nazis just three weeks before Hitler committed suicide, four weeks. before Germany surrendered because of his following his convictions in serving the Lord in that difficult situation. And he wrote a book called The Cost of Discipleship In this book, he talks about the problems of cheap grace, which he speaks of as being antithetical to biblical Christianity. What is cheap grace? Speaks a lot about it. Let me give you just a couple of quotes. Cheap grace, Bonhoeffer says, is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance Baptism without church discipline, communion without confession, absolution without personal confession. Cheap grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ, living and incarnate. He says that the only man who has the right to say that he is justified by grace alone is the man who has left all to follow Christ. Such a man knows that the call to discipleship is a gift of grace, and that the call is inseparable from the grace. But those who try to use this grace as a dispensation from following Christ are simply deceiving themselves. That is, I believe, precisely what the Lord Jesus was speaking about in Luke chapter 9, verses 23 and 24, the text that I want to bring to you this morning. Luke chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. If you have your Bibles and haven't turned to that yet, please do so. I want to look at these two verses with you this morning, and as I do so, and before I read them, let me remind you of two things. First of all, everything that I say this morning is my dearest intention to come out of Luke chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. I want the best of my ability this morning to simply be a messenger, the conveyor of God's word to you through Luke chapter 9, verses 23 and 24, the words of our Lord Jesus. Therefore, you may accept what I say this morning, or you may reject what I say this morning. But what I hope you do not do is to say that it's my opinion. I want to represent to you a part of Christianity that I don't think we hear enough about today And that I think we need to be reminded of, and that for some of us may be very searchingly, right to the very bottom of our heart to question whether we in fact know the Lord Jesus Christ at all. But please don't say that I'm simply giving you my opinion on this. Look at what the scripture says and ask yourself: is this what Jesus is saying, or isn't it? And the second thing that I want to remind you of as we get into this is that from our very beginning, from the very foundation of our Being established as a church, Columbia Presbyterian's purpose has been to make disciples. We are seeking to Know how better we can do that for you as a congregation of God's people? And our purpose Therefore, in making disciples has to be, first of all, to find out what is it that Jesus says characterizes a disciple? What is it that a disciple is in essence? And to remember that Columbia Presbyterian Church is a movement that you are part of, not an event that you watch. Let's then look at God's Word, Luke chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. I'm going to pick it up at verse 18 because that's where the conversation begins. Once when Jesus was praying in private and his disciples were with him, he asked them, Who do the crowd say I am? And they replied, Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and still others that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life. But what about you? He asked. Who do you say I am? Peter answered, the Christ, the Messiah of God. Jesus strictly warned them not to tell this to anyone. And he said, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and teachers of the law. And he must be killed, and on the third day be raised to life. And then he said to them all If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for me will save it. What good is it for a man to gain the whole world and yet lose or forfeit his very self? If anyone is ashamed of me in my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory, and in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. I tell you the truth, some of you who are standing here will not taste death before they see the kingdom of God. There are three soul-killing, deadly, deceptive myths about Christianity that are abroad today. This text addresses the three that I have in mind. And I would like for you to look with me carefully at what these three myths are and how this text corrects them. Myth number one. Discipleship is for some Christians who are the particularly committed type. This is the idea that the church is divided into two broad categories. There are all those who have trusted Jesus, taken him into their heart, believed on him for salvation, and have eternal life because he's died for their sins. Within that group, there is a subgroup of those who are the more committed types. Those are the real disciples Those are the candidates for missions. Those are the people who are likely to be tapped for full-time Christian service. They're the nuns and priest types, you know, the monks. These are the committed disciples. These are two different groups, and so uh though all of us like to think that because we've accepted Jesus, we have somehow taking him into our lives. We're going to heaven. We're not concerned that we necessarily need to be the disciple types Because that's an option for us. It's for some people. Americans seem to be a particularly spiritual, religious kind of people. We like to go to church, we like to hear things from the Bible. But we also have this notion that Jesus is to keep his hands off of our wallets, our calendars, and our morals. And so we like to hear about spiritual things that will give us the comfort that we're going to heaven. And let those who are the committed types worry about whether they're going to follow this stuff with some rigor. That is not necessary because we are called by grace. The fact is that discipleship is required for anyone who calls himself or herself a Christian. Look at the text. Jesus said to them all, verse twenty-three, if anyone would come after me. He doesn't say, of all those who come after me, here is a higher standard for some of you. He says, if anyone would come after me, He, the anyone, must deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. Verse 24. Whoever Wants to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for me will save it. Friends, those are absolute universals There is no distinction in the New Testament between Christian and disciple In Acts eleven, verse twenty six, we read that it was in Antioch that the disciples first were called Christians. And the two terms are synonymous. They are never divided. Christians are disciples. If anyone wants to come after me and save his life and go to glory, as he says in verse 26, see the kingdom. Then he must deny himself, take up his cross, follow me. There is no such distinction that American Christianity is so intent on preserving. Second myth. Christianity is mainly a set of beliefs, not a daily relationship How many times have you heard that? Are you a Christian? Yes, I believe that Jesus died for my sins. I believe that the Bible is true. It's the belief that, the assenting to propositions that is often seen in America, in our culture, as what defines a Christian He's a person who believes certain things. As if he subscribes to them. You've put a contract before him and he says, Oh yes, I agree with those things. I sign it It doesn't necessarily affect how I live, but I believe that those things are true. That is not what Jesus is saying here. He says what defines a person who is a believer is that they come after him, they deny themselves, they take up a cross and they follow him. He's talking about a personal relationship. He's talking not simply about a set of beliefs, but about an all-encompassing conviction that directs a person's life. This is a person who follows me, he says. A Christian, the fact in contrast, is that a Christian is one who comes after, follows Jesus personally and consciously. You notice the coming after me, the following me, with denying self and taking up the cross in between. These are two pairs of ideas, and they go together. What is meant by this idea of coming after him, of denying ourselves, of taking up our cross and following him? The author A. W. Pink commented on this passage in a book he wrote, Gleanings in the Godhead. He put it so succinctly and so well that I thought I can't improve on it, and so I would like to just read to you what he says. about the meaning of these phrases. What does it mean, he says, to deny self? It means to repudiate our own goodness To renounce our own wisdom, to have no confidence in our own strength, and to completely set aside our own will and wishes That we should not henceforth live to ourselves, but unto him who died for us. And that's masterful. Hear that again. It means to repudiate my own goodness. That's denying myself. It's renouncing my own wisdom. I can live according to what I think is the way to go. It's to have no confidence in my own strength It's to completely set aside my own will and wishes, my own agenda, that I might follow Christ. What does it mean to take up our cross It signifies a readiness to endure the world's hatred and scorn, to voluntarily surrender our lives to God, to use all of our faculties for His glory. The cross stands for unreserved and loving obedience to the Lord, for of him it is written that he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. It is only as self with all its lustings and interest is denied, and as the heart is dominated by the Spirit of Calvary, that we are prepared to follow Christ. And what is signified by following Christ? It means to take his yoke upon me, to live in complete subjection to him. To yield fully to his lordship and to obey his commands and thus truly to serve him. It is to seek to do only those things which are pleasing in his sight. To emulate the example that He left for me, as He was in all things subject to the Scriptures. Notice at verse 26, it says the disciple is one who is not ashamed of him. You need to ask yourself, this last week Was it my desire to follow Jesus? His teaching and his example in everything that I did Did I seek for his bidding when that person was unkind to me, was hurtful and sharp? And I wanted to retaliate. Did it cross my mind, Lord, how do you want me to respond in this situation? When I go to work, am I conscious of taking the presence of Christ with me, that I represent Him in that place, or do I detach myself? I leave my Christianity back with the Christians and church and religious activities. In my family are our priorities. In terms of the checkbook and the calendar set by a conscious awareness that we belong to Jesus and therefore he directs our priorities. Now, none of us do this consistently. Let me not try to pretend that I do this consistently. We all fall far short of this, but is it the desire of our hearts When it comes right down to it, if you had two buttons that were st standing before you, you got a dashboard, there's two buttons on it, and one button says, push this button And you will have a happy life, but no likeness to Jesus. Or the second button says, push this button. And you will have a mixture of joy and pain, of good times and hardship, but there will be increasing likeness to Jesus. Which button would you push Jesus says, Whoever, if anyone comes after me, the bent of his heart. is to follow me, to lay aside his agenda, take up his cross. If he's ashamed of me, he says I will be ashamed of him in that day. Friends, this is not talking about a few more acres in the heavenly Jerusalem. This is talking about heaven or hell. He says, if you were to gain the whole world by following your agenda, living in a way that you think you can simply add Jesus into your life. But you're going to go the way that you've intended to go, and you want to know that you're going to heaven. So you'll sign the contract that says, I believe that these things are true, but not believe on the one who said them. To rest my life and my hope and all that I am simply upon him as his disciple. Jesus says, You cannot be my disciple in any other terms. Anything else is not biblical Christianity. And that brings us to the third myth. The third myth is that Christianity is by grace and therefore it requires no change. Change is good. We ought to become more like Jesus. But what if I don't What if my life is the same as it was five years ago and there is no difference, no increasing likeness to Christ, no more hatred for sin? No more sense of victory against sin dominating habits in my life. What if those same old things are the same way they always were and they probably will be the same for the rest of my life and I'm entirely comfortable that that would be the possibility? Do I say grace covers it all? It's by grace. Therefore, there is no incumbency, there is no requirement that I change. By grace. The fact is, you see in the bulletin outline here, Christianity is death to my rights. Christianity is death to my rights, and a new life that is directed by Jesus. The call here is to deny yourself, to take up your cross. We look at a cross as a piece of jewelry, something to hang around our necks. We've taken the cross and we've emasculated the s the shame and the horror of what a cross was in that culture. If you saw a man taking his cross, he was a dead man. He was as good as dead. He was simply a matter of time. Before his heart would stop beating. To take up the cross is the ultimate symbol of death in that culture. And so when Jesus says that if anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross, he's speaking of nothing less than death. Death to any hope of my goodness, of my strength, of my agenda prevailing. Death He will lose his life for me, he says in verse 24. Discipleship is death to my agenda for the kingdom and the cause of my Lord Jesus, because he's the pearl of great price. For which I will sell everything to gain it. Churches today we focus and have done a great discussion service to people by focusing entirely on what can the church do for you and we bought into that consumer mentality. We are so consumer oriented the church becomes like having seasoned tickets to some weekly event. And we go to that weekly event every Sunday, and we decide whether this event is good enough for me to continue my attendance. I'll decide how often I come, I'll decide how much I participate, I will decide if I come back, depending on whether the event meets my expectations. And so we judge what happens, don't we? The opening set was pretty good. Prayer confession was too long. The sermon was too heavy. I'll think about whether I'm going to go back there again. You imagine if you allowed kids to judge mom's cooking that way? Well, you know, the hamburgers were pretty good. The broccoli wasn't very interesting. And there should have been more dessert. You see, we we think in terms of what it is that I desire rather than what I need to be fed. And because we have twisted this whole idea that church is an event that I watch rather than a movement that I am part of. Then Jesus' call rings to us in a jarring way. If anyone will come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. It just goes against our whole notion of Christianity in America. But I would not love you And I would be self-serving if I were to give you every week simply messages that told you about the grace of Christ and his freedom for sinners. Without warning you that as Bonhoeffer says, that grace is a grace which includes a repentance and a death to self. In order to receive the grace that he's speaking of, I'm afraid that some of us find ourselves attracted to services rather than to Jesus Christ. And if you're wondering about whether the Spirit is speaking to you about that this morning, let me give you a test. Do you know how I find a person can find out whether or not I'm attracted to the services, the singing, the things that go on at CPC, but not to Jesus. Ask yourself, am I willing to be inconvenienced for him and give up my independence? Am I willing to let him touch my schedule in the amount of time that I give to spend in his word to get to know him better? Am I willing to serve my brothers and sisters in the body of Christ? Am I willing to become part of a small group where I'm accountable to other believers? Who will put their fingers on areas of my life that need to change and to be vulnerable? Or do I want to preserve my independence at all costs? We're a very independent people, aren't we? I like my independence. It's very threatening to me to give up chunks, pieces, bits of that independence to be part of a community. We are so rapidly defensive of our independence that some of us would rather go to hell. Believing certain things about the gospel, but never understanding what Jesus means. By denying ourselves, taking up our cross, becoming part of a community. Of committed disciples in order to follow him. I heard just recently was involved in a situation with a man who was Part of and had been part of an evangelical church for many years. He decided to divorce his wife. He did not have biblical grounds for doing this. And so he made up grounds that gave an appearance of biblical grounds, and he divorced her. He was confronted by another Christian about what he had done. And you know what his response was? Yeah, I know that that was wrong. But after all, God forgives everything, doesn't he? A presuming. I know it's wrong, I know it's sin, but that's okay. God forgives. That's what he's there for. Sure, I can do things that are wrong that are absolutely contrary to Scripture. That's okay. Because grace is sufficient. That kind of presumption is terrifying. What about your life this morning? Now Before you're all ready to melt and wither into your seats, let me tell you the good news. Jesus did not simply teach this He modeled it. If you go back earlier in chapter 9, Jesus has sent the disciples out and they come back in. And he says, we need to go rest. And so he takes them apart. And what happens? You see in verse 10 and 11, the crowds find them. And Jesus, it says, welcome the crowds. He's weary. The disciples are weary. They need to get away. They need to screen the phone calls through the answering machine. And he denies himself. He welcomes the crowds, and when they say, Send them away, he says, No. You feed them. And he denies his comfort and he denies the rest in order to feed the people. And it's after that that you have this conversation about who he is. And it's in that conversation that Jesus says, now let me tell you, verse 21, the Son of Man. Must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the law. And he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. What's Jesus doing? He's denying himself and he's taking up his cross. And the point you see of Jesus' call in verse 23 and 24 is when Jesus died on the cross for your sin, you are not part of him unless you died on that cross with him. What Jesus is saying there is that when I died on that cross and I took all the punishment of God against sin and sinners. That if you by faith identify with me to the extent that you see yourself on that cross with me, To the extent where you die not simply to the condemnation of sin, but to your own rights, then you're not part of me. Romans chapter 6, we have died with Christ and are raised again. Galatians chapter 2, verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ and I have died. Nevertheless, I live. The life I now live, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, he died. So that we who live don't any longer live to ourselves, but unto him who died for us, because we died with him So you see, as you look at your life, and I look at my life now, and I look at all the ways that I'm inconsistent with this, the root question for you right now, if the Spirit of God is touching your heart with Do I want to die with Jesus Christ? Have I died with him inconsistently, but asking him to apply that death to the various areas of my life that I'm trying to preserve in independence? Do I want to identify with Jesus? And if you never have, there is nothing, absolutely nothing, but your own stubborn will keeping you from doing that right now. And if you have, the Spirit of God is speaking to you about a particular area of your life, of that kind of denial. Then the Spirit of God is better able than I am to put his finger on what is that exact area. For you to bring it to him now. But as we go to prayer, let me remind you. That when we speak of that denial, lest you think that I'm speaking about something which is simply a A gut-wrenching, self-sacrificing, prune-faced sense of I've got to give up everything that I want in order to follow Jesus. Look what he says in verse 26. If anyone is ashamed of me in my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory. And in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. The saving of your life by giving it to Jesus Christ brings you an entrance into the glory that Jesus Christ has with his Father. And a foretaste of first fruits of that glory right here and now as you turn your life over to Him, to let Him transform it, to give you His power. And let him rule it. You and I are so scared to let someone else take our life and run it as if we've been doing such a great job ourselves, aren't we? And if you think maybe you haven't been doing that great job, why not take this moment to turn it over to Jesus? Let's pray. Lord, I I do sense that you're speaking to a number of us this morning. I know you've really been speaking to me through this passage. We are a people so bent and sometimes hellbent on preserving our independence We want to pick and choose. We want to keep aloof. We're afraid to be vulnerable We're afraid to be committed to something that we can't back out of. I want to keep our options open. We're afraid of you, Lord Jesus. We're afraid to really let you get your hands on our lives. We're afraid of what you'll do. But oh Lord, how foolish we are. I pray that the power of the Spirit would come to strip away those delusions and deceptions. That somehow we can do a better job of running our own lives, that we are able to know how to make ourselves happier than you are. Lord, we want to dare to have you touch our lives this morning. And for some of us that have been playing at Christianity With that vague hope that because we have believed and ascended the certain facts, that we will get to heaven. Lord, you've shown us the words of the Lord Jesus that pierce through and shatter those delusions. Right now we want to give ourselves to you.