The door and the uplift of being here and singing praise to Jesus Christ and realizing He's listening. And what I'd like to switch here then, I'd like to praise the thing. for just a moment. About a time when we had a particularly disappointing prayer not answered on. I'd like for you to think about a time when God allowed something to happen in your life that seem to go utterly contrary to his nature and to his promises for you. Not the great upless of this morning when your feelings are high and everything seems great and it's so easy to believe in Jesus. But at a time in your life when it is very difficult to believe in. Think of a time when you were under such severe temptation that you found yourself crying out, is this Christianity's business really? truth, there isn't something that I simply feel in a worship service or in a Bible study or when I'm looking at a sunset. Think about such a time. Think about that question. How can I know whether this is true? How can I know whether all of this thing about and praising God for is really historically true? whether it's simply something that we would like to believe. Let me focus the question a little more points. How can I really know whether Jesus really did rise from the death? Thank you. Amen. That's the good. But how can you know when you're thinking about your feelings and everything so contrary to that. Is it possible? What I'd like to do now is to take a look at one record of the resurrection in Scripture from Mark's Gospel. Eight simple verses. It's the barest account of the resurrection that we have. In fact, it's almost embarrassingly to read there's so little reference to Jesus' resurrection. Because those eight verses of Mark 16 are the original. part of Mark's gospel, it's generally agreed by scholars that verses nine to twenty were added afterwards. However, you uh look at their authority, uh, it does not seem very All the same words what Mark raised. But let's take a look at just these eight verses, and we'll see there that Mark raises three questions that the man answers from. That Mark would take is in finding those answers will make all the difference in your life or my life in how we see those answers, whether we see it the way Mark says it, or whether we try to come up with some alternative explanation. And I want for us to think about this. So what we feel this morning may not be something that simply passes with the rays of the sunshine of Easter Den. Let's think about that. The three questions that I went forward to consider are as you see in your bullet an outline. Who moved the soul? Secondly, who took the body? And then thirdly, who came to disciples? Let's look at it. Mark's account, God's word, In Mark chapter 16, I'll read verses 1 to 8, and then I'll read also verses 19 and 20. When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene Mary, the mother of James and Salones, brought prices so that they might go to anoint Jesus' body. Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the team, and they asked each other. When they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away. As they entered the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white earth. sitting on the right side. And they were alarmed. Don't be alarmed, he said. We're looking for Jesus, the Nazarene, who is crucified. He has risen. Here. See the place where they laid him. But Gala, tell his disciples and Peter. He's going ahead of you into Galilee. And this Because they were afraid. The verses 19 and 20. After the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was taken up into heaven and he sat at the right hand of God. And the disciples went out and preached everywhere. And the Lord worked with them and confirmed his word by the fine that accompanied it. You have these three women, very, very early on Sunday morning. Just like this morning. I don't know how many of you were up at sunrise, but a little cloudy, but still a beautiful morning. And there they are, just after the sun has risen, and they're on their way to the king. Versus Mary Magdalene. The verse 9000 said this is the Mary, out of whom Jesus had cast seven demons. The woman who has been demons disaster, the life utterly shipwrecked. And through Jesus Christ, through a life of the made me. The second one is Mary, the mother of James. That's Mary, the mother of James the lesson, Joseph. The ancient church historian Eusebius tells us that this man was the wife of Clotus who was Joseph's brother. Assemble is that account, which is seen as having a lot of weight, is is reliable, and that means that this was Jesus aunt. Jesus and Mary. Perhaps he had he had seen he was growing up in Nazareth. But see what how much potential there was with the Joe and Wall. Then watch him his ministry. And then watch his decrucified. And always wait for her nephew, Dash. The first one is Philom. Salome is probably the one who is the mother of David. God, the son of his reading, Jesus, beloved disciple in his breath. And so this also was a woman seemingly very close to Jesus. These three women, unlike the other disciples except for John, had got Jesus thigh on the cross. They had stayed hidden. And they saw where he was buried. That's very important. No mistakenly. They saw where it was buried. Look at chapter 15, verse 40 and 41. Some of the women were watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the Elder, and of Joseph, and Philoni. 23 million. Then verse 47. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph. saw where he was laid. They followed after Joseph of Aram the Sea took the body and they took it into the tomb and they saw exactly where it was laid so they could come back on Sunday morning to anoint the body. And if they go, and they're waiting to be team, an anxious question comes to their mind so much that it to preoccupy their thinking, but it's a question they hadn't thought of before. All of a sudden they realize there's a large stone on that team to steal it. Well he's going to move that stone so that we can get in. You see that in verses three, two and three. The stone was indeed a very large stone. That was set of problems for Verse 4 tells us that it was very large. In fact, a second century addition to Mark's gospel went in that this stone was so large But twenty men couldn't leave it. And the nature of that stone was that it was like a millstone. You call it millstone, sort of like a large stony disk And that stone was laid against the cave, because the tomb was in the side of a nine-stone wall and it had been hollowed out. And that stone, which was a like a large millstone disk, was set in a groove. And that groove down to where that entrance to the tomb was. And right there there was a depression that had been hollowed out. But it was very easy once you had made that tomb to walk the stone down into the depression. But it would be very difficult To take that stone and roll it back out. And so indeed they did have a problem. In fact, they had a second problem that they hadn't even thought of. And that was that they were God since. You see, they didn't notice that after Jesus had died, The Jews had gone to Pilate and then he said, We want to make sure that that body isn't taken away. And so we want a guard to be set there. And so a guard had been placed there and a rubber seal had been set on that sea. A feel which made the king. Little for anyone to need that stone, even if they could physically. And so this stone would be fixed, there was a guard there, and there was no way that that three or four women would be able to get in. And so there they come. And who needs the stone? They would think about it. So what are the possibilities? Who wouldn't lose that cell? That way the guards wouldn't lose it. But they would set the guard it to make sure that they would not lose it. It had one seal on it. Well in payment death would they move it? Subway the guys wouldn't move it, they have their reason to move it. What about the women? Well, we see that they couldn't at least. They aren't strong enough. They weren't able physically to move the stuff. What about the disciples? There is no indication the disciples had any intention of moving it. That's the winner's problem. You're going and saying, who's going to move it? Especially the disciples had not offered to help. They had no intention of moving the stone. The women are going alone. And the disciples are covering with grace, the women with all ocean. They had no intention of leaving that self. And so the only possibility It's the last one. What Matthew tells us about. One that we didn't know about, except for Matthew's account, telling us in chapter 28, verses 2 to 4, that God used an earthquake and an angel He was a stone. We got an earthquake and then an angel mass and tells us the water stone away. And we angels prepare the problem. Because when it went the stone away and scared the gods to death. And when the God saw the earthquake and the angel rolling the stone away, they took off and so the women never even had a deal with them. God released the problem before they even know it was a problem. And so God tells us that the nasty soil of That is the only way you can account for the stone being removed. If God used an earthquake and an angel, no human would have been able to or motivated at that point to remove that stone. That brings us to the second question. We took the body. We took the body. You see in verses five to seven. When they came, they saw the surgeon rolls away. They entered into the chief and they saw young men dressed in a white green, sitting on the right side. And they were alive. This man's evidently an angel. Jesus. The idea of white bear is probably not referring so much to the color as to the glistening of his uh garments as we're told in Matthew and in Luke's account. And so they come, and if they tell them don't be alarmed, we looked at Jesus in In fact, one uh commentator on this thinks would probably demand the shouting that after them as they were running away from the sea. But don't run away, don't be alarmed. You're looking for Jesus who is crucified. He's reserved. And so he shouts that out for But they can hear. He's not here. He's trying to keep his promise to meet you again. Now uh how do you account? Don't believe that Jesus is raised? How do you account for the body being gone? Well it's interesting to notice that in the book of Acts, the LinkedIn people from the New Testament, the resurrection is central to the Apostolic Priest, absolutely central, it can every message we give, and it's a central part of that message. But something that's very notable about that is the omission. Although the resurrection is perfectly or nothing, they never spend any time defending it or giving the proof it. All they do is explain it. It's taken for granted that everyone knows that that scene was empty. It's not interesting. There's no apologetic about the fact that the scene was empty. Everybody knew it was empty. Then the question is: why was it empty? What is the significance? of the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. Well if you don't accept that, how can you account for that empty key? These friends could not have used the body. Physically they would have had a problem. To take several men to do it, and then they would have had a go with great motivation to get that stone rolled away, as we talked about before, so that they could get in. And can you imagine several men, maybe 10 or 15, having to go through all that stone away? transport the body somewhere else and that body being disposed of in a way that no one ever whispers any reward of its real location. Everyone absolutely kept the secret under pain, torture, death and everything else. He's so marked. But only that even beyond that, ethically it's impossible to imagine. Because that would have meant that they were stealing the body and pretending that he had risen from the dead, and that their whole message, which was a message of triumph and absolutely the highest ethical standards. based on our life. Except for that man in point three. So his friends could not remove the body. His enemies would not even remove the body. But in fact they have gone to great pains to make sure the body stayed there. They're on the pilot and said we want a guardstand here. We want a warming field on that team that will say it is absolutely refuge for anyone to touch this on the pain of death. Purpose power himself stays behind that C in Garden. And so the animals would go into so much trouble, can you imagine a few hours later it changed the mind How about we go back to the bars and get rid of them and then we go take this body and then put it somewhere else? And even if they have done such a ludicrous thing, when the apostles begin to preach the resurrection just a few a week later, and then to pretend that they don't know anything about the body. The easiest thing for them to do to extract the preaching would have been to produce the body, even though it's decayed this production to really be at that point, to have it recognizable to that is Jesus and to put to an end. foolishness of this resurrection preaching that they so abhorred. But they never did that. There's never a question of the body being produced. There's never a rumor of it being anywhere in existence. No other place has ever pointed to it containing Jesus Christ. Because the sense would certainly not have done that. Then the other theory that's come into the more recent words is the swing theory. Perhaps you've read it before. was published recently on that, trying to popularize it again. The fifth theory, while we see that the friends could not have removed the body and his enemies would not have removed the body, the three theory should not even be considered seriously. Just think Here's Jesus who has been first to a point of great weakness. He's been taken out, Lord is driven through his hands and his feet, he's crucified, he has a fear driven into his side just as And then he's taken, wrapped up in a cloth that is suffocated. He put into a tube, and he's left there for three days without food, water, or any medication. But that makes him feel so good that he revives again. out of their same clothes and comes against the same stone that we read that the women, three healthy, four healthy, actually is another woman probably elongated more presentation. We saw when it they can't even move this thing from the inside where it's children towards him. He takes it just holds that stone aside, then he walks on his master's feet for a few miles, finds the disciples, and proves to them he's covered death. Doesn't ask for any medical help, but he proves to them that he's the victory over death. And he said that's not enough, he lets them believe this whole thing So that his whole life is going to be contradicted by letting him believe a lie in the end. You think that's theory shouldn't be taken seriously? It's unremoutable. Because he took the body. There's only one explanation. The body came out of the trees of the sun. The throne was going away not so that Jesus could get out, but so that his disciples could go in and see that he had risen. Just as the old man said. Here in verse 5 and verse 6. He has risen. He's not here. That's the only way he can explain it. Nothing else but the historical data can account for the fact that he's not here. Except that Jesus has in fact arisen from the But if that is a third question that is raised by this thing. And it's the question of who could have changed the decision. You notice it in Mark Papel, you began at verse 8. What else do they read after they hear from the evangel? But Jesus held with them, but the women are decided trembling and bewildered But the last and they flee from the tree. And they said nothing to anyone because they were afraid. And that describes, even in larger free, the disposition of the disciple. The women were afraid of something, but at least they went to the The disciples don't even bother to go back with them. They're probably going to read somewhere, afraid that the Roman authorities might look for them, that the Jewish leaders might come down with their wrath upon them as Jesus followers. Hopefully die. But there's nothing left for them. Hardly anything he even lived for at this point. Everything that they had hoped for. Has been utterly taken away from us in Jesus' death. Now, how do you account for the fact that Jenny Verse 20, whether or not the original must think is totally consistent with everything you read in Acts and everything else, but just simply sums it up. How do you account for the fact that in verse 20 reads, But the disciples then went out and they preached everywhere, and the Lord was with them and confirmed his word by fine to the company. These disciples go out and they turn the world upside down, as it's been said so many times, with the preaching of the fact that Jesus Christ has risen. Now that changed such discovery to such extreme. How do you account for that? You must account for it. It's a historical reality. Something must account for that. There are three kinds of approaches that have been made for this problem for those that do not believe that Jesus raised. On the one hand, you either have to see the next three verse or as received. Let us consider the possibility that they were receivers. If in fact they were receivers, then there's only two possibilities that we can consider under us. The first is the idea of the twin theory. The idea that in fact, that's uh that would be if they were deceived. If they would deceive earth, if they were in fact firstly foster alive, then the first problem you're going to there is once again the ethical problem. Why would they be the world's highest ethical system? One ethical system that that exists and truth in fact. Deep in their hearts they would know that it was based on a lie. I think I've come home also as recently, as we have experienced in just the last two years. last fifteen years, the Watergate scandal. Because the men have records have come from that time who were involved in that scandal really seemed at the top to be believing in all the conspiracy conspiracies of that time. To be believing that it was for the best of the country. And that they had to solve a tight increase who could not trust others because it really was for the best of America in the very unsettled conditions of that time. But even though they started were trying to do the best and even though it was based on a lie, what happened to it? Deceit piled up upon deceit until finally things coming out about them. Because if you base something on a lie, you can never simply Leave it at that one lot. You have started a snowball going down the hill that will gather more and more momentum and it will become larger and larger until the whole thing becomes one each line. And it's never less. It is utterly inconceivable. So the disciples could have perpetrated a lie and yet produced the system to disapprove. Even beyond that, it is more inconceivable, but such the disciples would have known that either you didn't lie to them and yet say that he did and die for that belief. But every single one of them, even John, put as an exile on patmos, uh the most of the rest of them living their lives through violence, through torture and But those men would have been absolutely everything going to their death under that torture still saying Jesus is alive. Can you imagine if they really knew that he wasn't, then giving their lives to this to the end? It's inconceivable. They couldn't have been deceivers, but they must have been deceived, some people said. And this is probably the most popular way that unbelievers look at the historical data. First of all, as I said before, there's display. possibility. They were really deceived. He really had the guy, he was alive and they just thought that he had died. Well we've already dealt with the ludicrousness of that so we won't go into it again. But the most popular version of this is the hallucination theory. And the idea that the disciples knew uh that Jesus had died and that they saw that they saw him is it. Now if you never encountered that, you may not give it a whole lot of credibility, but I have to tell you there's a lot of people who believe that. He talks to a lot of people on the street. Well, you know, how do you come for the resurrection up? But I I guess that they start with these words. They start with their thoughts. And that's said without really thinking about the implications of it, because there's four single flaws for the hallucination series. You see them there was a First of all, hallucinations by their very nature are highly subjective and individual individualistic. You and I will never have the same kind of hallucinations. Because it's something that's projected from our own inner needs and state of mind at the time. And look what you have here is not only a number of different kinds of people, for the women, uh, in their Deep grief, a hard-headed Peter in all of his anguish, Atomas, uh in his doubt and his skepticism, John and all the rest of them, all these different people. hungry at one point, all having the same identical hallucination over a period of forty days. And then amazingly enough, they all ceased. Everybody agrees that their hallucination, that day's out of here, he's gone, he's ascended. So they all cut off the hallucinations. Utterly inconceivable under such a highly subjective and suggestive state. You just don't do that to hallucinations. The second problem with the hallucinations is the circumstances under which they are hurt. Hallucinations are the kind of things that occur in a squeaky mind, you know, and sort of misty and you know, so you're not really sure what you're seeing and there it is and wonder and maybe, yeah, I think that's the person's eye and I love so much. That's not what happens here. You talk into a A couple of disciples say he walked along with him and he speaks with him. There's a couple of hours in bright sunshine in which he talks to them to them and language things to them. Give me knowledge they have to have. We can sit night fine to the disciples as a group. We see them in Galilee in the Great Pine. He sees Mary Magdalene in the Gordon. Most of this is in broad white sunshine. He's to the disciples disciples or by the late of Galilee and has breakfast with it. Utterly contrary to the kind of circumstances under these pollution to take place. The third problem with it It's the famous mind of the disciples. Hallucinations are the process of projected expectations. The disciples in the women, in fact, when they see Jesus, they'll say, Oh, there he is. But it's rather they're shocked, they're frightened, they're here. It's utterly contrary to what they expect. It's so much so that you see there in that uh any trembling bewilder the women went out and they less than the tree. And that's the way you say, ah yeah, there is Jesus. But that's the fourth step, it's utterly utterly failed to receive. But it's the fact that there is no account of anything spectacular in the resurrection of Christ. Now in hallucinations you're going to reflect some of the cultural expectations, whether you know it or not. And at that time, if anyone had written about the resurrection of a prophet from the dead, most likely can't prove it, but most likely the certainly would have recorded the resurrection itself. That's very spectacular. That's romantic. He would have wanted to have that certainly in the case. Then he wants that in the four accounts of the resurrection, there was no account of the resurrection itself. Only Jesus told the resurrection. No one saw him God. Because that's the kind of things you might get from an eye business in reality, but not something someone was made up or projecting their whole information. Besides that, the details of it are utterly unspectacular. You read these accounts and you stuff with The fact that there's nothing here that is not imaginative, that is all utterly present. It's women gardening, it's standing, season in the woods, he has his fish and breakfast to the disciples by the lake of Galilee. Nothing there. He's not going in spectacular music, coming down, you know, steering power half to death in dead one night or something like this. You know, all kinds of things that they could have produced would have been much more in line with what the culture at that time expected. that you see in yourself. Utterly unspectacular. Utterly simply of yourself. That's what happens. So how do you find for the fact that disciples were now utterly changed From discouragement to exuberance. But they preach this message everywhere. There's nothing, I suggest to you, nothing that can account for that, except the fact that Jesus has listened. But such the fact that they realize that they have the greatest news that the world has ever heard, and that they have the greatest hope that man has ever had. Because of those on fact. Now finally I want to apply this thought. I think that we make the participation of feelings. There's a strong tendency for us to base our faith on our feelings. Telling you as services, that prayer hasn't been answered. Something happened in your life that seems to utterly contradict our nature and it's gone to succeed. You have a severe temptation. What it's going to cost you to follow Jesus Christ rather than compromise. What is it that's going to keep you to walk in faith? It's not going to be your view to that point. I'll guarantee. But it's going to be Is you're being able to talk to yourself. Are you being able to say to yourself, all that is the question right now is not how I feel. The question is, is it true? The question is, did Jesus really die from the rain? But if he really rose from the dead, but I don't have to answer this question. This death is producing such grief in my heart now. That suffering of a friend and one that I have loved so much. It doesn't seem make any sense if I look at a loving God. All these are questions that are so hard for me to handle, I can't answer those right now. But I don't need to, because if Jesus rose from the dead, somehow there is an answer that I can't understand. But I can invest in the objective faithfulness of God. I can invest in the accomplished victory of Jesus Christ. And I don't have to answer that question to remain faithful. You see that? You see how our faith always rests upon the facts, the historical facts of his death and resurrection, rather than on our feelings about that. And you may feel very warm and happy this morning as we pray. and sing and rejoice together. But that may only last for Monday afternoon. You may have something that's got a history this week, but I'm not believed about it. And then if in fact you are not convinced of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. All this joy will come back to simply fly in your face. They take no use that to point you and say, Oh yeah, he's a great man, didn't he? Well, what about now? But if Jesus really lives, in fact. Think about this. Think about these three questions. Who could have made that stone? Who could have staked in that body? Who could have changed those replaces? And you with Mark come back to the conclusion that nothing's going to count. for that except that Jesus reads. Then if you think about that and let that become in your heart a deep, sudden conviction and the most doubt, the most trouble comes, you can return back How many times in my own life that has been so helpful to me when I don't feel like going on, when I feel like everything that I'm saying, we're even preaching to you and I said, is it really true? Then I just had these people alive and I've got to come back to think, but see Jesus Christ that he did and did everything that he claimed to do. Then everything that God says in this word is true and I can my life was. And if that's true, then I'm convinced it that my life will not be run by my feelings. But by the conviction of Jesus' resurrection. Think about that until you convince it. And if you want some more help in that, I would highly recommend that you consider taking this course here that's offered by Tom Brady and Josh McDowell, pre-teaching again. The next eight weeks, the next uh twelve weeks, twelve or thirteen weeks, uh three semantics on evidences. If you take that course for your own benefit as well as for your Did you find your own convictions founded upon that, not your feelings, but that your feelings come from the conviction? Then if you see that truth, you will Is an answer to the problem of your sin, of your guilt, even of your death. Because Jesus has died for that sin. And Jesus has caused death. Jesus has forced open a door that has been locked since the death of the first man. He has next, thought, and deepened the fill of death. Everything is different because he is something. Is it different to you this morning? Let's crack it. What a thrill to realize. The great now. And I have to speak. I am not simply reflecting on something And that someone that I love has done. You're not simply remembering you and recall you. But you're speaking to you. Because you are so totally alive. You are still fully alive right now because he few. Because that body But if you raise as a body that has never aged, and you're not done with different now than you were, by the resurrection age. Your promises are the same. Your offer of forgiveness for sin. And if new life for a wasted life is still the same. Lord, we pray it this morning. But if there's someone here who came this morning to look for a feeling, And I find instead the Savior. Is there someone who has come this morning because these seemed like a good sign? Is he an experiment in some good things? Is you will deepen with yourself, Lord? Is that you surprised the women? But you have surprised that person by meeting them with yourself, with all of your holy promises and offered to them of life. a will that is arched against you. And that you will bring that person to realize there is no other way to account for the historical myth except for the fact that you have written. And if you're everything that you claim to be, and if we can rest in that and not our feelings. We're every crazy, for those of us who tend to go by our feelings, we tend to oscillate, to go up and down according to the to whether our last prayer was answered, according to whether that last experience being consistent with what we think it be, or whether it was inconsistent. Was whether that sensation was one that we were able to lead in victory or whether it was one that we Overwhelmed with deceit. Lord, then deliver us from that. Deliver us from the subjectivism that lies on our own experience. And maybe see that you, Lord Jesus, is only one in whom you can trust. And that our trust will be placed in you objectively. Lord gives us that kind of concept. So that we become an easier people because leads through the ups and downs of my life with a conviction that Jesus really has is. And therefore, even though I don't have the answer to this problem or discouragement, I know there is an answer. Because If you have risen, when you're everything declined, and is an air to somehow, give us that conviction, Lord, we pray. And may we serve you with the victory that comes from the death. We pray. How many? Our hem is 201 instead of 206. And maybe after that message, I think each song goes so low.