This morning we conclude a three-week series on the incident at Ela, better known as the story or rather The historical account of David and Goliath. And in this period, we've been looking at David and seeing in his life three brushstrokes in a portrait of Faith. We saw two weeks ago. Faith's perception. You saw how faith sees things that others don't see. Faith has inside information on circumstances to see God at work. And seeing God's hand in the events of our lives, faith is able to then lay hold of God and His promises for those events. We saw last week faith's power That having seen what God is doing in the situation, faith also looks back and reviews what God has done in our lives and our experiences, see how He's delivered us, and therefore then trusts Him to look to deliver us in the present situation because we've seen his deliverance. And so faith and power is found in the Lord alone. Now this morning we're going to look at faith's pride, and in this we're going to see that faith's pride, of course, is not in itself, but in Jesus. Spiritual power is never proud and self-confident. Now in this story in 1 Samuel chapter 17, we have looked so far in verses 1 to 37. Read those in our scripture? We're going to back up just a little bit this morning. We're going to start at verse 32 and go on to verse 54. So now follow along as I read from God's Word. This is God's own account of this historical incident in the Valley of Elah, beginning then with verse 32 of 1 Samuel chapter 17 David said to Saul, Let no one lose heart on account of this Philistine. Your servant will go and fight him. Saul replied, You're not able to go out against this Philistine and fight him. You're only a boy, and he's been a fighting man from his youth. But David said to Saul, Your servant has been keeping his father's sheep. And a lion or a bear came and carried off a sheep from the flock, and went after it, and struck it, and rescued the sheep from its mouth. When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair, struck it, and killed it. Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, because he has defied the armies of the living God. The Lord, who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. So I said to David, Go, and the Lord be with you. Then saw dress David in his own tunic. He put a coat of armor on him and a bronze helmet on his head. David fastened on his sword over the tunic and tried walking around because he was not used to them Why cannot join these? he said to Saul, because I'm not used to them. So he took them off. Then he took his staff in his hand He chose five smooth stones from the stream, put them in the pouch of his shepherd's bag, and with a sling in his hand, he approached the pilot. Meanwhile, the Philistine, with his shield-bearer in front of him, kept coming closer to David. He looked David over and saw that he was only a boy, ruddy and handsome, and he despised him. He said to David, Am I a dog that you come to me with sticks? Philistine cursed David by his gods. Here, he said, I'll give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. David said to the Philistine, You come against me with sword and spear and javelin. I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, who gives it to five This day the Lord will hand you over to me, and I'll strike you down and cut off your head. Today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. All these gathered here will know that it is not by sword or spear that the Lord saves, but the battle is the Lord's, and he will give all of you into our hands. As the Philistine moved closer to attack him, David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet him. Reaching into his bag and taking out a stone, he slung it and struck the Philistine on fire. The stone sank into his forehead and he fell face downward on the ground. So David triumphed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone Without a sword in his hand, he struck down the Philistine and killed him. David ran and stood over him. He took hold of the Philistine's sword and drew it from its scabbard. And after he killed him, he cut off his head with a sword. When the Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they turned and ran. Then the men of Israel and Judah surged forward with a shout and pursued the Philistines to the entrance of Gath and to the gates of Ekham. Their dead were strewn along the Shereen road to Gath and Ekham. And when the Israelites returned from chasing the Philistines, they plundered their camp. David took the Philistines' head and brought it to Jerusalem, and he put the Philistines' weapons in his own tent. So much for God's word to us. Now let's consider what He is saying through this. I'd like for us to see in this a principle. A spiritual principle that is basic to real life. A principle of the way that God works, a principle that we need to be aware of in order to experience spiritual power. I consider it the prerequisite of spiritual power, and it is a basic, simple principle. There must be humiliation before exaltation. You must be humble before you will know spiritual power. There must be rejection before there's a crown You must experience the rejection of the world as one who stands with Jesus Christ before you're going to know his spiritual power. There must be weakness before there can be strength. You must be aware of your own weakness in yourself before you let it know. Spiritual power. And we see this in the experience of David in this account. We see this as David pictures to us the person and the work of Jesus. And we see it in our own experience as a church and as individuals. Let's trace this then in the record we have before us. First of all, then look at David. The whole account really stresses the utter contrast between the apparent strength of Goliath and the apparent weakness of David. Goliath's proud arrogance in his own strength, and David's humility, which frees him to look to Jesus Christ for strength Notice, even back in chapter 16 in verse 11, we're told that of the eight sons of Jesse, David was the eighth, and that Samuel came to anoint one of them to be the next king. They brought the first seven before him, but they forgot all about David. And when they brought the seven and Sam and said, Well, is this all the sons you have? Oh well, well there's David, you know, but he's out in the field. You you really don't need to see David, I'm sure he's not the one. It doesn't offer your self-image in the family, you know, and the family doesn't even take notice of you. They forget that you were around, you know. And they say, Well, yeah, we if you really insist, we'll call him in, you know But David, even in verse 14 of this chapter, is referred to again as the youngest and as a servant of his brothers. His brothers, his three oldest brothers, remember, went out to serve as soldiers with Saul, and they're on the front line. They have some status, but David is simply the shepherd of them. And so his father says, Here go David and take these provisions, take some goodies to your brothers, and cheer their hearts. They're somebody, and David's a nobody. But look out, because we know that it is precisely the low bodies that God delights to use, as he says in 1 Corinthians 1. He chose the lonely things of this world and the despised things and the things that are not, that is, the nobodies, to nullify the things that are. Why? So that no one may boast before him. It's precisely the no-bodies that God says that he's able to do his greatest works through, because then God doesn't take as much risk if the person thinking it was because of their own ability that they were able to do it. But more than his status, notice David's attitude in this chapter. You notice that when he comes into the camp, he inquires about this Philistine and what is going to be done for the person who kills him. And then in verse 28, his oldest brother Elias gets wind of it. And Eliah comes and he says, uh We read in verse 28 that when he finds out about it, he burns with anger and he comes up to David and he says, Why have you come down here? With him did you leave those few sheep in the desert? They know how conceited you are and how wicked your heart is. They came down only to watch the battle. You were in the wilderness. You notice how he has to put in the dig, it's just a few sheep that you're caring for. You're conceited. You didn't come out here to do any good. All you came down here to do is to watch some glory. You know, it's sort of dull back there in the Bethlehem Hills. And this is kind of the counterpart of a demolition derby, you know, in those days. I get a little thrilled, you know, they've got some excitement. They're going to come down here and watch some action. I know why you're here, he says. It's for no good reason. Now put yourself in David's shoes that were his sandals maybe at that point. Think about what it must have been like to hear your oldest brother insult you that way, impugn your motives, and judge you the way he did. Think about it for just a minute. What could David have said to him at that point? Can't you just feel it? Can't you imagine David turning and saying, Eliah, for your information Dad sent me here. I'm here in obedience to father. And secondly, Eliah, I've got some goodies for you guys that I left back over the quartermaster so that you guys can enjoy something. And furthermore, Eliah, remember when Samuel came to our house, that he passed over all you guys, and it was me that he anointed. Remember that, Eliam? And Eliah, who is it that's been playing the heart of the court for King Saul? I haven't noticed you around the court, Eliah. It's been me that's been commuting back and forth from Gibeon to Bethlehem to pray at the court. And Elias, for your information, I left the sheep with some people, so you don't have to worry about them. And finally, Elias. I'm thinking of volunteering to King Lawlight myself, so what do you think of that? Can't you just taste it? You know, have you ever been in a situation where somebody so unrighteously judges you? And they insult you and impugn your motives, and you have the perfect with them. I mean, everything in you screams out to say it and to use that opportunity. But what is David? The Bible tells us in verse 29 that David simply hooked it alive. He's a little taken aback, a little shocked thing, Now what have I done? Yeah, it sort of tells you something about what the relations probably has been like there with those two for a while. I don't know what have I done. Can't I even speak? And then it turns away to somebody else and continues the conversation. Not a word of defensiveness. He doesn't say any of those things that he could have said to a lot of them. Not a bit of it. Because David is free from protecting his image. David, as a man who is humble of heart, doesn't have to worry about protecting what he looks like before Elias. And because of that, David is free. He's a free man. He doesn't have to worry about what Eliab thinks. He reminds me of what we read of the Lord Jesus in 1 Peter chapter 2. And it says that they hurled insults at him, and he did not retaliate. When he suffered, He made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. That's what David's doing. He says, I don't have to stand and tell all these things to Elias. Either he knows them or he will find them out. And so I don't have to tell them. There's no reason to tell. It's just going to get us in an argument And with that freedom, then, David is able to go about his business, not in bondage to what Elijah has said to him. Conceited? Eliot says, You're conceited apart. But what does David say when he goes to Saul? Three times he says, your servant. We'll do this. Verse 32, he says, your servant will take care of this uncircumcised Philistine. Verse 34, he talks about your servant With regard to the lion and the bear. Verse 36, the same thing. Your servant. And finally, when Saul agrees to accept his offer, he offers to David his armor and he puts that armor on. And you sort of uh can picture it, you know, saw what was a pretty big fellow. And you can imagine David sort of clanking around in all this armor here, and he's trying to walk around and get used to it a little bit. And after he tries for a little while Can you imagine? He must have thought, you know, boy, imagine Elias sees me walking around in Saul's armor now. Man, I don't have to say anything to him, but I'll just watch his teeth drop down out of his mouth, you know. Again, the temptation. To look good, the temptation to impress people. But David's not bothered by that. He's not in bondage to how he looks How wise, free, and fortunate is the person who's able to say, this isn't me. And that's just what David says. After trying the army, he basically comes back to Saul and he says, Saul, This isn't me. This arm is not mine. I'm not comfortable with it. It may impress people, but it's not me. I'm a shepherd. And if God's going to use me, he's going to use me as a shepherd with a sling and a stone. How many times do you say in your life, Oh, if I was only this person? Oh, if I only had that ability. If I was like this, then God could use me. If I had more money, then God could use me as a steward. If I had more gifts and talents and abilities, then God could use me. So many Christians live their lives cutting away what they could do if God had made the difference, rather than simply saying, these things aren't. And God's going to use me just the way I am. If I'm a shepherd, he's going to use me as a shepherd. If I'm a man of stings and stones rather than spears and swords, then God's going to use me with a sling and a stone. And how free it is for you to be able to know who you are and who you're not. So many people that I talk to simply go through their lives only knowing who they wish they were and who they pretend to be. When I first started out preaching I used to try to imitate Charles Haddon's spurgeon and what I thought he was like, you know, and I would try to lay it on and I'm the fellow on a youth group that I worked with used to call me Spurgeon, who was one of the great preachers of the last century. We have models, people that we want to be like. And we can so pursue that that we forget who we are. The Baby didn't forget who he was. He knew he was a shepherd. He wasn't a man who wore Saul's armor, and he could never be that. And so he was free to put it aside. And he took up his sling and his stone, and he goes out to meet Goliath. Now notice the interchange between David and Goliath in terms of this matter of pride and humility. Goliath sees him, and then Goliath sees him, and his first reaction is that he is mortified. I mean, can you imagine this guy's been coming out for 40 days saying, is there anybody in that camp big enough and brave enough and rough and tough enough to try and take me on? And the Israelites now say, hey, they had to run up and down a hill all these forty days, and finally they say, We've got our man, and they come out, and who's this little shepherd boy? You know, a teenager doesn't have any armor, no sword, no spear, come out with a stone And he said, now there's our man, he's gonna take care of it. Imagine what the last would have thought. You're insulting me, you're mocking me, sending this little run out here. They've got to make you a meal, kid. That's basically what he says. Gotta feed the birds with your carcass. And I think from Deli's mortified humiliation and his anger that comes from that We have an insight to the cross. Have you ever wondered why it was that Satan, as it were, seemed to play into God's hands by having Jesus crucified? Jesus comes and he comes in weakness and becomes The only way that he can save us and gain his kingdom is for him to be crucified on a cross. And you say, Now, why did Satan play into his hands? Why didn't Satan stop it? So, well, that's the one thing he can do. Then I'm not going to have the Pharisees crucify him. I won't have the Romans cast. And then you'll never get your kingdom. But Satan in fact pours out all of his fury upon Jesus Christ. And in all of that fury, Satan does his very best to crush him. Why? Because I think we see an insight into the very mindset of the Lion. Satan is mortified at the weakness of Jesus. Satan is infuriated as he sees Jesus come before him, totally vulnerable, and in that wrath that Satan has, thinking that here's Jesus, here's the Son of God, and he's in my power now. There's nothing he can do to contain himself but to pour out all his fury and his wrath upon Jesus. And you see that in Goliath. Goliath is mortified and he loses control and he rushes against David. And he says, There's only one thing I can do but to destroy you and try to rip you in from limb. But David doesn't fall into that. David, because of his humility, doesn't panic. Because his trust is in the Lord. You see how he responds in verse 45. David responds to all this fury and this wrath by saying, you come against me with silver, spear, javelin. But I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. But what's he saying? Aliath is no power except spiritual power. You may have that sword and that spear and that javelin and think that that's going to bring you in. But that sword and spear and javelin are worth nothing apart from the power of God to enable you to use it. And if he doesn't want you to use that power youth, it is absolutely useless to you. So David comes with that mindset, with that and that ability to answer him. And then he goes on in verse 46 and he says, This day the Lord will hand you over to me. And I will strike you down and cut off your head. And today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth. The whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. The powers of God, and David trusts and exalts God. He doesn't claim anything on his own. There is that sense of his own weakness, that sense of his own inability. He doesn't go out trusting that stone and that sling. He says, my only hope is as a shepherd, God can even use me if he desires. And so David goes out with that humble and contrite, small heart, the heart of a child. And he goes against Elias saying, he's the one that's going to do it. So he finishes up in verse 47 saying, All those gathered here will know that it's not by sword or spear that the Lord sees But the battle is the Lord's. It's not mine. It's his. And he will give you into our hands. All the credit goes to him. It's all focused on him. So you read that in verse 49. That in verse 48, as the Philistine moved closer, David ran quickly. He doesn't just stand there waiting, but he actually runs for them and he reaches into his bag and he pulls out a stone. And he takes that stone, he puts it in the swing and round and round and round until he goes, and he zips it off there. And then that one shot. One shot right straight to the temple. And in that shot as it goes to the temple, God says in his word that it went with such force it sank into his temple. And Goliath fell down, stunned. I don't believe he was dead at that point. The Bible says he fell down and David rushed up to him in that moment when he's lying there vulnerable, lying there as his fish god began had laid before the Ark of the Covenant. Back years before, during the reign of Samuel, lying prostrate, lying humbled before God, lying prostrate before him in his glory, and David comes up with his own sword, he takes him, he cuts off his head. You see in that that God has shown that in his weakness, God has used a shepherd in order to accomplish his purpose of deliverance. And you see in this a picture of Jesus, not just of David. Don't miss what this chapter tells us about Jesus in this weakness. Remember, David is anointed at this point. He was amended in chapter 16, verse 13. And so David now has the Spirit of God upon him, and he is the one that God has chosen to be king. But he's not reigning yet as king. In fact, he will not reign as king for another twenty years. During that whole period of time, he will be humiliated. He will be a refugee. He will be chased. He will be persecuted. He'll be without a home. Sometimes without friends. He'll be betrayed. We see in that a picture of Jesus' humiliation for us. For while David faced a nine and a half foot giant The Bible tells us that Jesus faced a foe far more terrible than that. The book of Revelation says that Jesus faced a beast. The beast of the abyss. A food that is far more terrible than you and I can even imagine. A beast more awesome and terrible in his figure than if you and I were to see him in all his wristly reality. Our knees would turn to water, and our hearts would fail in us. But Jesus, our representative, faced the beast on our behalf And he faced him in his weakness. Not in hand-to-hand combat with a sword and a spear that Jesus name his kingdom. But the Bible tells us that Jesus' battle was done when they spit on him, and he didn't answer them. Then Herod mocked him, and he gave him not a word. But the soldiers beat him every time save on to the rod. And he placed a crown of thorns on his bloody head, and like a lamb he opened out his mouth, and was led as a sheep to the slaughter. In fact, he was so weak and so vulnerable that he laid there while they took nails and spikes and they drove them through his hands and his feet. And they nailed him to a cross, and they crucified him in weakness. And in that weakness Jesus far more humiliated than David ever was, or any man ever was, or ever will be. To the greatest spiritual power that any man has ever known or ever will know. Because Jesus in that was illustrated. That his humiliation had to come before his exaltation. It was in his humiliation and in his weakness that Jesus paid for your sin and my sin. and gain the kingdom so that you and I would not have to face God with our own sin and our own guilty conscience to condemn us sin. But we faced him and we will face him covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. And because of that, we will have been judged, and Jesus was judged. And we will be acquitted. If you see in this a picture of Jesus' humiliation, a unique humiliation Just recently, I was reading the story of Sun Young-Nun, the head of the Unification Church. And you see in Sun Young-Noon the man who claims to be the Messiah. The Lord of the Second Advent, a utter contrast in how he seeks to accomplish his kingdom and win it to what Jesus did. To quote from a book concerning what Moon has done and what his activities are, when Moon says that he has suffered, he does not say that God comforted him, but that he has comforted God. When Moon says that there is a victory, he does not give the glory to God, but to himself. When he speaks of truth or above or any other virtue, he inevitably refers to himself Burgalur, everything that Christ has done or accomplished. Sanyal Mun says that he has surpassed. One of his big points, of course, is in getting people to raise funds for him. And when you join the Unification Church, this is one of your primary responsibilities and determines how much you can rise through the organization. And Seng Yang Liu uses this as a motivation to gain funds for himself. He says, and this is a quote from his own writings. Do you like to make green bills happy? When green bills are in the hands of fellow men, can they be happy? Why don't you make them happy So many green dolls are crying. Have you ever heard them crying? Not yet. You must hear. They are all destined to go to Father. Some will do this, Father. This is our responsibility. Eventually, unless everything goes through Father, it cannot be happy. When Jesus came, he couldn't fulfill the second blessing. So he wasn't fully qualified to have dominion over the creation and to restore things. Christians think the Messiah must be poor and miserable. He did not come for this. The Sion must be the richest. What a blasphemous portrayal of the work of the Sion and the whole principle. From the beginning to the end of Scripture, that there must be humiliation before there is exaltation. And I tremble when I think of Sunday Moon standing before the throne of Jesus Christ in that last day. And he says, I have fulfilled all that you could never fulfill. And he finds out the truth as it really is. Jesus uniquely was humiliated for you and for me, so that he would gain the kingdom. Give us exaltation, receive kings above every name. So in the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Now finally, you see this in our own experience. You see this in the experience of the church of the ages and in your experience and in my experience personally. Jeremiah was saying the same thing when he told us in chapter 9, verse 23 and 24 Doth not the wise man boast of his wisdom, or the strong man boast of his strength, or the rich man boast of his riches? But let him who boast about this. What is it that we should boast about? What is faith's five? Let him boast that he loves and understands me. But I am the Lord who exercises kindness and justice and righteousness on earth. For in these I delight, declares the Lord. Paul the apostle put it this way in Galatians 6, 14. He said, I never boast except in the cross. Of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. What is your boast? What you boast in is what you have confidence in. What you boast in is what you place your security in. And Paul said, May I never boast and have confidence in anything of myself Save only the cross of Jesus Christ. How many times have I thought, there's something I'm entering upon, a message I have to give, a talk I have to give? And boy, I'm afraid I'm gonna blow it. I'm really nervous. I don't know how I'm going to do it. And so I I really struggle over it, and I feel very, very weak. And in my weakness I call out to the Lord, Lord, help me in this. Please help me to get this thing done and to do it right. Then God gives victory And I do it, and people are blessed, the work is accomplished, I have a great satisfaction in what I've done, and I go away and I say, that did a pretty good job, didn't I? It doesn't end time. I speak practically in every fall on epits. Why? Because the Lord is so concerned that you and I learn our weakness soon. But we learn that when we call upon him, that we're not saying, Lord, what I'm really trusting in is my own ability. But of course I have to superstitiously call upon you to make a blessing on that. I want to cover all the bases. I'm going to make sure that if I do pull it off But I can say that I pray to you. I want to make sure that when I do this, you know, I'm not feeling like I'm just doing it by myself. It doesn't take a Christian to pray to see. Well people are superstitious by nature and we'll call upon anything that we did will help us, whether it's rubbing our ring or wearing our our shirt on the right way or the wrong way or something in a combination of clothes Whatever it is, to think that we can ignore some sort of a power in what we're doing. How many times do we as Christians operate in the same sort of way? You say, well, you know, I want to make sure now that I'll get every possible blessing. So I call on the Lord. But our attitude reflected after the victory shows whether we really were calling on the Lord or not, doesn't it? Whether we say, well, I've pulled that off pretty well. And I've been back pretty good. However, our response is simply Lord, thank you. Thank you that she answered. Thank you. That you used a city like me to accomplish that. And that our hearts really have that gratitude. Last week, in our church, for the second time in our five years, we had over 200 people here in morning worship. There's been a number of really neat things that God has been doing in people's lives in our church. A number of very encouraging things have been happening in what the Lord has been doing with us as a congregation. But there's one thing that I fear very much, and that is that we can deduce from that people becoming strong as a congregation. But somehow now we as a congregation are much more secure because we're bigger and loud things are happening. This past week, he invited people to come for us to pray as a session, to call on God in our weakness to do his work through us. How many people showed up to pray? I know we got a lot of busy schedules. I certainly don't expect a mom there. One person showed up to pray Well, I'm not saying that to say that you should have been there on Tuesday night. There are a lot of reasons why people aren't there, and a lot of very good reasons. But nevertheless, I can't help but be unconcerned when we as a congregation are growing, and God is blessing in a number of ways. But we only have one person come in the only time that we have is a congregation to pray as a full congregation for the needs of our body. Well, maybe there's a better time and a better way we can do it. Glad to hear it. Please tell us. But somehow, brothers and sisters, we have got to do business and humbling ourselves before the Lord. And as a body of his people, to not trust in our size, to not trust in our budget or our strength or in any other thing that looks like it'll give us security The either to say, Lord, we live on the edge of spiritual existence. We must come before you as as people who realize that our blessings day by day depend on our cleaving to you. And perhaps this morning we're in a situation like Goliath or like Saul. Like Elias, you're unreligious and trusting in your own abilities. Well, like Saul, you're religious, and that's why you're here this morning. And you're trusting still. In your own abilities, your smarts, to get you through life rather than Jesus Christ. I want to tell you, on the basis of the authority of God's word, you're in a hopeless situation The only hope is to come to Jesus Christ. During your weakness, humble yourself before Him and confess your sin. And ask God that he would have mercy on you because of what Jesus in his weakness did on the cross, so that you could be forgiven. So that you could be made strong spiritually in the power of the Holy Spirit through Jesus Christ and not your own strength. And And to be born again into his kingdom. But then there's questions for all of us to ask as Christians. Can you see them on the back of the bulletin there? I'd like you to take those rolls and I'd like you to pray about those questions. I'd like you to pray about those thoughtfully as you review this chapter. Do you trust in your status or your position as you see? That David didn't have any status and position But you trusting in your status and position. You say I've gained a great deal in my career. Take all that away. Take your status in your career and anything that you have gained away. Where's your security now? Is it only in what you have gained in your career and in status in some other way as the world sees it? Or what about when your ego is bruised? What about when your image is smeared? Is your first response to protect it? To rush to its defense? To be concerned what people think of me? If it is, you're in bondage to that and won't be freed to look to Jesus Christ when you're attacked. How much of a test that is for all of us. How I can attest for that personally. We're so concerned to protect our image. And is that to reveal that we're not in deeds simply looking to the Lord? Are you willing to take a servant's position? I thank God what I see in many of you true servants' hearts to serve the Lord, not looking for recognition, doing things that few people recognize or see. In fact, some of you do things and minister to people that I know you don't even know that I know about. But it gets around. And it gets around not because people are doing it to boast, but it gets around because as a body, people are blessed. And what a delight that is, when you see a genuine servant's heart, as opposed to a person who says, I'm not going to be taking that position, let somebody else do it. And in that person, you see, there will never be a spiritual power. Because the spiritual power of Jesus Christ is known in the mind of Jesus Christ, mind of humility. Wishing you were someone else. Do you find that you're wishing always or pretending that you're someone else, not content with how God has made you, the gifts, the abilities, the body, the shape, the face, the personality? The position in life that He has given to you, and believing that God can use you all that He wants to, exactly in the way that He has made you, and you don't need to be someone else Well, you're missing God's power because you refuse to give up trusting your own ability in some area. Your sword, your s your javelin. Your shield, your spear, that's you, is the thing that when the bottom line comes right down, that's what you're trusting Rather than simply saying, Lord, I beg you that you can use these things. But I realize that they are not what are going to get me through. To humble ourselves before Him. Pride is Drives out faith that humility is simply being in touch with reality To be in touch with our own weakness, and because of that, to have the freedom to not be looking to myself, protecting myself, concerned with myself. But to look away to Jesus Christ and to find my boast in him. May it never be that I should boast Save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, through whom I am crucified to the world and the world to me. Let's pray. Third argument, you are a proud and self-sufficient people And Lord, we have a lot of right today. Oh, we've accomplished so much. Lord, we look in the eyes of society and there are so many things that we can point to, so many abilities that we have. Lord, we're tempted to say it's hard to be humble when you're as good as us. Lord, when we come before you and we see, indeed, a real picture. Of a man who had so many abilities, and yet had an attitude before you of such weakness, of such indefensive humbleness Lord, our hearts cry out. Give us the heart of David. Free us from ourselves and from our own self-sufficiency. That we might be a people individually, as families, as small groups, as a whole congregation, who come before you because we know that we have no other resource, least of all in ourselves. Lord, deliver us from our own self-confidence. That we might place our confidence in you. And see you delivered. And if Columbia and Howard County and the places that we work might know that there is a God in Israel. Because we've been available to you to use us in the way that you desire, so that Jesus will be glorified even in no way such as us.