I hope that this series that we've been having on saints being equipped for ministry has been helpful to you. I um I must say my prayer for this whole series has been that God would be building into you an awareness, a deep awareness that you are a saint who's being equipped for ministry, that you're a saint. Now, you know, when you and I think about that, you are a saint. I'm a saint. When you look at your life honestly You realize that it's rather hopeless for you to think about your being even what you aspire to be, let alone what God requires you to be. But as you have turned from that hopelessness, To look at the work and the person of the Lord Jesus Christ having come and having lived a record that was perfect on your behalf, having died to take the cross. He is now in the business of transforming you. Your life is renewed. You are being made like Jesus. The word saint means that you are a holy one. You're being set apart And so now you as a saint are being set apart to service for the Lord Jesus Christ, the King of kings. And so he's equipping you. And he uses his word, his spirit, and his people to do that. And we've been talking about the pattern of that from Ephesians chapter four. How God intends to do that through his church. So let's look at those verses once again. Ephesians chapter four, verses eleven to sixteen. Ephesians chapter four. Paul says it was he, the risen Christ, who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. Prepare or to equip God's people, the word is saints, to equip the saints for works of service, works of ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity. Unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God and become poor, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth Forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming, instead speaking the truth in love. We will in all things grow up into Him who is the Head. That is Christ. From Him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. We've been looking in this past month, June And that one word there in verse twelve to prepare or to equip. And we have been seeing that that word equip or prepare is a three-sided word. So you see on your bulletin out outline and uh kind of apologize that it's an oversized outline today. It's really kind of back to the old size. I don't know if the some of you I know kind of plow these things. I hope that uh doesn't mess you up, but this one will stand out, you know, as you kind of know. This was the summary of the word equip. But we had a Summing up what we've been talking about through the month of June, that the elders who are the pastors and the teachers have one main function: to equip you. so that you are the ministers to do ministry for the Lord Jesus. And what we mean by equipping is first of all restoring, and that restoration is from sin, sin patterns. the sin that catches you, the sin that uh you are are not necessarily uh intending to do, but uh it's part of your past, it's part of what you brought when you came to Jesus Christ and God's in the process of restoring you. Remember the word basically means to mend something, to rebuild something as it was intended to be. to mend a a torn neck, to rebuild a broken wall, to mend a broken bone. And so you're in the process, you and I are being restored in Jesus Christ. We're being restored not only from sin but from suffering, from the brokenness of this world in those ways that uh we are suffering from that. And so we read in First Peter five, God Himself is restored He's showing you that he's with you, that he's sovereign, he's all-wise, he's all loving to take care of you and your need. And so you're being restored so that you're able to function. You're also being supplied, the word equipp means to supply someone with what they need to function. You're being supplied with faith, to trust that you are dead to the law, you are alive unto God in Jesus Christ. Christ. The law no longer can condemn you. The law no longer holds you under the bondage of its requirements in order to be acceptable to God. You're free now To obey Jesus Christ in terms of the relationship you have with Him, rather than serving as a slave under the law. You are now being supplied with obedience. That obedience is coming from you. God, who's working in you that which is pleasing in his sight, equipping you, as Hebrews 13 says. And so these ideas go together. Now having said that, we come to the last psalm. this morning of that triangle and it's that word train you see on the side there. So flip over your outline now, having looked at that, kind of put it together. We want to focus on this word train. And the word train, of course, is the same idea. To train means to be able uh to to provide someone with the skills that they need to function, to do what the some certain function that they can perform it. And so this is the idea involved in equipping. You equip someone to do the function that they're called to do, they fulfill their job description. And this word train has that in mind. Having been restored, having been supplied, now you're being trained. And as we look at the new ministry facility that is being erected over on 108. And we talk about the ministries that we intend to have there. That you and I think as missionaries to reach the Howard County area for the Lord Jesus. We're transformed. We're saints. We now belong to Him. We don't just live for ourselves in this world. We live in terms of His kingdom and what it means to build that up. And so as we think of those ministries, all the kinds of ministries we'll be having. Recreation. groups, support groups, recovery groups, educational groups, community groups. And God's going to be using you, various ones of you, to lead, to participate, to be involved in those groups. One of the questions One of the questions we hear as elders most frequently these days is what kind of training are we going to get for that stuff? Just throw us out to the dogs, you know, and say there you go out there and minister. I I'm not equipped to do this What do I do? Well, there's two parts to the answer to that very good question. The first part is in terms of specialized training. And I must Tell you straight out, in terms of specialized training for a particular kind of report re support or recovery group, we intend to use parachurch organizations organizations and their experience, their writings, their personnel to help to train us. And so we will be using people who have focused on reaching these kind of people or doing this kind of a ministry as consultants and as resources to be able to do that. Okay, so Ken, in case you didn't know we were going to tap you, we'll be tapping you and lots of others who are involved in various Now the other part to the answer to that is the generalized training. And what I want us to see this morning from God's Is that the generalized training is actually more foundational and more important for the ultimate success of our building the kingdom of God here in Power County. The generalized training is that training that's involved in Ephesians 4. 12, you're being trained for ministry in terms of the two things that are involved that God uses to train you. The New Testament says God uses two things to train you in the way that Ephesians 4 is talking about because the word is used in two particular ways. Take a look at 2 Timothy chapter 2. Chapter 3. You heard it, as Tom read it before, but take a look at it again. Second Timothy chapter 3. In verse Verses 16 and 17. All scripture is God grieved and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, training in righteousness. The man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. Now, the word training in righteousness is not the word from Ephesians 5. 12. It's a word that's means child training, child hearing. But the word equipped in verse 17, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped. That is the same word as Ephesians 4. 12. So the idea is that God uses scripture, and so the first box on that there, you see, equip equals training in, and then you see there 2 Timothy 3. 6. training by scripture or the Bible or God's word or whatever you want to put it out. But that's what 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17 says. God is using his word as the basic instrument of training in your life to be a minister. And that word as it's used in teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness. We'll look at that. in just a moment. But first of all, I want you to see the other part of it. The other part is in Luke chapter 6. So turn to Luke chapter 6, which is the other way that this word from Ephesians Ephesians 4 12 is used to mean training. In Ephesians, excuse me, in Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 39. Jesus says here, told them a parable, told them this parable, can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into the pit, talking about the Jewish leaders who were In fact, themselves not understanding God's word and were distorting it by their tradition. Then it goes on to say: a student is not above his teacher, but everyone who Who is fully trained will be like his teacher. And that word there, fully trained, is the word from Ephesians 4. 12 to prepare or to equip. Every student, when he is fully equipped, when he's fully prepared, when he's fully trained, will be like his teacher. That's talking about training by life. So by Scripture and by the lives of other believers, God trains us for ministry. Now let's look and see what that means. Uh this last week I mentioned that we had a a session retreat. And in that retreat, one of the things that we did was that uh we took a quiet time to all of us get alone and just to ask the question, how has God equipped you in your life? If we're going to be talking about how do we more effectively equip Columbia Presbyterian, let's ask ourselves, how's God equipped us? God used to transform your life over the years? And as I looked at that, I realized, without even particularly thinking about this message, I realized again and again what God used was first First of all, he attracted me to a life of following Jesus by other people who I saw. I remember early in my life a Sunday school teacher that I had, and that person was one of the most joyful content people I had ever known. I did not particularly come from a joyful content background. There was not a lot of joy and contentment in my home. And when I saw that fellow week by week I knew he had a lot of troubles, he had a lot of difficulties in his life with his kids and other problems. But he was the most grateful person I think I have ever seen. I mean the guy was ridiculous. Time he talked to him, he was grateful about something. He was always just seeming to be content with what was going on. He was always building people up, he was building his wife up, he was building me up. You know, and I'm thinking, what is it And I realized that this guy just had a joy, that just it transcended circumstances. And I wanted to know more about where that came from. I had professed Christ, but I didn't have the kind of joy that he had. And so I began to look into scripture. And I began to look at the person of Jesus Christ and I was attracted to him. So his life drew me to scripture. I remember going on in the Later when we had the college group, there was a fellow who was a particularly zealous fellow. This guy was as zealous as the other guy was grateful. This guy was the kind of guy who'd confront Satan himself right on the pad you know and just keep on walking. I mean this guy had a zeal, he had a power, a dynamism to him. That you know he just sort of walked into the room and sucked out the air, you know. And so this fella, I As a person who aspired in 100% as I could see it, commitment being sold out to Jesus Christ, didn't care what anybody thought about it, he was going to live without any compromise and stand for Jesus Christ. I was attracted to them. And uh there were times he was confronting me too. And I I saw in his life something that I thought, now there is a model. For what it means to follow Jesus Christ without compromise, I was attracted. I began to get into scripture. I began to see why Jesus would affect a person's life like that. And as I began to love Jesus, Jesus and I began to trust him. I wanted to get into his word more. And so I began to realize that there was a cycle. The cycle was somebody's life drew me to something to see a lack in my own life, whether it was A sin or something I was ignoring, and that that thrust me into scripture to be able to see how that then could be changed. And as I was drawn to the person of Jesus, he then changed that. And he Drew me into closer fellowship with other believers and I began to want to associate with believers and I wanted to be stretched by them and challenged by them. You see the cycle? That's what I think happens. And over the years The fact that we don't understand Scripture perfectly doesn't matter. The fact that the people that we're following aren't perfect people doesn't matter. But God in His grace uses that cycle of the Word and the Word lives and the word and lives to keep moving us and thrusting us on further and further into following Jesus Christ. Now how does he do that? Let's look at the two elements. First of all, how does he use his word to do that? Look there on the on your bulletin outline, you see again, from 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 6. 16 and 17. You see, scripture is God breathed. Now that's why it's life-changing, because of its origin. That's another message. We can't get into that. But it's useful for four things. Notice the things that scripture is useful for. It's useful, first of all, for teaching That's the first point there in verse 16. All scriptures, God breathed. God is its origin. It's the very word of God from his own mouth. And it is useful for teaching. The Old Testament is useful for telling me about creation, my origin, where I came from, where you came from, why we're messed up, about the fall. Our rebellion against God, that that's a part of our nature. It's not part of being human. It is not simply human to sin. It is fallen human nature to sin. And God therefore is able to correct that because it's not inherently part of what it means for us to be human. And so scripture gives us that hope and it talks about God. God in the process of restoring his people, making a covenant of grace with Abraham, working to a people that he had called out and showing and foreshadowing and prophecy and pictures and shadows and types. That there was a Messiah coming who was going to restore his people and transform us to do the things we could never do for ourselves. And then the New Testament comes and we read in the gospel. The Messiah has come and Jesus is that one. And Jesus, through his words and his works, demonstrate that he's all that the Old Testament looked forward to, that he's the true prophet to reveal God to us. What he's like and what his will is. He's the true priest to take upon himself the sin that you and I have to corrupt us and to make us guilty before God. And he's taken that upon himself as the true Lamb. He's the true king, therefore, having restored us and and forgiven us, is the one to rule our lives and to guide us into what God's will is for us, which is good and acceptable. And then the book of Acts talks about how that works out in history as the church begins to move and transforming society. The epistles talk about his meaning of his person and his work. And what it means for you and me to live the Christian life in our day. And the book of Revelation takes all that and sums it up and shows us the ultimate disclosure of the sources of all evil. And the ultimate disclosure of the source of the victory of the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ, when he comes to vanquish that evil, to vindicate himself as Lord and King, and to wrap up all human history, bringing us to himself in The Bible teaches us that, you see. Bible teaches us that, lays out that scheme. Well, all through that are principles for successful. And so the Bible doesn't just teach you that, the Bible then rebukes you. That's the second use. See, the Bible shows you where your life's not coming up to what God intends And so it's not just to make you theological that God gives you this teaching. He gives you this teaching for transformation. And so he rebukes you. He exposes your wrong. He exposes your sin. He names your sin for what it is. He doesn't gloss over it. He doesn't talk to you as if you're just a victim. He calls gossip gossip. Lust, lust, coveting, coveting. And when we look at those sins, I I believe that that half of our transformation as people is to be able to honestly name what the sins sin is. We're able to call it by the name that God calls it. And then as we do that, we have two choices. We can either become defensive, we can become blame shift or we can repent and we can humble ourselves under God's hand. I want to tell you every person who is equipped who is trained for ministry. He's non-defensive. Defensive people, whatever other particular skills that they get. And it's so sad to see them in the Church of Jesus. Jesus Christ today. People who are highly gifted, highly trained, but their defensive, they cannot stand a rebuke. They will slide out of it, they will rationalize, they will call it every other name, they will blame shift, all these other things, and so they're never trained. Because they refuse to humble themselves under the second primary use of scripture, the rebuke, it begins to make moved into that heart change to humble me and to show me that is what I am like Lord and I can't change it. So when you come to that place where you were open into the rebuke because you realize you can't change it. You see half the time I think we're so defensive because we think if I admit this, then I gotta change it. And I can't change it, so I'm gonna excuse it But the rebuke of Scripture comes to your heart and to my heart when we simply say, Lord, that's what I'm like, and I can't change. That's what I'm like. But the scripture doesn't leave us there because it goes on to the third thing, which is Correction. You see, all scriptures God breathes, and it's useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting. The rebuking's the negative part, the correcting's the positive part. God doesn't leave us in the negative. Whenever His Holy Spirit comes to rebuke us, he always then moves us on to steps of correction. When we come to Jesus Christ and we We see that that sin has been forgiven, that God doesn't hold it against us, the law can't condemn us in that. God then puts us in a place when we repent of that sin to move us on to correction. The steps of correction are the positive changes. And in order to understand those, you need to be in Scripture to see what it means, what rest What institution do I need to make for this? What forgiveness do I need to seek or grant? What reconciliation needs to be made, and what are the steps of reconciliation? What is it mean to manage my money by beginning with a tithe and generosity rather than hoarding and worrying. And so scripture gives in every case of every pattern of life Steps of correction. I can't go into those, but you just need to understand whenever God is putting his finger on some area of your life down, you feel stuck in that area because you say, I I see this area and I am depressed because I know that I'm not what God wants me to be, but I don't know how to change. Let me tell you, Scripture's third use is correction. And if you haven't got You need to ask somebody to help you. What is it? What scriptures apply to help me to rebuild in this area? Because I guarantee you there are steps of correction that the scriptures uh will provide for you in some general pattern for your particular situation. But it's not just the steps of correction that Scripture provides, it goes to the fourth area. which is training in righteousness. And that training in righteousness is the rebuilding of a godly lifestyle, not just a particular how do I deal with this sin and correction in order to rebuild my life and relationships in that area that has been a problem to me. But how do I beyond that now begin to rebuild the whole scope? of how to handle my money, how I treat my husband, how I treat my wife, how I treat my parents, how I treat my kids, how I treat those that work with me, how I handle disappointment. The training, child rearing, the word is used of child rearing, that growing in step-by-step building of areas of my life. of righteousness like Jesus. Now scripture is sufficient for that. And so scripture is God-breathed, it's useful for the teaching, the beauty, correct Training in righteousness, so that you, man, generic here, so that you, man or woman of God, may be thoroughly equipped, thoroughly prepared. Every good work. Scripture is sufficient to do that. But God graciously gives us a second means to accomplish that purpose. And that second means is The lives of other Christians. He gives you not just scripture in isolation, but God's intention for you and for me is that we are trained in the use of scripture of scripture by the stimulation and the give and take that we have from other parts of the body because we belong to one another, we need one another and we affect one another. Do you remember the messenger? And so take a look at the other column and let's look at Luke chapter six, verse forty, to see four principles in the equipping model of other believers. Four ways, four things to notice about such an equipper. First of all, an equipper is an example. An equipalo equipper is an example to us. If you seek to be used by Jesus within the body of the Lord Jesus Christ, then you need to be willing to be an example to other people. You may be surprised at how much the New Testament stresses this, for instance, Luke 16. 640, Jesus says a student's not above his teacher, but everyone who is fully trained will be like his teacher. The teacher is the model, the teacher is the example for him. He's not just going to look Learn skills from the teacher. He doesn't selectively say, I want you to help me in this area to do this better. But his character becomes like the teacher. Now the context Of that in that culture was the rabbinical system, rabbis and their disciples, very different from the Greek system, which was the classroom system. In the rabbi system, the rabbi was called the living Torah. To his disciples. That is, he was the embodiment of God's word to them. They copied everything that he did. Some of it's kind of ludicrous. They copied the way he ate. They copied If he always scratched his right ear, they'd scratch their right ears when they spoke, you know, whatever he did, whatever he liked, whatever he pursued. There's even a story of one overzealous disciple who was caught under the bed of the rabbi one night as he got into bed with his wife. And the disciple just wanted to find everything, you know, how a godly man is to function. He was his example to us Now we may not go that far in our culture, you better not, but the fact is that we need to model more extensively to one another how How it means to to follow Jesus in our culture. Some of the most effective discipling that we do are in those off moments how I react to a situation, how you react being together as families and seeing how we handle family devotions or how we handle discipline, how we handle the everyday occurrences. That's what makes the mark on you. That's what affects us. That's what we long for in our isolation. Give me an example. It's interesting how many times Paul stresses that. I've listed them there for you so you can look at them. at them this week. So, you know, it's kind of hard for the office to fit those all on there, so make sure you use them. But for example, in Philippians, in chapter three, uh Paul says to um The Philippians in verse 17, join with others in following my example, brothers, and take note of those who live according to the pattern that we gave you. Chapter 4 Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me, put it into practice, and the God of peace will be with you. For in 1 Corinthians First Corinthians chapter four in verse sixteen. Paul says, Therefore I urge you to imitate me. See, not just learn the content of what I'm saying. Imitate my life. Chapter 11, verse 1. Follow my example as I follow the example of Christ. We looked last week. Hebrews 13 verse 7 concerning the elders. That we are to be an example. You are to imitate our faith and follow our life. Now again, remember what I said then. And this is true for any of us who are examples. one another or as we follow an example. The example is not of a perfect Christian. That's not what Paul means. Paul did not hold himself up and say, I'm perfect, follow me. What he He held himself up was as a follower of Jesus in his repentance and his faith. And so he's saying, as I repent of my sin, as I deal with sin, as I am supposed to With faith and obedience as I look to Jesus and find in him my resources. Follow me in that. And so when you and I are examples to each other, it's as examples of Position of weakness and vulnerability. Not if I'm an example, then I can't let you see what I'm struggling with. It's the struggles that are often more helpful to one another to see how do I handle it How do I come to grips with sin and weakness and inadequacy and unworthiness in my life? That's the example we need to be for one another. And as a body, we will grow as we are open and vulnerable in that. I really believe that. Now along with that there's the second thing and that is we need to be purposeful. We don't just sort of hang around together. The second We don't just hang around together and see what happens. Now there's nothing wrong with that, and we need to maybe do more of that. But the fact is that if you are going to to be involved in equipping another person or being equipped, there has to be at some point a giving and receiving of permission to form some sort of of a unique relationship that has expectations to it. One of the things that Christians get into trouble is that one Christian is wanting to be discipled by another Christian. They don't really say that. They just kind of, you know, sort of hang around and and as they begin to meet together and pray together, the one is expecting that the other is going to invest very purposefully in them and they other person doesn't have any quill of that. And so there's mismatched expectations and feelings get hurt and people begin to think that uh the other one let them down and all this kind of thing. Let me encourage As we move into relationships within our small virgin and perhaps see God calling us into more of this. We as elders are praying more of this will happen. We want to be models for you with a few things people obviously we can't be in recycling relationships with everybody in the congregation, but with a few people as we seek to model this, that this will grow in the body. But it's gotta grow purposefully If you are involved in influencing another person's life, you need to be thinking, how can I do that more effectively? You ask yourself questions like this, how's the Holy Spirit operative in this person's life? What are areas that they have basically come to terms with as a Christian and what are areas they're still struggling with? And how can I Cooperate with the Holy Spirit to move them on in the next step of faith and obedience, supplying faith and obedience. And so you ask a question just straight out, like, what would you like to see God do in your life for the rest of the summer of ninety three or maybe for the rest of this year? And how can I help you to get to that? Very simple question. I mean some put you, you may have to be a seminary grad to ask that. You don't need to read five books on discipleship. You just say, what do you want to see God do in your life? How can I help you? And you help one another. You exchange that. And you begin purposefully to move on. The third thing that you need to do is that an equipper holds others accountable. And so you hold each other accountable. Now I spoke on that back in the end of May. Um by the way, in terms of the the text, in terms of the purposefulness, you see that Jesus uh was very purposeful with the disciples. He was the teacher. He called them to be like him. He very clearly had in mind what he wanted to impart to them and he was training them in that. He wasn't just kind of saying, come on guys, hang around me for three years. and we'll see what happens. The same way with the accountability. And they were called in verse 13 apostles. And an apostle is one who is sent by the one who is sending him as an apostle, apostle. And they are accountable to that person. And so we as elders are accountable to each other. Every session meeting, we have accountability. And so once a month we go around the table and share who we've talked to about Jesus Christ for the last month and who we want the elder to pray for if we're seeking to share Christ with him and There's an accountability there. So we ask, well, how's it going with so-and-so? See there's accountability. We're we're we're seeking to be purposeful, we want God to use us, and so we do that. We're also beginning now to share in the people that we're discipling or pastoring. And so we go around. How's it going in the relationships of the people that you're pastoring? What's happening? How can we do it better, holding each other accountable. And you and your small groups need to be practicing that kind of accountability in order for your lives to be making a difference. So it's not just a matter of Well, here's a thought, here's an idea, never follow up. That's part of the life influence. Finally, the last thing is that an equipper uses scripture. Quipper uses scripture. Now it may seem obvious, and yet it's amazing to me how many times Christians will get together. And because what we when we get together, there's that hunger for the fellowship and to kind of spill our guts and talk about what's on our minds and on our hearts. If we just take all the time doing that, maybe a brief prayer at the end, but we never really get into scripture. Let me encourage Encourage us that as we do this, we see that the cycle is the scripture and the life, and the scripture and the life, so that when we get together we say, What scriptures bear on this? What can we look at? Concordance or a Bible study guide or whatever it is that's going to help us in accomplishing the goals that we've agreed on we want to see God performed by the end of this year. Don't neglect scripture. what God uses in training. Scripture is useful for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness, so that you are thoroughly equipped for ministry. And as you do that in one another's lives, the teacher, the student who is fully trained becomes like the one whose life is And so as we close, let me just ask you, what what is the place of scripture in your life? How much is scripture a part of your life? Now I noticed this morning that every single person here is dressed. Nobody here came in their jummies. Nobody came, you know, and said, I I just didn't have time. Eight fifteen service, I can be there on time. You know, I gotta come in my underwear or I gotta come Because I gotta get there. Every single one of you found time this morning to get dressed, right? Why? Simple reason. Little priority, right? He said it's non-neg Negotiable. Before I get there, I'm gonna get dressed. No matter what else happens. Maybe skimped on breakfast, but I'm gonna get dressed. Maybe skimped in some relationships and you know it's some patching up you gotta do when you get bada I got here dressed. Now it's until you and I come to Scripture with that attitude that says, Scripture is a non-negotiable in my life. We're going to be very limited in the amount of transformation. To the extent that we then make people a priority in the body, small groups in relationships, to the extent that we do that, God's going to work in us to not only Lord we pray. But for each one of us here now as we think about this summer and summer is a time when it's so easy to slack off in scripture, so easy to slack off in all kinds of disciplines. Even our contact with other Christians becomes very sporadic. Lord, we pray that you would be training us. Training us in your body by the use of your word to teach and rebuke and correct and Point to Jesus and to train in righteousness. And we will become like others that we see, whose lives we see as models of areas of of godliness that we want to see you work in us. Draw us closer together as a God. Give to each of us now that keen desire and hunger Use your word more faithfully and be closer and more vulnerable to other believers that we want to have influence our lives and a purposeful way. Working each thing to that end produced.