Psalm thirty-seven verses one to eleven. Fright not yourself because of evildoers, be not envious toward wrongdoers, but able Go wither quickly like the grass and fade like the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you. The desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust also in him, and he will do it. And he will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your judgment as the Noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Threat not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who carries out wicked schemes. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Threat not yourself, but only evildoing. Free the doing will be cut off. Those who wait for the Lord, they will inherit the land. And the wicked man will be no more. And he will look carefully for his place, and he will not be there. But the humble will inherit the land, and will delight themselves in abundant prosperity. So ends the reading of God's Word. Let's give our attention to it now. This morning, if you have place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord, then you'll have peace with God. However, you may be in a situation in which you have that peace with God, in which he is no longer your judge. He is no longer your enemy, but still you lack peace of God. You lack the peace of God, his own peace in your heart. Worries, troubles, difficulties, some circumstances, envyings, dissatisfactions Something has you down. And it's robbed you of your peace. And you say, no, no, no, you know, things are basically okay. And yet your tension belies you. And that tension may have a number of different ways of manifesting itself. Tension that comes through a short temper, a short cues. And you wonder why it is Until you began to examine, begin to examine whether in fact you're enjoying God's peace or not. You're preoccupied With certain concerns, certain worries. Your mind keeps going back to them, and you can't get your mind off of them. Maybe it's physical in your nerves. Your neck, your back, your jaw, whatever it is. But there's certain ways that you're finding out that there's tension. As Dr. Hans Salier has so clearly demonstrated in his research, prolonged tension is extremely destructive to the body. And also to the soul. We're not made to live without God's peace. We have no mechanism to adapt to it For we were created to live with God's peace. And when we don't have it, then we can't prove it. But how do we cope when we're faced with a mountain that seems so high that there's no way to get around it and there doesn't seem to be any way over it? How do you cope with those kinds of troubles? What kind of personal troubles are you experiencing this morning that seem to threaten your peace in that way? What about us as a congregation as we think about the decisions we have to make concerning the land? At least today, whether to press on, whether to stop and pursue the opportunity to buy 123 acres for ministry that costs over a million dollars and include the interest. What do you do when you're faced with an obstacle that seems absolutely insurmountable? But David was a man who faced a number of insurmountable obstacles. He faced giants. He fled from Saul for about 20 years without home, without any place to rest. He was the king of Israel, and that certainly tested anyone's patience. David was a man who learned a lot about living in peace in the midst of turmoil. And it's David who's given us this psalm about living in peace in the midst of turmoil. But even more than David's advice, what we have here is God's own word. So it's not simply advice from a wise man who learned a lot by experience. It's God's own word to instruct us into how to get peace. Now, this psalm really deals with the problem of when everything's going wrong in your life. And particularly, it seems like all the unbelievers are doing a lot better than you are. How do you cope with that? How do you cope with your attitude in that kind of circumstance? And what I want to do is focus in, not on all that large problem, but focus in on verses 3 to 7 to look at how we gain peace. In the midst of an insurmountable obstacle, an insurmountable challenge, or something that seems to threaten to rob us of our peace. As a very young Christian, I was reminded of these steps, and I went back this week and looked in my first Bible and saw there they were, underlined again and again in red, the four words that are the key words of this. Verse 3, trust. Verse 4, delight. Verse 5. Commit. And verse 7, rest. Trust. Delight, commit, and rest. Or a way to help you to understand it a little more easily If you see it in your bulletin outline, rely on the Lord. Relish the Lord. Roll your way onto the Lord and rest in the Lord. I The first step then is to rely on the Lord. Verse 3. Trust in the Lord or rely in the Lord. The Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. Now, this idea, this verse has basically two ideas to it. First of all, it has the idea of trusting God in Jesus Christ for salvation. That's the first idea. You see, the word trust there or rely is a word which refers to where we find our in our security, where we find our confidence. Where is your confidence this morning for God's acceptance of you? Is it in your given to intentions, the things that you hope to do that will be pleasing for him? Or is it in the work of Jesus Christ, totally outside of yourself at the cross? Is he your refuge this morning from your guilt? And the consequences of your rebellion. When you look for your rest, where do you find it? What are you relying on? Well, this verse causes to rely in the Lord. Rely in him, to trust in him, and the result of that will be that we will dwell in the land. Trust in the Lord, in the Lord Jesus Christ, trust in him alone as Savior, do good, that's serving him as Lord, and trust. Now that I would suggest is the key phrase for the whole psalm. That one little phrase there, dwell in the land, opens up what the whole psalm is about. Because what David's saying here is that whatever the evildoers have, whatever Whatever they gain by their scheming and by their practices, whatever they have, there is one thing they do not have, the land. And that runs through the entire thing. Because the land, you see, is not just talking. About a number of spare miles over in the Middle East. It's not simply talking about the physical land of Canaan. It's talking about Canaan as a picture of the kingdom of God. The land here is the land that is God's. It is the better city that the Old Testament saints look for. It's that heavenly city. It's the eternal rest. It is, in fact, heaven. Now you notice how this is traced through the psalm. You have here verse 3. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. Verse 9. Free the doers will be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord, they will inherit the land. The land is something you inherit. Remember Jesus talked about the Lord. Verse 11. But the humble will inherit the land and will delight themselves in abundant prosperity. Notice verse 18, the Lord goes through the days of the blameless, and their inheritance, the land, Will be forever. Verse 22. Those who are blessed by him will inherit the land, and those cursed by him will be cut off. Salvation language. Verse 29. The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it. Forever. Verse 34. Wait for the Lord and keep his way. And he will exalt you to what? Inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, then you will see it. And so it's absolutely clear in here that you have the righteous people. inherit the land and the wicked he will not have the land. And not having the land means being cut off from God's presence. And so when he says in verse 3, Trust in the Lord, do good, dwell in the land, he's saying inherit the kingdom. What he's doing really here is giving the Old Testament counterpart to the Beatitude in Matthew 5. 5, where Jesus said, Blessed are the gentle or the meek, for they will inherit what do we usually read? Inherit the earth, don't we? But the more literal translation. Really, there. The meaning in terms of the Old Testament context is blessed are the meek or the gentle, for they will inherit the land. The kingdom. That's what Jesus is talking about. He's commenting on Psalm 37, the same This gives us an eternal perspective, you see. And the reason that we can inherit that land is because there came the king of the land at one point in history, Jesus. And that king of the land, the kingdom, came not as the king, in We don't glory, but he came as a servant. He was born in a stable and walked the earth as a peasant, healing and teaching about the kingdom, the true nature of the kingdom. And that king of the kingdom Came and lay down his life, gave himself up to a cross for you, for me, so that at that point God judged him and placed all of our sin on Jesus. And he was cursed. So that you and I would not be kept out of the land, but would be brought into the land to inherit the land in him. Which land are you living for this one? This land? Surf, things you can see and feel and touch, all the things you can get your hands on and say, This is the land that I'm living for, for it's your hope to dwell in God's land. Trust in the Lord. Follow his ways, do good, and dwell in his land. Dwell in his land. Yesterday I was privileged to perform the ceremony for the wedding of Craig Colburn and Grigor Debinsky. Now re Colburn to our congregation. One point in that ceremony I wept as I heard Craig speak to his family, his farewell. As he expressed his appreciation For being part of that family, bid farewell as simply part of that family to his sisters, to his mom, to his dad, and expressed his deep love for them. And I went because I realized I'm the father of three kids. They're growing so quickly. Someday they may be saying farewell to me. And I was struck overwhelming with how swiftly our lives moved. Swiftly life passes. Which land are you looking for this morning? Which land you feel for? Trust in the Lord. Do good act well. There's a number of reasons this morning why I chose the new American standard over the NIV. I think its literalness here helps to bring out the meaning in some superior ways as well. This is one of them. Cultivate faithfulness is probably the best rendering. What he's getting at here. You see, there is on the one hand that initial, once for all, trust in Jesus Christ the Savior. But then there is also that trusting Him for your daily needs, in which you cultivate faithfulness. You see, faith is like a muscle. The more you exercise it, the stronger it gets. If you don't exercise, Exercise it, those weak and savvy. And finally, they were just atrophy. And so, in order to exercise trust in the Lord, you must cultivate that faithfulness. And God, in His mercy, brings problems, circumstances, Into our lives that are insurmountable for what reason? That we may cultivate faithfulness. So that as we trust Him and as we do good by faith, and as we dwell in this land, we will see the hosts arrayed against us, and we will cultivate faithfulness. We'll experience his faithfulness as we trust him. So, whatever it is this morning is producing tension, robbing of your peace, it's an opportunity for you to cultivate faithfulness. It's an opportunity For me to cultivate faithfulness. We as a congregation came to a point in May where we said, we have an insurmountable problem here at facilities. And we believe it is no longer right and in the best interest of this congregation and the honor. of Jesus Christ for us to continue to stay here. And so we'll take a step of faith and commit ourselves to leaving here. Which decision you will decide or not to ratify tonight. That puts us in a position where we have got to cultivate faithfulness because there's no way that we had to go, having done that. And you know, most of you, some of the opportunities God has opened up, making available at least a possibility. Of 123 acres just outside of Route 108 for us to obtain, if God provides. And if that's what He intends for us. But the first thing we've got to decide is: Lord, can I trust you if you are able to be able to do that? able to do that. Can I trust you that you're able? Having once decided that, you go on to the second step. And the second step then is to delight yourself in the Lord. Relish you relish the Lord. See, I may believe that he's able, but it may not be what he wants. And the only way that I will be in a position to know if it's what he wants is if I delight myself in him, not the thing I'm seeking. The focus of my attention is turned from my desire on earth to my desire in heaven, and I relish the Lord. Literally, you see, the Hebrew word here for delight is a word which means to relish a meal. You sit down or It's the kind of word that you'd use to describe what your experience of that would be. It means to enjoy something fully, right down to your toes, you know. And that's the word that's used here. Enjoy the Lord fully. Relationship. Make him your delight, and then he will give you the desires of your heart. My attention having been turned from myself to the Lord. He will then begin to transform my desires. Now I suggest this is not something that happens overnight, generally. It's something that we must cultivate. Cultivate by seeking him and day by day setting Not in some emergency, but as a day-by-day pattern of delivery, setting aside time to say, I'm going to relish the Lord. I'm not going to fit in some time while I'm driving, commuting up and down I-95 or something. twenty nine or somewhere else and saying, I'm going to have my prayer time with the Lord and get in a few uh praises, you know, and maybe snatch a verse here or there. But I'm gonna set aside time to relish you. Set aside time to delight in you. It takes time. I don't want to kid you. There's no shortcut. It takes time to relish the Lord. There's no way that you can transform your desires from all the things to the To relish Jesus Christ above everything else, except to spend time with him. Time with him in his word, learning what he's like. Time with him finding out what he's done for his people. And if you don't take that time, there may come a time in your life and in my life in which God in His graciousness puts some circumstance before us that totally robs us of our peace, is totally insurmountable. And he breaks us. In his gentleness, he breaks us because he wants us to relish him. You know, there are two times more than any others when Dean, my three-year-old, hugs me. But two times more than any others is first of all if he hasn't seen me for a while, and secondly, after I spank him. Now, I may get a hug here and there, you know, on the run. But I could always count after I hadn't seen them for a day or an overnight that I'll get a big hunt Sometimes God has to remind us that we haven't seen him for a while. We come running back and want to put our arms spiritually about him to cleave to him. There may also be the times when he needs to spank us. Find what he needs to wean us from those things that have so distracted us here, so that we'll relish him, so that we'll run to him as little children and say, Father, how could I be so foolish? I have gotten so seduced by the world that my delight in you has dim so though. Remish the Lord, and then he will give you the desires of your heart. See, this is what Jesus was talking about. He considered some weeks ago in John 15, 7. If you abide in me, relish in me, and my words abide in you, then you shall ask what you will. And it will be done for you. Relish the Lord. And He will give you. By transforming your desires, He will give you them. Those transformed desires of your life. Then we come to the third one. Haven't trusted him. Having then come to a place where we claim, we can claim the desire that we have because we've relished him. That's my big concern, I must say, for us as a congregation, to consider this land. The question of whether we're going to delight in him. See, my fear, I think, is that we may delight in the land and hope it brings us closer to the Lord. But what the Lord is saying is delight in me. And then see it's my desire to give you the Lamb. By giving me your desire Having done that, we need to come to that third step in which we roll our way on to the moment. Roll our way on to the Lord. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust also in Him, and He will do it. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your judgment as the new dead. The NRB connects those two verses, I think, maybe a little too closely. But I think the emphasis here is to commit your way to the Lord, to trust in him, and he literally will act. He will do that thing. And in doing that, he will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your judgment in this moonday. He'll vindicate me, you see, against all the wrongdoers who seem like they're making out. Seem like they're able to get everything. With little effort. God says, there will come that time I will then perform as you roll your way on to me. And you will then see that your trust in me was thoroughly demanded. The Hebrew word here is The word that does quite literally mean to roll. It's the word used in Genesis 29, where Jacob rolled away the stone from off of the well. You remember, it was rewarded by a kiss from Rachel. Rolling away that burden from off of the well. The word that's used there for roll is the same word we have here in verse 5. It's the word that's used in Joshua chapter 5, where Joshua talks about rolling away the reproach from off of Israel. That uncertainty. circumcised generation that had grown up in the wilderness and they had to be circumcised. And Joshua speaks of the rolling away of their reproach and he uses the same word here and so that that place was called Gilgal, which means rolling, a word related to the Word here. We have in this Hebrews. Verse 5. And so we need to take this problem, the circumstance, the insurmountable opportunity, whatever it is, and we need to take that, and I believe the step here then is to punch. Consciously, purposefully roll onto the Lord. You know, sometimes we can spend so much time just worrying over something, continuing to pray about it, that we never come to a point in which we've consciously given it to the Lord. You ever come to a problem, you pray about it ten, fifteen, twenty times, and you keep going on and on? Well I believe the Bible teaches importunity. It teaches persistence in prayer. We should persist. And those who say to you that you should only pray something once and then be done with it, I don't have a biblical perspective. But sometimes we can move too far the other direction, in which we just continue to praise things over and over and over, but we never commit them to the Lord. We never take like pilgrim the great burden off our back and let it roll off our shoulders. Down the hill unto the foot of the cross. And that's what this verse is talking about. It's talking about rolling that burden, that weight, that circumstance, rolling it off your shoulders. It's too big for your shoulders anyway. He can't bear it. It's too big for you. It's a God-size bird. Roll it on to him. And let him take it. Roll it onto him. And notice the two sides to it. Roll it on to him. Trust in him and he will act. You're responsible to roll, he's responsible to act. And once you've rolled, at that point then, you can give thanks. Rest then, forthstep in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who carries out wicked schemes. Rest. Trust in the Lord. Wait patience. No matter what. May He be your trust, as we read in Psalm 62 earlier. By soul, wait in silence for God only. For my hope's from him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my stronghold, and I shall not be shaken. The implication, I believe, in this verse is that you won't get an immediate answer, usually. There's going to be that period after you've committed it. Some people think if I've really given it to the Lord, then God will answer. If he hasn't answered, I must not have given it to us. No. But it's the opportunity to experience verse 7, to rest in the Lord, and to wait patiently in the Lord. In fact, because If you look in these Psalms, you'll see that there's a connection between Psalm 37, 38, 39, and 40. Psalm 37, 38, and 39 are all waiting Psalms. And you see in those Psalms again and again, a waiting on the Lord for him to Act in response to the cries and the pleas of his servant. And you may wait for a short time, or you may wait for a long time. But sooner or later you will be able to pray, Psalm 40, verse 1. Waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined his ear to me, heard my cry. There will come that time when the waiting will be in the past tense. And God will have vindicated himself. Because you have waited for him, trusted in him, for him to show himself faithful. And here's Jehoshaphat. And King Jehoshaphat is surrounded by all the host of Ammon and Moab, hundreds of hundreds and scores of thousands of soldiers and chariots arrayed about Israel. Is faced with that insurmountable problem before him. His terror struck. 2 Chronicles chapter 20 tells us Jehoshaphat trusted God, practiced the first step. And so we read in 2 Chronicles 20, verse 6, that in the light of that Terrible and awesome situation. Jehoshaphat stood and he said, O Lord, the God of our fathers, art thou not the a God in heavens? Art thou not ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might In your hands so that no one can stand against you. And he goes on to the next six verses to remind himself of God's power and of his promises. And as he does that, he cultivates faith. He cultivates in himself a trust in God. And having cultivated that by looking at God's power and then delighting himself in God's ways and his purposes, he then in verse 12 is able to roll the burden on to the Lord. Verse 12, O our God, will thou not judge them? For we are powerless before this grave multitude who are coming against us. Lord, if you don't do something, we're all going to be dead by tomorrow. Nor do we even know what to do. Hashaphat says, I'm not only unable to execute my strategy, I don't even have a strategy. Lord, we're powerless, nor do we we even know what to do. You ever feel like that? Not only do my plans not work, I've got out of them. There's nothing left. Then it finishes. For our eyes are upon you. All Judah was standing before the Lord with their infants, their wives, and their children. And God answered to his prophet Jehazia in verse 15. And he said, Listen all Judah and it have Of Jerusalem. And King Jehoshaphat, thus says the Lord to you, do not fear or be dismayed because of this great multitude. For the battle is not yours, but God's. Tomorrow go out against them. Behold, they will Still come up by the ascendant Zeus, and you will find them at the end of the valley in front of the wilderness of Jerusalem. You need not fight this battle. Station yourself, stand and see the salvation of your God on your back. Oh Judah and Jerusalem. Do not Fear or be dismayed. Tomorrow go out and face them, for the Lord is with you. Having rolled that on to the Lord, he's then able to rest and wait patiently. In fact, remember how the the story goes. They don't send the truths out first. They have a hymn sing. You read in verse 21. And that Jehoshaphat first can worship the Lord in verse 18 in response, Lord, thank you. We trust you for what you're going to do. And they thank God in advance for what He's going to do. Did you ever do that? Pray something? You haven't seen a single inkling of the answer. But you have that sweet sense of peace that has come from the assurance you have. committed it to the Lord. If you've delighted in him to the best that you know how at that point, you've committed it to him, then without having seen any answer come, there's the sense, God's got it. I don't know what he's going to do. But he's done. So they worship. Verse 21 says they go out and they sing. And they go out and those who are the appointed leaders of worship in the temple meet them. And they say, give ask to the Lord. His loving kindness is everlasting. And they go out singing, God causes the enemies to kill themselves. And there's such an utter wrath that we're told something that very rarely ever happens in Babel, not one escaped. So thorough was the round, and so huge was the army that it took them three days to gather up the sword, three days to collect the booty of this host that the Lord had defeated. They trusted him. They delighted in him. They rolled their way upon him. And they rested in him. And now it's 1886. And the China Mission has been working in China for some years. And the China Inland Mission has found the facilities that they have been renting from to be totally inadequate by this point. It's expensive and it doesn't serve their needs. And there's been made known to them a plot of land that they could purchase. The land is highly suitable, but it's also very expensive. In those days, $12,500. And so not know whether this is what the Lord wants, should they go ahead? Should they simply trust God for it? Is it what He wants? Be determined, to delight themselves in Him, to seek the Lord, and to call it prayer meeting. The account of that prayer meeting, written up by Oswald Sanders some time later, goes like this. Now it happened at that prayer meeting that there was a young man named Archibald. For Yui. He had arrived in Shanghai from England eight days previously, and although not yet a member of the China England Mission, he was living in the mission home while learning Chinese. Some years previously, he had inherited a fortune. Of $400,000 from his uncle in Scotland. When at the prayer meeting he learned of the need for the pot of land, he immediately resolved to buy it. After the prayer meeting, he went to Hudson Taylor. He wished to purchase the land and give it as a site for the headquarters of the mission. The only thing he requested was that his name should be kept quiet. In time he was learned that it was Archibald Ewing. He gave away most of the rest. Of that money that he had inherited, and he remained a missionary in China. They bought the land, and now it's 1929. Once again, they've outgrown their facility, this one that they now grown, and they've saved money on it time and time again. again and the usefulness of it and uh without uh really being able to recount through those years. But now they need a larger facility. And so they decided to sell that facility and they found at that time that in selling it that that facility had been in one of the most intensely developed areas of Shanghai, and it increased in its value between between 1889 and 1929 32 times. Enough to buy them a larger land and almost completely construct a new facility. Seven months after they moved into the new facility, war broke out between the Japanese and the Chinese, precisely in the old neighborhood. There was heavy fighting and great damage. to the property. The Chinese themselves were impressed by these Christians who knew exactly when to move out of an area from one to another. When the communists took over in the late 40s, practically every other land was confiscated. This land that had been prayed for and provided by the Lord, the Chinese communists paid eighty nine thousand dollars rent, and they never took it from the China Inland Mission. And now it's nineteen. And Francis and Edith Chaper have been ministering in Switzerland, trusting the Lord for the children's ministry that they've had there for some years. And all of a sudden, there is the word From the Swedish government. A bishop in the area has used his power to have them evicted. And they must leave in six weeks. And there's no way to get out of it except some long, long string of impossible exceptions. And the key to these exceptions is to be able to have a new address in another village, in another district, and prove that they are paying rent or buying the property. And so they begin to look, and the weeks passed. There's no answer. They have prayed before this time that the Lord would teach them to trust him and to delight themselves in him in a particular way that would demonstrate his reality to them. Is this God mocking them? Is this God simply showing them that this is how He's showing their reality to bring their ministry to an end and have them evicted from Switzerland? So they pray and they roll the bird upon the Lord. And it's very roll that? There is no immediate answer to that. The weeks continue to go by and there's no answer. Until finally it's the day before they have to leave. And they're packing and getting ready to leave. They've looked at every possibility and found a dead end at every point. And the railro takes Edith Schaefer up to a village that they had never even heard of before, a little village by the name of Hueno. And he shows her there a chalet on the side of a mountain. and takes her in. She looks it over, it seems certainly suitable. But as he's rolling off in the car, she asks him, Well, how much is the rent? And he says, There is no rent, it's for sale. They could even come up with money for rent. let alone a down payment on a property. They've existed as missionaries on the free will offerings of others, and they haven't been very popular lately because of some of the policies that they've taken and some of the things that they have said. And so their support's been cut back. And they have no money for any kind of down payment. So that nighty the shaper rolls the burden again on the Lord and she says, Lord, if you want us to stay here and you want us to get that property, then you provide a thousand by ten o'clock tomorrow morning. And the next morning the mail comes and there's three letters in the mail. And as they look into those letters, one of them is from a couple by the name of Salisbury, a couple who have never given a dime to their support or their work. But they say here's something interesting that's happened. Some months ago there were some unexpected insurance premiums paid to my husband, and we decided that we would buy some land. But then when we went to look at it and the property, we decided instead that we would get it. to invest it in the kingdom of God, into his land. And so we decided to pray. And we prayed for three months as to what God would have us to do with that money. And we believe that the answer has come to give it to you. And they looked at the check, and it was exactly $1,000. And God, in the ensuing hours, provided a means for them to stay. They purchased the land, and they moved in and said, as they began To invite students to come. What could come of a work so weak? Yet in the years since 1955, God has touched the lives of hundreds and thousands of students, of senators, of congressmen, Of people throughout the entire world through the writings, the buildings, the speaking of Dr. Francis and Ewith Chapel. But they trusted him. They delighted in him. They rolled their way on him. And they arrested while he acted. Now it's 1983. Here's Columbia Presbyterian Church. And we say, where are we, Lord? We've decided we need to move out. We want to trust you. And Lord, you seem to have been aware of us aware here of 123 acres of land. What do you want us to do with it? Lord, the terms sound good. They're willing to give it to us for less than sixty five hundred an acre. But eight percent, his financing it. Can't ask for better terms than all the ones he's outlined for us. But Lord, that's still a thing for a million dollars just for land. And so we've tried to trust the Lord, we seek him. It's up to each of us, are we delighting ourselves in him to see how we're moved in that? Are we ready to roll it on to him? Some of us have met in prayer and sought to do that and to wait for him. But God is still the same God of Jehoshaphat, of Hudson Taylor, of Francis Schaefer. He's still the same. God is pleased to work with sinners. In this past week, the Lord has seen fit to raise up a servant and within this congregation is willing to finance the entire property alone. So that the church would need to pay maybe between $40,000 and $50,000 total for the land, all the land you would need to build on that property. Now, this evening you'll hear more of the details of the miraculous thing that God has done. But God is still the same God that we see in the scriptures. The God of this is to trust him, to delight in him. To roll our way on him and to see him act as we rest and wait patiently for him. What does that mean for you? In your province. in your advocates this morning. Let's pray. Lord, we we come to you this morning as sinners who need so much to learn to trust you. Lord, we know that your peace is only for those who trust you. To delight ourselves in you, that you can transform our desires. Our desires as a church, our desires as a individuals, that they might see you, Lord, give to us the desires that are your desires, so that we're able to roll our burdens trustingly on to you and know that you hear us, that you've taken them. And know Father that in taking those burdens, that you then will act as we rest and wait patiently for your acting. And Lord, you're doing a thing in our congregation that's it's beyond belief in some ways, the ways that you have opened up in your timing and your provision of the possibilities for the land before us. And yet, Lord, we We need to delight in you. We need to look to you before we decide on this. Follow the Lord, teach us, instruct us, sanctify our desires. Bring us to yourself. as your people. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Blessing to God's praise hymn number one hundred and twenty.