Last week we began a series on delighting in God from Psalm 37, verse 4. So if you have your Bibles, please turn to that. It's a powerful verse which reads, Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. But when we talk about experiencing this verse, what is your response to that? Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Is your response as you hear that, yes? Amen. I'm experiencing that. I'm beginning to see something of the truth of verses 3 to 6 in this psalm to trust in the Lord. And to be able to know that he will give to me safe pastor, to delight myself in him, he will give to me the desires of my heart. To commit my way to him, to rest in him, as verse 7 goes on to say. Are you finding that as you hear that you say I am experiencing that. I am seeing something of the sufficiency of Jesus Christ for all of my needs and how he can be my delight. And so your heart says, amen to that. Now I'm not going to ask you to say it because I want you to examine, does your heart say that? Or, on the other hand, I suspect that there's a number of us here who are saying, frankly, I'm more disappointed with God than delighting in God. I think of the woman who belonged to the Lord Jesus, who had a child with spina bifida. And that child produced a tremendous strain in that home as she sought to care for that child and struggled with God's giving her this child with these many, many difficulties and problems. The strain finally was more than the marriage could bear, and her husband left her. Say to her, Delight yourself in the Lord. He'll give you the desires of your heart For the homosexual guy who prayed for God to change his desires, went through therapy, went to a number of healing services Tried everything he could think of in order to put this away from him and to get on with a heterosexual lifestyle that the Lord Jesus was calling him to and found failure after failure. Delight yourself in the Lord and He'll give you the desires of your heart. Or think of the fellow who was led to the Lord Jesus while he was a student in college and had an unusual zeal for the Lord, and because of the zeal to know God better, he transferred to Wheaton College and then went on for a graduate degree in theology. He's so gifted that uh when he was a graduate student, he wrote a book on the book of Job that was published because of all his insights. But during that time, his parents were having difficulty in their marriage, and he prayed that God would help him to save that marriage, and God would keep his folks together, and they divorced anyway. Prayed about a number of choices and decisions that he had to make and said as he looked back it seemed like every time he prayed that he made the wrong decision. Went for a job and the fellow who promised him the job wound up deceiving him, gave the job to somebody who seemed less qualified. Endured a number of physical problems during that time. And then his Christian fiancé, who he loved dearly, dumped him and went on to someone else. And all through this, he's praying, and he's seeking God, and he becomes more and more disappointed How can this Bible that I read say, delight yourself in the Lord, and he'll give you the desires of your heart? It doesn't seem to work for me until one night He decided that he was going to be as serious as he possibly could be with God, and he prostrated himself on the wood floor of his room and prayed for hours Lord, speak to me. Reveal yourself to me. Show me that you're there. Lord, I want to know you. Just show me that you're there and that you care for me. And he said about 4 a. m. , he finally realized that nothing was going to happen. And so he took his Bible, he went into the backyard And he torched it in the barbecue grill and left Jesus for the rest of his life. Or maybe in your case, it's not some major crushing disappointment. Maybe it's more the niggling erosion kinds of disappointments. You know, why did God do this time after time? Why was Sandy Sharp in Florida this week and his rental car gets stolen with all the things that he had, his wallet and everything in the trunk? Eventually got recovered, but lots of hassles. Why was John Platt this week hit by a drunk driver in his truck and totaled the truck? Just all kinds of inconvenience and difficulties. Many things that you and I have, things we've been praying for, and we say, Lord, I want you, I think I'm willing to serve you, I I am trying the best that I know how, but Lord um Why is it that it doesn't seem to work? And so what happens for many of us is that I think after we begin to experience a number of these things, we give up trying to figure out God's ways. And we deteriorate from a delight in him or a seeking to delight in him into simple duty in the Christian life. We say, well, I know what's right, I know what the Bible says to do, and so I'm going to do it and somehow hope that things are going to work out in the end. And if it doesn't anyway, then at least I hope I'll go to heaven because of Jesus and things will be better there. But what I'm trying to challenge for us this morning is this settling for dry duty in our Christian life. Because God is giving to us opportunities in this ministry center, opportunities in a culture which is deteriorating about us For people who have a confidence in the Lord Jesus to be able to make a difference. I really believe that. But we need to have that confidence that when the Bible says, delight yourself in the Lord and he will give you the desires of your heart, that the Bible means exactly that. That there's something about delighting in God that can transform our attitudes and our lives and enable us to experience the fulfillment of those deepest desires, not just in heaven. But to begin to experience that here and now. And so what I want to do in this series is to explore five theses or principles that I'm going to present to you this morning. These are five principles, five basic principles that I want to establish over the next weeks, each one building on the previous one established here from Psalm 37, verse 4. In the context of the whole psalm. You see it among your bulletin outline there. First principle: The longing to be happy is a good, not a sinful desire. The longing to be happy is a good, not a sinful desire. Psalm 37 was written To believers who were fretting, who were cynical about the value of following God. In our day, the fulfillment of that in following Jesus as Messiah. But you notice it begins: do not fret because of evil men, be envious of those who do wrong. They seem to be getting pleasure. You don't seem like you're getting a lot. This is addressed to a believer Well verse 7 and 8. Be still before the Lord. Wait patiently for him. Don't fret when men succeed in their ways. When they seem to be having fun, they seem to be having some pleasure. When they carry out their wicked schemes, refrain from anger, bitterness, turn from wrath, do not fret, it only leads to evil. And so that's addressed to those who are believers. But you notice that nowhere in this psalm are the desires for pleasure discouraged. They're not discouraged, rather they are redirected. And so verse 4 says, now these delights that you have, take them and place them in the Lord. Let him be to you. the desire of your heart so that he will fulfill for you the desires of your heart. But it doesn't say ignore the desires. It doesn't say to pretend that those desires, or even what seems to be the disappointment, or is in fact the disappointment of many desires in the past, is to be ignored. In fact, it is encouraged that we explore those desires. Remember last week we looked at that word delight in the beginning there of verse 4 and saw that that word is a powerful word that speaks of the delight of a child in its mother's breast. To delight of a hungry man at a feast, to delight of someone exploring all the pleasures of this life, to delight of riches, to delight of even sex. And the Bible is saying this kind of exquisite delight, explore it. Don't deny it. The Bible wants us to be in touch. With our desires. I believe that a big problem for us as Christians is that we've become used to feeling so guilty about the way that we satisfy our desires Through illicit, self-centered, immediate kinds of gratifications, that we've lost the ability to distinguish between the illicit satisfaction of the desires and the desires themselves which are God-given. And so as soon as we begin to feel the desire, then we think whether it's a desire for security, for close relationships, the desire for joy, the desire for peace. We believe that that desire in itself is somehow wrong because it seems to be frustrated at every point. And the principle, the first principle that I want for us to explore here is to see that it is good to have the desires for pleasure. God intended that. He has given to us those desires for pleasure. In Matthew 25, when the Lord Jesus tells the story of the faithful stewards, He ends two times, he says there, in ending two of those uh incidences. He says at the end of uh each of those uh uh examples That the master says to the faithful steward at the end of his life, enter into your master's happiness. Come share your master's happiness. That's his intention, is that we come to share his happiness. We're in Ecclesiastes, chapter 2. The writer says, concerning the pleasures of this life, a man can do nothing better than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in his work. This, too, I see is from the hand of God. For without him, who can eat or find enjoyment? The man who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and happiness. But to the sinner he gives the task of gathering and storing up wealth to hand it over to the one who pleases God. And so the desire for happiness is not to be repressed, but to be cultivated. Second principle, then. Therefore, do not resist that desire, but cultivate it by whatever will provide the deepest and most enduring satisfaction. and delight. Do not resist that desire for pleasure, for happiness, but rather cultivate it by whatever will provide the deepest and most enduring satisfaction and delight. In other words, don't deny your desires and pretend that it is more spiritual not to want pleasure. I believe that's where a lot of us as Christians go wrong because you you eventually it's going to come out. You want pleasure. And you can you can acknowledge it or you can deny it. But if you deny it, it's going to creep up somewhere. And you're going to fulfill it in perhaps a way that you didn't intend. Don't deny it. All Psalm 37 does is to call us to deny the the the insatiable desire for an immediate gratification focused in on this life. But its intent is to show us how to get enduring, satisfying pleasure. You notice the point that he makes there at the beginning of verse 1 and 2. He says, Don't threat because of men. evil men or be envious of those who do wrong. For like the grass they will soon wither, like green plants they will soon die away. What's going to happen? They who seem like they're having the joy, that joy is going to be lost They're going to lose all their joy. Now, the psalmist is saying, don't lose your joy. Let me show you that the way that God has called in the Bible for us to have is in fact a way of joy and delight. And so the Bible is calling us to trust Him, to hang on, even in those times when it seems like, in fact, that things are not going to work out for pleasure or joy. Now the Bible is very clear To tell to tell us that every day is not going to be full of pleasure and delight. We know that the Bible teaches in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 10 that the God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ. After you have suffered a little while, will Himself restore you, make you strong, firm, and steadfast. And so the Bible's very clear that there's going to be suffering. But what is the nature of that eternal glory that He's calling you to? This land that Psalm 37 says that you're going to inherit? Well, 1 Peter tells you back in chapter 1. In verse 3, praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given to us new birth into a living hope. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed at the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. And that place, that land that he's talking about, where it's an inheritance that will never perish, spoil, or fade, is the land that he speaks of in Psalm 37, verse 3. Trust in the Lord, dwell in the land. By faith now, beginning to enter into the promises of that land and enjoy safe pasture. Delight yourself in the Lord. And he will begin to show you how the desires of your heart are fulfilled in him and in the things that he leads you into as you follow him and trust him. You see, the person today who is without the Bible, without the Spirit of God, only has raw desires for some satisfaction, satisfaction of intimacy, of transcendence, of Peace or joy, but no clue how to get those things satisfied or fulfilled. And so they can only look to people, things, experiences in this life. But the Bible says that there is a satisfaction and a delight that transcends people, things, experiences in this life that will always let us down in the end. And so the Bible calls us to see that God uses oftentimes those disappointments that we experience, that whoever this was written to was experiencing. Those kinds of disappointments that you've experienced, whether the major ones I spoke of or those that just erode into your faith Or erode your faith away, your confidence in God. To bring those so that you will turn to Him to see beyond what you can find in this life, the deepest satisfaction of your heart's desire. Third point then. See that the deepest and most satisfying delight is in the Lord himself. The deepest and most satisfying delight is in the Lord Himself. Delight yourself in the Lord. And he, the Lord Jesus himself here, will give to you the desires of your heart. Why? Because he himself is the fountainhead of all true joy. He's the one who made the mountains and the music and the mouth-watering delights that you savor. And he himself is the one who is the exuberantly happy God who delights in whatever he does. Psalm 115, verse 3, that we've talked about. He does whatever he finds delight in, and that pleasure that he finds in what he does is a consistent pleasure according to his nature, not a capricious pleasure. And so we serve a God who is a God of exquisite delight. And He wants, the Bible says, to share that delight with us. Do you believe this morning that Jesus Christ, in all his joy and exuberance of life, wants to share with you his joy? Did he want the overflow of his pleasure to come into your life? There are three things that I believe keep us from real satisfaction and joy in this life. Three things. And God wants to give the fulfillment of those things that can only be found in Himself. Three things that keep us from complete enjoyment. First of all, nothing in this life has infinite worth. And so it always we're always limited in how much we can delight in something, how much we can set our hearts on it and find satisfaction. But A under there, Jesus is inexhaustible in his delight, in his worth, in his beauty. Let's face it, everything that you find delight in here, it's got a limit to it, doesn't it? You can delight in it, you know. Uh one uh movie star once said uh it's not true that money can't buy happiness. It can for about twenty minutes at a shot. You know, anything that you acquire, you can find delight in it for twenty minutes, a day or two, but then it's always going to fade, isn't it? That thing that you thought if you could only have that, that it was going to make you happy the rest of your life. And after a while you get used to it. Maybe you throw it away, or you trade it in, or you go on to another relationship. Because nothing here is infinite in its worth. Jesus is infinite in his beauty and his word. Psalm 36, just before this psalm, the Bible speaks there of his beauty. Look what it says about him. Your love in verse 5, O Lord, reaches to the heavens. This is how great your love is. Your faithfulness to the skies. Your righteousness is like majestic mountains. You're just as like the great deep. Oh Lord, you preserve both man and beast. How priceless is your unfailing love to us Both high and low among men find refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house. You give them drink from your river of delights, for with you is the fountain of life, and in your light we see light. The Lord Jesus says to you this morning, come, feast on me. Come and see my beauty. Come and explore the depth of my love that was given for you. Why is that? It's related to the second thing that we lack, and that is that we lack the capacity to really enjoy things, don't we? Whatever it is, no matter how perfect it was, you and I lack the capacity. Because of our self-centered natures, to really be able to enjoy something. Give ever find something that you really think I ought to be enjoying this more than I am Why am I not enjoying this outing, this picnic? What is it? There's something in me that's keeping me from simply delighting in this. I ought to be enjoying myself. Why aren't I It isn't it sometimes simply that there is within our hearts that which is keeping us from that joy, that bondage of our sin and self-centeredness But the Bible says in Psalm 37, verse 11, The meek will inherit the land and enjoy great peace. And that peace is what the Lord Jesus came to give us. You see, what he has come to do is with the delights, he has joined with them a new capacity for enjoyment. Because he has transformed us. The Lord Jesus, having given up the delights of heaven, came to earth in the form of a man. So that he died for that sin in your life and in my life, so that he would take that sin upon himself and we would be forgiven, have our conscience, our record cleared. And be able to be transformed by His Spirit and delivered from that bondage that takes everything and twists it and spoils it so that we're not able to enjoy it. And he gives to us a new capacity to be able to delight in him and the things that he has given. As he says in the book of Ephesians, in chapter one. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and his will. We often speak of predestination as if it's some sort of a mechanical fire. You see that God says here that He called you to Himself in Jesus in accordance with His pleasure. He delighted to call you. And in that calling, what has he done? To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given to us in the one he loves, because in him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. Jesus Christ has given to you the pleasure of a transformed heart, of a new life, of a joy. He says to you, Come to me, all you who labor and are weary, and I will give you rest. Those who dwell in the land will enjoy peace, Psalm 37 says. And you and I are given then a new capacity in Jesus Christ for enjoyment. The third thing that spoils our joy is the fact that in this life nothing lasts, does it? I mean, even if you had that perfect thing and you had the capacity to enjoy it, it's not going to last. The car is going to get dented and it's going to get messed up and it's going to break. The house is going to deteriorate. The people that you count on are going to let you down. Relationships will end either by someone leaving or by death. Nothing lasts. Only Jesus Christ and the things of God's kingdom will last forever. You notice how that's stressed in Psalm 37. Three times he stresses that. Look at verse 18. The days of the blameless are known to the Lord, and their inheritance will endure forever. Verse 27 Turn from evil and do good, and then you will dwell in the land Forever. Verse 29, the righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever. And so after a couple of million years you're discovering more and more of the riches and the grace, as Ephesians 2. 7 says. of his kindness in Jesus Christ. And it goes on and on. And you don't ever have to worry that at some point that this is going to come to an end Let me ask you, where are you looking for this morning your satisfaction and your delight? Where are you seeking that? In something that's going to end here? Are you finding that you you struggle for that lack of capacity in your own heart to delight in anything? Do you find that there's nothing that's really worth giving yourself to because it's of infinite worth? Then the Bible calls you to the Lord Jesus Christ. It says, look to him, because he alone is of infinite worth and can give you that capacity by forgiving your sin and transforming your heart. To delight in him and enjoy his pleasures. Psalm 16, verse 11, to enjoy his pleasures. Forever. Very quickly then the last two principles that we'll build on later on in the series. Third fourthly then My delight in him is then heightened by my expressions of praise to him and love to others My delight in him is heightened by expressions of praise to him and love to others. We'll deal with this in more depth later We'll have a message on each, the first idea of praise to him and another on the matter of love to others. But for now let me just call your attention to the fact that verse 4, delight yourself in the Lord and he'll give you the desires of your heart, is joined to and follows immediately on verse 3. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and enjoy safe pasture. The delighting in him joined to love, expressed in doing good. Now let's suppose that this summer you're in Camden Yards. It's the bottom of the ninth. The O's are behind, four to two. There's two men on. Cal Ripkins up at bat. And he drives one right over into the warehouse. And the person says to you as that third man grounds the plate, it is your duty. to give praise as a faithful Orioles fan to Cal Ripkin for that accomplishment. Now this is what is required of you because you are part of the fans who belong to this team. You know, you pop them one in the mouth, you say, you try to stop me! What an expression of exuberance. Have you ever seen the crowds go wild when something like that happens there? What is compelling it? It's not the duty to the praise of it. It's simply the the worth of the event itself, which is then heightened by the praise and the enjoyment, isn't it? I mean try to stay silent then. You'd lose half of the enjoyment of it if somebody said, Now when that happens, when he comes around, don't you say anything. You just you sit there and you just enjoy it quietly, right? You see, and so you've got to burst forth with a spontaneous expression of praise and enjoyment. And then you and I look and read our Bibles and we read of a God who has created the the mountains and the music and the mouth watering delights that I spoke of before. And we see that this God has not only done this, he's done this so that we would glorify him and we haven't, and he sent his own son to take in the form of flesh, the capacity to keep that law in our place and then to die cursed under him, and that that Son, taking our sin upon himself, has risen again from the dead and has called us into this land of eternal delight. and glory and joy. And we say, and every Sunday we're supposed to come here and we're supposed to do our duty of praising God. It doesn't work. If it is not compelled by the spontaneous desire of your heart in seeing his infinite worth, the duty is next to worthless. And the same thing about the love. The love comes from the delight in him expressed toward other people. Here just Read that statement and think about it. We're not developing it now, but just think about it. Love is the expression of my delight in God directed toward the needs of others. Just think about that. And we'll develop it later. Fifth point, finally. The last thing. In fact, the mere duty of obedience without the light is never satisfying to me or to God. Psalm 37 redirects duty-oriented fretter to see this, to see that delighting involves my affections. Delighting in God involves your affections, brothers and sisters. Can't be any other way. Your affections to God and your affections to others. We often hear the statement today: God does not command emotions. You believe that? God does not command emotions in the Bible. Your emotions simply are. God doesn't command them. You know what? That's nonsense. The Bible again and again commands our emotions. When God commanded Israel in Egypt to follow him and keep his law, he didn't just say, Well, now just you know do that law and that's what I require of you. For instance, in in Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight, in verse forty seven, God says, Because you did not serve the Lord your God joyfully and gladly in the time of your prosperity. Therefore, in hunger and thirst and in nakedness and dire poverty you will serve the enemies that the Lord sends against you. He will put an iron yoke on your neck until he has destroyed you. It's not just a matter that they didn't serve him and keep what the Bible said. But there was the affections, the gladness, and the joyfulness of the heart that was required with that. Psalm 37, verse 4. Delight yourself in the Lord as a command. Does that involve your emotions or doesn't it? Philippians 4:4, the New Testament counterpart, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Is that commanding emotions or isn't it? How can God command our emotions? We tend to believe we have no control of them. We do. But we cultivate those emotions by directing our minds to what gives us joy. And so, what we need to do, brothers and sisters, is to face those disappointments. And to see how God, in helping us to be in touch with that disappointment Then wants to redirect from that disappointment to see how in this life there will always be disappointment. There will always be the lack of satisfaction. But when we look to the Lord Jesus and really find in him Through him personally and through his word. You notice that last statement says, delight, what is your delight deteriorated to duty? Go to him, the person, in his word, the process. And ask him to renew your delight. Do you have that delight this morning? Would you find a lack? I find a lack. I'm not saying that, hey, what's the matter with you? I'm walking in victory and pleasure all day long. Why? Because this involves a transformed heart. This is a supernatural process. But our God wants nothing less for us to experience. Let's go to him in prayer and seek that from him now. Lord, we acknowledge that every one of us here this morning to a greater or lesser extent are lacking this delight. And Lord, as we hear it, some of us may even be wondering, is this possible? I've tried to find this kind of a delight, and I've failed. And Lord, we want to confess before you this morning that if Jesus rose from the dead, then that failure is not in you, but it is in us. We have not placed our affections on you. We have not spent that time in your word to explore and to find As you speak to us from that word, the description of your beauty and of your delight, of the infinite love that you have had towards sinners like us, that you have had pleasure in predestinating unto life. And Lord, for any of us here this morning that have never experienced that delight, because we have never come to you to be transformed, to be forgiven of our sin. We're still looking for the satisfaction of our delights in this world and things and people and experiences. Lord, we pray. Speak to us now. Do we would see the fruitlessness and the foolishness of such a search that will always leave us empty? Lord Jesus, teach us what it means to delight in you. Speak to our hearts. That we would thirst for your word to know you. By knowing you, find our delight in you. In Jesus' name. Amen.