Last week we looked at the problem of seeing ourselves as A-P. That is, people who are not perfect, of course, but people who like to give the impression that we're nearly so. We saw then that we must accept the fact that we are, not simply that we were at some grim moment in the past, but that we are sinners. We daily need of great forgiveness from our Father. The one who has turned from judge to father because the Lord Jesus Himself took that punishment that we deserve, but we still need that forgiveness of our father, because we are not in fact A-minus people who both mean. But we're sinners. God loves you where you are, not where you pretend that you are. And so we need to come before the Lord, as we are, not where we've been pretending, or we'd like to think that we are. The Christian life is a life of repentance and faith. not simply a life of faith. Acts twenty, verse forty-one, Paul tells us, and don't turn that. I didn't say it 2 Corinthians, but I want to Share this one verse. From Acts 20, verse 21, Paul says, I have declared to both Jews and Greeks that they must turn to God in repentance and have faith in our Lord Jesus. The only thing we hear very much about today is faith in Jesus. We don't hear about the fact that we turn in repentance and faith Repentance is sort of like the water color that your mother did that looks like two parrots in Mortal Kombat, you know. It's not the kind of thing that you can criticize necessarily, but you don't want it hanging around. when other people come, except your mother. And then you pull it out, you know, to show her that you appreciate what she has done. And then you put it back in the closet until her next visit And we Christians, I think, look at the doctrine of repentance somewhat like that. The big on faith in Christ. And we can't criticize repentance. It's there. It's clear the Bible teaches it But it's not the kind of thing we're very big on demonstrating. In fact, uh you know you you may be a little nervous right now thinking, well what if there's some visitors here? Why did you have to pick this Sunday to talk about repentance? We want to put our best foot forward and talk about things like faith in Christ and what he can do for us. But we're a little embarrassed, aren't we, sometimes by what the Bible says about repentance. It's not very upbeat. in the context of a culture that likes everything to be upbeat. Well, because of that, I think we have Some very brave misconceptions about what repentance is. We don't understand it clearly, what the Bible teaches about it. And there are five particular misconceptions that I think are especially common and especially serious that I would like to deal with, and I want to root those in one verse from 2 Corinthians chapter 7. Second Corinthians chapter 7, verse 10. ten. For that verse tells us that godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death. Now, Paul, in writing the first letter to the Corinthians, had dealt with a problem of a man who was living with his father's wife. Probably not his own mother, a second marriage perhaps, but living, having sexual relations with his father's wife. And Paul was deeply concerned not only for that grave sin, but also for the lax attitude that the church had. And so he spoke very, very strongly and not uncertain terms about the sin of that. And then we come to 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and we see here what the church's response was To his words and his warning and his rebuke came 1 Corinthians, probably, not certain, but probably dealing with the same situation. So let's pick it up from chapter 7, beginning at verse 2, to see what in fact was the response of the church and how Paul saw this, looking back now on their response to his rebuke. Let's then give our attention to God's word as we hear His Word to us Make room for us in your hearts. We've wronged no one. We've corrupted no one. We've exploited no one. I do not say this to condemn you. I've said before. But you have such a place in our hearts that we would live or die with you. I have great confidence in you. I take great pride in you. I am greatly encouraged. In all our troubles, my joy knows no bounds. But when we came into Macedonia, this body of ours had no rest, but we were harassed at every turn, conflicts on the outside, fears within. The God who comforts the downcast comforted us by the coming of Titus, and not only by his coming, but also by the comfort that you had given him. He told us about your longing for me, your deep sorrow, your ardent concern for me, so that my joy was greater than ever. Even if I caused you sorrow by my letter, I did not regret it. Though I did regret it, I see that my letter hurt you, but only for a little while. Yet now I'm happy. Not because you were made sorry, but because your sorrow led to repentance. For you became sorrowful as God intended. And so you were not harmed in any way by us. Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret. But broken sorrow brings death. See what this godly sorrow has produced for you. What earnestness, what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what alarm, what longing, what concern! But readiness to see justice done. At every point you have proved yourselves to be innocent in this matter. So even though I wrote you It was not on account of the one who did the wrong or of the injured party, but rather that before God you could see for yourselves how devoted to us you are. By all this, we're encouraged. So far, God's Word. Now, I want us to focus our attention on verse 10 in the context of those other verses. And I want us to see from there the correction to five basic misconceptions that are commonly held today about this notion of repentance. First of all, the first misconception, you can see these on the bulletin outline, first misconception is that salvation is possible without it. That salvation is possible without repentance. Verse 10 says, Godless all of repentance that leads to salvation. Repentance leads to salvation. Jesus said in Luke 13, verse 3 and 5, Except you repent, you will all likewise perish. He was not talking about something added to salvation. He was saying that was basic to it. Yet the misconception that we have today, I think, is that we see The Christian life is that somebody sort of moves along in their own conceptions and they see a hole in their life. There's something missing. And so we talk about Jesus and how he can fill that hole in the person's life. And then the person adds Jesus to that hole in their life and they keep moving in the same direction. Now they simply have Jesus in their life and they have added some religious values But they're still going basically in the same direction. And that misses the essential meaning of repentance. The word repent means to turn around. It means I'm going one direction. I come at a point in time in which I stop and I turn around and I go another direction. That's basic to the meaning of the word. It's to change your mind, to turn around to go another direction. It means that on the one hand, I turn from trusting myself and what I do to be accepted before God. And I've come to a place where I trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And I trust Him alone. I've turned from my own trust to Him as Savior. It means, on the other hand, that I turn for myself will Following my inclinations, doing what I feel like doing, to turning around and following Jesus Christ. I turn from my own way to go his way. And that is a radical term. It is not simply altering the course a few degrees. And it's also not optional. In Luke chapter 24, Jesus is given the content of the gospel in one distilled verse. Now it's part of the Great Commission. It's interesting that if you look in the Great Commission, you have it in all the Gospels. It's not sure about Mark, it's in that longer ending, but at least in Matthew you're called the Method of how the gospel is to be preached. In John, you're told about the power through which the gospel is be preached. But Luke uniquely gives us the content of the gospel to be preached. It's Luke who tells us what we're to preach as his disciples. And in Luke chapter 24, verse 46, Jesus says this is what is written. That Christ should suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins could be preached in his name to all nations. Beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things. So when Jesus Christ Himself summed up his message in the briefest of compass, what did he say? He said the message is repentance and forgiveness of sins based on my finished word. That's the message of the Gospel of Modsha. Now let me ask you, do you believe in your heart that that is the essence of the gospel? If you were to sum up the gospel, Could it be a statement something like that? It's repentance and forgiveness of sins in Jesus Christ. Or would you emphasize how it is the gift of life in order to help you to live better? It's peace and it's joy and it's comfort. Did you say that the gospel in its very barest essence is repentance and forgiveness of sins? If that's not your understanding of the gospel and how you came to Jesus Christ. And I warn you, you're still in your sin. If you haven't come to Jesus Christ by the way of repentance Godly sorrow leads to repentance that leads to eternal life. And you don't know Jesus Christ. But even further, what is the message that you and I present to other people? When we talk to someone else about Jesus, what do we tell them? Do we try to find some point of contact and need that they have in their life? And let me talk to them about how Jesus can meet that need. If you just accept Jesus into your life, here's what he can do for you. And so we present Jesus as some kind of a cosmic cosmic person who will simply meet your needs in various kinds of ways. Some people call him a cosmic superpsychiatrist. other cosmic pill, but something that will meet your needs rather than saying that Jesus Christ is Lord of the universe And he offers to your life, as you turn from your way to his way, repentance and forgiveness of sins. There's no pardon in the New Testament without repentance. There's no pardon without repentance. And you and I are not faithful to Jesus Christ if repentance is not a basic part of our gospel message. I remember hearing a story about a murderer. He was put into prison and was awaiting execution in the days when murderers were executed. And as he was awaiting that execution, his brother, it happened, was a man to whom the state owed a great deal. Because they were indebted to him for his services, they gave to that brother a pardon that he could offer to his brother who was imprisoned. And as his brother then walked into prison with a pardon in his pocket, he sat down to visit with his brother on execution road. He said to his brother, What would you do if you were pardoned from this? And the fellow in prison, his brother, said, the first thing I would do is that I'd track down the judge that sentenced me, and I'd kill him. The second thing that I would do is that I would get the chief witness who uh was most responsible for putting me here, and I'd kill him too And the brother got up and he walked out of the prison with a card that still in his pocket. Now get this The brother could have given that pardon in spite of any lack of repentance. He still could have given him that pardon. But God Himself cannot. God cannot pardon without repentance In the words of C. S. Lewis, repentance is not something that God demands of you before he will take you back, and which he could let you off if he chose. Repentance is simply a description of what going back is like. Repentance, in the words of C. S. Lewis, is simply a description. Of what going back is like. The Bible knows nothing of a salvation without repentance. There is no salvation without turning on myself and my own trusting myself to follow the way of Jesus Christ and from turning to follow my own ways to follow Jesus Christ, because that salvation is from sin, not simply from the penalty of it. And I must turn to follow him. The second misconception This very popular comment is that repentance is possible without life change. That we can repent. Can it not be very evident? You see, there are some people who will say today that repentance is necessary, but you don't always see it. It's not always evident in a person's life. You can't always tell the difference Let me suggest again that that mention is entirely foreign to the Bible. John the Baptist, when he preached, to introduce the ministry of Jesus Christ, came and preached what? He preached repentance. He preached the turning around of the person's heart. You have to come to the end of yourself and see your need for Jesus Christ. You have to come to the end of your own self-righteousness and turn to see your need for His righteousness. And John preached repentance. But you remember, Luke chapter three tells us that there were a group of fellows who came there to be baptized and have this baptism And they wanted to do it so that they would be in, so that they would look good, so that they would be popular in the crowd. These were the Pharisees who saw John as popular And so they said, Yes, we repent. Now let's be baptized. And you remember John's answer to them in Luke chapter 3, in verse 7, John turns to them and he says, You brood of vipers. You batch of snakes, is what he's saying. Not a very cordial reception to those who are coming to be baptized. You batch of snakes. Who warn you to flee from the coming wrath? Produce food Fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father. And John goes on and says, the axe is already at the root of the trees. And every tree that does not produce good fruit. Get you cut down and thrown into the fire. John says you produce fruit, and that shows that you've repented. Now fruit is something you can see. You know it's an apple tree because it's got apples on it. You can see them. You know it's a peach tree because it's got peaches on it. You can see it. This is why you remember that Jesus cursed the fig tree. The fig tree had leaves, and fig trees when they had leaves ought to have figs on them, because the figs come before the leaves. And so when John when Jesus saw the fig tree with the leaves and no figs, he was saying that tree is professing. To be something that it isn't. It's not bearing fruit. You can't see it. And he cursed it. And Jesus would say that is a picture of a person who says, I know Jesus. And I have repented and I've come to him, but there's no change in the lifestyle. There's no evidence, there's no fruit. There's no following of His Lordship, there's no placing of myself under the authority of Scripture to let it run my life, to let it determine my values and my priorities Fruit can be seen. And so when Paul writes to the Thessalonians, he says, God be praised. I know you're Christians in 1 Thessalonians 1:4. How does he know it? He gives a number of marks and he says, the last thing, because you turned to God from your idols. You did something I could see. You're worshiping these idols that were in your life, these things that took first place, and you turned from them. Follow Jesus Christ. Isaiah says in chapter 55, turn, he says, and let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him turn To the Lord, and he will have mercy and abundantly pardoned. Acts twenty-six in verse twenty. Paul says, I preach the gospel first to those in Damascus and then to those in Jerusalem and all today, and to the Gentiles also I preach that they should repent and turn to God and To Do their repentance by their deeds. Well, then say they repented, and who's to judge the heart? We know we can't ever tell, and somebody might was between them and the Lord. Paul says, I can tell. I said, prove your repentance by your deeds. Let me see. Your life has changed. Listen, if you're hiding behind this idea, if you can turn to Jesus Christ and it's between you and him and nobody else can tell the difference, then you're hiding behind a false gospel. Repentance is observable. You can see the fruit of it. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10, God is sorrow gave repentance that leads to salvation and leaves men regret. The worldly sorrow brings death. Now, what is evident? What's the mark of this salvation? The verse 11 tells us, see what it's done. Please, look what happened in your life, but it's produced in you. But earnestness, what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation. What alarm, what longing, what concern, what readiness to see justice done. P He says you dealt with this matter, you put that sin away, you put it behind you, and you turn to Jesus Christ And it was evident you did something in that person's life. It was reconciliation. It was forsaking of sin. And that's proof. That's what needs to be seen. In 1900, Wales was riddled with alcoholism. The problem was so great that the society was going to pot. It was coming apart at the scenes. It was affecting the minds. It was affecting the whole fabric of their society. The taverns were full. Society was crumbling. God was pleased in 1904 in Wales to bring about a great revival, a turning to Jesus Christ. And what would happen? The result was that we read in the history that the taverns became so empty that they closed. People went out of business, left and light, nobody's coming anymore to get money The alcoholism was forsaken. People turned to Jesus Christ and their lives were changed and society was changed and Wales was changed and it made the front page of the papers, back in Wales, the secular papers. God is doing a work in Wales that can't be ignored. In the 1920s, the Lord was pleased to visit Polster with Revival. And in the Ulster shipyards, it was a common thing that you not only took what you were paid, but you took what you could get. When God visited Ulster with revival, so many stolen goods were returned that they had to build extra sheds. In order to store all the tools that had been returned by the laborers. Repentance that bore fruit And we live in the United States and we hear of so many crusades, we hear of thousands coming to Jesus Christ. But where is the fruit of the repentance in our society? Where is the evidence that people are turning from walking in a particular lifestyle that is countenanced by American culture, that is self-pleasing and self-centered, to follow Jesus Christ? To put away sin and to go another direction with Him as Lord. Let's not have this notion that we can follow Jesus Christ in such a private way that repentance is never seen. And there's no fruit that's evident, for repentance bears fruit that's visible. Third misconception is that repentance equals sorrow But repentance equals sorrow. Some people would say, yeah, sure, there has to be some change. There has to be some evidence of this. But you see, that evidence is seen in in how rotten I feel about my sin. But that evidence is seen in the fact that I feel guilty about it and I weep and I wail and that's what you're calling us to do, isn't it? You're calling us to gnash our teeth here, to feel rotten about our sin. That's not what repentance entails. But notice verse 10 says that godly sorrow brings repentance. Godly sorrow brings repentance. He doesn't equate godly sorrow with repentance. Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation. And so godly sorrow that grieving over sin is what produces repentance but turning from the sin. Judas felt a great deal of sorrow for his sin. He felt rotten about the fact that he had betrayed Jesus Christ and that he was the cause of his death, humanly speaking. But Judas did not repent, and so he went out and hanged himself. It was no fault. Saul, again and again, felt sorry for his sin Saul evidenced a great deal of sorrow through his life for what he had done. But Saul never repented of that. He never turned from it. And he died a broken man on a hillside, forsaken of God. Repentance is not the same, sorrow. Repentance, sorrow is not the same as repentance, but it produces a repentance that is in fact positive. Repentance is basically a positive thing in which I turn from the sin. In which through repentance I turn from its sin and its effects. And so you see in verse 11 the effects, the practical down-to-earth effects of repentance. You see in verse 11 And Paul says, your lives were changed. Notice in verse 9, he says, I'm happy not because you were made sorry. It wasn't simply that, but it was because of what it produced in verse 11. It produced an earnestness, an eagerness to clear yourselves, an indignation for what it would done, an alarm An eagerness to clear yourself by dealing with justice, doing what ought to have been done in the first place. Repentance isn't just sorrow. But, on the other hand, the fourth misconception is that repentance is possible without sorrow. And that's a misconception that I think is possible today, and more to where we're at. We have this notion today that repentance is possible without sorrow. That's also false. Now let me quickly say that we all have different emotional amplitudes. And some of us, you know, we sort of uh feel good and bad and good and bad and then there's all those of us who feel good. Yeah, good and bad. And we're down and up. And we have all different emotional attitudes I'm not saying what your repentance must look like. I'm not talking about how many tears you shed. I'm not talking about what you do. I'm saying that repentance is not an intellectual matter. Repentance is impossible without godly sorrow, without a grief for my sin. The Bible portrays the fact that you and I are not turning from our sin because it has messed me up. It's giving me hang-ups. But I turn for my sin because I realize that it is a crime against the holy living God. I realize that I have offended him. And I date that sin because it nailed Jesus Christ to the cross. And I turn from that sin because it's horrible in my sin. And I can't turn from that sin and God in repentance without a grief for that sin, without a sorrow for it. Today we have this idea that you can just take Jesus into your life. And after Acknowledge it, confess it. You know, you say to a person, Do you believe that you've sinned? Well yeah, yeah, you know, nobody's perfect. Go and show you Jesus, and we're so eager to get the person to see Jesus and what he's done for your sin. Well let me show you what he's done. Look, if you just accept Jesus, then he'll forgive that. You won't have any more problems. You'll have eternal life. And God will take care of you, you'll be your friend and father and all these other things So friends of mine, pretty good deal. You know, I feel guilty various times, and I'd like to be good at that. Nice to know that I got a ticket to heaven. Okay, where do I sign? And so we give them this idea of another. We just accept Jesus You know, uh really don't don't get me mistaken. I sure don't want you to feel bad about your sin. I just want you to acknowledge it. I just want you to agree with me that you're a sinner. Do you agree? Yeah, okay, fine, let's go. And we're so afraid. The people will get upset over sin. But there's no godly sorrow. And we forget that the Bible says that with the prodigal Had gone out and he had left his father. And he was standing there among all the stinking pigs. And he was wishing that he could even eat the husks that they had to eat. But the Bible says when he came to himself, he didn't say, Well, I sure glad that I realized that there's a way out. Then I come back to my father and they accept me and to them know that I made a mess in my life, but that there's hope if I go back. The first thing the prodigal says is, Oh Father, I have sinned against heaven. God, I have sinned. And he recognizes that it is God who has sinned has been primarily against. And there's a brief of that When Jesus describes the difference between the publican and the sinner in their praying, he talks about the publican. You remember he says he's a man who can't even lift his eyes up to heaven because of his shame and his sorrow, and he beats his breast. And he says, God be merciful to me, the sir. He doesn't simply say, you know, like all the rest of them. The sir. Do you ever feel like you are the worst sinner of all? Do you ever feel like you could say that if God could open up my heart and all the rest, that He could see the foulness of my motives? That surely I am the worst of all sinners. That's a godly sorrow. A sorrow that says, as I look into the depths of my heart, I realize that the sins and the crimes against the Holy God who has made me and has showered such blessings on me is a stinking offense in the sight. And how can I rationalize? And how can I minimize? And I need to tell it what it is. And when I begin to do that, I'm left the public it. And I beat my breast and there's a sorrow, whatever you do. I don't know what it is, how you demonstrate it. But the only thing I know is that there's got to be that sorrow in the heart. A sorrow that we don't see very much of today. When's the last time that you wept over your sin? When's the last time that you saw anyone weep over their sin? You and I take our clues and our cues from others, don't we? And we live in a day in which weeping over sin is out. It's definitely not accepted within the church. Now I'm not trying to say that I think we ought to all beat our breasts and rip our suits and dresses and that we all all render garments in some sort of manufactured kind of sorry. But I am saying that I think that you and I have missed what is one of the deepest sources of godly joy in the Bible. That is a godly sorrow for sin. I believe that you and I are cheating ourselves, and we're cheating Don out of his best force. Because we want to be so upbeat. And we want to move beyond seeing the rottenness of our sin to always looking at the solution too quickly I believe that you can describe our repentance as like digging a channel in our lives, and the deeper that channel is dug, The deeper we dig in and expose to the Lord our grief and our sorrow over sin, the more deeply he fills that channel with the rivers of his living water. And as many of us know relatively little joy and power and victory over sin, because there's not very much sorrow in sin. And we know relatively little joy of the forgiveness that is ours through Jesus Christ, because we know relatively little of the sorrow it drives us to see how great that forgiveness is. And as a consequence, we're in bondage. It's like the two kids, you know, who were playing out in the backyard. Mama's inside and she's trying to get a little stuff done in the kitchen And she notices that the amplitude of the two kids and they're playing is rising gradually as the time goes. And finally a cow, you know, and one comes running in, Oh, head me, the other kid means to me to beat my all the time, you know, the case is all laid out there. And so Mom comes out, you know, and she's judged, tries to execute which is it who did what and this and then she finally settles, okay, Jurie, you ask Anne to forgive you Tell her you're sorry, ask her to forgive you, tell her you're sorry. So Jane says, okay, I'm sorry. Okay, fine. She goes back into that house again. She's gotten the confession out of her. She agreed. Back into the house. There they are. Five minutes later. Pow! Right away again. Comes right on back in. Why? Didn't you just say you were sorry? What are you doing it again for? Why? Miss Jane never felt any sorrow for that. She was simply saying something she was told to say, but it had never entered into her heart Has a grief for sin entered into your heart? Not simply to agree. Yes, it's part of Christian doctrine. Sure, for sin it But I mean to where I come before God and I cry out, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. God, I hate this sin. God, take it for my life I believe that if we had a righteous indignation against the saints that were plaguing us as God's people, that if we cried out to God with our godly sorrow, it would be such a hatred that the Holy Spirit would come and he would fill us. As he sees how our hearts are broken by sin. And we turn from it. We turn as broken people to see the Lord's cleansing and healing in our lives. Yet you and I have a different name today for those fig trees, the Dare Mill Fig. Today we call them carnal Christians. Today we say, well, yes, you know, you can accept Jesus and you don't bear the fruit, and we don't have a sorrow over sin, and you live as one who doesn't appear much different from the world. But that's okay, you're simply Carl. And you seem to you just simply need to make Jesus Lord of your life. And we bypass what the Bible says about that hatred and that turning from sin that turns to Jesus Christ. But Who loves him as my Lord. He's taken that sin and has forgiven me. That leads me to the last point. That is finally the repentance, last misconception. Is misconceiving repentance as penance. I've got to move over this very quickly, and I wish I could take a whole message on it. Maybe sometime I will. A couple of points, and it's because I dare not leave you only at that fourth point. Repentance is not penance. Penance is paying for sin. Repentance does not pay for our sin. Repentance, Paul says, God we saw a thing with repentance that leads to salvation. It leads to salvation, it doesn't buy, purchase, or earn salvation. Penance is a sorrow or suffering in order to pay for my sin. Romans chapter 3, verse 19, Paul tells us. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be silenced. The whole world held accountable to God. Therefore, no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law, or even feeling rotten by not observing the law. Rather, through the law, we become conscious of our sin, and now a righteousness from God. Apart from the law, apart from our feelings, has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness from God comes Through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There's no difference. We all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified freely By His grace, through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. We are redeemed, justified, freely, by his grace. Penance is man-centered. It says it's what I do that God looks at in order to forgive me. The gospel says That forgiveness is God sending. Luke 24, repentance and forgiveness of sins through his word on the cross. It's what Christ has done. Don't ever think that you earn salvation or God's acceptance by feeling rotten or sorrowful or disgusted with your sin. Even the turning from it will not gain you one inch more stature in the sight of God. Either you have that in Jesus Christ by what he has done, or you don't have it at all. Secondly, Tenance is feeling oriented. Tenance focuses in on how I feel about my sin. So I'm always taking my temperature, you know, I'm always saying, do I feel gotten enough about my sin? If I do, then God will accept me. Surely God will accept me because I feel terrible. I feel miserable, so he must be enjoying it immensely. And that's the view that some of us have, isn't it? And if I stop feeling rotten about my sin and I accept the fact that Jesus Christ has suffered for that and paid it in full, if I stop feeling rotten as I look to the cross and see what Jesus Christ has done and rejoice in that, that's what has happened. You got to put it right back down again. And that is not the gospel. The gospel says it's not how you feel, it is what Christ has done. Therefore, your repentance must always be linked to the cross of Christ. You see, as I said before, it's a channel that you dig in order to be filled with the rivers of living water. It's a channel so that you're receptive to what the Lord wants to do and dealing with Himself. The reason we don't have that feeling is the shallowness with which we come We need to come and as we dig those deep burrows of repentance in our lives, the Lord comes and fills us and He says, it's not the repentance. It's me. See me, see what I have done. And then you come and you receive that and say, Jesus, how you come, and you died even for me, and you've taken all that away. And then the joy floods and fills my heart. Repentance is a godly sorrow that leads me to Jesus Christ. It doesn't leave me in that sorrow. By the way, penance is bargained, said Penance is barred in sin, where the repentance is based on what Jesus has done Penance is a promise. I'll do better tomorrow. The penance says, give me another program. Give me one more religious duty that I can fulfill in order to balance the scale. Help me though to do one more thing to prove to you how much I really do want to follow you. Repentance says there is nothing I can do. I hate that sin, and I turn from that sin and I realize my helplessness, and I realize the absolute emptiness of my life. Lord, the only thing you can do is to come and fill me. There is nothing I can do with myself. Then the Lord comes to our emptiness. And he fills us. And he gives us new power. And he gives us that power to turn. You see, I'm not calling you this morning to thirst, I'm calling you to drink. But to drink, you must be thirsty. Repentance is simply a description of what going back is like. Let's go back. Let's come to the Lord. And not only in coming to the Lord, let us repair. Let's not hold a double standard that says that I need to repent and I must come to the Lord and demonstrate a fruit of a change life But my father, my mother, my sister, my family, those people who I love in one time some ten, twenty years ago, profess Jesus Christ, but there bear no fruit of repentance and changed life in their lives. I'll still say they're Christians, cornal Christians, but Christians, in the hope that I'll see them in heaven. Well, don't delude yourself. Think that they're all right. But somehow God has a different different set of rules for them. But if you find in your family someone who professes Jesus Christ that there's no fruit, is there evidence of a godly sorrow for sin? Paul says godly sorrow brings repentance but leads to salvation. But a worldly sorrow, a remorse. And always feeling rotten about the effects of my sin. Always feeling only the self-centered kind of Sorrow because of how it's affected me also brings death. Let's come before him. Let's come before him with deep burrows of repentance. We know the living rich waters of the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. Let's come. Espera. Holler, our God. We come to you as a people out of a culture that looks at godly sorrow, that looks at weeping, that looks at really hating and being upset about sin. As unsophisticated, as getting too emotional, as getting uh maybe a little overboard. Sure, sin's bad. But we don't get really upset about it. Our God, break us. Break us, Lord, to we become as that publican To we come feeling that we can't lift our eyes up to you until we're reminded of the cross of Jesus Christ Until we see there that rich and full and free payment for our sin that is so much more than we deserve or could even imagine. Oh Lord, fill us. Fill us because you're pleased first to empty us. Empty us of our self-sufficiency, our self-righteousness. Oh Lord, Lord greatness. Lord, help us to see how vain are our attempts to please you in our own strength. Oh Lord. Bring you such a people that you might be filled with yourself. Lord, we seek you. We seek you in the face of Jesus Christ who has come to save you Sinners. Even sinners like us. Lord, if there's anyone here who does not come to you for that, we pray, Lord. Your spirit would strive and take away any false peace until you give only the peace that you can give. That peace that comes to a repentant heart, a broken and contrite heart that you can never turn from, that you will never despise, but will fill with yourself. Lord, many of us think of our families. People that we love and are so deeply caring for. Maybe some of us realize here, Lord, that we have a double standard for that. We know. We know that there must be fruit in our lives and that there must be a repentant and broken heart before you to know your salvation, rich, and free. But we've excused the total lack of that in their lives by saying that salvation is really possible without repentance or any fruits of it. Lord help us to face squarely where they are. Help us, Lord, brokenly to come before you, to use us, and to seek for you to lay hold of their lives, to bring them to a place where there is fruit and evidence of your saving work in their midst and in their lives. May we settle for nothing less. We look to you, Lord, for these things. Because we believe it's what you want for us and in us. And so we pray it in the name of Jesus when we love. Amen. Let's express now corporately our repentance as the people of God by using the insert. Did you see? That insert is a combination of the Ten Commandments in Psalm 51. The out of course stands for the leader, that's me. C is the congregation, that's you. I will read to you the law of God. From Exodus chapter 20, and you respond in the words of Psalm 51, responding to God out of your own heart. You may want to use this not simply as we use it in worship today, but to take it for your own private devotions As a means of helping you to come before the Lord in repentance as you seek Him to fulfill you. So let's stand now and let's worship God. By his more and all response of confession. God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. And mercy will come to me, glory for my soul, according to the lost spirit of your mercy, I translations. You shall not make for yourself any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. Whether it is in the water or under the earth, you shall not bow down to them or serve them. For I the Lord your God am a jealous God. Why did I