Follow along as I read Paul, remember, has been talking about the person who is either without the Bible or with the Bible Condemned by the fact that whether it's his conscience or the word of God, he sees that he has not followed God and the things that he has revealed to him. So he says at the end of that argument, what shall we conclude then? Are we any better? No, not at all. We have already made the charge that Jews and Gentiles alike are all under sin. As it is written, there is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away. They have together become worthless. There is no one who does good, not even one. Their throats are open graves. Their tongues practice deceit. The poison of vipers is on their lips. Their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Ruin and misery mark their ways. And the way of peace they do not know. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law So that every mouth may be silenced and the whole world held accountable to God. Therefore, no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law. Rather, through the law we become conscious of sin. But now a righteousness from God, apart from the law, has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There's no difference for all of sin and fall short of the glory of God. And they are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate his justice because in his forbearance he had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished. He did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time so as to be just And the one who justifies the man who has faith in Jesus. Where then is boasting? It is excluded On what principle? On that of observing the law? No, but on that of faith. We maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from observing the law. Is God the God of Jews only? Is He not the God of Gentiles too? Yes, of Gentiles too, since there is only one God who will justify the circumcised by faith, and the uncircumcised through that same faith. Do we then nullify the law by this faith? Not at all. Rather, we uphold the law. Let's pause for a moment to ask the Lord to teach us from his word. Lord our God, we come to you hungry this morning, and we want to be fed. We want to learn of you. We pray, Lord God, that your Spirit will speak to each of our hearts. Have free reign in us. Take your word. May it penetrate to us. So that we see Jesus, so that we understand in a new way what faith is, in the way that you describe it. And in a way that we can exercise it to your glory. Amen. Last week, you remember, we saw that we are justified freely by his grace. Romans 3. 24. We are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. We talked about how this means that we are acquitted, that no matter how much you have violated God's word, no matter how much you've sinned in your own life in the past, or even look at your life in the present, That through Jesus Christ there is the offer of an acquittal for God to look at you and to see your life just as if you had kept the law perfectly. As if there had been nothing that you had ever done that was in disobedience to his word. We saw that that was done freely. Remember that word meant both without payment That there's no payment either possible or necessary, but that it's done all for you. It's given. And secondly, we saw that that that Word freely means that it's without any cause or any reason in you. But it's something that comes totally because of what God has purposed to do in it. We focused last week then on what we do not do in order to be justified. But then there's another question, and that question is, what do we do? In order to lay hold of Jesus Christ for justification and to live the Christian life. Paul makes that very clear in this passage what it is that we are to do. And it is simply faith. By faith, we lay hold of Jesus Christ. By faith, we live in Christ. Notice that in verse 22. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. Twice he states of them. Verse 25, God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. Verse 27 Uh God is the one who is just and justifies the man who has faith in Jesus. Verse twenty-seven. Uh where's boasting? It's excluded on what principle of observing the law? No, but on that of faith. We maintain that verse twenty-eight that a man is justified by faith apart from observing the law. Verse thirty, the God who justifies the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised, through that same faith, do we then nullify the law by this? faith. No, rather this principle of faith upholds the law. And then of course he's just getting started because then he gets into chapter four and the whole fourth chapter is about faith and the illustration of Abraham. As the father of faith, the one who is justified by faith. See verse 11, chapter 4. He received the sign of circumcision. A seal of the righteousness he had by faith, while he was still circumcised, still uncircumcised. So then he's the father of all who believe, all who have faith, you see. But have not been circumcised in order that the righteousness might be credited to them. He is also the father of the circumcised. You're not only circumcised, But also walk in the footsteps of faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. Verse 13, it's a righteousness that comes by faith. Of course, this is the whole point of Paul's epistle. Remember his theme's statement in chapter one in verse seventeen of Romans, where he states the whole point of his message here is that the gospel is. A righteousness from God revealed, a righteousness that is by faith from first to last. Just as it's written, the righteous will live by faith. And what's amazing to me is when we consider how central the concept of faith is to Christianity, how vague so many Christians are in their understanding of what exactly faith is You know, we have this idea of faith that has been, I think, in so many ways more influenced by a lot of popular writing. You know, kind of a a mixture of what the Bible says, uh plus a little bit of reader's digest, you know, and some sentimental poetry and some humanistic writings we've picked up, and you know, maybe a little bit of uh Ralph Waldo Emerson and kind of things like this, that we've picked up all along the lines, and it's sort of a a vast hodgepodge that we have in our minds about what faith is It's amazing when you talk to people, uh, you you get this idea that faith is is the belief in the possible. Faith is possibility thinking. A faith is that which never says can't. Faith is that which knows that the night is the darkest just before the dawn comes, which is sure to come anyway. You know, and as we as Christians often pick up this kind of thing. Uh Edgar A. Guest, who was uh a very great popularizer in his poetry in the 30s and 40s particularly In which he sought to build uh on a non-Christian foundation. The Christian virtues uh influenced a lot of Americans in their view of what faith is. You take, for example, a poem like he has, A Believe in the World. I believe in the world and its bigness and splendor, that most of the hearts beating round us are tender, that days are but footsteps and years are but miles that lead us to beauty and singing and smiles. that roses that blossom and toilers that plod are filled with the glorious Spirit of God. I believe in the purpose of everything living The taking is but the forerunner of giving, that strangers are friends that we someday may meet, that not all the bitter can equal the sweet. The trees are but colors, and no man has said that God loves the yellow rose more than the red. You see, it's a kind of a positive hope. that uh Santa Claus really will come, you know, whether you've been good or bad. And uh this kind of notion that pervades So much of our culture, I'm afraid, also has not had its uh had no effect on us as Christians in our understanding of what faith is The scripture, of course, is much more realistic than our poetry. The scripture speaks about faith in very, very practical terms. And in Paul's writings, He makes clear that your faith is only as valid as the object in which it's placed. Now, if I were to go up on this roof of the meeting house, And I were to say, I believe in all things, and and I believe that if I just believe hard enough that I can fly and I begin to flap my arms and then take a running leap right off the roof of the meeting house, you know. How many of you believe that I'll really fly from doing that? Anyone who raises their hand can be the first one to try it. Come up there with me. I'll watch you go down the route It would be a big splat, you see. Because your faith is only as valid as the object in which it's placed. And so much of what we see about faith today is really simply faith in faith. Faith in the power of possibility thinking, or faith itself. In the scripture and in Romans 3, Paul talks about faith always having as its object Jesus Christ. Notice what he says in verse 22. This righteousness from God comes through faith, not in faith, but through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. Verse 25. And God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. Specifically in the work that he accomplished for us. Verse 26, you notice, he did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time so as to be just in the one who justifies the man who has faith in Jesus Now, the Bible, then, to help us to understand this, gives us five pictures of faith that I want briefly to just draw to your attention this morning. Five pictures Of what saving, living faith is, as the Bible presents it. And I want this morning not so much to define faith for you, as simply to characterize it, to draw some pictures. That will help us to understand what the Bible's getting at when it talks about being saved by faith or walking in faith or having faith in Christ. First of all, the Bible says that faith is looking to Christ. Now follow along in your bulletin outline to give you a better idea because there's a lot of scripture there, and some of this I'm not even going to refer to. It's simply for you. You know, some people use these bulletin outlines for family devotions, for private study, so if you want to take it home and use this for some study on your own, that's what it's there for. It's resource material. I'll only be touching on some of it. But first of all, then faith is looking to Christ. Psalm 25, verse 15. David there says, My eyes are ever on the Lord. For only he will release my feet from the snare. What is he saying there? Well, you ever walk out of a uh store and see a dog tied to a post? And uh very attractive looking dog, you know, so you go over to say hi to it. And the dog just sort of shakes his head impatiently and just looks right on past you. What's he looking for? He's looking for his master who's in the store, you see. And he's waiting for that master to come out because he's the one that's going to release him And he doesn't even notice you because he has no trust in you. You know, you're just irrelevant. You're part of just the scenery around there. There's only one thing that dog's looking for: his master who's going to release him. And that's what David's talking about here. He's saying, My eyes, Lord, are only on you. Faith focuses attention on the person who is the object of its trust. And David says that you are the only one who can release me. I'm expectant as I look to you. He develops this kind of picture in Psalm 123. Well he gives another example. He says that Psalm 123 verse 1, I lift up my eyes to you, to whose throne is in heaven. As the eyes of slaves look to the hand of their master, the eyes of a maid look to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the Lord our God till he shows his mercy. We're looking expectant. We're looking because we expect to receive from the Lord. And so our attention is on Him And so the first thing we need to see about faith is that it focuses its attention on the one that it expects to receive from. And the Bible's very clear about this. I see this uh any time I'm with Dean, my son, in the pool. He's one year old now, and he really likes to jump off the edge of the pool. Get him up on the edge of the pool, and I'm down on the pool ready to receive him, and his eyes are right on me. He's not looking at anybody else. He's going to jump in that pool. He wants to see where he's jumping. And he wants to make sure that there are arms there to catch him. In fact, he'd like to really reach out and make sure he's got a finger there at least before he takes the leap But his eyes are on me because it's me he's trusting to catch him when he jumps. That's what the Bible's telling us. He's telling us that our eyes are on God when we expect Him to catch us. When we're looking to Him to uphold us. And Jesus said to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, describing this, that he would have to be lifted up. Remember he's talking to Nicodemus and in John 3, 53, verse 14, Jesus said, Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert So the Son of Man must be lifted up that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. Now what's he referring to? He's referring to that incident, remember, in the Old Testament, recorded in Numbers chapter 20. In which God, as judgment for his people and their wicked ways, had sinned against him, and so God had sent serpents. And those serpents were biting the people, they were poisonous snakes, and in that process People were dying, but the Lord made a provision, a gracious provision for them to be healed. And so we read in Numbers 21, verse 8, the Lord said to Moses, Make a snake, a copper snake. It was a bronze snake, a copper that was formed. and put it up on a pole. And anyone who is bitten can look at it and live. And so Moses made a bronze snake and he put it up on a pole. And when anyone was bitten by a snake and looked at the bronze snake, he lived. Was it magic that saved him? The fact that he could look at that snake and the snake saved him? No, it was looking at God's provision for what he needed. And Jesus said, just as that snake was lifted up on a pole, so that people could look to it and look at it for their deliverance. And God's provision in that, so I'm going to be lifted up on a cross. As I'm lifted up, it's so that people can look to me. And in doing that, they can look for their deliverance in me from their sin for forgiveness and for forgiveness and changing their lives. So Hebrews tells us, after giving to us that whole gallery of the heroes of the faith in chapter eleven, he then concludes in chapter twelve, verse one, Since then we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses. Let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles us. And let's run with perseverance, the race marked out for us. And let us fix our eyes on Jesus. Of the author and the perfector of what? Of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, scorning and shame. And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him. Look to him Who endured such opposition from sinful men so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. Word there, the Greek word to fix our eye On Jesus is a word which means a steady, fixed, habitual gaze. It's not a glance. It's not simply looking casually, but it's a steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus. Of course, we can't do this physically So what Hebrews saying to us there is that that's the nature of faith. It's looking to Jesus, the author and the perfecter of our faith. It's looking to him for deliverance. It's looking to him in whatever situation you're in this morning, whether you're outside of Jesus Christ or whether you're a Christian who's looking and feeling overwhelmed By certain difficulties, it's looking to Jesus and not to other resources for your deliverance. Let me ask you a question. Are you focusing your attention upon Jesus Christ this morning for your needs and problems, for the various things that you can't handle? Or has your gaze been distracted recently? Has your gaze been distracted to other things? Remember Peter when Jesus called him out of the boat to come walk on the waves? As long as Peter was looking to Jesus, he was walking on the water. But as soon as his gaze was shifted and he began to see the waves, he began to sing. He began to be scared because he looked at how overwhelming those ways were to him and knew that he couldn't walk on water. Jesus lifted him up. And in that Jesus is teaching us not only that he's sufficient and merciful and powerful in all of them, but that we're to look to him. Is there something in your life that's distracting you this morning from looking to Jesus? Is there perhaps some sin, some idol? That you are mesmerized by, something that so captured your attention that Jesus has taken second place. What does he say in Hebrews 12, 1? Let us therefore throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles. Is there some sin entangling you this morning so that you're not looking to Jesus with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze? Cast it off. Turn your attention back to Jesus and the scriptures. To look to him. Is there something that You find is causing you to be complacent. Summer times always tend to be times of complacency. Is there some complacency that's captured you this morning and distracted you from looking to Jesus? Tells us throw off everything that hinders. Even the things that in themselves may not have anything wrong with them. But if in fact it causes you to turn your gaze. That steady, fixed, habitual gaze from Jesus. Hebrews says, throw it off. Or is there perhaps some problem that's so overwhelming you this morning that you look at the problem? And all you can see is the problem. All you can see is that this is something so great and you can't imagine any way out of it. And so you're looking at the problem instead of Jesus. What's he saying in verse 3? Consider him who endured such opposition from the sinful men that you won't grow weary and lose heart. But back to Jesus before you look at that problem again. Faith is looking to Jesus, the deliverer. Secondly, faith is coming. Faith is coming to Christ. Jesus' great discourse on himself is the bread of life. Illustrates this again and again. For in John chapter 6, where he uses that illustration, Jesus again and again compares believing on him to coming to him. For instance, in John 6 35, Jesus declared, I'm the bread of life, and he who comes to me will never go hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty. At verse 37, all the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. Verse 45. Verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. At verse 65, Jesus calling again says, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has enabled me. He says in chapter 7, verse 37, on that great last day of the Feast of Lights, he says In a loud voice, if any man is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. In Matthew chapter 11, Jesus had said, Come to me, all you who are weary. And burdened, and I'll give you rest. And this picture of faith stresses the activity of faith. It shows us that faith is not something passive. It's not simply a good feeling that things are going to turn out. But faith is coming to Christ, whether with your problems or with your life as a whole. Faith is active. It's an act of the will. It is taking Jesus at His Word and acting on that. Coming to Him. Exerting yourself to step out on faith and come to Jesus Christ. And so I bid you, as Jesus Himself does, come to him. If you've never come to him, come to him this morning. Are you waiting for God somehow to move me? You know some people sit around waiting for God to give them a kick in the pants somehow to move them spiritually The Bible never promises that. It's an invitation and a command. Come to me. Faith exercises itself. You know, faith is like a muscle. And the more you exercise it, the stronger it gets. But if you don't exercise it, it atrophies, it becomes weak and flaccid. You become spiritually depressed, waiting for God to move you. When his invitation is come and let me enable you. Faith then is coming. Not only is faith coming, faith is fleeting That's the third picture. Faith is fleeing for refuge in Christ. Faith is coming because I must come It's not simply sitting around saying, sounds like a pretty good deal. I think I'll go. Faith is saying I must go. Proverbs 18, verse 10. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. And the righteous run to it and are safe. Faith realizes that Jesus is the only refuge. And so it runs for refuge to Jesus because it's the only place that I can be secure. You know, the whole book of Nahum develops that theme, that one theme, that God is a stronghold to his people. That is secure for you to take refuge in. But if you look for any other refuge of the world, that refuge is like a ripe fig that can just be plucked off a tree and is totally useless. God has given himself as a refuge to us. And he buses to flee to him. I remember talking to a fellow once on a campus about Jesus Christ, and It seemed like he was having a difficulty understanding faith. He could understand what Jesus did, but he couldn't understand what how he would uh come into that relationship with Christ. He's gone back and forth about all these philosophical questions about what could it mean and how do I really do this and all this kind of thing. And I said, listen, if I was on a ship And I had a life preserver, and you fell overboard, and you were out there with a bunch of sharks around and you're ready to go down for the third time. You're going to ask me about what that that life preserver is made of and uh tell me about the quality of that styrofoam that's in it, and I'd like to know a little bit about the rope that it's attached to And tell me a little bit more about why that life preserver is the thing that I should take. He said, No man, I just say, throw me the blankety blank thing. I said, that's exactly what you do. And that's what you'll do when you see your need for Jesus. And you and I see our need for Jesus Christ, we come to him. We flee to him for refuge. We don't hold back because we don't understand it all. I remember one time when I was in seminary I was gone past the classroom building. I noticed a little bit of smoke. I checked it out and I found out the building was on fire. I went into the building and there was a professor there who was lecturing and he was the kind of professor that uh would when he'd lecture he'd sort of get so caught up in what he was doing, you know, that he didn't know there's much else going on in the world And so he's up there lecturing. I came in the back door and I said, sorry, I hate to break in on your lecture like this, but the building's on fire. You might consider dismissing early. And he said, thank you very much and continued to lecture. Uh I went outside and expected to be stampeded and on seeing no one come out. I went back in, but maybe my message hadn't been Heard or registered and I came back in and I said, Sir, the the fire department's been called and they're coming and this building now is on fire all above you. You really might want to consider whether you'd like to dismiss. He And at that point, the class didn't wait for his decision. They all ran out and he was still lecturing. What was the difference? They saw the danger. He didn't. And so they fled for refuge. While he continued to talk because he really didn't see any danger. I still don't know to this day if he ever understood what I was talking about. But I think he did finally get out of the building. When we see the danger, we flee. Faith tells us it's a picture for us to understand that it's to flee to Jesus Christ with Him as my only hope from the wrath of God. From the effects of all of the wrong decisions that I've done in my life to rescue me from my foolishness, from my disobedience Rescue me from my wrong living even now. Faith pleaves. And faith cleaves to him. We read in Psalm 63. Is that we come to Christ to cleave to Him, to cling to Him as our only hope and our refuge. In the book of Hebrews, again, we read in chapter 6. Verse 18, that God had given both his word and his pledge, so that by two unchangeable things in which it's impossible for God to lie, we who have fled. To take hold of the hope offered to us may be greatly encouraged. Why can you flee to Jesus? Because He's reliable and He's sufficient, that's why. He's a refuge. Have you fled to Jesus? Or you still think you've got to make it on your own? Are you walking in your own strength as a Christian? Or are you thinking that Jesus is your only hope? God's been teaching this to me again, in a new way, to understand how important that is in my own life. I firmly believe that as a church what we need now is not in God's work in us as a congregation, some new program, some fine-tuning on our strategies. Primarily what we need is to flee to Jesus Christ. You know, I believe that as a people of God we believe that we look to Him, and I believe that we come to Him. But I'm not sure that as a people we flee to him. I'm not sure that as his people we've been characterized as those who flee to Christ for refuge because we're desperate to hide in him, because we know. Do we really have no strength outside of it? And that's that's the danger of being a talented group of people. There's a number of people, you know, here that have a lot of natural talents, a lot of education. We have a lie that God has given to us. There isn't a danger in that. Simply saying we'll exercise these things and with God's blessing and help. Then we'll reach Columbia for Jesus Christ and we'll grow in Him. But my Bible says that faith is to flee to Him. The faith is to realize that I have nothing that I can offer and pull it off. That Jesus said, without me, you can do nothing. And if there's one thing that I believe has come, both in my own deliberations, and I think that we as a body of your elders in this church It's that sense that we need to cast ourselves upon God and to flee to Him for refuge. Recently I read Pepas and Pangi's book, just in green. A very powerful book about the effects of people who walk in God with that desperate urgency of faith. You know, Tefa Sampangi was a Ugandan fellow who, going back to his country in Uganda, started a Bible study there. As he started that study, he drew together a few students, and God led them from that to begin a church, a distinctly Ugandan church, committed to the scriptures and Jesus Christ. That Bible study led to that church which grew from just a Bible study to about 14,000 members in less than four years. Talk about church growth There was a situation of God's unusual blessing and prosperity. But that was done, you see, not in the midst of complacency. He was done in a culture in which the gospel was pitted against witch doctors, in which the gospel was pitted against evil spirits, and people had no question there about the fact that they lived in a supernatural world. It was simply a question of which powers you're going to serve. Is Jesus stronger than the Spirit? And again and again it's a record of how Jesus demonstrated His all-sufficiency, his trustworthiness, for people who fled to him, whether from witch doctors or whether from other effects of their sin in their lives In Cape of Sampangi on one day, for instance, in uh Easter, uh there were the whole host of people gathered out there. At that time there was only about 7,000 in the congregation All these people were out there and they came and he preached and they said uh we don't want to just uh have a little taste here. Uh go back and rest a little bit and preach again. So he came back and preached another hour or two Uh I haven't picked up those points to apply, I know, from the book here, don't worry. But they were people hungry. He came back and he preached again. And on the end of the second message he came back to his room to rest. As he was there, he heard a knock on the door, and there were five of Idiamine's assassins, Nubian assassins. He found out he was the next one on the list, and they all stood there at the door and they said, We've come here to kill you And he knew that no one ever escaped from that situation. The only escape that you hoped for was to escape much torture and hope that the end would come quickly. And as he the men stood there, they said, Is there any one last thing you'd like to say before we kill you? And he said he it was as if he heard his voice speaking without his controlling it, and he said I simply told them, I don't have any cause to plead with you. I'm already dead in Christ. You're the ones who are in danger. Because you are under the wrath of God. And so the last thing that I'll do before you shoot me is to pray for you, that God will have mercy on you. He couldn't believe his ears. They responded, will you do that now? And so he prayed. As he prayed for them, he said he prayed with his eyes open because he didn't want to be shot with his eyes closed. And he continued to pray for them, and after he prayed for them, that God would in fact get a hold of them and bring them to himself He finished, and the leader of them said, thank you. You've done us a great service. And now we're going to let you go. And the reason we're going to let you go is because, as he told later, the leader said, I myself have killed over 200 people of the families in your congregation. And I saw them today worshiping Jesus. I saw them rejoicing. And I saw I said to myself, there's no power on earth that can cause somebody to rejoice and to praise God when I've just murdered their husband. Except something that I don't know anything about. Would you tell me about that? Within two weeks, all five of those men had come to Jesus Christ. talks about how later the leader of them would go around continuing in a mean service, and as he would come to somebody who knew that they were a marked man, he would tell them Uh, I'm here to kill you. The man of course would be flaking and shaking and uh try to say one last thing and he would then say Uh a week or two ago I I would have shot you. But Jesus has changed my life, and so you're free. And some time you've said that He wasn't sure about his evangelistic methods, but God was using him in a mighty way. But then, you know, Kappa tells about how in those years after that, uh upon many miraculous escapes out of Amin's assassin He did finally come to America. He came to seminary in Philadelphia, Westminster, where I went, and he says that after a year there, he noticed a change And he describes it at the end of his book. It was at the second year I noticed the changes come into my life. In Uganda, my wife and I read the Bible for hope in life. We read to hear God's promises. To hear his commands and to obey them. There had been no time for argument, no time for religious discrepancies or doubts. Now in the security of a new life, and with the reality of death fading from my mind I found myself reading scripture to analyze text and speculate about meaning. I came to enjoy abstract theological discussions with my fellow students While with these discussions, while these discussions were intellectually refreshing, it wasn't long before our fellowship revolved around ideas, rather than the work of God in our lives. It was not the blood of Jesus Christ that gave us unity, but our agreement on doctrinal issues came together not for confession and forgiveness, but for debate. The biggest change came in my prayer life. In Uganda, I had prayed with a deep sense of urgency, you see, fleeing to Christ for refuge. I refused to leave my knees until I was certain that I had been in the presence of the resurrected Christ. He was not just the gift that I needed. I needed to see the giver. I needed to know that the God of the orphans and widows, the God of the helpless, heard my prayer. Now after a year in Philadelphia The urgency was gone. When I prayed publicly, I was more concerned to be theologically correct than to be in God's presence. Even in private, my prayers were no longer the helpless cries of a child. They were spiritual tranquilizers, but that made no contact with anything outside themselves. More and more I found myself coming to God with vague requests for gifts that I did not expect. One night, as I said my prayers in a routine fashion, I was about to rise to my knees when I heard the convicting voice of the Holy Spirit. Kaifa, who are you praying for? What is it that you wanted? I used to hear the names of children in your prayers, the names of friends and relatives You prayed for Okeylo and Topista and Dr. Tay and Ali and Mackenzie and your father. Now you pray for the orphan orphans or for the church or your fellow refugees Which refugees came up? Which believers? Which orphans? Who are those people and what is it that you want for them? It was a sharp rebuke. And as I fell again to my knees and I asked forgiveness for my sin and unbelief, I knew that it was not just my prayers that had suffered. It was not just a bad memory that caused names to vanish from my mind and turned those closest to me into abstractions. God Himself had become a distant figure. He had become a subject of debate, an abstract category. I no longer prayed to him as a living father. But as an impersonal being who did not mind my inattention and unbelief, you and I flee to Christ for refuge Or do we pray because we ought to? The greatest thing that I believe that God is speaking to us about as a congregation in these times. is to flee for Christ as refuge. And the more I've thought of that, the more important it's become to me. And so that I believe that I ought to end just with this. You can check the last two points out on your own about receiving Christ. And the rest that faith is in Christ. But I believe that God wants us as a people to flee to Him for refuge. If you've never fled to Christ for that refuge from your sin, I urge you, come to Him. He is the only refuge. Come to him because he's sufficient. Come to him because Paul tells us there is no justification. There is no acquittal. There is no going free. Apart from Jesus Christ. For righteousness comes through faith in Christ to all who believe. All who look to him, all who come to him, all to flee, all who flee to him for refuge. And if there's something in your life as a Christian that this morning is keeping you from looking to him, distracting you, keeping you from acting on your faith, waiting in a passivity. We're making you complacent so that you don't flee to him. I ask you to bring it to the Lord right now. I ask you to talk to him right now about that. So that he might release you, and that he might show you that he's a refuge. Refuge so that you can hide in him, so that you can know his sufficiency in a new and living way. That he would not be an impersonal abstraction to you, but he'd be the living God. Let's now come into the presence of the resurrected Christ in praying.