I'm going to give you some information either now or in the adult class or by you buying my book. uh which will be helpful to you. For those of you who haven't really gotten a vision for reaching Jewish people, this might challenge you. For God is not through with the Jews, and this is the a unique county. Howard County has probably the most liberal Jewish people in the whole nation living in it. And it also has the Lobovitcher Orthodox community also. So it's a really unique Jewish community, and we've been wanting to do some work in the county and plan to. And perhaps we can cooperate in some way. This is the name of the book I wrote. You bring the bagels, I'll bring the gospel. You know what bagels are, don't you? Petrified Donuts. Um my expression is a bagel away keeps the doctor away. I eat a bagel every day. But uh we wanted this Title to help you all know that your goal is to bring the gospel and let your Jewish friend bring the bagels and sit down over a cup of coffee and talk about the Messiah. This morning, I'm going to give you five reasons why you as a church and you individually need to be involved in Jewish evangelism, one way or another. Either by you actually knocking on your neighbor's door, you uh praying for your neighbor, you uh working with us at Letterer, you praying for Letterer. Supporting letter, but somehow you need to be involved in Jewish evangelism. I'm going to give you five reasons for that. The first one pertains to your own spiritual growth. One of the best ways to grow in any field is to identify with someone else in that field. Some of you might be old enough to remember Johnny Unidas. Anyone remember Johnny Unitus here? Some of you older folks. You didn't know you were so old, did you? Uh a lot of people don't remember Johnny Unitis, but uh he was my hero as a kid. I was a quarterback and I just thought he was the the greatest uh person that ever lived, a great quarterback. And I used to identify with Johnny Unitedist because I wanted to be a good quarterback. I had a crew cut. Remember Johnny had a nice crew cut? And uh my jersey number was number 19. Anything that he did, I wanted to do so I could be a good quarterback. I wasn't, but I tried. I was better than I would have been if I hadn't identified with him. It's a principle of uh success to identify with someone else's who who is successful. And uh I I want to suggest to you that the leaders, the teachers, the spiritual heroes of the Bible all had a burden for the Jewish people. Think of Moses after the Israelites built the golden calf and God was going to judge them. Do you remember Moses' words? He said, Lord, if you would forgive their iniquity, blot me out of the book of life. Moses was willing to give up his own salvation. for the people Israel, who had not done anything particularly righteous at that point. As a matter of fact, they had made an idol. But Moses, because he had a love for God's chosen people, the Jews, prayed that If God would forgive them, he could be blotted out of the book of life. And Moses is not the only one. I want to share some words with you from the book of Romans, would you turn to the ninth chapter? I like the Apostle Paul. I'll tell you, I don't think Paul would go over too well in most churches these days, even though he is the Apostle. to the Gentiles. You know that, don't you? Paul's title, official title, job description is the apostle to the Gentiles. But I don't think he'd go over too well in most churches because his heart was zealous for Jewish evangelism. And for the most part, churches ignore Jewish evangelism. I don't know what people do with that Romans 1. 16 verse, the gospel is the power of God into salvation to everyone who believes to the Jew first. What happened? How come the church does not get involved in Jewish evangelism? I know you want to, but most churches ignore it. We speak in lots of churches around the country. And uh there's a theory going around called Two Covenant Theory. You may have seen it. We wrote a little pamphlet to deal with it. It says that Jewish people are saved by the old covenant. And Christian people are saved by the new covenant. So therefore you do not need to preach the gospel to Jews. And this is coming out of many Presbyterian churches, many Lutheran churches, many Southern Baptist churches. Many other churches. In in uh Romans chapter nine, Paul tells us about burdens He says, I am speaking the truth as one who belongs to the Messiah. It doesn't sound like what you're reading from, does it? I'm reading from a book called The Jewish New Testament, a new translation. of the New Testament that restores the original Jewishness back to the Scriptures, which we think is important for Bible understanding as well as Jewish evangelism. I am speaking the truth as one who belongs to the smart the Messiah. I do not lie, and also bearing witness is my conscience. Governed by the Ruachakodesh, the Holy Spirit. Listen to what Paul says, the apostle to the Gentiles. My grief is so great, the pain in my heart so constant, that I could wish myself actually under God's curse and separated from the Messiah. if it would help my brothers, my own flesh and blood, the people of Israel. And he's talking about the Jews there, because Paul was a Jew. Like Moses, Paul, one of the heroes of the faith, Messiah's main missionary says I would give up my own salvation for the Jewish people. The church has come a long way, and in some ways has come a long way from that original message that Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, shared with the Roman believers that they need to be involved in Jewish evangelism. There's a second reason to be involved in Jewish evangelism, not just spiritual growth. by identification, but spiritual blessing. Going way back to Genesis chapter 12, God revealed to Abraham that any people or person that blesses Israel will receive a blessing. And you can see that throughout the scripture, over and over again, when any nation blessed the Jews, they received a blessing. And when they cursed the Jews, they themselves were cursed. This is a day or two after the holiday known as Purim. How many of you know what Purim is? You see, that's a biblical holiday. From the Book of Esther. A beautiful holiday, a lot of fun. Purim celebrates something like what recently happened in the Persian Gulf. Saddam Hussein sought to destroy the Kuwaitis, and if he had success there, we know where else he would have gone. His hero is Nebuchadnezzar. And if you trace the history of Nebuchadnezzar, you saw that Nebuchadnezzar just walked right through all the known countries of his day. And that was Hussein's goal, ultimately to take Israel as well. Likewise, the man Haman in ancient Persia decided to kill all the Jews. Why? Because they would not bow down to him. He didn't like that. So he said, well, let's kill him. Hitler was not the first genocidal maniac. Heyman was interested in doing it himself So Haman wanted to destroy the head uh the leader of the Jewish people who was Mordecai, and he built a gallows 75 feet tall. I guess he wanted to really show how effective he was, and he wa he pr he pictured Mordecai swinging from that gallows, but God reversed the curse. And if you study the book of Esther, And I handed out some newsletters to you this morning. You'll see that front article deals with that. You'll see that the end result was that Haman swung from the same gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. God reversed the curse because God is faithful to his word, is he not? He said, I will bless those who bless the Jews and curse those who curse the Jews. So there's a blessing that accrues to those who bless the Jews. Years ago I spoke in one of those California megachurches. Anybody here from California? You know what those mega churches are? They're like a city block big. This is a nice size church, nothing compared to those California megachurches that have membership of ten twenty thousand members. Alan, how would you like to have a congregation of that size to have to pastor? Where's Alan? He just felt faint when I meant mentioned those numbers. Um I asked the pastor of that California megachurch. I think it was a small megachurch, only of about two or three thousand in Visalia, California, said I said, how come your church is this big? I I couldn't understand it. And he said, Well, let me tell you the truth. He said, up until about five years ago, our church was always in the red financially. For those of you who don't know, that means you spent more than you took in. He said, we were always in the red financially until I read that verse that says, I will bless those who bless the Jews and curse those who curse the Jews. And he said, from that point on, I started inviting a Jewish mission. To come on the first Sunday of every year to bless the Jews. And he said, from that moment on, he said, our church has been in the black. We've never had a deficit. All we've had is growth. The gospel truth, I'm telling you. Those are his words. He said, because I really believe that God is faithful to his word. And when he said he wants to bless the Jews, he'll he encourages others to bless the Jews as well. Now, what greater blessing can a believer bring Jews than their own Messiah? Can you think of any? Do Jews need a lot of food for the hungry? Um, not in America. Jewish people are well off in in America. You can't help Jewish people too much with uh uh making clothing for them because our people are fairly well to do in America. But in terms of spiritual need, our people are starving. God promised to bless those who blessed the Jews. Another reason to get involved in Jewish evangelism. Spiritual identification for growth, blessing, so that you will receive a blessing. There's a third reason, and that is to reach people with a God-given zeal. Look at chapter 10 of Romans. I found it interesting that Paul, the great apostle to the Gentiles, devotes three chapters of his book, solid chapters to Jewish evangelism. Not to mention all the many verses in Romans 1, Romans 2, Romans 14 and 15 about reaching Jews. Paul's the apostle to the Gentiles, but he understands God's plan and purpose for Israel. In Romans 10, he says, Brothers, my heart's deepest desire and my prayer to God for Israel is for their salvation. For I can testify to their zeal for God, but it is not based on correct understanding. Zeal. Our offices at Lederer are located on Park Heights Avenue in Baltimore. Does anyone know Park Heights Avenue? What's the main kind of building all along Park Heights Avenue? Synagogues. About every other building is a synagogue. Our offices on Park Heights Avenue are about three or four blocks up from the Jewish Community Center Baltimore Hebrew University and right next door to the most Orthodox synagogue in Baltimore. A Gudath Israel. It's a religious party in Israel. They have like congregations that they start around the world almost like missionary posts. And they're about, our office is about from here to that wall away from them. You should see the zeal For God, but not according to understanding. If you come to our office, say during the High Holy Days on Rosh Hashanah or Yom Kippur, some of the high holy days, you will see dedication and zeal like you'll never see in any church. You'll see people coming for services three, four, five times a day. You'll see zeal, you'll see dedication, but there's something missing. What is that? The Messiah. That's what we're trying to do is to reach our people with the message of the Messiah, not just in Baltimore, Howard County as well, throughout the world as well. We are co-sponsoring a M a messianic Passover Seder on April fourth at uh the Long Reach Community Center, I think it is. Can is that it? Oh oh. Wha what is it? The meeting house in Oakland Mills. I'm glad you corrected me. Ken is the administrator of it, and uh obviously I don't you you have to give me a map or I'll end up in the wrong place We we're just going to conduct it, but it's a it's designed to help you invite your Jewish neighbors and friends. So they can experience a Passover like Jesus experienced a Passover on that last night in the upper room. So we have an interest in reaching our zealous people. We send literature out all over the world. There are 30,000 Jews in India. India, 30,000 Jews. We work with two Jewish outreaches providing them literature so that they can bring the gospel to those Jewish people. They can't afford anything. We send it to them for free. But we believe that our people are ready to receive the Messiah. There is a zeal, but not according to knowledge. The New York Times writer McCanlish Phillips wrote a little book called The Bible, the Supernatural, and the Jews. Anyone ever seen that? Interesting book. He makes the point. He says that when Jewish people don't know the Messiah, they have what's called misdirected zeal. So you'll see Jewish people get to the top in every cult in this country. Reverend Moon's second in command is a Jew. The Maharishi, second in command, is a Jew. Just like in ancient Egypt, the second in command to Pharaoh was a Jew named Joseph. And in Persia, the second in command was a Jew named Mordecai. This is the way God has seen fit to do it. And what happens is when my people don't know the Messiah, we get into trouble. And you'll see our people, Jewish people involved in all the cults in disproportionate numbers, seeking after God with that zeal, but not according to knowledge. That's a third reason for you to get involved in Jewish evangelism. Your next door neighbor is looking for the Lord. You just have to be able to present the Messiah to them in a way they can understand. There's a fourth reason. Yes, there is growth that comes from identification. We are to be like the Messiah, and the Messiah had the ultimate heart-rendering statement when he prayed over Jerusalem And he said, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you that kill the prophets and stone them, how often I would gather you together like a hen gathers her chickens under her wings. But you would not. You see, the Messiah's heart broke for his people Israel. Spiritual identification for growth, for personal growth. Blessing. Blessing comes to those who bless the Jews. You if you invest in Jewish evangelism, you reach people with a God-given zeal. You almost automatically get yourself a missionary if you win Jewish people to the Lord. I mean over and over again I've seen when my people come to know the Messiah, they're ready to go. They're ready to be missionaries and spread the message of the Messiah. There's a fourth reason, and that is you will be reaching people who are ready to receive. I promise you. I guarantee you. Because the Word of God says it. Look at Romans eleven. Paul kind of writing rhetorically says, in that case I say, isn't it that God has repudiated his people or cast away his people. What does Paul say? Heaven forbid, God forbid, no, no, no. For I myself, Paul writes, Am a son of Israel from the seed of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not repudiated his his people whom he chose in advance. Don't you know what the Old Testament says about Elijah? He pleads with God against Israel God said, I've kept myself, 7,000 have not knelt down to Baal. In the same way, at this present age, there is a remnant chosen by grace. I guarantee you that in this present age there is a remnant chosen by grace. There are people who are ready to receive the Messiah if you will tell them. I guarantee you, in 1973 I came to believe in the Messiah. It wasn't what I was planning to do. As it says in the biography there, I was an accountant, the son of an accountant, ready to take over my father's accounting firm. But in 1973, someone shared the Messiah with me. A most unlikely fellow. He was a missionary to the Jews, a Gentile. Gentile missionary to the Jews. He was conducting a Rosh Hashanah service for Jewish believers. Rosh Hashanah is the You know Rosh Hashanah? You ever heard of that? The Feast of Trumpets? And uh he was conducting this uh service down in Washington wearing the robes of a rabbi. And uh the hat of a rabbi had a nice long rabbinical type beard. Um and, you know, there was something a little fishy to me though, because he was wearing cowboy boots. And I had never seen a rabbi with cowboy boots. So after I went up the s the service was over, I went up to him and said, Hey listen, you're not Jewish, are you? His Hebrew was So so anyway. I said, you're not Jewish, are you? He said, no. He said, I'm a grafted in Gentile, and I love the Jewish people because of Jesus. I was twenty-six years old. No one in America had ever told me that they loved the Jewish people because of Jesus. All I heard about the relationship between Jews and Jesus was that we Jill Jews killed Jesus, and that's why my Catholic friends used to chase me down the street calling me a Christ killer when I was young. That was my experience with Jesus. But this missionary to the Jews, even though his Hebrew was so-so, and he wasn't really Dressed the way I would have liked to have seen him, because cowboy boots and rabbinical garb don't go together. His sincerity and his real love for the Jewish people came across in a big way. And that's when I began to really seek to know if Jesus might just be the Messiah. There's a remnant ready to receive. They say today, most some of the mythologists tell us that there's a hundred thousand Jewish believers in Jesus in this country. My friend Sheldon Mazelis, about ten years ago, he's an attorney in Baltimore, came to my congregation And was ready to receive the Messiah for spiritual needs. And did. And now is a significant member of our congregation. He's on the board of directors of Letter of Messianic Ministries. He's not alone. There are thousands and thousands of Jewish people ready to receive the Messiah if you will share with them. So that's the fourth reason that you can be involved in what is called remnant rescue. It is the promise by God that there is a remnant even now, according to God's election by grace. Even now. A remnant, I guarantee you. Because God says it. And I've seen evidence of it almost weakly. There is spiritual growth for you to get involved in Jewish evangelism because you identify with the heroes of the faith, Moses, Messiah, Paul himself. There's a blessing that accrues to you because God promised that he would bless those who blessed the Jews, and the greatest blessing you can bring to a Jewish person is the Messiah. You reach people who have a God given zeal There is a remnant waiting to believe, and fifthly, it just happens to be your job. I see somebody saying, prove it. Glad you asked. Keep reading in Romans eleven, would you? Down to verse eleven. This is where Paul is describing this concept of the remnant. This is what I call the Gentile Great Commission. How many of you know the Great Commission in Matthew 28? You could probably recite it backwards and forwards because you hear it all the time, especially during a missions conference. You know, to go into all the world and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. You know that verse? Who was that speak spoken to? Come on. Who was it spoken to? The apostles, right? The apostles, thank you. I like that. Good response. Now were the apostles Jews or Gentiles? Jews, then what does it say for them to do? To go to the nations, to the Gentiles and preach the gospel. Did they do it? Yeah, they did it. How'd the gospel get to Colombia? To Howard County. It got started with those handful of zealous Jews who went crazy and preached the gospel all over the known world. Don't feel left out. There is a Gentile Great Commission too. Let's read about it in Romans 11, 11. It says, in that case, I say, isn't it that they have stumbled, that is the Jews, with the result that they have permanently fallen away. It's a rhetorical question Paul is asking He's saying, did the Jews stumble, that is, miss the Messiah, so they would be permanently cast off? What's his answer? Heaven forbid. Quite the contrary, he says, it is by means of their stumbling that the deliverance has come to the Gentiles in order to provoke them that is the Jews to jealousy. That is the Gentile Great Commission. God has called the Gentile believers to provoke the Jews to jealousy, like Lauren did to me. Lauren was a fellow in the Coast Guard reserves. You know what the Coast Guard is? Everybody know what the Coast Guard is? The Knee Deep Navy. We call it the Knee Deep Navy. Any Coast Guardsmen here? I want to know ahead of time before I say some things The knee deep navy. Uh well I was in the reserves, Coast Guard reserves, and uh that was in the sixties and early seventies. And um We had to do some really kinda ridiculous things. Sorry, are you an active uh huh, well that's no problem. He's an active guy The actives did great. They would clean up the barracks and the place where we used to meet on Friday before they left for the weekend, and we'd come in on Saturday morning and uh have to swab the deck again. You know, had just been clean. Swab the deck, ladies, is you know what that is. It's the thing that you wish your husbands would do mopping the floors. So we would have to come back on Saturday morning and swab the deck all over again. It really seemed ridiculous to me, being a college teacher. sort of educated and why do I have to clean a perfectly clean deck deck and I'm m m murder mur murmuring all the time and mumbling and grumbling and moaning and groaning and What is all this? It doesn't make sense. I was practicing transcendental meditation at the time, and I was supposed to have this inner peace, you know, but this was driving me half insane. And every week when we'd come it was the same thing, and I'd be mumbling and grumbling, moaning and groating, and Lauren would be whistling and singing This happened week after week and finally I just had enough. So I went up to him and I said, hey listen, what is it about you that makes you so happy? Now I must say that my language m was much saltier back then. I was not a believer, and all my sentences were peppered with words that I won't say anymore But generally it was, what's making you so happy? And he looked at me and he said, that's easy. He said, your Messiah lives in my heart. I said, what's my messiah doing in your heart? I said, by the way, who is my Messiah? He said, Jesus. Actually he said Yeshua, because he knew how to Pronounced Jesus' name in Hebrew. And I said, you mean to tell me that you have that peace and joy because my Messiah lives in your heart? And he said, that's right. And that again drove me to the scriptures to find out if Jesus really could be the one sent to save my people from their sins and give peace and joy. and life. He provoked me to jealousy. The Gentile Great Commission. I'm not making that up. Read the Apostle to the Gentiles' very words in Romans 11, 11. He says, Gentiles received salvation to provoke the Jews to jealousy. How many of you done that? How many of you have done that? provoke the Jews to jealousy. Unfortunately, throughout church history, the church has mostly provoked the Jews to anger. Because there have been times when Jews had to either convert to Christianity or die I have a chapter in my book on the history of the Jewish church relations, and you need to understand that if you're going to be effective in sharing with your Jewish neighbors. But Paul says provoke them to jealousy. I've given you five reasons for you to be involved in Jewish evangelism. Let me review them for you, and then I'm going to read a verse from the Apostle Paul You will have spiritual growth by identifying with the spiritual heroes of the faith, Moses, Paul, and Messiah himself, who all had a yearning in their heart to see Israel saved. You will receive a blessing as promised by God to those who would bless his people He wanted to motivate this to take place, so he promised to bless. Thirdly, you'll be reaching a people with a God-given, built in, ready to go on fire, zeal if they can only find where to place it. Every one of you can be thankful for the zeal of some Jews already, right? I mean Polio was done away with for the most part by some Jewish doctors, Salk and Saban. Some of the movies that we have enjoyed over the years have come from Jewish producers. Even well, one of my favorite blessings that I received from uh a Jew was a Jew named uh Levi Strauss. You know who he is, right? Every time you put on those jeans when you come home for work and get comfortable, thank God for that Jew, Levi Strauss. And some of you even wear your Calvins, I think. It's a zeal, but it needs to be directed back toward God. It's ready to go. Fourthly, you'll be involved in Remnant Rescue. And fifthly, it is your job. It's the Gentah Great Commission. I'll be at the uh adult Sunday school and we'll talk about some other things and I'll be able to answer questions if you have them. There's a table out in the foyer I brought a bunch of our books, many that we have published ourselves, some tracts. We're getting involved in the Russian Jewish ministry. Do you know that there's hundreds of thousands of Russian Jews? that are coming to this country and there's never been a group of Jewish people so open to the gospel except in the first century. The Russian Jews just say, oh, tell me more, and they respond. So we translated one of our tracts, the most famous Jew of all, into Russian, and I can't read it. I don't know what that says, but it's it's it's the most famous Jew of all in Russian, and this has been distributed to thousands of Russian Jews around the uh country. So there's a great time. So I have some of those materials back there. I have some you bring the bagels, I'll bring the gospel books. There's a sign-up sheet if you'd like to get our newsletter regularly. Everybody got a copy of the current one. If not, there's some more out there I encourage you to sign up. I try to teach things through that newsletter and share different things that I think would be a blessing to you. So I hope you will get that. I understand that there's some envelopes there. If you want to support our ministry financially, you can use one of those envelopes. to uh put your check in, uh made out the letter, and now I'm going to read one more verse in closing, something that you also may not have thought about before. This is again from the pen of Paul in Romans 15, 27. I remind you again that Paul was like The apostle to the Gentiles. He was sort of, you might say, your teacher, your rabbi, and he was a rabbi. And in Romans 15, verse 27, Paul almost finishes his letter to the Romans by saying, if the Gentiles have shared in the Jews' spiritual blessings. Which you certainly have if you know the Messiah of Israel. Is that right? That's right. If the Gentiles have shared in the Jews spiritual blessings, They owe it to the Jews to share with them in their material blessings. Now, the concept there is to give back to those who gave to you. The apostles, these handful of Jewish men, brought the gospel to the Western world. It is time that the Western world help us bring the gospel back to. the lost sheep of the house of Israel. I look forward to talking with you in the adult class.