Of the whole assembly, saying, Praise be to you, O Lord, God of our Father Israel. From everlasting to everlasting. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the majesty, and the splating. For everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom. You are exalted as the head overall. Wealth and honor come from you. You are the ruler of all things. In your hands are strength and power to exalve and to give strength to all. Now, our God, we give you thanks and praise your glorious name. But no lie. You and my people, that we should be able to give as generously as this. Everything comes from you. And we have given you only what comes from your hand. We are aliens and strangers in your sight, as we're all our forefathers. Our days on earth were like a shadow without whom. Oh Lord our God, as for all this abundance to be provided for building you a temple for your holy name, it comes from your hand. And all of it belongs to you. I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity. All these things have I given willingly and with honest intent. And now I have seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you, oh Lord, God of our fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Israel. Keep this desire in the hearts of your people forever. Keep their hearts loyal to you. And give my son Solomon A wholehearted devotion to keep your commandments, requirements, and decrees, to do everything, to build the palatial structure for which I have provided. And then David said to the whole assembly, Praise the Lord your God. And so they all praised the Lord, the God of their fathers. And they bowed low and fell prostrate before the Lord as the King. The next day they made sacrifices to the Lord and presented burnt offerings to him, a thousand bulls, a thousand lambs, and a thousand male lambs, together with their drink offerings and other sacrifices. in abundance for all Israel. They ate and they drank with great joy in the presence of the Lord. That day we consider these words from God's Word together again this morning You may have noticed that the eight principles on godly giving have dropped this week to seven principles. Now that's for one of three possible reasons, and I'll let you choose which you think it could be. possibly because could be because seven is the perfect number. And you should never have a sermon with eight points. If it's gotta be more than five, it should be seven or ten, but not eight. And so it had to fall among seven. Or possibly it was because the eighth point was one that convicted me too much about my giving, and I decided that therefore it must be man's words and not God's words, and so I eliminated that one. Or thirdly it could be because one of those points was too similar to a point that I had given last week and there was no sense in taking time to repeat it. Now you can decide, but I want you to at least picture again in review what's going on here. Think of the situation. It's Jerusalem somewhere around 972 BC. And as you look on a barren full, A hill there in the northeast part of Jerusalem, you see wagon after wagon coming in procession, cart after cart being pulled by oxen. And on those wagons you see load after load of iron. Iron that's been refined to be used for building. You see part after part coming until you finally lose count. It's like uh when you're a kid, you know, and you try to count the freight cars, you know, in a train that's going fast and you start at the beginning and you think, I'll see how high I can get here in one, two, three, and you know in ten minutes Later, you know, 114, 115. And that's what it was like. 3,750 tons of iron Come toward this before the procession is finally finished. And then there come the carts of bronze. 675 tons of bronze. coming into Jerusalem from various parts of the land. Not probably all on the same day, but before the processions finally finished over a period of weeks and even months Perhaps even years before all of it reached Jerusalem. Beyond the bronze, then you see wagons and they're glittering in the sunlight. Precious refined silver. And there it comes silver wagons. And the silver is just piled on there in heaps. Three hundred and seventy five tons of silver in one load. And then there comes another load after that, another two 260 tons of fine silver floated down on these carts. And then you look and your eyes can hardly believe what you see. Because beyond that, you see carts coming and glittering in the sunlight is pure gold. 185 pounds of gold leads the procession on a cart. Now we measure gold and weight and ounces and people's Start to calculate how much their teeth are worth because there's a few grains of gold in there for the fillings, you know. And we begin to think of gold in such small quantities. And here comes 185 pounds of it in one hump. And then beyond that, there's more and more parts, and we can hardly believe it. All those parts are loaded with pure gold, gold of open. That's the particularly fine kind of gold in that time. And you see those cards coming, and can you believe that there's a hundred and ten tons of gold Coming in the procession. And that's just one load of it. Beyond that comes the second load Of a hundred and ninety tons of gold. Beyond that, there are carts of marble, rubies, emeralds, sapphire. When all these things come in this procession up to this hill in Jerusalem, what's happening? Israel is taking up a collection. And this is a collection, they are all collections. But in this collection, we see certain principles of godly giving displayed for us that are relevant for our lives today. And that's what we're looking at last week in this Last week we looked at the first four principles of giving. That first of all, our giving must be to God, not to man. That is, it's not to be motivated by Um feeling guilty or by arm twisting, uh simply emotional appeals to self help someone out The giving is not simply for man's organization, it's to God and to his temple, his church. His people, his word. Secondly, we saw that giving, godly giving, is to be generously, not niggerly. It's to be after the fashion of the Lord's giving to us In displaying his lavishness to us in the life that he's given, in creation, in the life that he's given to us spiritually through Jesus Christ. When the Lord gives us snow, he doesn't give it meagerly. He gives it in abundance. This might seem meager down here, but you know that the Lord can give the snow quite abundantly when he decides to set his heart on giving us a load of it. He doesn't do things stintingly, seeds and life to abound in the way the Lord gives it. And he says that we as his people respond to him and are to respond to his lavish grace by giving generously. Thirdly, we saw that we're to give with the consecration of ourselves, not as a substitute for giving ourselves, as if we're satisfying God by paying him off. But it's simply an expression of the giving of ourselves to Him. In 1940, we saw that giving is to be willingly, not under compulsion. And that we give not some particular percentage that is calculated, and then we just in some mechanical way sort of chalk it off. And that's our bill to God. And uh when the intermission comes, then uh that's what we uh pay up. But our giving is to be willingly, gratefully, that we're to choose some portion that expresses our love and our trust to him where we're at at this point in our lives, in our walk with him. And then to willingly give that, and as we grow to love and to trust him more, to increase that proportionately to how the Lord blessed us. But then we move on now to the fifth principle. And all of that was from last week. The fifth principle is that we're to give as stewards. Well, to give us stewards, not as owners in any final sense. We often speak of ourselves as stewards, don't we, as Christians? What is a steward? It's not simply the person that asks you if you want orange juice or soda on the airplane. A steward in its root meaning is a person who manages for someone else. And you see how I put it there in the bullet mouth line. A steward is one who manages property and possessions belonging to another according to the owner's directions. That's what a steward is. A person who's managing something that ultimately belongs to someone else. In other words, the implication of this, that we are stewards, as you see in these verses, again and again, yours, O Lord, is everything. Everything belongs to you, David has said there. Verse eleven. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, the glory and the majesty. For everything in heaven and earth is yours. Verse sixteen Lord our God, as for all this abundance we've provided for building you a temple for your holy name, it comes from Your hand. All of it belongs to you. Everything. It's all yours, Lord. You don't own any of it in any final sense We're simply aliens and strangers here. We don't possess this land. We don't possess the things that we own in some final sense. We're stewards of it. Now, a couple of implications of that are first of all. But I don't give some percent for God and then decide that the rest is mine. You ever have that temptation in your And your feeling of how to give, you know, you say, well, how much are we going to set aside for the Lord? Sort of like full-time Christian service, you know, there's a truth in it. But it also betrays what can lead to some wrong thinking, as if we're not all in Christian service, all called to kingdom service As if all of what we possess isn't for the Lord. Here's his share, the rest is mine. And that's what can be implied when we talk about tithings, we talk about giving a portion to the Lord. I do with the rest what my please. And that's not what a steward does. A steward realizes But Lord, as you have given me all the things I have to steward, I set aside this portion in worship to give to kingdom work the church under the direction of a Christian, of a church or an organization. And then I ask the question, how do you want me to steward the rest of it? How else shall I use this for you? What other ways do you want me to steal the money, the other percent? that I have not given in worship to the church or to some Christian organization. How do you want me to steward that for the shelter that we need, for the food that we need? For our transportation, for our clothes, for our enjoyment and our recreation. I think that we as Christians can get into a subtle trap In which we, by looking at our money like this, begin to think that there are certain things that we sort of buy in secret. You know, we didn't, you know, these are the things that that we've prayed about because they're needs. Now there are these other areas that uh are sort of over and above that. And we don't ask the Lord about that, you know. We're not sure that he likes to play Atari. We're not really sure that the Lord wants to go on a vacation, you know. And so we keep this kind of a compartmentalized thinking. And uh what I'm suggesting is that we ought to be able to lay all that before the Lord and say, Lord, you enjoyed recreation. You've made us as preachers. We need to recreate at times. Boy, you've made us as people to enjoy various things. Now I want to put before you all hundred percent of it. How do you want me to spend it? L Let me give you an example. How do you decide major purchases? By how much money you have? By how much you think you might be able to finance? But by laying it before the Lord to say, Lord, do you want me to get this? Lord, do you want me to get a new car? Can we afford it? That's the first question we ask, isn't it? Well what I'm suggesting is, as a steward, the first question I need to ask is, Lord, what do you want for us to think about in terms of the priorities of our giving and stewarding? about where a car fits, or a new suit, or anything else. I think we miss so much of God's blessing often because we simply decide, apart from the Lord, what to do with our money. Rather than laying before him the needs, and that ask me, Lord, how do you want me to arrange my priorities as a steward? And to act as a steward of all. A second implication of our seeing ourselves as stewards, I would suggest. is that we do not act haphazardly with no forethought. We don't act haphazardly with no forethought. The government is supposed to steward our resources. What would you think if the government were to respond simply emotionally to the various appeals that people made for the Treasury? And so they spent the Social Security funds according to who had the slowest, most heartrending appeal, or they spent the various welfare monies on people who had the best story And they spent the various defense funds and all the rest of this, according to simply who came up with the most tear-jerking sort of story at that moment I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, what do you mean what if? That is the way that they manage their money. No, all whatever you're thinking about that, the point is that's not how a steward should respond A steward manages by planning and by thinking about what God wants him to do with the resources. And as a steward, I take a look at my resources as a whole. Most of you know about how much you're going to make in 1983. No big guess if you're a salesman or another could be a lot of uh variation in that according to how things go, but we have some idea. At least we have an idea about our particular paychecks What I'm suggesting is that a steward, according to scripture, sets aside a portion of that and plans that down the road. This is how much it's going to be in 1983, Lord, the best I can tell. And here's the best way I think I can invest that for your kingdom. 1 Corinthians chapter 16, in verse 2, we're given a principle about stewardship. Paul said to the New Testament church in 1 Corinthians 16 2, on the first day of every week, each one of you should Set aside a sum of money in keeping with his income, saving it up so that when I've come no collections will have to be made. What's he say? Why don't we be any emergency peels when Paul hits town? But you plan. You've simply said, here's our resources, and on a regular basis, we are stewarding what God has given to us. That's how a steward acts. Secondly, it should be first fruits as a steward. A clear principle of Scripture is that the money that we give in worship, what is sometimes called the tithe, But what I would prefer to call the first fruits are indeed to be first fruits. That's clear of the Old Testament Whatever was given in worship to the Lord was given first before the rest was managed. 1 Corinthians 16:2 again. You notice it's on the first day of every week. At the beginning of that week, you set aside what you have earned from the last week. And that's what you set aside to give to the Lord. Just uh yesterday I came upon this book From a man who was doing some evaluation, a Christian doing some evaluation of the problems of credit that he had. He had gotten himself way in over his head. But it took him some time to get out of that and gain a measure of financial freedom. And one of the things he concluded from that lesson was this: I can't afford to tie. There's no way for me to draw up a budget on my income and have 10% left over. I hit decided on 10%. All right. I begin with the time first and budget the rest. It's a matter of faith with me, not finances. In tithing, I'm saying that I trust God, my heavenly partner, to see that I make it. I've discovered that tithing is the first step to financial freedom. It protects me from choking. On materialism by keeping my priorities straight. One of the exciting things about giving to God the first fruits is to see Him take care of the rest. I remember just a new Christian, but that had been impressed upon me. The need to give to God first what belonged to him and what was to be given in worship, in adoration for what he had done for me. And I didn't make very much back at that time. I was going through college. But in just trying to honor that, I came to a point where I did very much need a car And I looked around, there were a number of uh opportunities, and one car after another just seemed to be a bad deal and finally decided with my parents who were co managing this with me because I was living at home and so was turning over uh most of it to them was uh to simply um did best in getting a brand new nineteen sixty five Volkswagen. And so uh we saved up and Uh you know, gang, back in those days you could get a brand new sixty-five Volkswagen for under two thousand dollars. And so I had saved up my pennies and my dollars And I had come to the place where it was about to be delivered. But I was short. I didn't have enough money. And I knew that you could take some from the tithe, and of course that will help you to get through. But that wasn't God's way. And that wasn't the way God intended for us to act as stewards. So I went to a conference uh on a Thursday and was supposed to pick the car up the following Tuesday and didn't have enough money to pay for it. Went to the conference and it was a man who came up to me who was the speaker at that conference. Talked to him after a couple of meetings, didn't mention anything to him that I recall about being short on anything But I came up to him in that meeting and I talked about I was going to seminary and you know various things about what God was doing in that. And on that last day, he came up to me with some money. And he said, God has directed me, I believe, because I was praying to him the other day, not just this morning, to give you this. He said, I'm not sure what you're to use it for, but he said, I want you to have it I took a look at it. It was $200. I came home that next day to my parents. My father never professed to be a believer in Jesus Christ He had the money and was managing it and knew what was being saved and how much I had for the car. I didn't know exactly what it was. I knew approximately, but I didn't know exactly. So before I said anything to him about what I had received. I said, Dad, how much short am I for buying that car tomorrow? He looked at the accounts, he figured it up, he said, You're two hundred dollars short. I presented it to the money, money to him, and I'll tell you, that said more than I Father than any of the gospel tracts I could have given to him about the reality of God. God intends for us to give to him the first fruits And let him care for our needs beyond him. The third principle that we see here from stewardship is that the steward decides for whom the money goes. This is something that I think we as Christians don't give sufficient thought to in general. We sort of decide, we'll give this much to the Lord, this percentage, and maybe I'll go beyond that to decide, well, I'll give this much to the church and this much to whatever organizations. But then those whatever organizations or how much goes And I would suggest that we need to be doing more thought and praying about whom we give our money to. How much thought or prayer do you or I give to how we steward even the money that we give to the Lord? And Francis Schaefer and Edith Schaefer's ministry in Legree was a ministry that depended entirely upon people who gave to that work, apart from any regular source of income that they had. Often they would have immense needs that would come up very unexpectedly Anita Schaefer, in her excellent book, The Tapestry, Reviewing Their Lives, talks about how God met those needs. And she has one section here that I think is very instructive to us in this matter. An immense need had come up because of her father dying and some need that they had for the family to travel because of various other things that were going on, and they had nothing to pay for And she says about, talks about a person who just, at that point, gave them a sum of money that was just what they needed to get where they needed to get. And she comments on it in this way. When people speak about living by faith as if one had to be penniless and pray for funds to do such a thing, they forget all about the fact that when God answers prayer, he puts in the The mind or the minds of people who do have money or material goods or harvests of one or another sort, dug out of the ground, cut from trees, grown from gardens, made in lumber mills, whatever To give certain portions of that harvest to one or another specific person or groups of people. To carelessly try to get money or to carelessly give it. Without firm for direction from the Lord is an ignorant of practicing faith or living by faith, it seems to me. But to pray for the Lord's clear guidance, direction, and help being given is just as much a demonstration of faith as to pray for many to do a project. W Be poor orphans, give the message of truth to a certain tribal nation or another endeavor. There are people of great faith throughout history who have been the ones the Lord has directed in such ways to care for Donavart in India, the China England mission. College education for various young people, clothing for others, vacations or times of refreshing for weary ones, as well as people of great faith who have prayed for the needs. And suggesting that we as Christians realize That are given should be under the direction of the Lord, not as if we were to wait for some sort of impulse. You know, you say, I pray, well, how do I decide? You know, do I wait to for some sort of uh a spiritual or mystical direction of the Lord to write the checkout by sort of automatic writing to some organization. No, not saying You say, as you think about it as you pray about your giving, there will come certain burdens or certain works. certain people and their needs and certain various things that God will direct you as we decide not simply to say, well, you know, set aside this portion for the church, or this portion for this organization, and not give any thought to it. The breeze started because somebody prayed like that. The shapers had been told that they had to leave Switzerland. They were told that they had to get out. And the only hope was that if they could have a place of residence. Edith Schaefer looked for a place, and the only thing that she could find after a few days of searching was a chalet that was way beyond their means to be able to purchase, and a chalet not that they could rent, but only was for sale. It seemed an absolutely impossible thing. But Eva Shaper talks in her book about how she went, looked at the chalet And then sense from the Lord that she should simply pray, if God wanted them to have this, this is an unusual thing, I'm not suggesting this as a normal course of guidance, you'd have to read those circumstances to appreciate why she did this. She said, I thought that I should pray, Lord, send us $1,000 before 10 o'clock tomorrow morning if you want us to buy this. They had to be out the next day. So she had was not an arbitrary deadline. They needed it the next day. In next morning's mail, send us $1,000. Now, I mean how many times do you receive $1,000 in the mail? Well, they did receive money in the mail, so people supported them, but not $1,000 checks. The next morning, they opened the mail. There were three pieces of mail. One of those pieces of mail had in it the check for exactly $1,000. Attached to it was a letter. I have a story to tell you that will interest you, the letter started. Bart came home from work three months ago with a check that was a surprise. The company paid all the insurance premiums for making Men who had worked a certain length of time and made it retroactive. We went to look to houses to invest in. And as we looked at the beans in a small likely house, I said, all right, look at those termites. Doesn't that remind me of the verse in Matthew which says, not to lay up treasures on earth where maws and thus corrupt? God said, yes it did. And I said Would you be willing to take that and literally invest that money in heaven by giving it to the Lord's work somewhere? And he replied, Yes, Helen, I would. She went on to tell that they're praying. for clear certainty as to where to use this money for three straight months. Now tonight, she wrote, we are convinced that we should send the enclosed to you to buy a house that will always be open to young people. The amount of the check was exactly $1,000. That's how the brief started, as part of the story. I'm not suggesting again that we spend three months praying for all of the money that we set aside each month to the Lord I am simply suggesting that we give more thought to how to invest in the kingdom, in the money that we give in worship. What portion? for the work that we did here. As a congregation on January twenty eighth, we ought to prayerfully take that budget and say, as a congregation, what are we committing ourselves to? in missions, in the various projects that we're seeking to support as a body of his people. Very quickly then We need to give also as leaders. By this I mean simply that we set an example for others. You see that in David and the other leaders here. We'll take time to go through that, but you see again and again through This chapter. David set an example for the people. The leaders set an example for the people. We set an example by how we spend our money to others. Not that we let the right hand know what the left hand's doing. Not that we brag about it. Not that we talk about what percentage we give to others. I don't think that would be right. But I simply say that particularly our families and our children will see how we invest our money. Our children will know. By what we give to the Lord, where our priorities really are. When I write out a check to give it an offering, or to some Christian organization, it says more to my kids. about my priorities than a month of family devotions. Secondly, I think we need to train others in godly principles. When we're discipling someone to raise this question with them about how they are Expressing their love and their trust to the Lord in the stewarding of their resources. Particularly with our kids. I would suggest that when you get your first dime, you ought to start to think about what percentage of that you give to the Lord. Not when you reach a certain threshold of salary. And that the way we do it is to simply let the kids determine what their what percentage they'll give. I don't tell them you must give this percentage. I don't bill them, you know, here's your bill for this month on your allowance. But you decide what percentage you want to give to the Lord. But then as we go out the allowance, that proportion is set aside and put in an invalid so that they know they can discipline themselves to say, okay, I'm not going to lose track of it or forget about it. But I'm going to set this envelope aside, and that's the money that I'm going to give in worship to the Lord, and then steward the rest of it also under his direction. Finally we give As worshippers. Begin as worshippers. You see that in verse 10. After all the collections made, David praises the Lord in the presence of the whole assembly in his prayer of offering and consecration of us to the Lord. In verse 20, after doing this, David says to the whole assembly, Praise you the Lord, your God. And then in verse 21, they bring sacrifices of praise and worship. What I want us to see is the taking up of a collection is not an intermission. It's not a word from your sponsor before we continue with the worship. The presenting of our offerings to the Lord is part of our worship. It is an expression of our worship to the Lord. We present our money in worship. It's a profoundly spiritual activity. Sometimes I think as Christians we look at politics and money as things that are separate from spiritual things. And they are profoundly spiritual activities. The giving of our money to the Lord is something that is a spiritual activity to Him. It acknowledges our dependence on Him. As he says there in verse 12 and 13 of, Lord, we're giving this to you, acknowledging that wealth and honor comes from you. You're the ruler of all things. Well we give thanks to you to present this to you. It says in verse fourteen, this isn't from us. Everything comes from you. We've given you only what comes from your hand. Then in verse 20, you notice they prostrate themselves before the Lord in giving it. To the Hebrew mind, prostrating yourself before someone was to acknowledge your dependence on them. Placing yourself at their disposal. So giving our money to the Lord acknowledges. Lord, I'm dependent on you. I can trust you to take care of me. P And I'm giving you this as an indication of that. Secondly, as we worship and giving our money, we're expressing our gratitude for the grace of Christ. You notice here at the end of this chapter. at the end of this section, they, after presenting these things, made sacrifices to the Lord and presented two things to him. Burnt offerings and drink offerings. Those burnt offerings and those drink offerings were pictures of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was to one day come as the true burnt offering. A burnt offering, by its very definition, is an offering which is burnt. It is consumed. To the Lord, when you burn an offering, you're giving it in a way that you can never get it back because it turns to ashes. A drink offering is poured out. And when you pour it out, you'll never get it back in the bottle again. I gave it a try. You just can't get it back in. Maybe a couple drops, but they'll never get that whole thing back in. It's poured out and it's gone. It's given in a way that is not expecting any return. When Jesus Christ came for us, he was the burnt offering who gave himself to be consumed by the wrath of God. So that you and I in our sin could be forgiven by him. And in that forgiveness to be able to stand in his presence To be called his sons and his daughters, because Jesus gave himself for us. As a drink offering, Jesus poured out himself For us. And became what he never was before, so that he'd never be what he was before he came to us He would never be that again, for he took on a body that he never shed. And Jesus poured himself out. Because he loved you, and because he wanted to save you from your sin, Jesus gave himself for you and for me. And our giving to him of our resources is the opportunity that the Lord gives to express where our hearts are. And if we give it off the top, we're saying, Lord, you're at the top of my priorities. And if we give what's left over, we're saying, Lord, you're what's left over when I have time. We express our love to Him in our giving. Let's set our hearts to grow in that expression of His love, of our love for Him, this year. Let's pray. Take just a moment to seal to the Lord whatever step of faith and commitment that you sense the Spirit of God is leading you to make it this moment. Well, we confess that we are such insecure people. We want to hang on to what we have because it seems so little compared to what we would like to have. And we confess our greed in that it never seems enough. Lord, um we feel like that man who said, I can't afford to die. I can't afford to set some portion aside and commit myself to that. I just never know when I'm going to meet it. Lord, we pray that you would grant a financial freedom to those that you're speaking to here this morning who have never taken that step To be able to trust you. And to be able to say, Lord, I want to give to you the first fruits of my labors. Because you're first in my life. The Lord Jesus poured himself out for me. Lord Jesus, you were consumed for me and gave yourself 100% to be my Savior from sin. And I possess the riches of the kingdom of heaven now because of you, Lord. Help us to express our trust and our love to you by determining to steward what you have given to us. in a way that genuinely expresses love and trust to you, this you. Lord, we pray especially for those that have never done that. It should encourage their hearts. Encourage them in these weeks and months ahead as they see your blessing and as they see you. Take care of them. Even as they look to you for this. Father, we commit ourselves to you, all that we are And all that we have, because we've been bought by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Let's express our love to the Lord now in