Ending three weeks in 1 Chronicles chapter 29. Look again at those verses, chapter 29, verses 1 to 22. Then King David said to the whole assembly, My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is young and inexperienced. The task was great, because this palatial structure is not for man, but for the Lord God. With all my resources I have provided for the temple of my God, gold for the gold fork, silver for the silver, wrongs for the bronze, iron for the iron, and wood for the wood, as well as onyx for the settings, turquoise, stains of various colours, And all kinds of fine stone and marble, all these in large quantities, because in my devotion to the temple of my God I now give my personal treasures of gold and silver to the temple of my God. Over and above everything that I have provided for this holy temple, three thousand talents of gold, gold of over, and seven thousand talents of refined silver for the overlaying of the walls of the buildings. For the gold work and the silver work, and for all the work to be done by the craftsman. Now who is willing to consecrate himself today to the Lord? Then the leaders of the families, the officers of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and the officials in charge of the king's work gave willing. They gave for the work on the temple of God 5,000 talents and 10,000 barricks of gold, 10,000 talents of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze and a hundred thousand talents of iron. Any who had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the temple of the Lord in the custody of Gehiah to Gershonite. The people rejoiced at the willing response of their leaders, but they had given freely and wholeheartedly to the Lord. David the king also rejoiced greatly. David praised the Lord in the presence of a whole assembly, saying, Praise be to you, O Lord, God of our fathers Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Here as O Lord is the greatness and the power. And the glory and the majesty and the splendor. Everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom. You were exalted as head overall. Wealth and honor come from you. You are the ruler of all things. And your hands are strength and powerful, to exalve, and to give strength to all. Now, our God, we give you thanks and praise your glorious name. The Hillmore. And who are my people that we should be able to give as generously as this? Everything comes from you. And we have given you only what comes from your hand Dear aliens and strangers in your sight. Those were all our forefathers. Our days on earth were like a shadow without hope. O Lord our God, as for all this abundance that we have provided for building you a temple for your holy name, it comes from your hand. And all of it belongs to you. I know, my God, that you test the heart. And are pleased with integrity. All these things have I given willingly, and with honest intent. Now I have seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you. O Lord, God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, keep this desire in the heart of your people forever. And keep their hearts in loyalty. And give my son Solomon. a wholehearted devotion, to keep your commands, requirements, and decrees, and to do everything to build the palatial structure for which I have provided And then David said to the whole assembly, Praise the Lord your God. And so they all praised the Lord and the God of their fathers, and they bowed low and fell prostrate before the Lord and the King. The next day, they made sacrifices to the Lord and presented burnt offerings to him, a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, and a thousand male lambs, together with their drink offerings, and other sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. Day dread with great joy in the presence of the Lord that day Now we saw last week, our first week in this chapter, that we're strangers on earth. And our days on earth are as a shadow, as we saw from verse fifteen. But you notice That this verse 15 is in the context of a prayer of David concerning giving. And that the whole chapter really has to do with that subject of giving. And that's what we're going to take a look at this week and next week. The subject of giving, as we see it in 1 Chronicles chapter 29. Now these may be the first two messages that I have ever preached in Columbia by popular demand. A number of people, believe it or not, have asked for messages or given. What does God's word say about giving to us as Christians today? I've never preached on that since I've been in Columbia. And yet it is an essential part of the gospel and a part of Christian discipleship. In fact, I go so far as to say that your attitude toward money and giving are a reliable indication of your relationship with Jesus Christ. Why is that? Because it tells where your heart is. That's why. You see, last week we saw that we're strangers, and that our days are as a shadow on this earth. And if your heart is set upon this world, you'll invest in it, you'll try to gather up everything you can in it, you'll live to enjoy it. as the primary occupation of your thinking and dreams and hopes, and all of what you seek to keep And to gain will be centered on this world. But if, in fact, you take seriously that your home is not here, as we saw last week, but rather that it's in heaven, That's what you'll invest in. And that's where your heart will be set. What would you think of a family who decided to rent a vacation cottage for one month? And as soon as they arrive at this vacation cottage, they look about it and they see that it's rather simple and could uh stand a little upgrading. And uh so they go running right out and they uh buy some curtains and they put them up on the windows. And then they decide that the uh carpet's a little shabby, so they go out and they buy a new carpet for it. And then uh in order to make things continuous, uh they put in wall-to-wall carpeting throughout the place It's a little warm there, so they invest and go out and get an air conditioner for this place. And they decide that it would be nice to have a pool in the backyard, so they go and put a pool in the backyard. And they find that they have finished all these projects just on the day that it's about to leave and go home. And we say, well, that's a ridiculous example. Who would do that? Who'd spend all their time fixing up a cottage that they're only going to stay in for a month and then go home? And yet, isn't that A very similar attitude to what so many of us have. As we think about our homes here, how long will we be here? How much of our attention should be wrapped up in making sure that everything here is just the way we want? Of course I'm not saying that we should let things get shabby. I want was discipling a person who took very seriously that this place was just a place they were passing through They went the other way. They decided to rip up all the carpets and sell them. They ripped the curtains down off the walls, and they sold those too. It put a little bit of strain on the marriage, I'll tell you for a little while, and they decided afterwards that it wasn't a good idea. But I'm not suggesting that we go that route. It's a question of where our heart is. We see in this chapter some instructive principles to help us in that. And I would suggest that in looking over this, I have found eight principles Forgiving. Eight things to remember when you take the check and you stick it in the plate. Eight things to keep in mind when you're giving to the Lord. We're going to be going over four of these principles this morning. And the other four principles we'll cover next week. So you've got to tune in to find out what they are. I don't even have them written down here. The first one, oh no, other things tool, you'll notice on the outline this morning under application. I don't have anything written in each case. I'll be making some suggestions. But I think in this particular case, because money and the matter of giving are such a personal matter. You know, you tell somebody how to give their money. It's like telling them how to raise their kids and how to vote. You want to get into a warm discussion. Start telling people how they ought to spend their money. And so what I'm suggesting that you do is you write your application under these principles. I want to state the principles. I want to suggest some specifics in terms of how we understand them, but you write your application in the most honest and specific way that you can. First principle. We're to give to God, not to man. We're to give to God, not to man. Verse 1 in this chapter begins. Then King David said to the whole assembly, My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is young and inexperienced. The task is great, because this spatial structure is not for man, but for the Lord God. And of course, people were to use it But the structure was for God. Not for man, but for God. Notice verse seventeen I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity. All these things have I given willingly and with honest intent, and now I have seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you. David doesn't say, praise God, I raised a I had a f successful financial campaign. Thank you for all the money you've given to me, folks. He says, Lord, this money has all been given to you. Now it may seem obvious, but I think we have to stop and think about that for a moment. In our day, there are so many appeals for money that we can begin to think in terms of responding simply to appeals. and giving to causes rather than to give to God. There are so many appeals that speak in terms of emergencies uh bailing out an organization. Uh just as I was writing up this message, I checked the mailbox on Friday as I was uh putting these slides down. And sure enough, just as almost every day there comes. There was an appeal from a Christian magazine, and the magazine was talking about how effective their ministry had been. But if I didn't respond by giving something, at this point over and above the subscription, they'd go out of Business. And this was God's work, and therefore I should consider this seriously in the matter of how to use my money. And if you are on any kind of Christian mailing list, you know that you get week after week after week A standard pitch, and here's how it goes. The ministry is going, great! Why let's tell you about the people that came to the Lord and how we're reaching the world for Jesus Christ, but we have a problem And the problem is we're short of cash. We're behind on the funds. And so if you could just help us out so that we could get the job done, then we'd be so grateful. Well, I'm not saying that we shouldn't make our needs known Now we've talked about Phil and raising of his money. We are involved in helping people to get the money they need to do God's ministry. What I'm getting at is because we see so many appeals so often in an emergency. kind of a situation. We begin to think that our giving is to the organization, to bail it out, to keep it going. And we lose in our thinking the primary fact that this giving is to God, not to man. That's part of the reason, by the way, that I'm preaching this in January, not in December. I knew and had in mind to preach this for weeks. But if I preached it in December, you'd think all I was trying to do is make sure we balance the budget. And I want you to understand that these are principles, part of God's teaching that we're talking about. Not just a fundraising campaign. Okay? Now, how do you give to God? Yeah, you talk about giving to God and you say, Well, you know, how do I do that? Do I just throw the money up into heaven and then downflutters a receipt, you know? Uh one time a few years ago I told you that uh in our family we decided we wanted to experience what it meant to give the first fruits of our prophet to God. Just to understand what that meant to give that to the Lord. You know, there's no lettuce that tastes so good as those first few tender, crisp leaves that come up in the spring. And if you have a taste of those from your own garden, then you really don't know that experience of lettuce, you know, just leaves otherwise. But those first ones are the tender ones and you want to get a hold of them and stuff them in your mouth. You decide, no, we're just out of our mouth for the Lord, we're going to experience what they experienced in the Old Testament, we're going to give them to the Lord. So we set them aside among the rose bushes. The next morning the leaves were gone, lo and behold. It was very hard to convince Julie at that time that God hadn't eaten that lettuce. And we get this idea of giving to God. How do you do that? How do I just give it to him? Well, you see right here what he says. Look at verse 3. He talks about the giving. And he says, in my devotion to the temple of my God, I now give my personal treasures of gold and silver for the temple of my God. Over and above everything I have provided for this holy temple. Verse 20 just said, This giving is not for man, but to God Because the temple is not for man, but for God. Three times he says here in verse 3, my giving is for the temple. Now, what does that mean for you and for me today? The temple today is a church We are the temple of God. And therefore to give to God today means to give to his church. For the work and the ministry of his church. So to give to God is to give to the church I don't mean that all of your giving is to go simply to Columbia Presbyterian if you're part of this church. What I'm saying is that it is to go to God's church. I think primarily the focus should be my interest in the local work. Which we have as a congregation decided upon. Remember, a good portion of our giving is to missions and other things outside of our own local needs. We decide on those and we will have a meeting on January 28th. to decide what are our priorities as a congregation, not just for ourselves, but for the world. But as we do that, remember again, that is our way of giving to the Lord, not ultimately to man. It is a giving to him. It is a relationship to him. It is an expression of our devotion and our love to him when we give that money. It is not responding to simply need a budget. It is not simply saying we've got to run this organization, somebody's got to pay for it. It's like everything else in the world, it costs money, so let's just give to it to get it afloat. It is giving to the Lord And it's through him that he then has ordained that this is the institution by which he will then receive that money as an offering. and will use it in a way that's well pleasing to him. Besides that, of course, there are other things that we will give to other particular Christian organizations that we see as great value. But the point is that when you're giving to God, that is not the United Way, it is not the Cancer Society, it is not other things like that. That's what I'm trying to get across. Some people think, well, you know, anything that I give away is my giving. That's part of my tithes and offerings. That's not true. It is what I give to the temple of God. It is what I give to his church, to his work, the work of Jesus Christ. Other things are great to give to, and we should be giving to other things. But that's not part of what we set aside to give to God. For that's the work that is given to his church and the organizations that represent the name of Jesus Christ. Second principle, give generously, not meagerly. Give generously, not meager. Why is it that God asks you and me to give? Do you ever think about that? It's God needy, tells us he owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He does as if he's hungry, never let us know it. Because he would create his own food God certainly isn't needy. He doesn't need our work to flow his operation. Why then does God call upon you and me to give? I think the answer is ultimately a little different than you and I suspect. Ultimately, I believe the reason that God calls us to give is because it's godlike. It's because it imitates him. That's this nature to give And therefore, in all areas of the law, what God is trying to do is to show us what He is like that we become like Him You and I would never experience what it's like to be like the Lord and to have his heart if we couldn't give. And give to his kingdom. God giveth gifts lavishly, and therefore our giving should imitate his heart of lavish giving. Notice verse 2 in this captive. David says, Pid all my resources I've provided for the temple of my God. Gold to the gold for the gold work, silver for the silver, bronze for the bronze, iron for the iron, wood for the wood, as well as ornets for the settings, turquoise, stones of various colours, and all kinds of fine stones and marble. All of these things in large quantities. Now look at this the large quantities. Besides of my devotion to the temple of the Lord, I now give my personal treasures of gold and silver to the temple of my God over and above everything that I've provided for this temple. Namely 3,000 talents of gold. You know how much that is? If you have an NIV translation, you've got this stuff in the footnotes. 3,000 talents is about 110 tons of gold. You know, you begin to think you can build the whole uh temple out of gold. That's a lot of gold. A hundred and ten tons of gold Of silver, 7,000 tons, about a hundred and ninety tons of uh refined silver that is, be it for the overlay of the walls and buildings For the gold work, the silver work, and for all the work to be done by the craftsmen. Then notice what the leaders of God's people gave. Verse 7 They gave toward the work on the temple of God 5,000 talents, about 375 tons. And ten thousand garrets, which would be about um three thousand uh garrets would be about two hundred and six uh about a hundred and eighty-five pounds of gold, 10,000 talents of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze, 100,000 talents, about six uh about three thousand seven hundred and fifty tons of iron Of vast quantities of gold and silver, precious stones that were given, a lavish outpouring of resources. Now, get the balance. On the one hand, this is ultimately not for man, it's for God. David said the temple is not for man, it's for God. It's not our work, it's his work. On the other hand, our response in giving is affected by the need. This was a special need that was given. This was a special offering above and beyond the tithes. It was required of Israel. And so the question comes today, so many times. What about tithing? Should a Christian tithe? What are we supposed to do in this matter of tithing? Should we give 10% of our income to the Lord? Now there's three general answers that are given to that question. The first answer you hear is, no, that's not necessary. Tithing was a matter of the law, and we're under grace. And therefore it doesn't really matter what we give to the Lord. That no longer is anything that is legislative, Old Testament has nothing to do with what we give to the Lord. Well, we're under grace. The second answer says something more toward the opposite. It says that while tithing was a matter of the law, that law reflected a principle in Scripture. Principle is still applicable. We still should give 10% as a principle. We're not restricted to that. But that is the principle. The third answer says that while tithing was from the Old Testament, that was for children. It's the baseline of the New Testament. It's the minimum to get started in given in the New Testament. For in this age of grace we are to go lavishly beyond what we simply require in the Old Testament. Which answer is correct? Well, first of all, we need to see that in the ties of the Old Testament there were three kinds of tithes. I'm not going to get into those three kinds of ties right now. If you're in an area fellowship group, you will have a Bible study on tithes in the Old Testament this evening. But there are three kinds of tithes in the Old Testament. There was overlap in them, but it was more than 10%. That an Israelite was required to give. So then we're not simply giving 10%. In addition to that, in the Old Testament, and this is extremely significant, there were the free will offerings. Those offerings that simply were an expression of gratitude and devotion to the Lord. And so what the Lord seemed to be doing in Israel was saying, because your sinners And your children, I want to establish for you what is needed, what I require from you to give, because this was, you see, how the temple and the Levites were financed. Also a lot of it went to the poor. Was the Aconal concern. But the Lord was saying, here's what's required. Now, beyond that, here's a way of expressing your loving your gratitude to Him. That's what this is. David is here saying, here's a project to express our love to the Lord. Now how much are we going to give? And to people give avish. They give astounding. You see, if you just measure the quantities of gold and silver and stones that are giving you. Now, what does that say for you and for me? If you look in Galatians, you see that you and I are freed from the law. But we're freed from the law. in order to practice grace. And the problem is that you and I so often live by grace and give by the law. What we say is, Lord, my whole life is you, yours. As an offering of gratitude. Now, how much do I owe you on Sunday? And so we try to determine what it is is our right bill to pay to the Lord. And what I'm suggesting to you this morning is that's a whole wrong approach. It's never going to answer the question. As long as you and I look at our giving as an obligation to the Lord, we've missed the point of what it means to give by grace. As long as we look at how much we owe Him. We're looking at it from the wrong end. God gave to us lavishly. They just say, yeah, sure, he gave to us lavishly, but it didn't cost him anything. Yeah, he can give me a mountain and just create another one. There's no limit to God's resources. So what does it cost him to give to me? That's not really true. For he had only one son and he gave him to you and to me. God gave us the best of what he had. And God didn't give Jesus Christ ten percent to us When Jesus walked the earth, he didn't say, I'm going to give you 10% of my time and 10% of my life as a sacrifice. Jesus Christ gave us himself fully and completely. on the cross. He gave us a hundred percent of himself. And in that giving, he sets the pattern for our giving So we come to the third point. And that is that our giving must be with the consecration of our whole selves to the Lord. Not just to give as part, not to give. in some separate compartment. David here talks about giving his money. And after he's talked about all the money he's given, notice what his call is to the people in verse 5. Now, who's willing to consecrate himself to the Lord? You see, the question he's actually asking is Who's willing to give money to the Lord? But what he says is who's willing to consecrate himself to the Lord? You see the connection? He doesn't separate the giving of the money from the consecration. Consecration of ourselves. Who will to consecrate himself and express that in the giving of this money. Notice in verse 18, after they've given this, what he says, O Lord God of our fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, keep this desire in the hearts of your people forever to keep their hearts loyal toward you. That devotion to you is what's been the expression of this giving. And notice in verse 21 what they do. They made sacrifices to the Lord, they presented burnt offerings to him, a thousand birds. A thousand rams, a thousand male rams, together with their drink offerings and other sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. What's the significance of a burnt offering? If you look in Leviticus, you find that the significance of the burnt offering is the That it's not a sin offering. It is a consecration offering. The burnt offering is the presenting of ourselves to the Lord. The drink offering is the symbol of the pouring out of ourselves to the Lord. That's what's in mind here. The giving is an expression of ourselves belonging to Him. Now here we come into a problem, don't we? Because I see a lot of people giving as a substitute for giving themselves rather than an expression of giving of themselves. And for every one of us, we face that question. Is my giving an expression of the giving of myself to the Lord? Or is my giving a substitute for the giving of myself to Jesus? Some people see their giving as a kind of a ransom. Everyone's got his price, you know, including God. Now God, how much can I give to get you off my back? Ten doll a week? Or fifty dollars a week? What will satisfy you? How much can I give to you so that you'll let the rest of my life be mine? That's given by the law. And God says in His word in Psalm 49, in verse 7 to 9, that no one Can redeem his brother with gold or silver. But the ransom of a life is costly, and no payment is ever enough that he should live on forever And not see the king. You can't buy God off with your money. You can't ensure success by giving God your money. You can't insure anything by giving him your money. Accept the expression of your gratitude to Him. The giving of your money is the expression of the consecration of your heart to Jesus Christ. I want to think further. If you have never given your life to Jesus Christ, I want to ask you this morning that when the basket is passed, please don't put any money in it. Don't put any money in it. Not because your money's tainted, but for this reason I'm concerned for you. I'm concerned that you might think that by putting a check in the plate, somehow you have bought a little merit with God. You've ensured that God will be nice to you when you go to stand before Him. Somehow you won't have to deal with the question of your relationship to Jesus Christ. And that can be devastating to you. Unless you're putting that money in the offering basket as a free will expression of the consecration of your life in gratitude to Jesus Christ for what He's done for you. Please don't put it in. We don't need it. God doesn't need it. And you don't need that You don't need that deception. You don't need that rationalization in your own life. Given is an expression of our consecration to Jesus Christ And that must be done willingly. And that's the last point this morning. Our giving must be done willingly, not under compulsion. Notice verse 6. Then the leaders of the families, the officers of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of the thousands, and commanders of the hundreds, the officials in charge of the king's work willingly. Verse 3, David had expressed his giving in terms of his devotion to the Lord. Verse 5, he had asked the question, who's willing to consecrate himself to the Lord? Verse 9, he praises God, they thanks him, they rejoice, the king, David the King rejoiced because of the willing response of their leaders. In verse 17, David says, I know that you test the heart and it please with integrity, and all these things have I given willingly and with honest intent. And the result of the given is in verse 23-22, that the people have great joy Not compulsion, not a gritting of the teeth and being glad that uh they somehow got that part over with, and boy, it was really tough to partner that, but you know, uh that's what's required of us as Christians. But it was with joy. It was a willing giving. These things they did cheerfully. The scripture tells us in the New Testament that God loves a cheerful giver, because a cheerful giver Is a willing giver. And a willing giver is one who's giving thy grace not by the law. And so you and I are called to give as an expression of gratitude for his grace. We need to catch the Spirit, you see, in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, you have a great need. The church in Jerusalem is in a tough situation. They really need relief. And Paul is seeking to motivate the Christians here in Poland to give to God for that work. But notice what he says, and how he says. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 8, Paul says, I am not commanding you. I am not commanding you to give a tithe. That is, that is irrelevant for the Christian to see himself as under obligation to give a tithe. You are not under that obligation. I am not commanding you. What'd she say But I want to test the sincerity of your love. I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing with the earnestness of these others. He's talking about those in Macedonia who had given so generously out of their major resources. Then notice how he motivates them. For you know, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ For though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you, through his poverty might become rich. How rich was Jesus? Jesus was so rich that there is nothing that exists that he didn't possess. He possessed all things. You can't conceive of anything that he didn't possess. He could go anywhere he wanted to go, be anything he wanted to be. He could do anything he wanted to do. He owned all things at his disposal. All of reality, created and uncreated, conceived and unconceived, were his. His resources were beyond our wildest imaginings. How poor did he become? He became so poor that there was nothing that existed That he did possess. He even said on one occasion, as we saw last week, the foxes have holes. The birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man doesn't even have a place to lay his head. He not only didn't rent, he not only didn't own, he didn't rent, he didn't have anything. It was his possession. Why? So that by giving himself one hundred percent as a slave He might go to the cross and give himself as a sacrifice to the human eye. In our extreme poverty, our spiritual bankruptcy, standing before God naked and exposed in our dirt, in our guilt, and in our emptiness. Might become rich, might become unspeakably rich with the resources of his kingdom, that all things he possesses Become ours in Christ. That we become seated in the heavenly places with Him in His riches. That his inheritance becomes our inheritance. And Paul says, I want you to wrap your mind around that for a little bit, and then I want you to ask the question what you should give. Paul says, I want you to think about the grace of Jesus Christ. And then he says, I want you to address yourself to the question of whether you should tie Or what you should do about your giving to the Lord. Notice what he says in verse 11 Now finish the work so that your eager willingness to do it may be matched by your completion of it, according to your means What's the New Testament Bible? Your means. For if the willingness is there, Paul says, the gift is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what he doesn't want. Don't talk about what you would give if your salary were double. Don't talk about what you would give if your visa were paid off. And the mortgage wasn't what it is. And every other obligation didn't exist. Paul says God's measure is Here's what you have to steward. Now what are you doing with what you have? And how are you expressing your love to me through that? My suggestion to you then is to go home if you've never done this and pick 8%. I'm not telling you 1%. I say pick 8%. Some percent that reflects where you are at this point in your trust. And in your devotion to Jesus Christ. Not to gain anything from him, not to bargain with him, simply as an expression of your love and your stewardship to him. Set that percent and keep it this year by faith. And then pray that as you grow in Jesus Christ, He'll enable you in your trust and devotion to increase the percentage. But don't worry about what you would do. If the willingness is there, the gift is acceptable, according to what one has. Not according to what he doesn't have. How does your giving express your devotion to Jesus Christ? And what does it say about where your heart is? Lord, we come before you. And we want to give ourselves to you. For that's The most basic thing that's involved here. Giving ourselves to you, Lord, we seek then to express our giving. To express it. By the setting aside of a portion for the temple, a portion for the church. And that building of the temples of our bodies. For which you receive our giving as an offering to yourself. Lord, forbid that we should see our giving as a debt How silly that we could ever think that we could pay off a debt to you. How foolish to think that somehow we could substitute money for the giving of ourselves or satisfy you by a legalistic Determination of what percent is sufficient. Oh Lord, help us to set a percent. As a way of disciplining ourselves to consistently demonstrate our love for you, to show you how much we love you. And how much we see that we do belong to you and are investing in your kingdom because we love it. Help us, Lord, wherever we are. To be obedient to what your spirit is speaking to us about this morning. We just want to tell you we love you through this. And we pray that you'll give us grace to put faith on that declaration in the way we express it in our mind. And we say these things to you through Jesus Christ, who became poor for us, so that we through his poverty might become rich. Are man. Let's now then give to God our morning tithes and offerings