As you know, we continue in the series on the secret of contentment. Let's begin by hearing from God's Word that text that we have been considering for these past months, Philippians chapter 4. Verses 11 to 13, picking up the thought again at verse 10 of Philippians chapter 4. Let's hear God's word as He Himself addresses us through this word. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. Now, if nothing else out of this series, at least you're going to remember the three main points of it. Because we go over them every time that I speak, not just for review for each of you, but also for newcomers and visitors who have not heard them before So once again, you see three main lessons from this text. The first one, that contentment is something which is learned. It's not immediate or automatic. It's a result of choices and the work of the Spirit in us. It's learned. I have learned to be content, learned the secret of being content. Secondly, we've seen that contentment is not dependent on circumstances Improving your situation won't necessarily make you content. Thirdly, and we see uh Paul saying there, I've been learned to be content whatever the circumstances, learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. Whether prospering or in want. And then thirdly, we've seen that contentment is a secret found in Christ alone. And that's what we're looking at now. A secret found in Christ alone, and we're seeing that we find our contentment in Him in seven ways Seven ways that are elaborated through this book of Philippians. And so we're kind of doing a survey of the book of Philippians and noticing these seven ways. We've covered three so far. I am content in his righteousness. Which meets the need of my guilt, which makes me discontent. Secondly, I am content in his peace when I am anxious Because I see that he has accomplished peace for me and is working it in me. Thirdly, I am content in his humility. When my pride makes me discontent, I think I deserve better. I ought to have a better situation. Life should give me a better deal. I deserve better. His humility For me and in me makes me content. Closely related to that third one, we come now to the fourth item, and that is, which is somewhat distinct, the fourth thing, the matter of suffering. I am content. In his suffering. His suffering for me and his suffering in me is sufficient. We've seen that that word content means sufficient to be satisfied. And so Christ's suffering for me and in me is sufficient. It makes me content. Suffering is one of the great mysteries, of course, of life, particularly when we deal with personal suffering. When we deal with our own pain. Americans, it said, by and large today, appear to be a happy people But it's also said by those who study our culture that America appears on the surface to be content, but deep down there is deep anxiety, insecurity, longing, and discontentment. We are a discontented people, though we appear to be happy and self-sufficient. The image of self-satisfaction, in fact, for most Americans covers a great deal of pain. We feel pain in many ways. You feel pain. I feel pain. That we rarely express We really express it because partly we feel like there are very few who really care to listen to why we're feeling the pain that we do. Very few that would take the time to really care, and we don't want to pour out our hearts to someone who really doesn't care that much. Before whom we'll feel very foolish afterwards that we express that and then nothing happened. And so what do we do? We spend perhaps ninety or a hundred dollars an hour for someone to listen to our pain. For someone who we believe that by paying they can give us some help in uh in uh seeking to uh deal with that, to know how to get out of it. As Christians often we live a dichotomy in our lives. Because we say Jesus is sufficient for all of my needs. And yet I feel a tremendous amount of pain that he is supposed to somehow be able to alleviate. And on the one hand I say Jesus is sufficient to give me joy and peace and contentment. And on the other hand, I'm feeling this pain that somehow Christ doesn't seem to touch. Somehow the things that I do as a Christian aren't bringing an end to that pain. They somehow don't seem to be connecting. I'm missing some sort of a connection between my pain and the gospel. Pain in marriage. For many of you, there is tremendous pain in marriage. Kathy and I went to a wedding just last November. For both of them, it was a second marriage. They both believed that from their first marriages that did not give them contentment and happiness, they had finally found the right person And this person was going to give them the happiness that they had long sought. A person sensitive to their needs, who really understood them. That was last November. They'd been separated now for about three months. With, by the admission of one or both, no real hope of reconciliation. Go on to someone else. Perhaps that person can alleviate the pain. Or perhaps it's pain with our children, pain with others in the family. Who are not doing the things that we think they ought to be doing, and there's tension or there's friction. Or for you kids, pain with regard to your friendships Pain with regard to feeling accepted by the kids that matter to you. Pain in our relationships. For some of us, perhaps Graham Rudman is causing a good deal of pain. Pain in our jobs. A pain of insecurity about the future of our jobs. What an area. For us to consider the way the economy and government budgets are going, like being here in Maryland. or probably a majority of the congregation is either directly or indirectly affected in your jobs by the government budgets and by Graham Rudman. Pain, as you think about what's going to happen, what's happening to your security, to your future, to your retirement, to your home. Pain and insecurity, stress, increased stress on your job and pressures that are on you. Perhaps pain in your health and concerns about that. Or pain even from persecution for your stand for Jesus Christ, convictions that you have stood for, or ways that you have spoken out for Jesus Christ, and there's pain, the pain of rejection. The pain of threats and retaliation in one way or another. And if we're really honest, we feel, many of us, a fair amount of pain and suffering. But yet we don't speak of it very much, and we don't make a connection between the contentment that we see offered in a text like Philippians chapter 4. Paul says, I've learned to be content. Whatever my situation, I have learned the secret of a contentment in pain. Not that removes the source of the pain. But a contentment in the pain. And so we want to look at two ways that Christ's suffering is sufficient for you in your pain. First of all, to be content in his suffering for you, the objective end of it, as we've talked about in each case, and then secondly, to be content in his suffering in you, the subjective element of it. First of all, then, content in his suffering for you, the objective. Calvinists don't get angry at God, you know. They get angry at other people. Because we believe that in our pain we dare not blame God. And so we displace our anger to other people. And we say that they're really the source of our grief. But if we're honest, as Calvinists who believe that God providentially arranges and controls the affairs of our lives, then we must at some point come to terms with the fact that that anger that we feel about our pain is really an anger that's directed against God. Because after all, He's the one who gave us the bodies that we're suffering with. He's the one who put those people in our lives, some of which may be a result of our own sin to bring about that pain, but in other ways perhaps not. God's put us in that situation. We've made choices, but some of the things we couldn't really have foreseen And so I think we need as Christians to understand that many times we're really angry at God, aren't we? We don't want to admit that. We're almost afraid to say that we're angry at God And yet we need to admit honestly in our own hearts that when we really come down to face who we're angry at, often it's God who has arranged the affairs of our lives. And then it's at that point that I need to ask the question: does God really understand my pain? Does he really care about that pain? Does he feel it? If he does, why doesn't he do something to take it away? Why doesn't God simply rearrange the circumstances in answers to my prayers? Does he really care about the pain that I'm feeling? Or do I feel like he's removed from it? It's not really touching him. I mean, there he is in heaven. What's he got to worry about? How can he feel my affliction? And it's at that very point, brother and sister in Christ, that you and I need to consider the suffering of Christ. Does he understand my pain? What did Jesus suffer for me? Before I'm too quick and glib to say that God really can't feel what I'm going through and he's removed and detached. I better take a look at what Jesus did for me, because the very heart of the Christian message is Christ's substitutionary suffering on my behalf. The fact that Jesus, who lived in felicity and bliss, the ivory towers that we speak and sing about, voluntarily Suffered for me. What did he endure in order to suffer for me that I would not have to suffer at the hands of Almighty God? First of all, he became man, the wonder of the incarnation, that he who was simultaneously at the furthest star and its solar systems and whatever creatures are out there and at that same moment right here in Smith Theater with you and me, that second person of the Trinity confined himself to a body. A weak body in one place, confined in space and time And beyond that, he who spoke the stars, those very stars, into existence without effort. Became tired, became hungry and thirsty for you and for me. He who was out without sin Became immersed in the filth of it. You afraid that you're going to lose your home? Jesus never had a home. He said on one occasion to those who would follow him, remember, even the foxes have dens. But the Son of Man never had a mortgage or a deed. He never had a place to call his own. He always depended on the hospitality of others or lived outside. And what about stress? You say you're going through stress that makes you dread Monday mornings? That your lifestyle is one that you feel like you can't endure for another 10 or 20 years? What about stress? Think of the stress of Jesus constantly healing, counseling, teaching, crowds who came to him. And it seems like the lines never ceased as the word got out that here's a man who can heal leprosy. Here's a man who can make the blind to see, and there were blind people all over the place. Here's a man who's able to heal, and here's a man who's even able to cast out demons, who's able to make sick minds well. The people came in an unending stream. Mark tells us that he had to escape time after time to go out early in the morning to be alone with his father Mark 3, 20 and 21 tells us that the crowds got so bad that at some points they didn't even have time to eat without people coming. Do you turn off the phone when you have dinner? And Jesus couldn't turn off the phone. They just came right through the door. And they kept coming and coming. And his family looked at that and they said, he's out of his mind to do this. So much for family sympathy. So much for being understood. Jesus was lonely, misunderstood even by his own disciples, by those who professed their allegiance to him to follow him In fact, he was abandoned by them on the very night that he was betrayed to his enemies by one of them. You think that you're lonely in your stress and pressures? What loneliness your Savior experienced for you, voluntarily choosing that suffering for you. And then he was arrested. And he was beaten, mocked, spit upon, lowest degradation of disrespect. And after a sleepless night, he was taken before the Roman soldiers, Pilate. And Pilate, without any grounds, ordered him to be scourged. Let me read to you something of the process that he endured at that point. Inscurging, the prisoner is stripped of his clothing, and his hands are tied to a post above his head. The Roman legionaries stepped forward with a flagellum in his hand. This is a short whip consisting of several heavy leather thongs with two small balls of lead or bones attached near the ends of each. The heavy whip is then brought down with full force again and again across Jesus' shoulder, his back, and his legs. At first, the heavy thongs cut through the skin only, and then as the blows continue, they cut deeper in the subcutaneous tissues, producing first an oozing of blood from the capillaries and veins of the skin. And finally, spurting arterial bleeding from vessels in the underlying muscles. The small balls of lead first produce large, deep bruises, which are broken open by subsequent blows Finally, the skin of the back is hanging in long ribbons. The entire area is an unrecognizable mass of torn, bleeding tissue. It's doubtful that the Romans restricted that they're scourging to the Jewish law of thirty-nine. They had no such law. And so it's only when it's determined by the centurion in charge that the prisoner is near death. That the beating is finally stopped. Remember, this beating was intended by Pilate to be Jesus' full punishment to satisfy the bloodthirsty Jews. The half-fainting Jesus is then untied and allowed to slump to the stone pavement which is wet with his own blood. The Roman soldiers see a great joke in this provincial Jew claiming to be a king. So they throw a robe across his shoulders. They place a stick in his hand for a scepter. They still need a crown to make their travesty complete. And so a small bundle of flexible branches covered with long thorns, commonly used for firewood, are plated into the shape of a crown. And this is pressed into a scalp. Again, there is copious bleeding, the scalp being one of the most vascular areas of the body After mocking him and striking him across the face, the soldiers take the stick from his hand and they strike him across the head, driving the thorns deeper into his scalp. Finally, they tire of their sadistic sport, and the robe is torn from his back. This had already become adherent to the clots of blood and serum in the wounds. And its removal, just as in the careless removal of a surgical bandage, causes excruciating pain, almost as though he were again being whipped, and the wounds again begin to bleed. And then they take him out to crucify him. Long spikes are driven into his wrists and into his feet, one on top of the other. So that hanging on the cross with the ability to flex his body, the victim is made to torture himself by lifting himself up on his own flesh in order to get every breath of air. When he decides that he must take that breath, he lifts himself up on his own flesh in order to exhale that he might take in some more air. He's mocked, utterly alone. And the whole excruciating scene physically Which we can only begin to comprehend by pain that we have felt is far outstripped by what is utterly incomprehensible to you and to me. That is the alienation from his own beloved father, who had loved him with a perfect love and companionship from all eternity. And for the Father to turn his back on his son, and for Jesus to be so utterly alone, that there's not only no human companionship, but what is infinitely dearer to him. Not even the companionship of his own father. Cursed You know, you and I, in the suffering that we endure, must always remember that there is one infinite distinction between ours and Jesus. By and large, we don't choose our suffering. We simply receive it. Jesus chose that suffering for you, for you, for you, and for you, for you. For me, because he didn't want us to suffer the curse that we deserved for our own sin. Did you know the Bible says that that suffering was so great that it was sufficient to pay the debt of your sin? Every last sin that you have ever sinned are now sinning and ever will sin Against the holy and almighty God. His suffering for you was sufficient And you see, that takes the sting out of your own suffering. Because you understand that whatever you suffer, it is not from the malicious affliction of a God who is out to get you. Are you in poverty? Your Savior endured poverty for you. And by that he sanctifies your poverty and your needs. Because he has taken all the sting out of it. Are you in bodily pain? And Jesus' physical suffering has taken all the sting out of the curse of suffering for you. Are you alienated and lonely or suffering persecution because of your stand for the Savior? Jesus understands that. He suffered that for you. And that suffering which you're enduring has all the sting of affliction removed. Because God is not punishing you. If by faith in Jesus Christ you're trusting him this morning, there is no condemnation for you in Christ Jesus. And the suffering that you're enduring is not a suffering of punishment or affliction. The sting has been removed. That suffering simply enables you to appreciate the love of your Savior for you. For you see, if you and I never experienced pain, how could we understand what Jesus suffered for us? It would be a theoretical and abstract thing. And we'd say it's nice to know that Jesus suffered for me, so that I don't ever have to suffer. But I don't really know what suffering is. And so I can only appreciate that to a dim degree. But the more you suffer, the more you appreciate his suffering for you, don't you? Many times I've said to people who have come to me, some of you included. When you've been abandoned by your spouse, when you've suffered some deep, deep loss in your life. And as we pray together, I may say something like, you're about to enter into the meaning of the cross in a way that you've never known before. And that entering in will give you a contentment that will transcend the pain. And so we come to that second part of this, the working of Jesus' suffering in me. You see Paul, who said in Philippians chapter 4, I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I've learned the secret of being content in every in any situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything who gives me strength. It was that same Paul who said just the chapter before in chapter 3, verse 10. He says, my desire is that I want to know Christ. And I want to know the power of his resurrection. And I want to know with that the fellowship of his sufferings. In fact, he says, I want to know his attitude in death. I want to enter into that. I want not simply to understand it, to appreciate his love for me. I want to fellowship with him. I want to understand that as it works in me. And so it's not only appreciating the suffering of Christ for you. So that you're able to say, what do I have to complain about in my suffering for my Savior? Look what He has suffered for me. How can I ever complain that He's given me more and He doesn't understand and He doesn't care? When I consider what he's born for me. But there's also the element of his working in me, the fellowship of his sufferings. That we might draw closer in our hearts together. In fact, Paul had said back in chapter 1, in verse 29, that you and I are given two gifts. As Christians. In verse 29, Paul says, it's been granted to you. And that word granted means graciously given It's from the root word carus, which is the word grace in the New Testament. And Paul says it has been graciously given to you on behalf of Jesus Christ two gifts. Not only one, to believe on him, but also two to suffer for him. Two gifts, faith in Christ for his salvation to come to you, and secondly, suffering for Christ. By which he works out works out that salvation in you. And so the suffering of Christ is sufficient. That is, you can rest. In what he gives you. For part of that gift is to let the Father decide the way he gives it to you You and I would like to decide the nature of our suffering, wouldn't we? We'd like to say, well, I can believe that he's given me the gift of faith in Jesus for salvation. And I can even accept that he has given to me to suffer for him. But let me decide the degree and the nature of it. I know what I can best take. And the Father says, oh no, you don't. For that's the nature of my grace, is to give to you a grace that's sufficient for you in a situation that you yourself would never choose. In a situation that you yourself find your weakness to be overwhelming, a situation in which you find that you and your own strength will never be able to endure it. And he says, let me decide what I give to you, for it's tailor-made just for you. Not sadistically. We're not called to be masochists. But to receive from the hand of a loving Father the nature of the suffering by which we enter into the sufferings of Jesus in our fellowship with Him. Now, why does He do that? Well, this isn't a series on suffering, and I can't go into all the reasons for suffering. They're very complex, and I certainly don't understand them myself. But I do want to say just three things about the suffering that he gives you three benefits for it. These aren't listed in your outline, so if you want to put them on the back Three things that as I thought about it among the many reasons why God gives to us suffering, why it is so valuable. That even in the experience of the pain, you can be content because of what it's accomplishing in you First of all, it conforms you to the nature of Jesus. It conforms you to his own nature. Johnny Erickson, the quadriplegic, talks in one of her writings about a senior in her high school who she worshipped from afar as a lowly freshman. Donna Rutley. Donna Rutley was a Christian and she was admired. She was active in sports and student government. She was very attractive, and she was extremely popular. She had it all. And she was the person that Johnny looked up to and tried to mimic, tried to imitate. Admired her, copied her, tried to wear her hair like her, tried to fashion her gestures like her. Tried to combine her clothes and accessories like her. Tried to be like Donna Rutley. But she couldn't be like her for two reasons. Number one, Donna wasn't really a friend of hers, and so she really didn't know her very well. Because she didn't know her very well, she really couldn't be very much like her in any depth. The second reason was that she had a different nature from Donna's. She was Johnny and Donna was Donna. And they had different natures, different personalities. And so she could never be like Donna. Johnny goes on to say, that's often the way it is with us and Jesus, isn't it? We admire Jesus, we see what he's like, and we want to be like him because we know that's what the Bible says, to be like Jesus. But she says for many of us as Christians, that means that we copy him. We try to mimic him. We try to do those things that we see him doing. We try to control ourselves so that we will do what Jesus does. But she says we fail for the same two reasons. Because we really don't know him very well, on a deeper level. We know him only superficially. And secondly, we simply don't have his nature. And then she says that Hebrews tells us that God's purpose, as Tom read from Hebrews chapter 12. Is for God to work in us that we will partake of His nature Do you see how that's different from mimicking him and copying him? God wants to work in you and in me the very nature of Jesus Christ. And to work that nature of Jesus in us, he must do it by the process of suffering, which is the same way that he matured his own son, Jesus. And so for you and for me to enter into the very nature of Jesus means to enter inevitably to the experience of suffering, so that we might not simply mimic him, but become like him. As Paul says in chapter 3, I want to know Christ. I want to know the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his sharing in his suffering, becoming like him, sharing in his nature. Even in his attitude that took him to the cross for me, God imparts that nature to you by grace. And in the suffering that he places in your life, you find the contentment of seeing the character of Christ being formed in you. And that gives you a deep sense of satisfaction as you see God at work. The second thing that his suffering accomplishes in you. Is that it removes the distractions of this life so that we will see Jesus better? It removes the distractions Of this life so that you will see him better, to worship Jesus only. Our lives are so cluttered. There's so much that drives us And yet there's so little contentment. I believe it was Samuel Rutherford who said that it's like a man who sits huddled in a dark room. And you would like that man to see the glory of the sun, but he's transfixed by a small candle on his table. And that's what he gazes at. And in his own mind, it obliterates the light of the sun, for he's closed in this dark room, looking only at the light of the candle. And Rutherford says, if it was Rutherford, he said if if I wanted to show that man the glory of the sun, what would I do? He said the first thing I would do is to blow out that candle And that would seem like a mean and unkind thing to do as the man would sit in darkness. But it would force him to open his windows and his door, that he might see the glory of the sun undistracted. Is it possible that God is blowing out some candles in your life this morning? That you might be less distracted and unable to see the glory of his Son more clearly? To clear up the clutter in your life so that Jesus will be more clear to you. Do you remember greedy conniving Jacob? The man who grasped after all that he could get. In Genesis chapter 33, you see the account of how Jacob After he had met the angel of God and seen God and had been lamed to show him his own weakness that he might know the strength of God for him In that suffering and that experience, he comes out the next day to meet his brother Esau. And he sent a tremendous number of gifts on a head. in order to appease his brother who he had alienated by some mean deceit some years before. Interesting, the Genesis 33, 9, when Esau sees all the gifts, he says to Jacob, I don't need all these gifts, brother. I have plenty. In chapter 33, verse 11, Jacob responds with a very interesting phrase. He says, please, my brother, take the gifts. For I have all I need. I have sufficient, for I've seen the face of God When he humbled me in putting my hip out of joint. I have all I need, brother, because I've seen the face of God in my weakness. Finally, God's suffering in your life honors you, Him, before the world in a unique way. God's suffering in your life honors him before the world in a unique way because it gives you credibility. One of our biggest problems in our witness today, isn't it, is that we lack credibility because we live In a fairly affluent and plush environment, among other people are fairly affluent and plush, and nobody seems to have any very obvious needs. Everybody seems pretty self-satisfied And so how do you gain credibility when you speak about the power of Jesus Christ in your life? Suffering is what does that. Suffering gives you a credibility, for it's when in suffering that is obvious before someone else that you continue to maintain joy and peace and contentment by the grace of Jesus Christ at work in you. By finding his grace sufficient for your need, that the world cannot explain that kind of power And God is at work honoring himself in this way. There's a book coming out by David Barrett in which he seeks to demonstrate That martyrdom and persecution, rather than being an outrageous exception in the life of the church, are rather the normal expectation of the church through 2,000 years. In fact, he seeks to document that in this century alone, 300,000 Christians are martyred. Every single year. That's been the average in the 20th century. 300,000 a year. Why? Well, it's just like the 16th century when the Anabaptists were burned at the stake. Their witness for Jesus Christ and their peace and contentment as they went to the stake. was so outrageous to their enemies that the enemies used tongue screws, boring holes in their tongues and putting metal plates in them so that they could not speak of the power and the peace of Christ as they went to their deaths. But the expressions and the silent witness of the demeanor of those martyrs so impressed the people who saw them that Christ was honored and the gospel triumphed. What is Jesus seeking to do in your life this morning? In order that he might show the power of his suffering for you, and the power of that suffering in you. To make you content in your pain. Let's look to him. Give us, Lord, we pray, your peace, whatever our pain now, that we might know what you have suffered for us. Freely, willingly, and the fellowship of your sufferings that you want for us to know, that you might turn our attention from our toys and distractions To see Jesus and in seeing him to know a newer and deeper contentment than we have ever known Do that in us, Lord. Make us willing for anything that we might know Christ. Amen.