George Barna, who is a very keen culture observer and researcher of our culture, says this about Americans in 1990. While we are overtly pleased with ourselves and the life we lead, we have nagging doubts about our ability to ever find true and total happiness. We tend to see happiness as a fleeting emotion rather than as a lifestyle. We harbor disappointments that we have not achieved adequate levels of love, impact, Security, and comfort. Worse, despite our best efforts, we are not sure how we will ever reach those goals. The people of our country are severely damaged emotionally. We are a population of active, affluent people suffering from inner turmoil and strife that we try to hide even from ourselves. Even our times of joy and excitement are short-lived and easily overwhelmed by the despair and the fear that often follows such uptimes. We are busy, some successful, achievement-oriented people, but we are not a contented people. Generally, as a culture, I would say that's true. So we believe at Columbia Presbyterian Church that the Bible has the answers for life's practical questions And so when we ask the question, how can we find contentment? Then we go to the Bible, God's Word, for the answer. And there we have been finding for the past several weeks in Philippians chapter 4, verses 11 to 13, God's secret of contentment. So let's hear God's word again from Philippians chapter 4, beginning at verse 10. The secret of contentment Paul says, I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it I'm not saying this because I'm in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty, but I have learned the secret of being content. In any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. And so we have been seeing three great truths from these verses. One contentment. Number one, and see if you know them by this point, that contentment is something what? Learn. Good. Contentment is show Terry here. We've got to impress her, you know, that you people still listen like you used to. Terry and Jay, of course, with their family used to worship with us years before, before they went out to California. It's good to see you back here, Terry. Okay, contentment is something learned. It's not something immediate or automatic. The second lesson from this text is that contentment is not what? I heard it a little louder Yeah, raw, wow. Dependent is not dependent on circumstances. That's the second thing. Not a matter of changing our situation or outward circumstances that will give us content hearts. Paul says I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. Verse 11. Verse 12, I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. Whether it's a pleasant one or an unpleasant one. And now we're looking at the third great lesson from this text. The contentment is a secret, I'm not going to ask you this because you can see it right there, found in Christ alone. You see in verse 13, I can do everything through him who gives me strength. He's the one who makes me content. And we're seeing that he does that in seven ways at least that are described by Paul in the book of Philippians, seven things that he gives to us. These seven things that he gives to us He gives to us both objectively and subjectively. Each one of them he gives in himself for us. That is a contentment we receive because of what we have objectively in Christ. It's not some psychological religious trip. It's not something that is hocus pocus that we try to believe, the power of positive thinking. It is something objective that we actually have in Jesus Christ. And all we have to do is believe it and receive it. in order to experience the contentment. But then there's also that subjective element that it is in each of these seven cases, these are things that He works in us. And so there are things that he gives to us to be part of our lives and our experience. And as we experience each of these seven things, that in itself will give to us contentment. So it's what we have given for us and it's what we have given in us. We've seen two of them so far. We've seen the contentment means sufficient, and so these are seven ways Jesus is sufficient for us and in us. The first dealing with the problem of guilt we saw that he gives us his righteousness. His righteousness for us, a perfect record. that we can stand before God with clear conscience and his righteousness that he is working in us with a guarantee that we will be in fact like Jesus. We will win in the end and become like him Secondly, concerning the problem of our anxieties, we have seen that he gives us his peace, his peace for us, accomplished by reconciling us with the Father, no longer enemies, but sons. And his peace that he works in us, as he described in 4 verses 6 to 8, where we by our anxieties we talked about the difference between whirring out loud and praying. To not worry out loud, but rather to present a request to the Father with thanksgiving, recognizing that He hears and cares, and that He guards our hearts and our minds. Now we come to the third thing, and that is to recognize that discontentment oftentimes comes from our pride. The problem of pride. And in this case we see that his humility is sufficient for us. Or, to state it, as we see it in the outline there, I am content in his humility, my looking to the interests of others is sufficient. Barnes says, right after the section that I quoted in this book, The Frog in the Kettle, psychologists tell us that these feelings of doubt Fear and insignificance are indicative of a nation of people suffering from low self-esteem. Although we continue to strive for material acquisition and relational harmony, most people nurse feelings of emptiness. as if they have failed to accomplish what they were designed to achieve. Self-esteem is the big thing today, isn't it? Go into any school And you see constantly the stress on making students feel good about themselves. And to hear some people talk and write, you would think that to solve the problem of self-esteem would be to solve the nation's ills. It's kind of right up there next to balancing the budget, you know. Solving the problem of self-esteem pervades middle school and high school, elementary schools. It's interesting to watch as the schools continue to decrease in importance, they continue to be more insistent on feeling good about how you're doing. And so you see this strange kind of message that's coming through. Well, if if in fact the problem is, as any of us probably can attest if we've spent much time talking to people about their hurts and struggles. That most of us do feel pretty crummy about ourselves. We do have problems of self-esteem. Then why in the world would I say that we find contentment by further humbling ourselves? Seems to be kind of the last thing we need to hear. And yet the strange thing is, now we're in point one on that outline, the humility of Christ for me The strange thing is that the Bibles, as it looks at our problem, God says that the problem is not that we think too little about ourselves, but rather that we think too much about ourselves. The problem, as the Bible sees it, in fact, our root problem is not our low self-esteem, but rather our pride and our arrogance, our self-centeredness, our refusal. to acknowledge that we are made and owned by a God to please him before ourselves. That runs uh absolutely counter, doesn't it, to the teaching that we hear generally today or the articles that we read in magazines. You see, the Bible says that we've twisted this thing around That in fact we've placed ourselves in the center of our lives as idols. And we worship ourselves, but we let ourselves down. We are not able to pull off what we think we ought to. And in comparison with others or the criticisms we receive at home and every other place, we begin to feel crummy about ourselves because we're not able to measure up. to that image of what we think we ought to be. We hate people telling us what to do. We even hate God telling us what to do. We want advice, but we want control. We want to always have the final say to decide what's best for us. I decide my destiny in my life And the Bible says that that attitude in itself, that arrogance, the Bible calls it, has alienated us from God. The God who has made us. That arrogance has alienated him so that we are now separated from him and absolutely helpless to change. And we can read everything and go to every therapy group and talk to ourselves about how great we are, but deep inside, as Barnes says, there will be that gnawing. I really don't make it. And the Bible says you are helpless. The Bible says that there is only one solution to that problem. And ironically It is in the fact that God Himself had to take the initiative to humble Himself for us. That Jesus Christ, God's Son, Had to humble himself to become a man and to live under God's authority as you and I should have done. To live under his authority perfectly, as Jerry said, every moment to be obedient to the Father. And in that obedience, then to receive from the Father his acclamation, well done. And then to further humble himself, to become a substitute for the curse that you and I deserve for our arrogance and pride, so that he would then be put to the cross. under the scorn and the mockery of proud and foolish sinners like you and me, to suffer the lowest degradation Next week we'll be talking more about the nature of his suffering. But let me just say this morning that the cross that Jesus Christ suffered It was the vilest, the most hideous form of punishment that was possible, that was devised by man. A long, excruciating death. And a death that was absolutely humiliating for him. He suffered insufferable, incomprehensible degradation so that you and I could be lifted up. A crucifixion was done naked. Most of us don't realize that The person who was crucified on a cross didn't have a little loincloth to preserve that last shred of dignity. They were stripped of everything and crucified naked for their shame for all to see. The Son of God was crucified, naked, suffering the ultimate degradation and suffering so that you and I Would not be humbled for our own pride in standing before God. Now, when you and I consider What Jesus Christ suffered in his humiliation for us. When I think of how he was humbled for me, so I would not have to be humbled before God in my sin. Then I asked the myself the question, What do I deserve better than I'm getting? If Jesus the Son of God had to be so humbled for me, how can I complain that I'm not getting as good as I deserve in life? How can I be discontented and say, I deserve something better than what I'm getting? What is it that I deserve or you deserve? You deserve ultimate humiliation in standing before God and having all your sin exposed for all the world to see. And then having God pronounce a just judgment and punishment upon you for that sin. And when you and I realize that we have been lifted up and delivered from that humiliation, because Jesus was humiliated, what do you deserve? What do you deserve that you could complain that God hasn't given you as good a life as you should have? Look particularly at your pride and mine. And compare that to Jesus' humility under point B here now. Consider these three S's to look at our pride. First of all, the question of status The question of status. How you and I crave recognition, don't we? We want people that we can look down on so that we can feel like at least we're better than somebody. At least there's somebody who has to look up to me, somebody who has to recognize that I have something to offer. Isn't that the root of so much of our gossip and criticism of other people? Wanting to put somebody else down so that we can feel better and get some recognition and status out of that. Why so often we defend our rights, whether it's in traffic, being cut off? How dare you think you're going to get ahead of me? Or in any other situation, in a corral. You know, uh you're there in the checkout line and somebody moves and their line's going ahead of yours. And how dare You get ahead of me or push ahead in one way or another and violate my rights. My rights are sacred. We want recognition, status. No one can violate it. We want to get what we deserve, and we'll defend it to the death. We feel that we have certain rights befitting our class in America. And as one of you were reminding me, we are very much of a class-oriented society. One of you was turned down getting an office that was perfectly accessible because you didn't fit into the right status and class within your company to be able to get that office. And we're so aware of our rights and our status and everything that we do. We like to think that we're egalitarian people, but we're very class conscious, aren't we? You look at Jesus. Look at Philippians chapter 2. What it says of him in verse 6 and 7. Jesus Christ was. In very nature, God Himself. And yet he did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. But he made himself nothing. Nothing. Who had rights to compare with the rights of Jesus? Who of us has the rights of glory for every knee to bow before us and do our bidding instantly? Who can curl call worlds and solar systems into existence by the word of our power? Jesus had rights that you and I cannot conceive of. The Bible says he gave up those rights. He didn't consider his equality with God, his status and his rights, something to be grasped, something to be defended and held on to. But out of love for you and for me, he gave that up so that he could become like us in our human nature. And walk in our shoes to obey God and become eligible to take on the death that you and I deserved. He was born in a barn. No place to lay his head, no place that he ever really was able to call home. Gained some brief popularity in his career, but soon lost it as the crowds left him. As he proclaimed who he was and his message in its unadulterated purity. People didn't like it. And so they left him. Till he had one brief glimmer of shallow popularity going into Jerusalem on a donkey. And then that was all abandoned in the days after. And he was utterly abandoned. By even his closest friends. Jesus gave that up. All rights, all privileges, all status for you. You and I look at our defense of our rights. What is it worth in the light of what Jesus did for me? Why am I discontented if any of my rights are trampled on? Look what Jesus did for me. Or you look secondly at the question of our servanthood. Look at Philippians 2 as it goes on in verse 7 and 8. We read that he made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself. He was a servant. Paul says in verse 21 of chapter 2 there, everyone looks out for his own interests and not those of Christ. That's the way we are, aren't we? We look out for our own interests. We push and shove to make sure that we get served before they run out. We make sure that in conversation we're listened to at least as much as we listen. I want to make sure that you hear my point, whether or not I understand your point It's more important that I be understood, that you understand my cleverness, that you hear my feelings, that you understand my thoughts. It's more important to me to keep my schedule, which centers around me. And so I make excuses why I'm not able to serve Why I'm not able to help out in a situation where somebody who probably won't be able to help me in return needs help? And so I make the excuses why I don't have time to serve, whether in the church or with friends or in the neighborhood or some other situation, because I'm busy and I am busy. And you're busy, but our busyness is ultimately controlled by our priorities. And our priorities reflect who we serve. And so much of my service is toward myself. What will give me the sense of satisfaction and accomplishment or get me ahead in what I'm seeking to achieve in my job? And I look at Jesus. He took the very form, the very nature of a servant, and humbled himself. And when he went out of Jericho and the blind beggars cried for his attention and his disciples said, he's too busy. You guys let him alone. He's more important than that. Jesus stopped. He looked at the beggars and he said, what do you want me to do for you? He stopped for children. He stopped for demon-possessed crazy people. He stopped for lepers and he touched them. Jesus served as he moved along in his life with a clear sense of his direction but never shoving people aside in order to accomplish that. And I struggle with that And you struggle with that too, don't you? And yet we realize that our priorities are not Jesus. He became a servant. And you and I struggle because we want to serve, but more important, we want to serve ourselves. But Jesus was free to serve. He was free because his agenda was to serve others. And then you look at the question thirdly, of suffering. The question of suffering. In verse 8 he goes on, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. As I mentioned, we'll consider more about what that means next week. But consider that beyond the curse and the degradation of being crucified naked as a public spectacle, Beyond all the physical suffering of the scourging, the beatings, the nails in his hands and his feet, the Bible makes clear that far worse was the alienation from his father. whose love he had enjoyed from all eternity. The communion with the Father, who had loved him, that communion that had been unbroken Beyond the ages of time than you and I can even begin to imagine. And he suffered utter alienation and loneliness. For you and for me. He was humbled for us. Humbled in his status. Humble in his servanthood to wash his disciples' feet. Humbled even in his suffering. And when you and I look at what he went through for us, what is it that you're getting that you deserve better? But as Madame Guillaume, we should cry out, I welcome thee with heart sincere, the cross my Savior bids me take. No load, no trial is severe, that's born or suffered for his sake. Jesus has suffered all for me, utter humiliation. And that discontentment in my heart that comes by feeling I deserve better, or my rights are being trampled, or why am I getting this. can be utterly obliterated when I consider what Jesus has suffered for me. And so this brings us to that humility in me point two. The humility in me, the subjective element of it. You see, the first point is that I can rest and you can rest content in the humility that Jesus has accomplished for you. When you realize that you have been delivered from the humiliation of facing God in your own pride and arrogance, to be cast away from his presence. Because Jesus Christ humbled himself for you, and that was sufficient. You don't need to be humbled before God. You rather are to be lifted up as his sons. Therefore, how can you complain about the temporary experiences that you endure between now and that time when you will be lifted up with Jesus in that last day? But the Bible also teaches us that the Spirit's purpose is not simply for us to admire the humility of Jesus Christ from a distance. But for him to work in you and in me that same spirit of humility. Look at what he says in chapter 3, verse 10. He says, I want to know Christ. And I want to know the power of his resurrection. And I want to know the fellowship of his sufferings. Becoming like him, that means having my attitude become like his attitude in his death. Do you want to know Jesus like that? Or do you want to know Jesus as one who meets your needs? A Jesus from a distance who can come to your call when you're in trouble. Does your heart beat with Paul when he reads Philippians 3. 10 and say, I want to know you, Lord Jesus. And I want to know you to such a degree that I can understand something of the fellowship of your sufferings. I can understand something. of your attitude that you gained when you came to the cross for me. And I know that that's only going to be through a certain amount of pain. And I know it's going to be through your humbling me and humiliating me. But that's okay, Lord Jesus, because that's secondary. To the fellowship that is gained in the closeness that I will have with you, in understanding something of your attitude and your love for me as you went to the cross. Lord, I want to know that. That's precious to me because I want to know you. Like I want to know a person that I love, my husband, my wife, my friend. As I want to know that person, I want to enter into their experience, so I want to enter into your experience, Lord Jesus. And so it's interesting that if you look at how Paul begins chapter 2, You notice that verses 3 to 5 parallel the experiences of Jesus in verses 6 to 8. Look very quickly at that. Back in chapter 2, in verses 3 to 5 Paul gives three commands, and those three commands have to do with status, servanthood, and suffering. And they parallel the Lord Jesus so that he will work in us that which he has accomplished for us. And in that we find contentment. Look what I mean. Chapter 2, verse 3. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves. That's the question of status, isn't it? It compares with verse 6. Jesus, who was in very nature God, but didn't consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing. Now is that a false humility to consider others better than yourselves? You say there's some people I know, there's no way. I mean there's some people I consider better than myself. There's other people I'd say if I were to say that I wouldn't even be kidding myself. It would be false humility. No way I can look at that person and say, they're better than me. Why? How can Paul say that? Isn't that false? Isn't that playing something that isn't true? No, for this one reason. I alone know my heart. And the more I know my heart The more I know even the image that I project to you, that is reflecting, in fact, a heart of duplicity deceit, a heart that still is wrapped around itself so very much. I alone understand the depths of that. I don't see that in your heart. And so as J. I. Packer says, the more we know our own hearts, the more we can honestly say, there is no one that I can't imagine is better than me. The great missionary to the American Indians, David Brainerd, and that great man of prayer when he prayed, found it difficult to have people show him respect. Because he knew the sin of his own heart so very keenly. And when you and I know our sin, then we are freed from needing status. We're freed number one from the need for recognition. I can accept my limitations and my place within the body of Christ. I don't have to have public recognition. I don't have to be more recognized by other people. You know, a survey was taken, an informal, simple survey was taken. by someone in which he asked a bunch of people, who do you think are more effective servants for Christ? Quiet people or outgoing people? Then he took the sir the statements and he had known the people and so he went back and correlated and he said 100% of the answers were given the opposite of the personality of the person answering. Every quiet person said more outgoing people are more effective. The outgoing people said the quiet people are deeper and more effective. A hundred percent thought the other kind was more effective. But when you and I understand we don't need recognition, God has placed me where He wants me to be in the body. I don't have to compete with another church. You know, that could be a temptation for us because there will be another Bible-believing church meeting. They're starting this Sunday just to kind of practice, but they'll be meeting down in the galleria. And it will be a church that will be proclaiming Christ. What happens if that church grows twice as fast as us? What happens to me? You know? Do we spread texts around the parking lot where they go to park over there? You know, we put signs that say come down here to the true church? Or, you know, what do we do? We pray for them. If I'm freed from the need of recognition and status, I'm free to pray for my brothers and my sisters. That God will bless their ministry, and you're free to pray that too And we need to pray that. We need to pray that God will honor Himself in the ministry that they have. I'm freed from the need of recognition. When I understand how Jesus gave up his status for me, Paul says, everything you do, don't do it out of selfish ambition. Don't do it out of vain conceit. But doing it understanding that others deserve better than you. Secondly, you deal, and then the other thing is of course I'm free to turn the other cheek in this. I'm free to not have to defend my rights to say I'm going to refuse to take that because Jesus was slapped and insulted and he didn't defend himself. And so I'm able to rather than to retaliate, to try to get back, I'm able to turn the other cheek. And I think that what that means in Matthew 5 is that I'm able to draw the poison out of the other person by giving them another opportunity to insult me. And that shocks them. Because I'm not defending myself. I'm freed from that. And so I can minister to the other person as a human being in need. I'm free also in my in the matter of servanthood. Look at verse 4. Paul says, each of you should look not only to your own interests. but also to the interests of others. And that compares to verse 7. He took the form of a servant, made in human likeness, and humbled himself. Paul talks about Timothy and Epaphroditus later on in chapter 2. Look what he says about Timothy in verse 19. He says, I hope. In the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I may also be cheered when I receive news about you. I have nobody else like Timothy, who takes a genuine interest in your welfare For everyone looks out for his own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. But you know that Timothy has proved himself, because as a son with his father, he has served me in the work of the gospel. Oh, that you and I could have words like that written. I take a genuine interest in you. I can't do that in my own strength. To the degree that I ever take a genuine interest in you, it's the work of the spirit in me that's doing that. I know my own heart too well to think anything different. And it's the same with your heart. You take a genuine interest in others as the Spirit of God gives to you that servanthood that says that I take an interest not only in my own things. He doesn't say have no interest in your own things. Verse 4 says, take an interest not only in your own things, but also In the interests of others, when it's inconvenient, when it doesn't fit your schedule, in the menial labor of setting up for the nursery and for children's church and the things that need to be done. For us to worship as a body and gets very little recognition or merit. You and I are free to serve Because Jesus is working his spirit in us. And he's been humbled for us. And we want to know that spirit. We want to understand him. We want to be closer in fellowship with him. And so we want to learn the spirit of servanthood. as he works it in us. Finally, there's the spirit of suffering. You see, chapter 2 verse 5, he says, let your attitude be the same as that of Christ Jesus. The same as he spoke in 3. 10, his attitude in death, even in his suffering, as he says in verse 8, when he became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Paul's saying, let your attitude Be even able to parallel and enter into the attitude of Jesus as he went to the cross. Do you remember used to see Scrubb in C. S. Lewis's book, The Dawn Treader, from Narnia? Do you remember Scrub all through the early part of that was constantly complaining that everybody had it better than him? In fact, often they had it worse than him, but in his mind everybody had it better. All they do is look out for themselves. All they do is make sure they get the biggest portions, that they're more comfortable than me, and they treat me like a dog around here and it's terrible. And then you remember that Scrub was turned into a dragon. And he met Aslan, the great lion, representing Jesus. And Aslan took Scrub and he peeled off his dragon-ish nature because Aslan had suffered and been humiliated for Scrub. And as he took off that dragon-ish nature, Scrub experienced conversion. He experienced that Aslin had stood in his place, and Scrub was unable to go free. As a boy again, lifted up. And do you remember what Lewis says about him after that? He wasn't a perfect boy, but his whole attitude changed. Because you see, he knew now he deserved absolutely nothing. He deserved to stay a dragon. But he had been delivered And so everything he got was more than he deserved. And he was grateful for everything because he deserved nothing. Contentment, brother and sister in Christ, is only spirit-wrought in our hearts when you and I realize we deserve nothing at the hand of our God. before whom our arrogance and pride have deserved nothing but his wrath. But he has given us his mercy in Jesus, and lifted us up to become his sons, and anything that we get here is better than we deserve. And in that realization lies deep, deep contentment. Let's pray. Lord, deliver us from our pride, which is keeping us from being content people, that we might humble our hearts before you. Receive our hearts and our worship. Humble us, Lord, that we might come before you now, thanking you for the least of your mercies, because Jesus has been humbled for us. And recognizing that whatever we are experiencing now in this week, that we wouldn't choose to experience, and therefore are to that degree experiencing some suffering. We might nevertheless look at Jesus' humbling and suffering and find in that our contentment, even to the degree that we enter into his mind And into his fellowship, to draw closer to you, Lord Jesus, to know you better, and to know your great love for us. Work that in as we pray. In Jesus' name.