We continue, as Ken said, in our series on the secret of contentment now from Philippians chapter 4. Verses 11 to 13. Let's hear God's word once again from Philippians chapter 4, beginning at verse 10. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. So far, God's word You've heard that so many times now. Maybe you feel like you have it by heart. Which raises a point. You might think of memorizing those verses. Because I'll bet you you don't know them unless you've specifically memorized them as well as you may think. And just by memorizing those verses you may find you will learn certain things. Why did Paul say it this way and not that way? That will help you to understand. something of the secret of contentment. So think about whether you might want to memorize those as we go through this series together. We've seen first of all in the series long ago that contentment is something learned. It doesn't come automatically or instantly. We've seen, secondly, that contentment is independent of circumstances Gaining contentment is not a matter of having our situation simply the way we would choose it. Thirdly, we have seen that contentment is a secret which is, excuse me, found in Christ alone. A secret which is found in Christ alone. Seven ways that we are content in Jesus Christ. And we're trying to unpack those now because we've seen that the word contentment means sufficient. And that word sufficient reminds us that there are seven ways that Jesus is sufficient to us. And those seven ways are described to us in this book of Philippians. And so we're looking at the whole book now to see the seven ways that Jesus is sufficient for our contentment. Each way, I remind you, has two sides to it. An objective side and a subjective side. The objective side speaks to us about what Jesus is himself for us. What we have in Christ Himself for us, outside of us, that makes us content Seven matters that give us contentment because of who Jesus Himself is. But then, in each case, those do not depend on anything that we do or attain. But there's also a subjective side. And that is the matter as it is experienced in Jesus in us. As Jesus applies to us these seven matters and we experience them, the first one was the most basic, and that was his righteousness. His righteousness is sufficient for me. His righteousness is sufficient in me. We saw the matter of righteousness. His righteousness dealt with the problem of a guilty conscience. that keeps us from contentment. That's the most basic foundational matter. Each of us has to settle in our own lives. Do we have a clear conscience? Is our conscience before God open? Or do we always feel inadequate, guilty? Do we feel that uh We are alienated from God that we can't draw near to him and call him Father because there's things he has against us. We sense his frown upon our performance and the things that we've done in the last week. And so there's discontentment because of guilt that we carry around. And we saw last week or the last time we did this two weeks ago, that if in fact I look to my record to make me content, I will always be discontent. But God's solution here found in Philippians, for contentment is to look not to my record, not to my performance, but to the record and the performance of Jesus Christ Himself. to see that his objective righteousness, his record, is sufficient. And it's what gives to me open access to God as Father. I see that God is a sovereign judge and he looks at Alan Harris in his record. And when he does, he sees instead of what I have done, he sees the record of Jesus. And as he sees Jesus' record who kept his law absolutely perfectly, was perfectly loving. Perfectly worshipful, perfect in every aspect of his manhood. We see that God looks at his record and he has nothing against me. And if you by faith in Jesus Christ have his record placed over your record, then God looks at you and has nothing against you for all the things that you've done wrong throughout your whole life. And that gives contentment. You see, if you've never experienced it, you can't know what that means until you place your faith and trust in Jesus. The contentment that comes from resting in his finished record on your behalf. Remember I asked the question last week on what basis on what ground are you accepted by God? And I said it was just two possibilities. A faith in Christ or B, a life of perfect obedience. And do you remember the right answer? It was not A, faith in Christ, it was B. A life of perfect obedience is the only ground, the only basis for being accepted by God But in fact, that life of perfect obedience is not your life of perfect obedience. It's Jesus Christ's life of perfect obedience in your place. And that highlights the difference because we're often looking. To our faith, what we do. This is illustrated, I think, very well in the this year's presidential prayer breakfast The speaker at the 1990 presidential prayer breakfast was Secretary of State James Baker. And Secretary of State Baker was giving his testimony in this And this is a quote from his testimony. He said, Once upon a time I honestly felt that I had to earn God's love. But now I know that the Bible tells us that it is faith. Not works or accomplishments that make us acceptable in God's sight. Do you agree with that? See, if you do, you miss the point You see, I mean I don't want to quibble with him, but I said, Mr. Secretary of State, if it's my faith that makes me acceptable in God's sight, it's still me. It's not your faith that makes you acceptable in God's sight. It's Christ that makes you acceptable in God's sight. Amen? Amen. And see, your heart says Amen when you understand that. Because your faith and my faith rise and fall and wax and wane and it's good one minute and it feels great and then the next minute it's empty and void of all hope. But Jesus Christ never changes. And so it's not my works. It's Christ who makes me acceptable. I simply lay hold of him by faith. But it's not my faith that saves me Any more than my hand saves me if I lay hold of a million-dollar ransom to release me from my captives. It's the ransom that releases me. And so that's the ground of our contentment. That we have an objective, finished righteousness of Jesus. by which we've laid hold of him, and that righteousness is at work in us, making us that which we have in Christ, as we talked about. But now that moves us on to the second point, and that is the second way that Christ makes us content is that I am content in his peace. His peace is sufficient for me. Again, you notice the objective and the subjective. You notice the two points in the bulletin outline. His can his peace, the peace of God for me, the objective side of it, and then point two, the peace of God in me, the subjective side of it. Notice then first of all the peace of God for me, for you, the objective side. Now, if number one, his righteousness, dealt with my problem of guilt. Number two deals with my problem of anxiety, the anxiety in my life which makes me discontented. And here is where the objective-subjective distinction is so very important, because many people today are looking for a subjective piece without any objective peace. That is, they're looking to feel peaceful without having any grounds for that peace. And that's a hopeless route to go. Another way of saying it is as you see in the outline there, peace is received, not attained. That's the first blank. Peace received. Not attained. The peace of God is something that is received by faith not attained. Take a look at Philippians chapter 1, verse 2. Paul begins this letter to the Philippians by saying to all the saints, together with the overseers and deacons, grace and peace to you. From God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you see? Peace is something which is to you. Peace is something which you receive. Now, in terms of this verse, grace and peace that he joins together, grace is like the fountain. Peace is the stream flowing from the fountain. The source of the fountain is that God declares our peace. Jesus Christ gains it And so it's closely related to number one, his righteousness. Why? Well, for instance, in Romans chapter 5, Paul had said, Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand Do you see what he's saying? Paul's saying the problem is that you and I were enemies of God. God had made us in his image to reflect his character. And you and I say, I want to live my own life to fulfill myself. To gain what I want, to rule my own life as monarch on the throne. And because we've done that, we've declared enemy, declared war upon God, and become his enemies And because of that enmity, God cannot allow that act and that attitude of rebellion to go unpunished. So we are in a state of enity to God and with him. And there is no way that we can accomplish peace It is a declared war. God's very glory and nature are at stake in his judging our rebellion. But the Bible says that Jesus Christ came in. And Jesus Christ submitted himself perfectly to the Father, even though co-equal with him. Philippians 2 says, he subjected himself to the Father, lived as a servant in perfect obedience. And then he died the death of a criminal as if he had broken all of the laws of God, so that our records would be exchanged. Just as I had said before, you are given his record of righteousness, he is given your record of guilt. And by that he establishes peace. By that action, Jesus Christ accomplished peace which you and I received by faith. So you see, the basic issue of peace is not how you or I feel. The basic issue is, are you still at enity with God? Are you still living your life as if God doesn't matter? When you get up in the morning, is your life consciously a living sacrifice to Jesus Christ? Or is it saying, what can I do to please myself today? How do I get through today with a minimum of hassle so that I can have a good time? Is your life centered around yourself or around God? If it's centered around yourself, you're at enmity with Him. If it's centered around Jesus Christ by grace through faith, You have peace, a peace you've received, a peace that's given, a peace that's objective as a pardon that you could hold in your hand. Now you see it's that objectivity that I want you to grasp. Because it's not a peace, it's basically a feeling. It's a peace which is objective. After World War II, when the when the treaty was signed at the end of that war First of all, with Germany and then with Japan, the United States did not feel at peace with Germany and Japan. There was still tremendous animosity But the fact was there was a piece of paper that said we are no longer at war. We are at peace. Likewise, today. Many of us don't feel at peace with Iraq. But the objective fact is we are still in a state of peace with Iraq. So it doesn't depend on the feelings. It depends on what is objectively the declaration of the relationship. And Jesus Christ, when he comes into your life by faith, establishes peace with God between you and him. Do you see that? And if you have that peace, nothing can take that away. It doesn't depend on how you feel. It's a peace which you have and can hold. Now that's not, that objectivity does not imply then that the Bible doesn't offer us any kind of subjective peace. It's just that the ground of it is what in fact God has established, which is more important than how we feel. But now let's move from the objective, the basis of our peace, peace with God. on the basis of what Jesus has done, to then go to the second part, which is our peace of God, which we have in our hearts. Based on that objective peace. So the second point then is the peace of God in me. By Jesus Christ and faith in him, I have peace with God. And if you don't have that this morning, I plead and beg with you in Jesus' name that you would come to God through faith to have that peace. If you have that peace, I want you now to experience that peace. Philippians 1. 2 says, grace and peace to you. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a peace you receive. But then he builds on that in chapter four when he talks about how to experience that peace, the peace of God in you. Look at chapter 4 now. In chapter 4, Paul picks up on this idea of peace, the subject of peace, by what I call the five R's of God's peace. The five R's of God's peace in your heart or in your life. The first R, you see the R's there, but you've got to fill in the rest of it. And I know some of you are going to sit here and try to guess what they are, but we'll see if you can do it. The first R is restlessness. Restlessness. You see the beginning of verse 6, chapter 4, verse 6, Paul says, do not be anxious about anything. Do not be restless. That restlessness which comes from the fears that you and I have. Fears. All of us have fears, don't we? All of us, if we stop, pause to think about the stress in our lives. Have fears which can even threaten to overwhelm us as we think about what we're headed into this week. Perhaps with you the prominent fear is a fear about your health. Or perhaps it's a fear about your job, circumstances in it, your future in it, whether you'll still have it six months or a year or more from now. Perhaps for you it's fears about your relationships, relationships in your family, your marriage, relationships with your kids, your parents, your brothers, your sisters. Fears. We're anxious. We're restless. Because we believe that the peace of Jesus Christ is something that we had when we came to him And it's something that we'll have when we go to heaven to be with him. But right now we're hanging on by our fingernails, aren't we? Right now we feel like we're left to our own to fend for ourselves, and we lack peace. Anxiety. And what does Paul say to do about this? Well, the second R is our response. Our response. Verse 6 continuing, do not be anxious about anything, but here's the response. In everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. Alright? Two parts to that. Requests with thanksgiving. And so there's two things that he says to do, not just one. He says to present your requests to God, not to yourself, but to God. And you mix with those requests thanksgiving. Now I believe that these two ideas, presenting a request to God and blending them with thanksgiving. are designed to distinguish what I call the difference between prayer and worrying out loud. Those are the three words there. You know, I really believe that as Christians, a lot of what we call prayer is really worrying out loud. Oh Lord, help me to pass this test tomorrow. You know, and you finish and you you know you go away. Do you feel at peace, you know? God's taken it. I've rolled the burden on the hand. No, all you did was you just worried out loud. Oh God, I pray that you're going to help me in this job because there's so much at stake and I don't know about the future of it. And God, what's our family going to do? Provide the money we need to pay the bills, and I don't know how we're going to be able to get out of this mess. You know, and you go through this whole litany and then you finish and you say, Well now I've finished praying. Why hasn't God answered? Maybe because you never were really praying at all. You weren't presenting your request to God. You were simply worrying out loud. Be careful with worrying out loud and calling it prayer. That does not honor God. And many times what we call our praying is simply verbalizing our fretfulness. Now you say, well, how then do I get out of that? Paul says right here. Blend your prayer with thanksgiving. You see, because thanksgiving reminds you of who God is. And it reminds you of what He has already done for you. God, I thank you that you placed me in this school to get an education. I belong to you. I believe you've called me to pursue this, and I thank you that you're with me in it. Now Lord, you know, maybe I haven't done the best in the use of my time, but I pray that you'll help me tomorrow to simply do the best to honor you that I can. See? Whole focus shifts because you've blended it with Thanksgiving, and so now the context is different. You presented the request to God, not just worrying out loud. Lord, I pray that you'll take care of our kids. Lord, you've given us our kids. And Lord, just as we've seen with Jerry and Dolly this morning, you've given us covenant promises. I thank you for those covenant promises. I thank you that you've given me that verse in Psalm 112 and that you're not going to leave me, you're not going to forsake me in that. I thank you that we can claim these children for you and that you, Lord, therefore, will protect them physically and spiritually. You see, the request is in the context of the Thanksgiving. And the Thanksgiving reminds you that you're a son and not an orphan. It reminds you that you stand in the righteousness of Jesus, and that therefore you represent your request to him boldly, as one who realizes they have free access to the Father through the finished work of Jesus. And therefore you can come to him with those requests, knowing he hears you. And so when you leave that time of prayer, there should be the sense that I've taken a burden and rolled it. And if I haven't, then I ought to go back and start over and mix it with some more thanksgiving. And blend it with some more recognition of the God that I'm coming to who's sufficient to hear my need. Paul says, in everything by prayer and petition, laying it out with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And then verse 7 is C, the third R, the result. And the result is he says finally the peace, excuse me, verse 7, the peace of God. Which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. It's a peace which transcends understanding. Why? Because your circumstances haven't changed, that's why It's because you have moved from anxiety, restlessness, and fretfulness to a state of peace and calm and affirmation of the situation God's placed you in, but nothing objectively has changed. That is in terms of your immediate circumstances. All that's changed is that you have now come into a place of peace by recognition that you're in the hand of your Heavenly Father And that he will care for you. That he will never abandon you. And that peace transcends understanding. You may in fact flunk the test. You may in fact lose the job. But you will never lose the peace of one who is held in the hand of their Heavenly Father For he will not let any harm come to you. Maybe unpleasant circumstances, no guarantee of that. Maybe even persecution. But all the more then does the peace of God transcend all understanding. So that the world looks at your life and they say, I can't explain that peace. If they were having a good time, if their circumstances were changing, I could understand it. But she's still in a miserable circumstance. Her husband still hasn't come back to her. She's still abandoned it this way or that way. And she still has peace. And Paul says that transcends understanding. The world looks at that and they find in that the most powerful apologetic for the resurrection of Jesus. The peace of God in your life. Which transcends understanding. Now notice how he describes it. He describes it in military terms. He says that this peace is going to guard your heart. And that's a word in the Greek which is used of a sentry to guard a garrison. And so the peace of God is like a sentry to guard you in two ways. Now notice he mentions two ways that you're guarded. First of all, your heart. Your heart refers then to content feelings, refers to your emotions. You can't explain or describe why you're no longer anxious. You have a feeling of rest and peace, content feelings in your heart. But this is not a mystical and irrational feeling Because the peace of God is a century that also guards and garrisons your mind. And that refers to content thoughts. So you have content thoughts to buttress the content feelings. So the peace of God is a century, and your heart is the fort. And he is a sentry who garrisons and guards both your feelings and your thoughts, your heart and your mind. Because with your mind you recognize that you do have a heavenly father. And that heavenly father is in fact working all things together for your ultimate good, so that nothing can separate you from his love. And this is reality. It's not an irrational religious thought to make you feel good. It is in fact what the Bible says is ultimate reality if you belong to Jesus Christ. And so that is your thought. And it's a thought which transforms your feelings and you have peace. But now you choose those thoughts. And that leads us to the fourth R. The fourth R has to do with your reflections. And those are described in verses 8 and 9. He says your reflections are what you choose. So therefore he says, finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable. If there is anything excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things. And do you catch what he's saying there? He's telling you what to think about. He's saying, choose what you will set your mind on. Choose to set your mind on truth. Satan wants to deceive you. Satan wants you to think that you're inadequate and because you haven't been as faithful in your quiet times or in talking about Jesus or anything else, that therefore he's not going to hear you. He's cast you off. He's given up on you. He's tired of your whining and complaining. He's going to go on to another sink that's got a little more potential. And Satan wants to get you into the place of discouragement so that you feel like you have no recourse. Paul says, think about truth. Whatever is true. The fact that you are his child. The fact that Jesus, as he's explained in chapters 2 and 3, has in fact given to you his record, which is based on your faith and nothing that you do. As we talked about last week, Philippians 3 verses 9 and 10. He says, that's truth. Now think about the truth and cast away Satan's lies. Martin Luther used to throw an inkwell at Satan when he felt he was so accosted that the reality of Satan was so tangible he felt that he was right there in the room. Whatever it is with you, quote Scripture. Speak truth to Satan's lies. One of the key advantages to memorizing Scripture is that when you're believing the lies and get discouraged, that you can then quote the truth You can quote the promises. You can quote Scripture and you think on the truth and you think whatever is noble. I think of noble as kind of whatever is the opposite of soap operas on T V or whatever else, you know. Whatever is right Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable. You see, you're thinking. Now notice, not escaping from reality Some people look at this verse, I've seen it, you know, on plaques. You know, and it sort of reminds you that, you know, it's kinda like if you could just sort of get into the scene like was on the slides up here with Ken, you know, just get up there in the mountain and just escape from it. And then you think that's peace. But the peace of that, you see, is what you have in the midst of the turmoil. This is putting you in touch with reality. It's saying this is ultimate reality, the promises and the truth of God. And so choose to dwell on those thoughts. And then he says in verse 9, whatever you've learned or received or heard or seen in me, put it into practice. Choose to do that. And then you come to the final R, the fifth one, the last result. Second time result now. He's told you how to pray. And then he gives you the first result of that. Then he tells you how to think. And now he gives you the result of that. And that is in verse 9, the end of the verse. And the God of peace will be with you. The God of peace. You see, the peace of God is with you. That's the last blank width. The peace of God is with you because the God of peace is with you. And so, whatever the circumstances, the God of peace will be with you. And if he's with you, what can threaten you? What can happen to you this week that's going to shake that peace when you know that Jesus Christ is with you and the God of peace is with you? One morning in early December of 1984, a fellow by the name of Les woke up almost completely unable to move. Within three days his paralysis was total. The diagnosis? A rare nerve disease that usually renders its surviving victims absolutely motionless. For several months, Luss was totally unable to care for himself. At first treatment was both tedious and painful. And then slowly, very slowly, Les began to regain motor control. Today, after hundreds of hours of intense therapy, He has learned to walk again. Even so, his muscle coordination is equivalent to that of a toddler. The person writing that knew Les, was talking to him about his experience through that time, and these were Les's words. I can honestly say that for the last two and a half years, I have been completely content. What about his wife? Life for Anne, Les Wiss of forty years, has been equally traumatic. She has faithfully stood by his side and cared for Les through his numerous close calls with death, knowing that he will never fully recover. And yet her words to me were nearly nearly echoed those of her handicapped husband. She said, There has never been a time in the past two and a half years that I have not experienced the peace of the Lord. Not a peace that was free of all turmoil. A peace in the turmoil that was available because the God of peace was with her. That's totally different from popular religion today, the power of positive thinking that avoids facing the issues. This piece rests on truth. The truth in Jesus Christ. An objective peace which is received and is as objective as the resurrection. This piece is not a mystical feeling, but it's a faith choice. That's the last little blank sip. It is a faith choice. It is a peace received by faith in making a choice in what to think about. And it's available objectively in Jesus Christ. The only question this morning for you is whether you are going to receive that peace and whether you're going to believe. That the God of peace is with you in your circumstances. You have that choice to make right now. Let's pray. We thank you, our God, this morning that we come to you as the God of peace. And oh, how we need that peace. Help us right now as we take our turmoil Pour it out to you. And Lord, for some of us it may be the turmoil that comes from not being in a right relationship with you. And we want to know the peace of a clear conscience, of new life, forgiven sin. That's available in Jesus, a peace objectively received, so that we're no longer at war with you, no longer enemies, but made sons. And Lord, for some of us, we know that peace, but we don't feel it. Fears surround us. We pray, Lord, that you would give to us faith that believes. That you would Enable us to present our requests to you and stop this week worrying out loud and calling that prayer. We might mingle our requests with thanksgiving and remember. Who you are and what you have done for us in Christ, that we might choose our thoughts, reject error, and find the peace that you alone can give. And we ask you for that in each of our situations now in Jesus' name. Amen.