Well, this is it. The last message on the series of contentment. It began last June. I warned you it was coming. You content yet? Well, I had news for you. Me either. Fully. And that's what this message is about. The fact that the glory that we have ahead of us in heaven, while giving us contentment in whatever it is that you and I are suffering right now, Nevertheless, it also reminds us that full contentment cannot be reached here, but that full contentment lies ahead. More about that in a minute, but now one last time, let's review what we've been looking at through all these months. Let's first of all then hear from God's word from Philippians chapter 4, the text that we've been considering on the secret of contentment. Philippians chapter 4. Picking up at verse 10 through verse 13, let's hear God as He addresses us. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. Paul says, I am not saying this because I am in need. For I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. How many of you have memorized that during these months? Found that helpful. Great. Fast crowds of you. Well all gather back for an extra donut there Those two verses particularly, even if you just memorized verse 11 or 12 and then verse 13, would be of real help. To remind you sometimes when you're feeling the stress, you're feeling the temptation to complain, to be discontented. Remind yourself of those words. Again, very briefly, what have we seen? Number one, that contentment is something which is what? Learn. More have you got that at least. Okay. It's happening to something which is learned. I have learned to be content, Paul says. I have learned the secret of being content. It's a matter of choices that you and I make in our walk with Jesus Christ. by which we can learn that. It's not instantaneous, automatic, or immediate. Secondly, we have seen that contentment is independent of Circumstances. Good. We can finally finish this thing off. Good. I've learned to be content whatever the circumstances, he says. I've learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. Ruth Van Rieken in her book, Letters Never Sent, says, circumstances don't create your spirit, they reveal it. And so circumstances do not determine whether you and I are content. They reveal where our heart is. And then the third thing that we have seen in the series is that that secret is found in Christ alone. I'm not going to ask you that. It was written right there. Right there. We have seen seven ways that Jesus Christ meets our particular needs. We've seen how in the particular needs we have of guilt. of anxiety, worry, concern about whether we'll have enough, how we are invited to bring to him those needs. And then to see what Jesus Christ has provided for us that particularly addresses that need. And then how he works in us the contentment in that situation. What he's done for us and what he does in us. And of those last six that you see listed there, we now come to finish it off with the last and the seventh. Way that Jesus Christ provides contentment for us. That last one, which is really the climax of all, and I think particularly appropriate for the Sunday before Thanksgiving. This is kind of the Thanksgiving message too, you know. Now if you really want a Thanksgiving message, you need to join us down at Knox Church, our grandmother church. Over the rivers and down 29 to grandmother's house we go Thursday mornings on Thanksgiving. And there you'll hear a real Thanksgiving message. But this one at least relates to Thanksgiving because it'll help us to see the glory which is on ahead, that gives us contentment now. We want to see the this glory which is reserved for you, and the glory then which gives the hope in you which is sufficient. Paul speaks of this glory which is revealed for me in chapter 3, verses 20 and 21. Now you notice in this passage, just before this statement about contentment, Paul speaks of those whose mind is only wrapped up in things in this world, who are not very contented. And he says in verse 19, their mind is on earthly things. But then the contrast, verse 20, but our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies. so that they will be like his glorious body. And in this he tells you four things, About heaven or glory that are reserved for you if you belong to Jesus Christ, if you put your faith and trust in Him for the forgiveness of your sin. And are following him in your life now. There are four things, Paul says, that are reserved for you that will give you contentment. The first, you see, in the beginning of verse 20, he says, Your citizenship is in heaven. That's the first blank. My citizenship is in heaven. That is home. Your citizenship in heaven is in heaven because that is your home. Jesus taught us to pray, our Father, who is in heaven. So our Father is waiting in heaven to welcome us home. That's where home is. And yet, you and I don't think very much about home, do we? That is heaven as our home. I mean, how much time have you spent this past week thinking about heaven? How much has it been on your mind this past week? You know, you're stuck in a traffic jam and your thoughts immediately turn to home. Yeah, I was following a guy the other day. It said um I had a little bumper sticker on his car that said uh my other car is an F-14. If I was in that I'd be home now Well, you know, we think not very much about home, do we? About heaven, as a as which is our home. We think of it very little, I think, because in many ways uh it's very elusive and vague to us. We think of angels and harps and clouds and one eternal church service, and we say, you know. As great as it is, it's kind of hard to get real excited about that the whole time. I got news for you. I'm a preacher. That'd be hard for me to get excited about thinking one long eternal church service. I mean Probably think that guys like me, oh man, that me realizes meat and drink, that's all he wants to do. Play basketball, anything and nah. But you know, we don't think of having a whole lot because we restrict it so very much to that. Sort of like uh if Dean, my son, when he was four years old, I had said to him, Dean, when you grow up and get married, you're gonna go on a honeymoon, and that's gonna be one of the most fantastic experiences of your whole life. He might have said to me, Dad, can I take my toy dinosaurs along? Well, Dean, no, you probably won't. But it's still going to be a fantastic time, trust me. Well, uh, what about my friend Joey across the street? Is he gonna come too? I sort of doubt it, Dean, but trust me, it's gonna be a great time. Maybe he'd look and say, uh Dad, I'm not sure I want to go on a honeymoon. Doesn't sound like a whole lot of fun. Well, you get the point? I mean, that's where he is and that's where it is and he can't quite relate. And that's the way heaven is. Heaven's joys and heaven's exhilaration, trust me, is on such a higher level that it's difficult for you and for me to even relate. To what that kind of enjoyment is at this point. And so the Bible only gives us some pictures. But the Bible tells us it's home, its real home. Your citizenship is there. That's where you belong. You don't really belong here. But one day the Father's going to say, welcome home. And you'll know with a sense of comfort that you've never known before, I've arrived where I belong. That's something you and I can't relate to very much now. But I guarantee that at that point, nobody is going to tell you you ought to worship now. For you and I will simply fall down prostrate, and there was nothing else we will want to do but to worship the Lamb. To worship the Father, to exalt him as we've sung here this morning. And that will be a kind of joy and glory to us that we can't enter into any more than a four-year-old can enter into the joys of a honeymoon experience. But the Bible says, trust me, you will want nothing more. The second thing that Paul tells us about this In the end of verse 20, there is that we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the second thing is: I eagerly await my Savior's presence. You eagerly await him. Do you ever go on a long trip to see somebody that you love very much? And haven't seen them for a long time. Particularly you kids, maybe going to some relative that is your favorite grandparent or aunt or uncle. Maybe you'll be going somewhere this Thursday to see someone. And it's a long trip, and it's all the way, you know, are we there yet? We're almost there? How long? And then when you finally get there, the trip doesn't seem like it was so long, does it, when you look back on it. That's going to be the way it will be when you and I see the face of Jesus. All the heart's longings of, oh Lord, how long. Oh Lord, when is this going to end? And all that which right now seems unending to you. And whatever the anxieties of your life now, whatever it is that you're enduring that you think Is there ever going to be relief? When you see the face of Jesus, will all dim so quickly that it will seem like it was such a very brief time. For his face itself will wipe away all the tears. We eagerly await, Paul says, the Savior from heaven. Larry Crabbe says in his book Inside Out, until you squarely face and acknowledge the painful disappointment in all of your relationships here on Earth. You will never pursue Christ with a passion of deep thirst. Let me say that again Until you squarely face and acknowledge the painful disappointment in all your relationships here on earth, even the best of them, you will never pursue Christ with a passion of deep thirst. You and I are drawn closest to Jesus when we most keenly feel our disappointments, don't we? And you must eagerly await him when you realize that earth can never keep its promises. We eagerly await a Savior from heaven who keeps all his promises. And the relationship with him will not have the slightest shadow of disappointment. He will be all that we could have ever imagined in a friend, a lover, a father, and so much more. We eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the contentment we will know in his presence will be full and complete. A contentment that you have never experienced here, and can only have the merest glimpse of it, but a fullness when he comes. The third thing that Paul tells us here, the uh beginning of verse 21 The Savior that we await, the Lord Jesus Christ, he says, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control And so we see thirdly that I anticipate his power that will bring everything under his control. I anticipate his power. that will bring everything under his control, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, all nature under his control, who said in the midst of the storm in the boat, Peace be still to the winds. And they obeyed him. Who brings our natures under control so that you'll never again blow up at the kids? The kids will never again rebel We'll never again hurt one another. Cars will never break down. Things won't frustrate us. We won't lose jobs. Children and spouses won't be abused. Everything will be brought under the control of him who rules in love and righteousness. Nothing will be out of sync. Nothing will be in rebellion to the loving purposes and the majestic control of him who rules the universe All will be brought under the control of Jesus. And he who works everything perfectly in the majesty of his power will have everything perfectly subdued to his will. And so we pray our Father, who's in heaven, my home, holy be your name, all your kingdom come, all things be done on earth as it is in heaven, for everything is done according to your will in heaven. It will be eaten restored, and so much more. And then finally, the last thing he says is that we look forward to a transformed body that will be like his. A transformed body that will be like his own body. See there in verse 21. Who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies So that they will be like his glorious body. No decay, no pain, you'll never get sick, you'll never become feeble There will be no aches or pains or receding gums or dimmed eyes or difficulty in getting up in the morning and all the rest of it. There will be no death, no cancer. Nothing that will mar the glorious bodies that He has given to us. And there will be no sin And there will be no guilt of the past which you cannot eradicate from your memory as much as you try. All of that will be gone. You will only want to do right in that transformed body. And that transformed body will enable you to do right perfectly. You'll do your Savior's bidding instantly And your conscience will be absolutely clear at every point. Have you ever stopped to think just how much capacity for enjoyment you would have, how much it would be doubled and tripled and multiplied tenfold? If nothing else was changed but the fact that you had an absolutely clear conscience. I mean you could even eat banana splits with a clear conscience. Nothing will cause the conflict of guilt and I really shouldn't have done it. And you know, I'd really like to, but then you everything will be totally in harmony. What we want to do will be perfectly right to do. And we'll fully enjoy doing it. And we won't feel guilty about any of it. Because there'll be transformed bodies In which the very nature of Jesus has been completed in us. What a wonderful anticipation! Because He is going to do it in us. He's guaranteed it. Isn't that a tremendous hope? Amen. I hope somebody is happy about that. Think about it. That's the glory that lies ahead for you What a hope that Jesus is able to fulfill in you and me. You ready to go? But not yet. Not getting up a bus today. We still need to wait. There's still time to be lived out here. So that brings us to the second point. The hope of that glory in me now is sufficient. The hope of that glory in me and in you now is sufficient. Look at some of the things that Paul says about this right after these two verses. Let me read them again so you get the flow of his thought. He says, our citizenship, our home is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control is going to transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. Chapter 4, verse 1. No great. Therefore, my brothers, you whom I love and long for, my joy and my crown, that's how you should stand firm in the Lord, dear friends. How? By having your hope fixed on that, you see. By seeing that which is ahead, it enables you to stand firm here in the present, he says. And then look what he says in verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again, rejoice. Let your gentleness be evident to all. Why? The Lord is near. He's not only near at hand to you in his presence, he's near in his coming. He's right at the door. And in the light of eternity, his coming is so very near to us. Just a few more steps down the path. Of this life, before the door opens to the gate of heaven, and Jesus welcomes us in. The Lord is near. And so, but look what he says back in chapter 3. Remember he said there in chapter 3 verse 10, I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings. becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Not that I've already obtained all this, or have already been made perfect, but I press on. To take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of on me. Brothers, I don't consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. But one thing I do. Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Jesus Christ. All of us then who are mature. Should take such a view of things. See what he's saying? Saying the more you grow in Jesus, the more you're wanting to stretch forward. The more you're wanting to grasp a hold of the prize that you realize you don't have yet. But there's that straining, there's that looking on tiptoe for the coming of Jesus, the eager expectation of his return. When all the hope that you have in him will be fulfilled. And so he says, in a Roman prison In which he could be facing imminent death in chapter 1, verse 21. He says, To me, to live is Christ. To die, that's gain. For it's to gain more of Christ. It's to gain him in his fullness and the completeness for which I am now straining forward. And so let me pick just two biblical images that picture. This mentality of living content in this life because of the hope in the next. The two images that the Bible presents most frequently Or first of all, pilgrim mentality. That's the first one. Pilgrim mentality. That's kind of appropriate for the Sunday before Thanksgiving, right? Remember what he says there in chapter 3 verse 20. Our citizenship is in heaven. We're aliens, we're strangers here. This isn't home. We're just passing through here. We're pilgrims here. Home is in another place. You know, it's amazing what you can put up with when you're living away from home And you're waiting to get back. I remember through the years that Kathy and I were with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship almost every summer, we'd be away to camps. And some of those camps were pretty rustic. And we'd be there for four to five weeks. We'd have one room. Maybe two, if we were lucky, you know, when family gets big, but sometimes we'd all be packed into one room. And uh there certainly wasn't any TV. There were no luxuries. It was nothing but the bare necessities of all the food that you could eat. Certainly plenty of food. Clothes were pretty simple. Not a whole lot of different variety, you know, same basic clothes you put on every day. A little different for a little different occasion, but life was very simple. And I remember summer after summer thinking how amazed I was that I didn't miss all the junk at home. I mean can you imagine? Five weeks without TV Now, you know, uh TV isn't my greatest thrill in life, but still five weeks and not even miss it. Five weeks and all the things that I would be So much enjoying at home, and I really didn't particularly miss them. Our lives were full. A lot of good things were going on. We're seeing God build his kingdom in the lives of kids that we were working with. But you know, if somebody had said to me during that month, you like this? Really think it's pretty neat, huh? Okay. Well, you're going to live here for the rest of your life. I mean, you know, you say you don't need that stuff. Buy. You're not going to go back home. Just take it away. Sell it. You know? Give it to the kingdom. Well, you know, my attitude probably would have been a little different at that point. You see, because I could get along on very little, because I knew I was going home. We knew that, hey, all those things that we miss and think about and Don't particularly need now. You know, the fact that you had your own bathroom and your own shower and didn't have to go down the hall and scramble for it and all this. Well that's all right. In fact one place in Upper Peninsula, Michigan where we lived, that was really pretty rusty. You had to go across a field down by a lake to take a shower and to go into the bathroom, you know, that that that one was kind of far. I didn't mind it a whole lot, except when you had to get the porcupines out of the shower and uh fight your way in there, you know. It was kind of a cold, frosty morning. But that's okay, because hey, a couple more weeks I'm going home. And then I'll have all the luxuries again. You see, it's a pilgrim mentality, and if you've ever camped out and you know what it's like. I mean, some of us like to torture ourselves to go backpacking just so we can enjoy home again, right? And you enjoy that because you like to be able to look forward to what you can get back to. And the Bible says that's the way it is with us. Here it is, alright. So things aren't all the way you choose them to be. So you put up with certain things and you say, okay, I'll do with less here for the kingdom. But that's okay. It's not home. When Jesus comes, then I'm going home. Then I'll have everything that I need or could possibly want. But if I don't have it all now, so what? It's not that very long, just a few more steps down the path till I get there. And that pilgrim mentality, the Bible says, is what enables you and me to be content because of the hope that lies ahead. The second image that the Bible gives us is that of a soldier. A soldier mentality. In 2 Timothy, Paul tells Timothy to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. A wartime mentality makes all the difference in what we can put up with, doesn't it? I can still remember, just vaguely, you know, just old enough to barely remember toward the end of World War II I was born in 43, in case you want to calculate. In the World War II, I can still remember my parents going into food stores. And they would separate, my father would go separate from my mother, and I wondered why that was, and I then learned it was so they could each get a bag of sugar, because it was all ration, just one bag per customer I And everything was rationed and gas and tires were by coupons and everything was restricted. But you didn't hear, so I understand, a whole lot of complaining considering what people had to put up with. Why? Because they knew why they were doing it. Okay, so we have to give up some now. The point is to win the war We're not sacrificing for nothing. Our goal is fixed and focused. We need to win the war and get it over with. And so a soldier will live in a tent. A soldier will put up with very rustic living. And if he's a good soldier, Paul says, he'll endure the hardness. Because his mind is fixed on winning the war. He's not concerned about the fact that he doesn't get the nice bed that he wished he could have at home. He expects that because he's in a war. And if you and I could have our eyes open to see that we are in a deadly spiritual war, then that would enable us, brothers and sisters, to be much more content. With what the captain calls us to put up with, with what the captain causes us voluntarily to submit to, to relinquish even of our rights and privileges. In time and in money and in things for the kingdom. Because it's a war. And when the war is over, and King Jesus has conquered and vanquished the very enemy of our souls. Then we shall enjoy the fruits of victory. Then we shall reign with him. Then we shall go in his triumphant parade down the streets with ticker tape and the praise of all the angels saying, Jesus has conquered. And then we shall reign as conquering kings. But that's okay. That's ahead. And so I can endure hardness for right now And I can even be content in it because of the war. You see, if you understand what's ahead What circumstances can't you put up with? And even affirm if God has called you in that situation. Because of the hope that lies ahead. In fact, Paul said in Romans 8:18, I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us. At first, that seems to make light of your suffering, doesn't it? It seems to make light of the difficulties that you're having. It's not worth comparing with the glory. Johnny Erickson, the famous quadriplegic, says that when she read that verse after she had broken her neck and couldn't move anything from her neck down. In the hospital striker test, the striker bed that she was on, she said she resented those verses because it seemed to make light of her suffering. It's not worth comparing. Then she said, she began to consider glory. And then gradually she realized that the picture presented there is as of a scale. And you're looking at the scale and you look at the one side, which is the weight of your suffering. And that weight is a very heavy weight. The things which you're called to endure, the disappointment in relationships, the anxiety, the tension, the things that you now are struggling through, you look at that and you say, that is very heavy. But then she says you look at the other side of the scale. And you begin to see the weight of glory that lies ahead for you in Jesus Christ. She says as you look at that side of the scale, you begin to see that it's an eternal weight of glory. And so it grows and grows and grows and it never diminishes. And you see that that glory is an infinite glory. And all of a sudden you see that scale go right on through the floor because you look at the other side and it's as light as a feather. In comparison. To the eternal weight of that glory. For as C. S. Lewis has written, the glory that lies ahead of us will be like picturing the most glorious sunset that you've ever seen. And as you picture the glory of that sunset, you realize that you're still simply an observer to that glory. But Lewis says the difference of heaven Is that there's something in us that longs to put that glory on, that longs to get into it. And Lewis says, the glory of heaven is that when Jesus comes, you and I will get into the glory. We will put the glory on. And millennia after the suns and the nebulae have glowed and died and disappeared in ashes and dust. You and I will still be walking with Jesus more alive every year with the glory That is transforming us and our understanding of what it means to be His redeemed people. The glory which will be revealed in you Makes all other considerations light as a feather. You understand now why Paul says, I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. That's okay. For I have learned the secret of being content in any In every situation, whether well-fed or whether hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything. Through him, through Jesus, who gives me the strength. Have you learned anything through this series about contentment? If you have, inform your face and your mouth so that others can see that contentment and be drawn to the Savior who can get. Let's pray. Lord, we want to look back. We want to think for a minute of those things that you have been teaching us. About the sin of our own discontentment, about our demandingness, about our rebellion against the way that you have ordered our lives. Of our envy, of our greed, of our petulance, of our disappointments. And we want to see now, Lord, Jesus. And we want to see that He in His glory Can give a contentment that we've only had a keyhole glimpse of to this point. Lord, open our eyes Open our eyes that we might see that glory, and that seeing it we might be content.