Secret of Contentment. And I hope you're getting content. Next to the last message. Only one more after this. And then you're going to have to resort to a pacifier of some kind because there's no more I'm going to say on this particular subject for a while. I hope that you are beginning to experience this. Is anybody here beginning to experience contentment? Good. That's good. Good to hear. Jesus stands ready. And if you have not experienced it, he offers it as a gift to you. And the whole point of this series of messages is that we will go to him for our contentment, not come to get pumped up by a message week after week. And then maybe go away feeling good for maybe a few minutes, a few hours. But to go to Jesus, for he wants to give you contentment. Today, perhaps, what we're dealing with will be the real test for some of us of whether we can find contentment in Jesus Christ in this particular area. But before we get to that, Just a bit of review to bring us all up to speed on what we're talking about, particularly if you haven't been with us through the series. Let's once again look at the text from Philippians chapter 4. Beginning with verse 10 through verse 13. Philippians chapter 4. Let's hear God's word to us. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I am in need. For I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be a need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty Or in want, I can do everything through him who gives me strength I wonder are there any of you who have memorized that text by this point? Just see the hands. Uh you know, I really have a few of you. Uh I I encourage you. You know, you you hear that week after week and you think, yeah, there it is. Same verses, but try saying it from your own memory. And all of a sudden you'll realize there's a number of things you're not sure how did he put that And as you memorize it, then you have to think about why did he say it that way and not another way? So that God's word will come more clearly into your own heart. You remember that we began this series by seeing, first of all, that contentment is something which is learned. It's not automatic, it's not instantaneous. Secondly, we saw that contentment is independent of circumstances. It's not something which is attained by simply improving your situation. Contentment is found thirdly then in Christ alone. It's found in him in seven ways, seven things that he gives to us, that the book of Philippians surveys for us. First of all, his righteousness for our guilt, his peace for our anxiety. His humility for our pride, his suffering when we are in want and in need and suffering in our own lives. His power in our weakness. And that brings us to number six today, being content in God's provision for our want. This is a question of material sufficiency. And that's especially relevant for two reasons. First of all, it's relevant because of the economic insecurity of our day. Psychology Today magazine has called the 90s the age of envy. And the reason is that they say that we are now entering a time which is kind of new to our culture. We're used to having people in their 20s and 30s expecting to have the standard of living that their parents achieved in their 50s and 60s And being able to attain to that in their early marriage, early careers, and then surpass it. And many things that we're reading now are saying that that has capped. There's now a whole generation of people called the Busters, those after the baby boomers, who are now growing up into their careers with expectations, in fact a sense of entitlement. to a higher standard of living than they're going to be able to attain to. And so the 90s are called the Age of Envy. At that time where I thought that I would be able to get more than I'm able to get, why is it that I'm not able to achieve what it seemed like I would be entitled to when I was in college or maybe even in high school looking forward to it. And for people in their 40s and 50s, it's a time of tremendous insecurity. A time of career changes and a time of insecurity as to whether your job will even be there six months from now. We've lost the sense of loyalty of employee to employer and employer to employee. And people are laid off with very little notice. And some of you may even be planning contingency plans because you don't expect your job to necessarily be there a year or so from now. A time of tremendous insecurity. I remember back in my own life, just after I graduated from college, my parents had helped a great deal for me to get through. And just after I graduated, my dad was laid off just like that from his job after working 30 years for the company. Simply closed the department. There's no more job. For the next years he shifted around from job to job, none of them long term. And we're entering a period that may be something like that again, where there's a lot of worry and anxiety. In fact maybe you're thinking now, you know, I wasn't thinking about that a whole lot till when I came in here, but now you sort of got me uptight. I would rather go back home and have a cup of coffee. I'd feel better, you know. But we've got to face this. Face the worry and the anxiety that we feel and lay it out on the table. Look it squarely in the eye, the fact that we're worried about our housing. Some of us may wonder, will we ever be able to afford a house? Get out of rented facilities, unhappy with the kind of housing that we have for one reason or another? We're getting tired of patching the car together and wishing that we could replace it, but not knowing quite how we're going to do it. Things keep breaking around the house. And you're never so aware of all the stuff that you have till it starts breaking all over the place. You know, and the refrigerator goes and the washer and the air conditioner and all the little stuff and the big stuff and the roof needs to be replaced and everything. And you think, gee, I didn't know I owned so much stuff. And now we've got to maintain it all, and our lives are so complicated, and there's always some concern about some major unexpected expense of something going. And then there's the longer-term issues that we worry about too. Our retirement security. Are our investments adequate? What will we have when we're get to that point and we worry, will there be any social security, you know? And talk to Herman Smith, he'll tell you the status of that and Dan McQueen and others working that system. Will there be any social security? What about my retirement? Is it really is it is it worth My being able to relax, can I really trust that there'll be something to live that lasts perhaps third of my adult life on a fixed income? What about my life insurance? What about my health insurance? Can't even afford my health insurance, can't afford to get sick anymore. And all these things that just come upon us and we can worry and be consumed. But how we can live in this culture and pay our bills and wonder how in the world we're going to survive if things get worse. That's one reason why it's very relevant. Because when we're talking about contentment, we've got to deal with that issue. But the second reason this is particularly relevant is because that is precisely the the context of what Philippians 4, 11-13 are about. Material provision. It's a question of material sufficiency that Paul is addressing. And so more than any other issue, immediately in his mind is this question of is God able to provide enough material things for me to live? Some people have called the book of Philippians a thank you letter, because the circumstances of it, the occasion of his writing, Was to express his thanks to the Philippian church for a gift that they had sent to him while he was in custody of the Romans. Do you remember that Paul was chained to a Roman guard? He was in custody. Unable to support himself. Now the Romans weren't particularly concerned that they maintained the standard of living he was able to enjoy while he had Paul the Apostle tent-making business. And so they simply give him what is absolutely necessary for him to continue to live and survive. And so he had a lot he could complain about. I mean, he didn't even have a TV, let alone a VCR or a Nintendo to hook up to it. He had no car, no selection of clothes. from which to pick his wardrobe to make sure that it matched day by day in some creative new arrangement. No appliances Major or minor. I mean the guy had to even wash his own dishes by hand for crying out loud. How bad can things get? But even compared to his own culture, the people of his own day. He had so very little. No home. No place that he could go back to to be able to rest and say, These are my things. I've put them here. I enjoy them. I accumulate them. They mean something to me. Basically, he was living out of a suitcase for months and months and months. All that he had, all that he could enjoy was what he could take with him on that journey and as he was chained to the Romans. And so it's at this point that a gift, perhaps a sizable gift, arrives from the Philippian church And it's a tremendous encouragement to Paul. He has so little. And all of a sudden, here's something that shows him not only something that's going to make his life easier, and some things that he can enjoy, perhaps some goodies. you know, a little care package as well as perhaps some books to read and some other things that will make his life a little more enjoyable. But there's also the tremendous sense of care that's communicated in that. These brothers and sisters have cared for me, and they've done this because they love me. And yet notice how he responds in verse 10 to 13. He says, I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you've renewed your concern for me. Now he says, Now when I say at last, I'm not complaining Indeed, you've been concerned. I know that. But you just didn't have an opportunity to show it, so I'm not complaining. And he says, I want you to know I'm not complaining because I didn't have enough. I wasn't sitting here discontented because I had so little and was living out of a suitcase and my future was all uncertain, didn't know if I'd ever get out of here. Didn't know if I'd ever be able to come back to any kind of a place that I could call home. I want you to know that that's not why I am so happy about what you've given me. I am not saying this because I'm in need, verse eleven. For I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. Circumstances of anxiety, circumstances of want and need. Specifically he says in verse 12, I know what it is to be in need. And I know what it is to have plenty. Paul wasn't always in need. There were times when he had a tremendous amount of things to enjoy. He says I've had both situations. I had a good career. I was a well-respected professor in a culture that paid well for such services. And I've learned the secret of being content in every and any situation, whether well-fed or hungry, either one. Whether living in plenty or in one. Either one, I can be content. Why? Because I can do everything through him who gives me the strength. Then he goes on To talk about his deep appreciation for them for what they've done in verses 14 to 18. And then turns around and gives to them a promise of material provision. And he says in verse 19, and my God will meet all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus. And so God will provide how much? All your needs. See? Put that down My God, God will provide all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus You recall Ephesians 1. 18, the verse that we see on our bulletins, on banners. Basic purpose of a church, that we will know the hope of his calling, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. What God has given to us. An inheritance that he has for you. That inheritance involves a transformed world. God is going to remake the whole heavens and the earth, he who made the first earth and made all the goods that we enjoy, the material things that we enjoy, the jewels. The beauty, all the things that we have, God has made those things. And He says He's going to remake them. He can meet all of your needs according to His glorious riches in Christ, because everything that you enjoy is something He's made. And ultimately belongs to him. And he's given it to you to enjoy. And so God's riches are limitless. If he lacked of anything, he could just make it Do you ever stop to really think about the fact that there truly is no limit to the glorious riches of our God? There could be worlds of minerals and riches in other solar systems and other parts of the universe that we don't even know about. Inestimable riches, far beyond anything on earth. Because he has made all these systems, the galaxies and the stars, and all these things reflect his glorious riches. And we wonder, is he sufficient to be able to provide for us to pay our bills? One day he's going to transform you and me And bring us who have faith in Jesus Christ into that new world. Because Jesus came because he realized that your need ultimately, your deepest need, was not to have better housing. Your deepest need is not ultimately financial security and a sufficient retirement portfolio. Your ultimate need, because you are an eternal being is for forgiveness from a holy God who judges our lives with perfect justice. To have that God look upon us, to know everything that you or I have ever done or thought that was against him, that was selfish, that was mean, that was vile And to be able to say, I forgive you. And Jesus provided for that need. By the giving of himself, by trading in his riches, to come into poverty and to give his life, ultimately as a sacrifice by a horrible death on the cross. that he might provide for your deepest need. And if he has done that, if he's provided for your eternity, Giving you an inheritance in a transformed world to make you a transformed person to enjoy that world, do you think he's going to ignore some simple temporal needs that you or I have for a few months or years? Of something that we feel a need for now. Needs? Not necessarily all the desires, but for the needs. Scripture says he has made you his child. And God takes care of his children. He won't withhold from you anything. God has provided for you everything that is objectively sufficient for your need. But not only is he provided for you, that objective provision, he has also provided in you. That's the second part. In me. And here the point is that contentment is not in the addition of things, but in the subtraction of desires. That's unique for Christians. Contentment is ultimately not in the addition of things, but in the subtraction of desires. Contentment, you see, is really the grace to be contented with what God has already provided. The wisdom to realize that contentment is not in the accumulation of wealth and things, for if that were true, when would we ever have enough? As someone asked a multimillionaire, how much is enough for you? He said, one dollar more That's the nature of our craving hearts, isn't it? If contentment is simply found in the provision of things, when will we ever have enough to be content? And so the mystery, the secret of contentment in Jesus Christ is to realize that contentment is not in the addition of things. But it's in the subtraction of our desires. Do you remember what James 4 said when we looked at that book? James began in chapter 4, what causes fights and quarrels, striving and turmoil among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle, that struggle within you? You want something, but you don't get it. And so you kill and you covet, but you cannot have what you want. And you quarrel and you fight and you don't have because you don't ask God. And when you do ask, you don't receive. Because you're asking with wrong motives that you simply will spend it on your own pleasures. Is that you this morning? Turmoil within you saying, if only I had. If only this area was secure in my life, then I could be content. And there's that striving, and there's that turmoil, and there's that unrest. You need for God to do a new work in your heart. You want so much to be able to say with Paul, I have learned to be content in any and every situation. You see the difference? Paul says my desires have been placed in the relationship I have with Jesus. And so the things, well they don't really matter that much. Because God has promised that if I, in Psalm 37:4, if I delight myself in him, he will give to me the desires of my heart, transformed desires. I can come as a child to Jesus and pray, Father, Daddy, give me my daily bread. You notice that down there, content with daily bread. Jesus never provided promised bread for tomorrow. He never promised manna for his people for the next day. He provided it day by day. That as people would learn to walk in faith and dependence on a daily basis, trusting in the Father to provide. That doesn't mean we don't plan ahead. That doesn't mean insurance is unbiblical. It does mean that our trust and our contentment and our security are in the relationship we have with the Father. And so you see down there at the bottom. Skip the middle for a moment. Contentment at the bottom is in the relationship, not in the things. Just this past week I experienced something of this. Uh we have a twelve-year-old Volkswagen rabbit. The last time I said we had a rabbit that died. One of you thought that we had a little furry thing that somehow expired. Uh that was not the rabbit I had in mind. It's it's the blue metal one that has been expiring about once a month Finally we decided we needed to get a new car. I'd been saving for it so I could buy it cash for the last three, four years. We did buy a new car. With also a daughter in college, I just uh finished uh working out my finances for the month of November, and I found I was $1,300 short for this month And you know, I wasn't even consciously thinking of this message. But I have seen through the years in my walk with Jesus Christ so much, so consistently that He has provided for that. It was late Thursday night that I was doing that. And as I finished it, I looked and I said, hmm, $13 in the hole, $1,300 behind on college and taxes and stuff. I just put it down and went right to bed. I'm not kidding. I didn't stay awake two minutes thinking about that. Why? Not because I'm such a man of faith. It's simply because through the years I've seen so many times like that, and God has provided every single time. The very next day I went to the bank and I put the money in from what we had. Looking, you know, 1300 short, but you know, nobody's banging down my door today, and God will provide when it's needed. I went to the bank and I asked them about a question that didn't seem to make sense on the statement. They said, oh, we changed some of the rules here. And as they worked through some of the rules, it turned out by the time I walked out of the bank, I had $276 more in my account than I had walking in. And I thought, Lord, how much like you? Yeah, you know, there's nearly 300 of it. No, you know, you'll take care of the rest of it too. Walking day by day. And trust. What is it that you have to do today that God hasn't provided means for you to do? Don't worry about tomorrow. Be responsible. Plan. Work. Do your best. But ultimately the trust is not in the things. It's in the relationship. The relationship of having a heavenly father. Stephen Bly, in one of his writings, speaks about his relationship with his earthly father. His father was a poor farmer. But he said, Dad was always there for anything I needed, and was a model to me of my heavenly father. At one point he said we were married, I was married, and uh our oldest son Was seven years old. I was still struggling to get through college. We had so little money that we didn't even have any health insurance And one day my son had severe stomach cramps. We took him into the hospital, and they said we need to remove his appendix. And because you don't have any health insurance, we need a sizable down payment. He said, I turned to my wife, just about to discuss what we were going to do about this situation, when up walked Dad, already pulling out his wallet from his well-worn pocket. Dad was always there to provide. And if an earthly father can do that, What of a heavenly Father who has infinite glorious riches in Jesus Christ? Is he going to stand aside and not care for your need? If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, he's given to you not only Jesus as the one to provide for you personally, he's given you part of a body. He's given you a community here that shares with you that need and the pooling of resources that none of us goes hungry while the other has surplus. And God has means of taking care of our needs. Why are we so anxious? Why? Because we really don't believe that we're children of the Heavenly Father, do we? We really think we're orphans who need to fend for ourselves. The problem is in part though that we have such a different standard of need, don't we? We think that our needs are things that other people would have seen as pure luxuries. I mean to us, an absolute need is indoor plumbing. How many of us realize that a hundred years or so ago that would have been seen as a luxury? Electricity is an absolute need on all the appliances that it runs, the food process. Processor, absolute need, back and cleaner, rather rest of it. Hundred years ago would have been unknown. Would have been seen as king's luxuries. And our lives have become so complicated with high-tech stuff. that we begin to confuse wants and needs. Is there any kind of absolute? For when God says, I provide for all your needs, Phideas said, This is what I promise to give you. Is there anything? Yes, there is. Take a look at 1 Timothy chapter 6. In 1 Timothy chapter 6, God says, Here's the bottom line that I promise to provide. In 1 Timothy 6 and verse 6, God says, godliness with contentment, there it is, that same word from Philippians 4, is great gain. For we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. But if we have two things, what? What are the two things? Who sees them? What's the first one? Food and clothing. Doesn't even say a house with your own mortgage. It says, food and clothing. God says, if I've provided that for you, then he says, we'll be content with that. And there it is, that's the same word. As Philippians 4, 12, 11, and 12. Content, sufficient. That's sufficient. You can be content with that. Why? Because everything else that you have that you don't consume, the clothes you you need to keep you warm, to cover you, the food you need to consume to keep alive, everything else is going to depart. Everything else is just something that you can enjoy for a period of time and it's utterly disposable. John Piper illustrates this in his book, Desiring God, when he gives the illustration of an art museum. And he says it's like a man that's going through an art museum and he begins to take the pictures off the walls of the art museum. He starts stuffing them under his arm, put them in a cart. He's going along and somebody stops him and he says, Hey, what are you doing? He says, Well I'm becoming an art collector. Then you say, Well, wait a minute, friend, you can't take those, those aren't yours. You're never going to be able to get out of this museum with them. You're going to have to go out just the way you came in. And he says, oh no. No, these are mine. Can't you see? They're under my arm. I have them. Besides, it makes me feel good when people look at me and they think I'm an important art collector I'm going to enjoy these things as long as I'm here and don't be a drag and talk about how I have to leave sometime. Maybe I'll decide to hang around here forever. As such a person you'd walk away and say, that guy's an idiot. He's out of touch. And yet how similar is the mindset? Many of us have. Collecting things through the museum. Forgetting that we have to go out just like we came in. That's what the point is of Timothy. See what he says? Godliness with contentment is great gain. Why? Because we brought nothing into the world. And we're going to go out just as naked. We're going to go out with just as much stuff as we brought in. The old saying there's no U-Hauls behind hearses. If we have food and clothing, therefore, that's enough. Let God take care of the shelter, transportation, all the other things that He has given us richly to enjoy. He says that. The fact is, the people who want to get rich, verse 9, fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. And some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. Riches are deceptive. Just Friday I I got into the rabbit again. I have to drive it at least once a week because I'm still trying to keep it running so that Heather will have something to drive when she's on break and has to commute to her job. I got into it and uh, you know, kind of used to nice new Honda. Starts, runs, does great. Got into this thing, turned the key, and I sort of thought, you know, is it gonna start? And all of a sudden it hit me, you know, it's so easy for my confidence to be in the Honda. It's new, it ought to work. Hondas start, you know, they never fail. That's what they tell me. We'll see how long that's true. But the rabbit, well you know you really can't trust a rabbit when it's twelve years old. It's only got three legs, you know This fur is kind of mangy. You have to keep your finger on the heater fan for it to work, you know. I mean you can take your finger off, you got no more heat, you know, and you're driving through on the windshield spogged up. You know, and so you trust the things. If I just have better things, then I don't have to worry. They're reliable, got quality. And I thought, how easy to lose touch with the relationship. The contentment is not in the things. It's in the relationship. The relationship with my Heavenly Father. Knowing that He cares. As Paul said in chapter 3, I want to know Christ. I want to have the relationship with him. I find my contentment in knowing him. And there is my satisfaction. You know, when Jesus told the parable of the soils, he said there's four kinds of soils to receive the word. The first was the rocky, the road that didn't even penetrate, those that reject the word. Told secondly of the stony ground where the took just shallow, quick root and flourished and then burned off. The third soil was the thorns, where it gradually became choked out, and the fourth was the good soil, where it bore a lot of fruit. For most of us here, I would say the main concern is that third soil, the thorny soil, that which gradually chokes the word, particularly if you have walked with Jesus Christ, professed him for some time. Your concern is that thorny soil. And what does Jesus say are the thorns? Do you ever wonder what the thorns are? He tells us in Matthew 13, verse 22. He says, two things are the thorns. The worries of this life and the deceitfulness of riches. See on the back of your bulletin. Bulletin outline. Those are the two things that choke the word in your life. The worries of life, I don't have enough. How am I going to get through? Can't pay my bills. I'm anxious. Insecure Or the deceitfulness of wealth. Finding my joy, my contentment, my happiness, my rewards, my life gets so stressed out, my only satisfaction is to go shopping. Or whatever it is to find that contentment in a thing, the deceitfulness of riches, of wealth, not resting on God's provision Jesus says one of those two things is a concern for each of us and perhaps at different times either one I would challenge you to write down on your own bulletin outline sometime as we pray or this afternoon, what are the worries of this life that are choking the word for you? What are the deceptiveness? What's the deceptiveness of wealth and its promises? That are the issue for you. In order that you might turn from that to seek first the kingdom and to rest in the Heavenly Father. Stephen Ann Green are one of those that have been living in rented facilities. They've had a modest townhouse that they have rented for the time that they've been serving here in Columbia. And they've been content with that. Many times they've affirmed to me that God has provided for them. He's given them a real love for their neighbors, and they have great contentment of where they've given them that place. It may be that God is going to provide for them a wonderful four-bedroom detached home at about half the market value. They'll find out tomorrow. How do you sit in the service of worship wondering whether you're going to have such a provision or whether you're going to continue to live in a rented facility? But they've said, and I believe them. That we're content in God's provision. If He wants to give us that place, praise God. That shows how He can provide exceeding and abundantly beyond anything we could ask or think. If he doesn't, we can see how he can provide contentment in us by not the addition of the things but the subtraction of the desires. And until you and I can come to that place where we're able to believe. That God watches over the sparrows. He's numbered the very hairs of our head. He's a heavenly father who cares for all of our need. And we can rest in that. We will not find contentment. But if we can rest, we will be content. Amen.