Come to the heart of our series on the secret of contentment found in God's Word through the words of Paul's experience in Philippians chapter four verses Eleven to thirteen, beginning the sentence at verse ten. Yeah, those consonants are still quite alive, aren't they? Philippians chapter four, beginning with verse ten, let's hear God's holy word as he addresses us. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be a need. I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation Whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. You recall that after having looked at the part one, the first major point of this text many weeks ago, namely that contentment is something to be learned. Verse 11, I have learned to be content. Verse 12, I have learned the secret of being content. It's not automatic or immediate. We saw then point two, the contentment is something that ultimately is independent of whether our circumstances are pleasant or unpleasant. Paul says, I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. Verse 12, I've learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. Whether the one I would choose or whether very different from what I would choose. We come now to the last point, the heart of the text. And that is that contentment is a secret found in Christ alone. Contentment is a secret found in Christ alone. Verse 13: I can do everything through him. Who gives me strength? He is the one who enables me to be content in any and every situation. And we saw that the point, we saw that uh the word their content in verse 11 and 12 is a word which means sufficient. To have enough. And the point of that is that what you have in Christ is enough. It's enough because it outweighs whatever need Whatever hurts, whatever anxieties, whatever pains, whatever frustrations you have, Jesus Christ is sufficient. Now, that can be a bumper sticker or a a wall hang and not have a lot of content to it. And so what we want to do now is that we want to understand how Christ is sufficient. You see, I'm not saying for a moment that Christians don't feel pain. We are to feel pain. But what this verse says, if you understand your sufficiency in Jesus Christ, then even in that pain that you feel, you are able to say that it's okay, that you can have a thankful heart that is at rest. That you can depend on the sufficiency of the grace of Jesus Christ day by day, moment by moment, in order to know that it is well in your heart. That you're not anxious, that you're not rebellious, you're not raging at God, you're not screaming, the things are unfair. But that you are able to rest in what He has given you and know that in your heart you are content. Now, in order to then understand how that comes to pass We need to unpack the sufficiency that we have in Jesus. And I believe, I'm sure that uh this this is not uh a definitive statement. But I have found personally in my study of the seven ways that Jesus is sufficient. It's nice that it came out to seven. Always gives you a sense that you found them all, you know. Unless you find an eighth and then you figure you better go to ten, you know But I found seven, and the seven seem to cover the the basic drift of the themes of the book of Philippians. And so what we're going to do is over the next seven weeks with a couple of interruptions. We're going to be looking at these seven ways that Jesus Christ is sufficient for all that you need. We'll take one a week. Now the first one that we begin this week is absolutely foundational. In fact, without this, none of the others will make sense. So it's only you who are here this week that are going to make sense out of the rest of this series. You know, you gotta tell the rest of them, they gotta get the tape or something. Well, I hope they'll be able to make sense of it. But I really mean that this is foundational. What we talk about this morning is the foundation of the Christian's contentment in Jesus Christ. Without this, there is no real contentment. And I'm speaking, as you see in your bullet in that line, about the righteousness of Jesus Christ. The righteousness of Christ. That I am content in his righteousness. His righteousness is sufficient for me. I love to speak on this. It's just one of the favorite things that I can speak on of all the texts of Scripture. To display to you the sufficiency of the righteousness of my Jesus. Because I know that you like me hunger and thirst to know. That you are accepted by God. And that you don't have to earn, as Tom said, his favor. And that you don't have to work to overcome your inadequacies and your insufficiencies and your weaknesses. And your constant tendency to certain sins that hold you in bondage in order to feel that you can have peace with a God who has made you and judges your heart. And so I want to display to you this morning the righteousness of Jesus that you might see him and that you might fill your hungry heart, that you might feast on him, and that you'll go this morning full of a new sense of terror. Contentment because of understanding the righteousness of Jesus for you. Well, in each case of these seven matters I'm going to open them up in two ways, because I think that's what Paul does here. That is to say, in each matter, there are two dimensions of the sufficiency of Christ. The first is the matter in Christ for us, the way he is sufficient in an objective sense. Christ in himself for us. And so we'll speak of his righteousness for us and the other six things for us. They're sufficient. And then the second way we'll look at them is to see how those things are sufficient in Christ in us. By virtue of our union with him subjectively. So for us, objectively, and in us, subjectively. And it's important, I think, that we understand both aspects of each of these precious things that we have in Jesus in order to be able to rest in them and to be content. So, first of all then, in terms of our righteousness of Jesus, his record, which is perfect, let's look at it in terms of his righteousness for me. That's the first point. Now, in order to understand why the righteousness of Jesus for me, that is his perfect record before God, of keeping God's law absolutely perfect, of being absolutely uh well pleasing in God's sight, having never offended God, having never displeased God, righteousness means keeping God's standard. In order to see Why that is sufficient for us, we need to understand the basic nature of our discontentment in this area. And why is that so foundational? Why is that so essential for us to grasp this? Well, I believe because the problem that we have in this area is one that we are constantly dealing with subconsciously or consciously. And the problem, as you see it there under point A, is a constant sense of failure in keeping God's perfect law. Do we have a constant sense of failure, don't we, in keeping God's law, that is, in doing what is right, in doing what is loving, in doing what is pleasing to God. Who of us can live one day without honestly examining our hearts at the end of that day and saying, I didn't do this and I should have I did that and I shouldn't have. I blew it here. I was deficient there. I honestly was selfish in this area. I have to admit that I knew better to do there and I just didn't want to do it. Constant conflicts that we have, don't we? Now some of us are perfectionists. And as perfectionists, we have a real problem Because a perfectionist is a person who idolizes himself. Why do I say that? Well, think about it. The reason that you're a perfectionist is that somehow through your background and through your training, you came to believe that if you could keep a certain standard, you could live with yourself And that became then further ingrained in your thinking that you had to keep that standard in order to be acceptable to yourself or to others. But in implicit in that reasoning is that you can keep that standard. Otherwise, why try? And so the perfectionist is a person who idolizes themselves. They say, I am able to keep a perfect standard of whatever things are important to me that I am trying to keep. And because we can't, what do we do? We procrastinate, we put it off. We pretend that, well, if I just had more time, I could do it. Or we get into excuse making Blame shifting. If only this or that, I could do it. But then sooner or later we have to face the fact of our failure. The all the excuse making and all the procrastinating aren't going to work. And you come to that moment of truth, don't you, when you say, I can't do it. I can't draw an absolutely perfect circle. And I can't love my husband, my wife, my roommate, my kids in a way that meets the standard of the what I think I ought to be doing in that area. I cannot do it. I am a failure. You see, perfectionism is the fruit of legalism. Why do I say that? Because Galatians 3. 10 tells us that if you seek to walk by the law, the law says that you must be perfect. The law says that you must do it every way, all the time, without failing. And so when you and I begin to think Then we must do it perfectly. Because that law God has given to us in our hearts, and if we're Christians who have committed our lives to Jesus Christ, our consciences have been doubly and triply sensitized to that law. And we know we can never keep it. But we keep on trying, don't we? And we'll make our own rules to scale it down into externals. But we keep on trying. And we keep on failing. I was to a Christian conference just this summer. And I noticed as I walked through the lobby, was during a break, uh that there was no laughing There was not a whole lot of evident joy going on among those folks. And I thought, why is that? Here's people who have been forgiven and delivered from an eternal death sentence. There ought to be laughing, there ought to be backslapping, there ought to be cheer, there ought to be joy here. Why is it that everybody seems so sober and somber? And all of a sudden it occurred to me, if in fact you live with a sense of what God's requirements are, sensitized by the Holy Spirit. But you forget the basis of your acceptance in Jesus Christ, then all you're aware of is your failures. Isn't that true? That's all you'll be aware of. And who can go around with joy when all you're aware of is how you never measure up? Of how you never will please this God by his standards. Because those standards are unyielding and they are omniscient into the very corners of the recesses of every thought and dark motive of your heart. Or maybe in your case, you're saying, hey, forget the perfectionism. I got some basic things I'm trying to deal with in my life. And I've got some basic sins and bondages that I just can't free myself of. And that's the nature of my sense of failure. Let me share with you an example that I find very uh helpful in understanding how this kind of a a situation can can so keep a person in bondage. There was a man by the name of Samuel Johnson who lived back in the eighteenth century, a very gifted man, who produced the first English dictionary. And Samuel Johnson was a man who professed Jesus Christ and probably uh did in fact know Jesus Christ from all we can tell in a personal way. But Samuel Johnson, and uh some of you may recognize this illustration is taken from uh the first lecture of the Sonship series. Tapes we have in the library by Jack Miller. Miller went back and he looked at Samuel Johnson's diary and he noticed that Samuel Johnson had a problem. had a problem of laziness. Now how can you figure that somebody produced so many literary works, only not only by him, but by Boswell based on him and the first English dictionary and all that went into that was a lazy guy. Well, we don't know objectively how lazy he was, but he sure looked at himself as lazy. And in his journal, kept over many, many years We have entrance and entries such as this in 1759, excuse me, 1738, first entry says, Oh Almighty God. Enable me to shake off sloth and to redeem the time that's misspent. 1759, 21 years later. Oh God, enable me to shake off the sloth in my life and how terribly I spend my time. 1761, 23 years later. I'm afraid to resolve again to shake off sloth for my failures in the past. Seventeen sixty-four, three more years. Oh, how I lament my idleness and my indolence. Oh, to avoid idleness. I determined to rise early if I can. A little later in 1764. I've determined to rise early, not later than six, if I can. 1768. I hope to rise at least by eight. For often I lie abed until two in the afternoon. Didn't quite make it, Sam. 1775. Why even try again? I can't give up for reformation is necessary and laziness is criminal. Seventeen eighty-one, forty-three years later Oh, to shake off sloth. Forty-three years with guys trying to get up. Never heard of an alarm clock, you know. I don't know what it was with him. But he could not do it. Why? Because he was determining in his own strength, by his own resolve, out of guilt, that this is what he needed to do. A man in bondage. And you look at that and we smile at Samuel Johnson and you say, Well, you know, I can identify with him. There's areas of my life that I feel the same kind of thing But you know what that produces? A person who has that kind of a record can't really have delight in Christ. For all I feel is a failure. Or I look at Jesus Christ and I don't want to walk with him. I'm miserable as I think about How very short I fall of doing basic things to please him, and I feel in bondage And such determinations will never work because they're based on the law. Now, do you identify with this? See the little boxes there? Check one. Maybe you'll do with your fingernails so nobody notices. Do you agree with that? Is that something you identify with? Sense of condemnation, no delight, or freedom as a Christian? But perhaps you're here this morning and you've never entered into a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Do you like to think of yourself as religious and a Christian in some vague and general sense? But in terms of a new life and new freedom found in the righteousness of Jesus Christ by a personal act of commitment to Him by faith, you don't know what that means And so you look and you say, Yeah, if I'm really honest with myself, I'm a failure before God. Commit yourself. Do you agree with that or do you disagree with that? You think that doesn't apply to you? You need to understand your own heart before we go on to his solution. What is that solution? Paul says the solution back in chapter 3 of Philippians. Chapter 4, he said, I've learned to be content in every situation. And I believe that a basic foundation of that is what he said in the beginning of chapter 3. In chapter 3, Paul talks in verse 3 about those who have no confidence in the flesh. And then he goes on in chapter 3 and verse 8. He says, What's more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him. How? Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law that comes from my doing what God requires to please him. My righteousness does not come from that act But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God as a gift, and is by faith. That's why Paul says in chapter 4, I'm content. I have learned to be content in the record of Jesus Christ from God for me. It's like a key that can unlock your prison if you see what this means in your life. You see your righteousness Your attempt at a record to please God is doomed to failure. The only thing that's sufficient You see that word? Sufficient that can make you content is the record of Jesus. For after thirty years of living among brothers and sisters and parents and People who were selfish and rubbed him the wrong way. In all of his society, after thirty years of that, the father said, This is my beloved son, in him I am well pleased. He's never done anything to displease me. His record is perfect. And because of his death on the cross, he became a substitutionary sacrifice So that his record in God's sight was transferred to you. If, as you see in verse 9, look at the again, chapter 3, verse 9. If you see that it is a righteousness that comes from him, you see the end of that verse? A righteousness that comes from God. Not one that comes from you. And it's a righteousness, uh you see that's a legal declaration, a righteousness That comes from God. The word justify means to declare legally righteous, innocent, acquitted before God's justice. But it's a righteousness that's found in him. See the beginning of verse 9. To be found in him, in Jesus. So that the way he is seen is the way that I'm seen. You take this piece of paper and I hold it up like this and you look at that paper, flimsy as it is And whatever happens to that paper, it stands alone. I can light it with a match, I can crumple it up, I can do whatever I want. But when I take that paper and I place it in this Bible And it becomes then enclosed in that. It is in the Bible. Now I can't get to that paper except through the pages of this Bible. I've got to burn the Bible in order to burn this paper. I've got to crumple the whole Bible in order to crumple that paper. Whatever happens to this Bible is what happens to that paper. And that's what Paul's talking about when he says that I am found in him. Your life becomes joined to Jesus Christ. And when Jesus Christ is acquitted because of his perfect record, you stand acquitted. And in fact, God looks at you as having the very same righteousness The very same record, the very same beads of love and worship as Jesus Christ Himself. Do you believe that? Is that possible? That's what the Bible is saying in chapter 3, verse 9. I have a righteousness because I am found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. You see, my own record. But one that comes from Jesus Christ and his record on my behalf. You notice how that's gained two times in verse 9. How does he gain it? By faith. By faith, you see. Found in him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, what I do, but that which is through faith in Christ and what he has done The righteousness that comes from God and is by faith, not by your actions, not by how pleasing you are this week, not by all the good things you do. Not by whether you succeed or fail. It's by faith in Jesus Christ and what he has done. As some of you have heard me ask in the past, in order to clarify the objective nature of this. Answer for yourself in your own words. A or B, simple question. The ground Of my acceptance before God is by what? A faith in Christ or B a life of perfect obedience. Which is it? A or B The ground of my acceptance before God is found in A faith in Christ or B, a life of perfect obedience. Now I'm going to have you vote on this because I don't want to embarrass anybody. Now the correct biblical answer is some of you who may have heard me ask that question before, of course, is not A. Not faith in Christ. The ground of my acceptance before God is B a life of perfect obedience. Friends, that's what the Reformation was all about. You see, it's not my life of perfect obedience. It's Jesus' life of perfect obedience credited to my account. If ever I look at the ground of my acceptance before God as faith in Christ, then I look to myself to find out whether I'm acceptable. The key word there is the ground of my acceptance. And the ground, the basis of that acceptance Can only be that there is in fact a life of perfect obedience that God has declared to be so. And there was only one who ever lived that way, and it was Jesus. Paul saying to us in Philippians 3, that record is sufficient, and so I'm content in it. I don't have to walk around day by day examining how well I've lived, but my sense of well-being My sense of welcome in God's presence, my sense of his smile as a father who bids me come into his presence to put his arms around me is based not on how well I've done. But on how well Jesus has done. And so every time I'm reminded of my own failures, I'm reminded, as he says in chapter 3, verse 3, to put no confidence in the flesh. That's all it does. And the more you and I are reminded of our own deficiencies and inadequacies and sin and failure, the more God is teaching us to put no confidence in the flesh. Flesh. And so you're accused as a husband or a wife by your spouse. You're a pretty miserable, wretched example of a wife or husband You say, what do you say, you know? Oh no, come on. Not that bad. I mean, who do you think you are? And I've tried and I've done this and I've done. And immediately what comes in is there's that defensiveness that rises to say, but I've tried Oh, I busted myself trying to do well. How can you accuse me and how can you make me feel rotten? Or accusation of parents to kids And kids to parents, friends, employers, whatever it is, those things which devastate your self-image, and you say, Oh, but I've tried. And we immediately try to justify ourselves. You catch the significance of that phrase? To justify yourself? God's been showing me again and again that even in those times when my self image is devastated. By a sense of my own inadequacy and failure, what's God doing? He's saying, Alan, I keep trying to show you, put no confidence in the flesh. Verse 3 says that those who are free are those who glory in Jesus Christ and who put no confidence in him. You know something? You can't do those two things. Either you glory in Jesus or you put confidence in the flesh. You can't do both And if you're putting confidence in the flesh this morning in what you do, you will not glory in Jesus. Because you're trying to establish your own record. You're trying to build your own image. But if you put no confidence in the flesh, if when you're reminded of how short you've fallen and how miserable and wretched you really are, and you say to yourself, Yeah I need to hear that. It hurts. But it's teaching me again to put no confidence in the flesh, and I can glory in Jesus and what he has told me. And now, Lord, what do you want me to learn from this criticism? What do you want me to learn? Because I'm freed from having to maintain my record. I glory in Jesus, and I put no confidence in the flesh. That's a content person. That's the foundation of contentment in Christ, so that you can be content in any and every situation. Because your heart is at rest from guilt and your conscience is clear. But then he also talks about that second dimension, and that dimension very briefly is the righteousness of Christ in you. I'm content, by the way, just so you had the blanks on the first part there, it wasn't real clear, it Christ's objective righteousness received by faith alone is sufficient. Christ's objective righteousness received Look at your own life, be clear about where you stand. Do you have this securely? Do you oscillate back and forth? Or are you clueless about what I'm talking about? It all depends on how much you're putting confidence in the flesh and how much you're glorying in Christ and his record on your behalf. Whether you have the security or whether you oscillate back and forth or whether perhaps you need for the first time in your life to come to understand that you can never come to please God On your own record, but need to trust the record of Jesus Christ for you and give your life to him by faith But then very briefly, this is sufficient also in me, not only for me, objectively, God's declaration in which I rest, but it's also in me. And here the problem is that I lack confidence that God is even at work in me. You see, I'm re I realize that God has said that whoever He declares righteous, He is also going to make righteous in their experience. He's going to make them to appear more like Jesus. And I'm so woefully short of that. And so I still feel a failure. And when I'm criticized, I still become defensive. Because even though he has that record, I still feel like I ought to be further along. I ought to be more mature. I ought to have conquered that sin in my life. Here is again where we need to have our contentment based on the promise of Scripture. And that promise here is seen in chapter 2. You see on the back of your bulletin. Chapter 2. His promise in chapter 2, verse 12 and 13, that he is in fact at work in you. Therefore, my dear friends, Paul says, as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, continue to work out your salvation. With fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you to will and to act according to his good purpose. Do you catch that Work out your salvation, work out that righteousness because God is at work in you. Now you see we can take that two ways. Work out your salvation, because God's at work in you. Or work out that salvation that God has placed in you in Jesus Because God is at work in you. With the emphasis on the confidence that God is at work in you. If you've come to trust Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord in that righteousness which is for you. Is there and you're resting in it, then he is at work in you. And not only that, but look what he says back in chapter one, verse six. In chapter one and verse six, Paul says That he is going to complete that work. Being confident of this, that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. He will complete the good work that he began in you, working out Christ-likeness and that way that Jesus is. Do you believe, brother and sister in Jesus Christ, that one day you will be every bit as righteous as God Kind, as loving as Jesus Himself. You believe that? Say, no, no, no, no, I'll never get to that. No, you will. Chapter 1, verse 6 says, God's going to complete in the day of Christ the work he's begun in you. And now you may feel like you're off to a kind of slow start. But I'll tell you, I guarantee you that the Bible says that every one of us are going to reach that point at exactly the same moment. In fact, those who are alive aren't even going to precede those who are dead, Thessalonians may. For we'll all all be changed in a moment. In the twinkling of an eye, you will become as righteous, as loving, as pleasing to God, as kind as Jesus Christ Himself. Amen. Believe it. What a hope. Do you know what that hope does to you? It's like a boy Who's throwing hoops in the backyard? And the kid is throwing and he's trying to practice and he's trying to get down his shots a little better. And all of a sudden, an angel appears to him And the angel says, My son, one day you will play in the NBA playoffs as the star player. The kid understands this is an angel. This is truth. This is not any figment of his imagination. He has had a vision. He is going to be the star player one day in the NBA playoffs. Now, what does that do to his practicing? Does he say, hey, forget practicing? I'm going to be a star. I don't have to worry about it. No. He'll continue to practice. In fact, I dare say he'll practice all the more diligently. But what's the change now? The change is that when he messes up, he doesn't say, forget it, I'll never be any good. It's not worth it. I might as well quit. But he says, one day I will be all that I ever hoped and beyond that I could be. And so I can go back. So what? So I messed up today. Tomorrow will be better So what? So I wasn't able to achieve what I wanted today. I know that in the end I will win. I know that in the end I will succeed. And you and I, by the grace of Jesus Christ, know that one day his purpose in us will be accomplished. And his righteousness, which is sufficient for us, that can give us contentment. will be a righteousness that will work out in us. So that as you've heard me say in the past, the Christian life, you see it there written down. The Christian life then is nothing more or less than working out in my experience that which is already true of me in Christ. Brother and sister, the contented heart is the one that realizes that. And then says, this week, Holy Spirit, let me see your power. So if you failed and you're so conscious this morning of your failure, what do you need to do? Work harder at obedience this next week? Or trust Christ more fully? I suggest that working harder at obedience is only going to give you more failure. Trusting Christ fully is going to free you to become more like him, as God is at working That we might understand that record of Jesus Christ, which is sufficient for us and is the basis of our contentment. And we might be Christians who can shout with joy because we're afraid people. We can laugh. We can sing. We are not under bondage. Because we have been forgiven of an eternal death sentence. And we have been accepted by the Father as those who have the very record of Jesus to please. And you're at work in us. We can trust that that work will continue as we look to you more fully by faith this week to see you at work in us. Hear us then, Lord, and do that working in Jesus' name. Amen.