Well, we continue now in our series on the secret of contentment from Philippians chapter 4, verses 11 to 13. Let's once again Hear God's word from this portion of Scripture. Beginning with verse 10. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry. Whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. Well, I hope that you are beginning to learn something about the secret of contentment by now. Because after this week we have only two more messages in this series. And so then after that we'll be moving on. So if you haven't learned it by now, too bad. That's it. We go on to something else. You must master contentment in the next two weeks or you are doomed. Now that's not really true. Praise God. It's not quite like that. It really is an ongoing life process, isn't it, to learn contentment. And yet I hope that as we are going through these last few weeks, that you are seeking to apply the things that we talk about, because it's only as you apply them that you will experience them. And so I hope that by the end of this series, just three weeks from now, well, a couple messages from now. that you will in fact be able to say that you've made some strides in your own life in understanding God's secret for contentment. And that that's more a part of your own experience and testimony in your walk with Jesus Christ. We've seen that contentment is something that is learned By choices, I have learned to be content, Paul says. I've learned the secret. It's not immediate or automatic. We've seen that it is something that's not dependent on circumstances. It's something which is ultimately independent of circumstances. Paul says, whatever the circumstances, where he says, in any and every situation. And then we've seen the third part we're looking at now that it is a secret which is found in Jesus Christ alone. Not in our situation, but in Jesus Christ In at least seven ways that we're looking at in the book of Philippians, we've seen that his righteousness is sufficient for our guilt. We've seen that his peace is sufficient for our anxiety. We've seen that his humility is sufficient when our pride says that we deserve better. That his suffering is sufficient in our pain. And then that's closely related to the fifth way that we come to this morning, that his power is sufficient when you are discontent And helpless to escape from your prison. Jesus' power is sufficient. Sufficient when we are utterly helpless. Do you feel helpless this morning? Do you feel pain that you feel powerless to escape from? Perhaps the pain of a broken relationship, pain of shattered dreams With pain from threat to your security? Something that you feel helpless, powerless, so weak You really can't do anything about it. You're unable to fix it. You're unable to deliver yourself. I invite you this morning to look to Jesus. To look to Jesus to deliver you, because his power is sufficient. The power of our Jesus is sufficient, whatever your need this morning. And I want for us to consider his power for a few minutes. Now, if you've been following along, you can probably fill in those blanks yourself by now. The first one is his power of what? Oh, come on, a little better than that. His power for me. That would be the first. His objective power in which he accomplished my deliverance for me. And then the second point will be his power in me, that power in my life. That's all you got this morning. See, the rest of you are all filled in, so you don't have to fill anything else out. Let's consider then Jesus' power for us. First of all, there's two realms. Notice the realm of the cross and the empty tomb. Jesus' power displayed for us in terms of the cross and the empty tomb. This refers to his power in the past to rescue us from death and his power in the future to rescue us from sin and the broken world in which we live. Consider his power in the past as we looked at Philippians chapter 2. Do you remember? When we looked at verses 5 to 8, we saw how Jesus was humbled and suffered for us. Verse 6, Jesus being in the very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing. Taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. This is referring to his humiliation and his suffering for you and for me, by which Jesus was cursed. For your sin and mine, standing in our place under the wrath of a holy God. But then Paul goes on in verse 9 saying, once he had accomplished this, And the curse had been born, and the payment had been made for our sin. He goes on then in verse 9 to say, Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Notice the superlatives in those verses. His name is, excuse me, his place is the highest place. There's no higher place than that which Jesus Christ occupies at this moment. His name which is above every name. There is no name, no power which is greater. Than Jesus' power. Every knee is going to bow before him. Even that professor or teacher that you had that mocked Christianity and scoffed the truth of Scripture. Every tongue is going to confess that he's Lord. Even that person who right now intimidates you in their mocking of your faith. Even Ted Turner and all of the members of the American Humanist Association one day are going to confess. Jesus Christ is Lord. You are Lord. He will get the glory out of that confession wrenched from their rebellious throats. Every tongue is going to confess that he is Lord. Now, what power is that that so exalted our Jesus? Paul says it's the power of the resurrection. It's that power that Paul himself wanted to understand, to appropriate, to appreciate in his own experience. Remember how he said it in chapter 3, verse 10? I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, even in his attitude. in death. I want to know him, and that means I want to know the power of his resurrection. That power which he says in Ephesians 1. 19 is for us who believe. The power that raised Jesus from the dead and seated him in the highest place, as Paul says, is the same power that is at work in us. That power was for us to deliver us from spiritual death. To bring us out of bondage of our sin and condemnation. And that power is also seen still as we look to the future. For Paul goes on in chapter 3 to speak of that power when he says in verse 20, our citizenship is in heaven. Because Jesus has raised up. He has been the first fruits of a whole new humanity whose citizenship is in a different kingdom, and that kingdom is a heavenly kingdom. And he says we eagerly wait a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, what's he going to do? He will transform our lowly bodies so that we will be like his glorious body. Do you believe that this morning? I mean, really? Do you believe that this home is just a temporary home? And that your real home is in heaven, where Jesus, by his great power for you, is going to translate you from a weak, vacillating Unfaithful Christian to one whose body and character will be like the very Lord Jesus Himself. Do you believe that? Amen. I hope so. What a hope. The power of the resurrection. We see it at work in the empty tomb, in what Jesus did two thousand years ago. We look forward to it in what he will do, as Paul says. who when he comes from there, we eagerly await him. But what about the present? That's the rub, isn't it? That's the second part, you see. Deliverance today. We can as Christians, amen, the resurrection. We can amen the fact that Jesus is coming again to transform us. But do we believe that that same resurrection power is at work on our behalf right now? That, whatever your situation, Jesus is able to deliver you with resurrection power in that situation. That He's able to do whatever it takes. To take you out of the bondage that you feel this morning. Do you believe that? Really? I think I heard an amen. Wasn't asking for it then. Or is it that you and I believe only in the God of the likely? You know, if I can imagine it occurring, I could believe God do it. But if I can't imagine it, if the power seems too great for me to imagine how he would be able to pull it off Then my faith is shattered, and I'm hopeless. The God of the likely, rather than the God of resurrection power. Paul believed in the God who was able to deliver him in his daily situations. Look what he says back in chapter 1, writing from a Roman prison. Paul says in chapter 1 and the end of verse 18, he says, Yes, I will continue to rejoice, for I know that through your prayers and the help given by the Spirit of Jesus Christ, what has happened to me will turn out for my deliverance. He's talking here about an objective deliverance from prison. In fact, he says, I eagerly expect and hope that I will be in no way ashamed. But will have sufficient courage so that now, as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. And then he goes on to say, I don't really care whether it's life or death, but I do believe that God is going to rescue me from this place. Paul believed that resurrection power was able to release him from a Roman prison or do whatever Jesus had in mind for him. In order to make him fruitful, joyful, and content in Jesus Christ. This kind of extraordinary power is generally known only by those who suffer in extraordinary ways for the name of Jesus. Take, for instance, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego back in the book of Daniel. Do you remember those three talented executives? who were raised to positions of power along with Daniel back in the Babylonian political powers because of their great skill that God had blessed. But beyond their skill and expertise, they were men of principle. They refused to compromise what Scripture said was the way that they should live, no matter what the culture pressured them to do. So that even on one occasion when the king, Nebuchadnezzar, said, Everyone has to bow before this golden idol, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood against the whole culture. And they said, we will not bow to this culture. We will not bow to that idol. And do you remember how Nebuchadnezzar put the pressure on them? And publicly, with all the pressure of their future, even their very lives at stake, Nebuchadnezzar said, you either bow or you die And he finished his threatening speech with these words. He said, If you do not worship it, you will be thrown immediately into a blazing furnace. And then what God will be able to rescue you from my hand? Very instructive how Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego chose to answer the most powerful man in the land at that time. Standing before him, they said, O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this manner. Talk about guts We don't need to defend ourselves before you in this matter, but let's make the issue perfectly clear what it is. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, The God we serve is able to save us from it. And he will rescue us from your hand, O King. But even if he does not We want you to know, O King, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold that you have set up. Say, we want you to be absolutely clear. The issue is not whether God has the power to deliver us or not. He's God. And so of course he has the power. That's not the issue. The issue is simply whether he chooses to deliver us in this situation or not. He may And if he does, you will see that he is the true God. But even if he does not, he's still God. And we will not bend our principles. Whatever we suffer for, even if it's our lives, we believe his power is a non-negotiable issue We don't need to prove it. He doesn't need to prove it to us by demonstrating it in objective deliverance in the situation that we're in right now. But we will not bow. Oh, for men and women in our culture in Columbia and Howard County and Maryland in 1990 who would take such a stand for men and for women who had come to the Fall Harvest Festival this Saturday to meet other Christians from other churches in this area And begin to form together in affinity groups those who will stand for Jesus Christ and say, we are going to target this area of need in our community. And we're going to stand for Jesus Christ in bringing the hope of the gospel to bear on that. We're going to stand whatever the cost, and we're going to see his power demonstrated. How did Nebuchadnezzar fare in that power encounter of Daniel III? Do you remember that as a result of what they said, Daniel goes on to tell us that the king's command was so urgent and the furnace was so hot that the flames of the fire killed the soldiers who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And these three men, firmly tied, fell into the blazing furnace. Then King Nebuchadnezzar leaped to his feet in amazement And he asked the advisors, weren't there three men that we tied up and threw into the fire? And they replied, Certainly, O king. And he said, Look. I see four men walking around in the fire, unbound and unharmed, and the fourth looks like a son of the gods. The pre-incarnate Jesus, in his power, delivering Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego from the flames. A power so great that when they were brought out, there was not even the smell of smoke upon them. The power of Jesus for them. Is he still able to deliver today? For those that suffer for his name and stand with Jesus, the testimony of his saints is again and again, of course he is. And read church history. Read contemporary history. I told you last week that on the average it has been reported that every year of this century 300,000 Christians have been martyred for their faith. Many of the Christians who suffer find extraordinary deliverance. Take, for example, the situation of Darlene Daibler-Rose. Darlene Diebler was a missionary in the South Pacific in early World War II. At that time, her husband with her was taken prisoner by the Japanese Imperial Army. Darlene was left with a few other women in the jungle, absolutely defenseless to fend for themselves. There was very little food. They lived in a rude hut that they tried to defend themselves in. They had a fight for their food even from the rats that came to take it. And we're not talking about Columbia rats. We're talking about rats, some of them weighing up to 30 pounds, that they had to fight daily to salvage their food. Bandits would come and raid the hut. On one occasion, one dark evening, Darlene heard someone in the house, and she walked out into the hall and saw there a man standing with a machete. In a rush of adrenaline, she charged the man and chased him out of the house bare handed. Out of the house and all the way to the edge of the clearing of the jungle before she finally stopped and thought That was a stupid thing to do. And by that time he'd fled into the jungle. And then she says, the word of the Lord came to my mind from Psalm 34, 7, the angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear them to deliver them. Night after night after that they heard the bandits in the jungle around about the house, but the house was never assaulted or entered again. Years later, after Darlene escaped from her ordeal and had come to the States and then went back. To that same island. She found one of her house servants And she had known all along that when that person had gotten in there, that someone on the inside had to have let him in. And so when she went out, because there was no indication of any break-in, she found that man and she said, Noma, were you the one who let the bandits in that night? And he said, yes, Mrs. Rose, I was. But we were desperate and starving too. And we had to do everything that we could to survive. And then she said, but why didn't you ever attack again? You knew that we were defenseless. You knew that we had no way to protect ourselves. Why are you always outside and never coming in? And he said, but Mrs. Rose, how could we come in when the whole house was surrounded by men in white every night? And then she thought with a gasp, How great is our God. The angel of the Lord encamps round about his chosen ones to deliver them. Where you take a look at what God is doing, even in our own world. Are you aware that just in The last month, the Soviet Union has passed an unprecedented law guaranteeing freedom of religion, not only to believe. But to propagate the faith of Jesus Christ. That the most important cathedral or the most important What do you call them? I have the article right here. What is it? They're um uh yeah, the Kremlin's Usvensky Cathedral The most important one in the country held just in the last few weeks, its first full worship service since 1918. Believers given full freedom to practice, to worship, and to evangelize for Jesus Christ. Do you know it is said that in the Soviet Union today there is more religious freedom than there is in the United States? Do you know that in this very next week, beginning tomorrow, 1,000 leaders are going to congregate in a state-owned facility in Moscow for an evangelism conference held by the Leighton Ford Ministries to be trained to evangelize the Soviet Union at state invitation? Can you imagine the United States doing that? In some public facility in Washington, D. C. to host it? Our God is a God of power, brothers and sisters. The Christians who saw that said afterwards, we have suffered long for this law. Their hearts had known great pain in entering into the suffering of Jesus, but he showed his power on their behalf. I'm not going to tell you about the situation with Cephas and Pangi this morning. I'll save that for another time. One's enough. But there are times when Jesus doesn't deliver us from the situation of affliction, are there? Times when we are able to know his power in us, and that's the second point. His power when we're not delivered to endure in hope. As Paul says in chapter 3, verse 10, I want to know Christ, and I want to know the power of his resurrection, and he connects that, the fellowship of his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. Paul says that may even involve my being poured out like a drink offering in suffering, as he says in chapter 2. Excuse me, yeah, in chapter two, in verse seventeen. If you remember he said there, even if I'm being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and I rejoice with you. And so you too should be glad and rejoice with me. For this is the Paul who has said, I've learned to be content whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need. I know what it is to have plenty. That's rather small matter because I have learned the secret of contentment in any and every situation. Whether I'm well fed, provided for by Jesus, or whether I'm hungry, and know the internal provision of contentment by Jesus. Whether living in plenty or in what, I can do everything through him who gives me what? Strength. There it is again. His power. The power of the resurrection. I can do it all. Internally. I can be at peace. I can say that's okay, my Lord. I can take that. Because his peace, his grace is sufficient. Darlene Deibler suffered terribly for the name of Jesus Christ. For it wasn't long after that incident that I described to you that she was, in fact, taken prisoner herself with those other women by the Japanese Imperial Army. Why did God protect them from bandits by angels and allow the army to take them? He has his purpose. But in that prison camp they suffered terribly. The food that they ate was full of worms, pinworms, groundworms, hookworms. So that at night worms would crawl out their noses and out their mouths. One woman almost choked to death on a worm coming up her throat. The beatings were relentless, intolerable. She describes on one occasion the beatings that she endured and the interrogation. She says, on and on they went, infinitely, with enormous repetition. I prayed constantly that the Lord would help me to answer carefully and briefly. They tried to brainwash me into thinking that I had been used by the Americans to spy for them, and that the Americans had betrayed me to the Japanese. They would be lenient if I confessed, they said, but I knew that in wartime spies were beheaded. It was a psychological pummeling that left me bloodied but unbound. I gritted my teeth and I vowed, God helping me, that they would never break me. This experience was to be repeated every few days for the next month and a half. I never knew when to expect them to call me to the hearing room again. I never shed a tear before them during the hearings. But when the guard had returned to me to my cell and the sound of his footsteps had vanished, when I was certain that no one could hear me, Then I wept buckets of tears. In desperation I poured out my heart to the Lord. Oh Lord, I just can't go through another one. I can't, Lord. I just can't. Please, no more, Lord. When there were no more tears to cry. I would hear him whisper, but my child, my grace is sufficient for thee. Not was, not shall be But it is sufficient. Oh, the eternal, ever-present, undiminished supply of God's glorious grace. Just two weeks before I was brought to this prison, the Lord had laid on my heart to memorize a poem by Annie Johnson Flynn. And now I knew why. After drying the tears from my face and mopping the tears from the floor with my skirt, I would sit up and I would sing to him: He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater. He sendeth more strength when the labors increase. To added affliction he addeth his mercy. To multiplied trials, his multiplied peace. When we have exhausted our store of endurance, and our strength has failed ere the day is half done, when we reach the end of our hoarded resources. The Father's full giving is only begun. His love has no limit. His grace has no measure. His power has no boundary known unto men. For out of his infinite riches in Jesus, he giveth and giveth and giveth again. And strength came. And I knew that I could go through another interrogation and another and another. I was physically weak and desperately frightened. But God gave me the courage to deport myself like a good soldier for my Lord before those cruel men. Later God even gave To her the boldness to witness to the commander-in-chief, a Mr. Yamaji. She stood before him one day and told him why she could not hate him. Because of the grace and the forgiveness of Jesus Christ in her own life. And she told him that she longed that he too would come to know that forgiveness. And know the Savior who enabled her to endure all of this. What did he respond? She said that he fled with tears running down his cheeks out of the room. And she heard him weeping in the next room. There's good evidence that by the time she was released from that prison camp, in itself a miracle of deliverance, that Mr. Yamaji had given his life to Jesus Christ Was it worth it? That's up to Jesus. But the question is for you and for me this morning. Or simply, are you and I willing to say, Lord, take my agenda. Take my demands. I refuse to take this anymore. I'm a reasonable person, but enough is enough. I have my rights too, you know. Are you willing to give those rights to Jesus? Are you willing to say, Lord, smash my idols? Recently I was praying with someone. As we prayed together, he cried out with great passion, Lord, smash my idols. And I thought as I prayed with him, would I really be willing to say that with the intensity and the sincerity that my brother just prayed that? In order that I might know the power of Jesus Christ that comes to those who give to him open hands and unclutched agendas. Because I'm willing to suffer for his sake. I'm willing for him to glorify himself in my life, that he might show his power in any way he chooses to humble my pride. Realize that the glory of diamonds is most brilliantly displayed, not against a light and glorious background. But black velvet. And if Jesus chooses to display his grace in your life, Against the background of black velvet of suffering, are you willing that He might magnify Himself through you? That you might know his power, which is known and revealed at the cross, saying, Lord, whatever it is that you do that enables me to see the cross and to know Jesus better. To know his power, whether it's for me, to deliver me from this, or his power in me to give me grace, I trust myself to you. Are you willing to believe that the hands that shape the flaming spears and set them spinning vast like years away from planet Earth? Have laid aside the robes of state, donned human likeness by the great and dignity of birth. The hands Responsive to love's plan that formed the God reflector man of dust and destiny Outstretched by man's fierce hate impaled, wrought life anew, Love's plan unveiled upon Golgotha's tree. The hands that found it nothing strange to pucker up a mountain range or ladle out a sea. That balance nature's system still, and shape all history to his will, hold and are molding me. Let's pray. Lord, we bring to you our need, our bondage, those things that imprison us now. And we ask that you, Lord Jesus, might show your power on our behalf. In whatever way you choose that we might know the power of the cross and the empty tomb displayed in us and for us. Hear us as we give to you now our lives, our agendas, and our pride. In Jesus' name.