Encouraged by uh what the Lord's been doing in our midst in the last couple of messages that we've been looking at in Ephesians chapter two on racial reconciliation. I'll remind you again that we've been looking at the second half of Ephesians chapter 2 in our series on Sit, Walk, and Stand, Three Postures of a Disciple, as recorded in the book of Ephesians. We've seen that in chapter 2 First ten verses, Paul deals with the problem of our alienation with God and how Jesus reconciled us to God And then from verses eleven to twenty-two he deals with our alienation with one another and how Jesus reconciled us to one another. Three portraits, John Stott points out in this chapter. First of all, a portrait of an alienated humanity, speaking of how we are alienated from God and from one another. And then how, secondly, Jesus is the peacemaking Messiah. who has restored us not only to God but to one another. For he himself, verse 14, is our peace, who has made the two, one, Jew and Gentile, he's speaking of particularly here. uh that uh archetype of uh enemies back in that time. Uh the Old Testament people of God and the Gentile nations, absolute enemies, Jesus made us to become one. He says he has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and its regulations. His purpose was to create in himself One new man, one new humanity, one new society, one new race out of the two, thus making peace. And we've seen how this is then portrayed. In verses 19 to 23 in the portrait of God's new society, his new humanity, the three images that he gives there. citizens of a new kingdom, members of a new family, and stones of a new temple that God has placed and brought us together to be. Remind you again that this is in Paul's session of Ephesians chapter 1 to 3, which is the indicative section. That is, it is simply the statements of fact Review our grammar again. Indicative is simply a statement of fact. This is an indicative section. He's not telling you to do something. He's simply telling you what Jesus has done. Verse 14, who has made the two one. This is what Jesus has done. The imperative section, verse chapters four to six, follows from this. And in that section, based on The information that we've been looking at here in chapter 4, verse 3, we see the imperative, the command, based on the indicative. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Don't miss that connection. It's very vital to you to see that what I am doing is not calling us To work toward a unity of cultures and races in Howard County and the surrounding area. Rather, I am calling us to work out a unity that already exists in Jesus Christ. Amen? You see that? And it's absolutely vital. We are not working towards something to bring it to pass. We are working by faith out something that already exists. So in chapter 4, when he says in verse 3, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace, he's simply saying, appropriate by faith that which is already yours in Christ, the unity that he has accomplished. even between Jew and Gentile, but also among any other of the nations. And let me remind you, in case you hadn't caught that, uh in verse eleven Where he says this is addressed to the Gentiles. You who are Gentiles, the Greek word there is nations, ethne. This is not only speaking about the reconciliation of Jew and Gentile, but it is speaking of the reconciliation of the nations that are being brought into a new humanity, a one single entity Joint citizens, joint members of a body and a family, joint stones within the new temple of God's presence that Jesus is accomplishing. And we've talked about how we have a long way to go in this. We've talked about how we're still fairly segregated, and not only that, people do like to worship in particular styles. You can't do everybody's style altogether all the time. Uh but there should be more contact, more fellowship, more of a sense of unity, however God in his spirit chooses in the months and years to come to work that out. We'll see. But At least we should recognize that there's been a great deal of progress, even as we sit here this morning to consider this. I preached this to you and I didn't know what God would do with it and he's done a lot more than I thought he might do. But the fact is that thirty years ago, if I was preaching in a congregation like this, particularly in the South, uh this would have been the kind of message to split the church. In fact, it was just about thirty years ago that a white pastor in a prominent uh congregation, evangelical congregation in a southern town uh did the radical thing of in his concern for the community, um didn't preach on this, but simply began to meet for Bible study and prayer with a janitor of that congregation that happened to be an African American. And they began to meet weekly for Bible study and prayer. And the elders of the church came and told the pastor that he should stop that. They said it was not good for the image of the church and they'd appreciate it if he would stop this practice. The pastor out of conviction thought that this was wrong, and so he refused to stop it and he continued to meet and pray and study with this. fellow that was a Christian like him who loved the Lord. And he found that gradually people stopped doing business with him. In fact it got to the point where he couldn't go into a store and buy clothes. In fact after a while he couldn't buy gas. They wouldn't sell him gas. In fact, after a while they wouldn't even sell him groceries for his family. Got so bad he finally had a nervous breakdown. They hauled him off to a mental institution. The second day at the mental institution he threw himself out of a window and killed himself. Now, you know, we hear of that kind of thing and we say, gee, that that is so far removed. And yet that's just a generation ago. And racism still exists in deep, maybe more subtle ways in some of the high schools and some of the places that we see, not so very subtle. Very open, out in the open. And yet it's the kind of thing that we recognize God has done a great deal in bringing us together, different cultures within his body, but still there's a long way to go. Even as we sit here. Christians in Rwanda, many are suffering because they refuse to identify more closely with their tribal loyalties than with the Church of Jesus Christ. And that's a radical step there, for which many are suffering. Now, in our situation, I was very encouraged, I was uh deeply encouraged by the response of the last couple of weeks. Um, 20 people So far, have volunteered to be involved in making more contacts, doing whatever we can do to give more of an expression of the unity of the body of Ephesians 2, 14 and 15. uh within the Howard County area. We now have eight different projects that we are thinking about. Some are just resources to pursue at some point. Some are more immediate. In fact, uh Laura Dexter is uh heading up a team to put together a musical evening of worship with Long Reach Church of God this coming fall. And uh I've talked to Bob Davis about that this week. We're not springing it on him. He knows we've talked about this for some time and Bob and I agreed he's excited about it too. We have the contact on their end. And so you'll be hearing more about that. Be some evening this coming probably September, October, early November We're also talking about certain things to do among the men's fellowship, among the youth, various ministries we can pursue together, talked last week to Also uh Dave Anderson, who is um African American pastor of Bridgeway Community Church, and uh he's excited about our making some contacts and doing some things together. So God is working in this, and we're beginning to see some initial steps. But in the last message on this, I want to remind us that we cannot be naive about this. We cannot think, oh, this is really neat if we sing together for an evening or we just simply acknowledge one another's uh existence and you know a little be more friendly in some ways, that this is what Jesus is talking about in Ephesians chapter 2. It's going to in fact involve uh the kind of fellowship that is going to force us to deal with some things we probably in either case, on either side of the issues, whether you're Latin, Asian, black, white, whatever it is Things that we will not want to look at. And I want for us therefore to take what I'm going to say this morning, this one last overview from Ephesians 2, kind of tuck it away, file it To pull it out in that one dark moment when you're thinking this thing's hopeless, when you're thinking, I'm not sure it's really worth it. To be able to look at this again and to see that in fact not only is it worth it, but as you see there at the top, the unity of all believers is a fact that transcends every human barrier. for eight reasons, which I call the eightfold foundation of Christian unity. Some of these thoughts came from Martin Lloyd Jones. I will acknowledge that freely that he had a number of great insights in this from which I borrowed freely. The Eightfold Unity, Foundation of Christian Unity. I forget if he had eight or more or less, but that's what I'm calling it. First of it We all are equally sinners. These things transcend everything that divides us. When we are with Christians of other races and cultures, and they are truly believers in the Lord Jesus, the first thing we recognize is that we have all confessed that we are equally sinners. Chapter 2 began as for you you were dead in your transgressions and your sins in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world, and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature, and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. Verse 12. Remember that in the time past you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope and without God in the world. This is true of every one of us. And we can look and say that well there's there's a lot of difference, but that difference is like looking at a 150-watt light bulb that looks down on a 15-watt light bulb and says, I'm a lot brighter than you are. And a hundred and fifty-watt bulb in a dark room would certainly appear to be much brighter. But you'd put the two of them before the sun and you couldn't tell the difference. And that's the way it is with our hearts. We may look at other believers, we may look at other uh people and see that our lives seem to be more together, that we have uh more morality, or there's more about us that seems to be good than someone else. But That kind of self-righteousness is simply the 150 watt light bulb. At best, we may not even be that. We may just be deluding ourselves. But even if it were true The comparisons between us and other people in their sin, the washed and the unwashed. Those of us who are able to function and others in society whose lives are so broken they're not able to function Is such a minuscule difference in comparison to the standard of God and the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ that we confess before Him we are all equally sinners. Secondly, we all are equally helpless. We're all equally helpless, and we confess this together. Whatever else may be different about us, we confess that we're all equally helpless. We're all dead in our transgressions and sins. We were all without hope, verse 13. And again, we see in terms of a human comparison, I don't know if you're aware of it, you know, Corvette has just come out with a new model, just in the last month or two. I mean, they want to blow everything else off the road. They're tired of these foreign, you know, Ferraris and Lamborghinis. They put out a Corvette now. This thing is six hundred and three horsepower goes from zero to sixty in three point six seconds, top speed of two hundred and twelve miles an hour. This is a street car. I mean this could drive on the road to Columbia, pull up the one of these next to the light and say, Ha ha, I think you got something there, huh? I mean you talk about being blown off the road. Now you take that guy in that Corvette and all that power and he pulls up next to a Geo Metro, three cylinders, doesn't even have four cylinders Sounds like a sewing machine going next to you, you know. And they always try to pass you on the road. I don't know why. People with GeoMetros have a some sort of complex and I gotta show you in three cylinders, but boy it you know it'll make sixty or something like that. Well, between those two, you can look and say, Mow, there's power. But you put those two cars before a sheer cliff. And say, okay, Corvette, do your thing. All it's going to do is run into the cliff. You got a pile of fiberglass and metal that's a very expensive hunk of junk. Because the four cliffs each are equally helpless. And do you see that no matter how much you may think that you have ability in your life, or I think that I'm able to function When we look at God's standard of righteousness and what it means to please Him, what it means to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, strength, and mind, to love our neighbor as ourselves, we are equally helpless with everyone else. None of us have some sort of a a one-up, you know, that I've got more power in this area. So we confess together, whatever else might divide us. We are equally helpless to please God and to keep his commands in our own power. Thirdly We've all come, therefore, to the same Savior. We've all come to the same Savior. Chapter 2, verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ. Verse 16. In his one body he has reconciled, both of them through the cross. By which he put to death their hostility. Verse 18: Through him, Jesus, we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. First Timothy 1:5 says there is one mediator between God and man. One alone, it's Jesus Christ. I have more of a bond with an African-American who loves and trusts Jesus than I do with members of my own family. When you e we used to be as a congregation in Oakland Mills Interface Center, I remember one of the more difficult things about being there was when another clergyperson of a congregation that did not look to Jesus as the one sufficient. and necessary reconciling agent for our sin, maybe a Jewish congregation or other kinds of congregation, and say, let's have a joint worship service. Especially do this around the holiday time, you know. That'd be great. You know, it's demonstrate the unity to Columbia. Let's show our unity. We were never able to do that. I'd always have to try to explain that we're not talking about the same God that we're coming to worship. that unless it's a God who is the one mediator between God and man, who is the man Christ Jesus, then we can't really share together that life. You see what Jesus has done in bringing together unity in the nations and cultures and races is to do something that's transcendent. He does it because he's brought us together at the cross. And if he's brought us together at the cross, then everything else is secondary. Interesting, think of this. The next time you sing the hymn, Crown Him with many crowns. That hymn was written the first few stanzas of it by a Catholic layman who loved Jesus. Later on, an Anglican clergyman took those stanzas and they inspired him, and he wrote some of the other stanzas that we sing that are now joined together in that one hymn. And there is a picture there of two people who had many differences, but shared together in a common faith and love to Jesus Christ that in heaven we will together crown him with many crowns. And that's what we celebrate when we are together in whatever format that it is with Christians who are different from us in culture, race, or other ways. We share together a trust in the same Savior. Fourthly, we have the same status before Him. We share the same status. He's made us one new humanity. There is no inferior, superior before Jesus Christ. Therefore, there's no competition. Justification levels us all so that we all come on the same basis of the blood of Jesus Christ. Whether, as we talked about in weeks past, your life would be as evil as Jeffrey Dahmer's if Jeffrey Dahmer in fact trusted Christ before he died. You and I come before God on the same basis, the same status, and that's a very freeing thing. Fifthly, we all have the same father. We all have the same father. Verse 18: Through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners or aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household. We all have God as Father. We are literally spiritually, no contrast between those two. Something could be literally spiritually true. We are literally spiritually brothers and sisters in Christ. Families fight, no question about that. Because you are in one family doesn't mean you're going to fight. Our daughters fought. In fact, our daughters fought sometimes so loud. I remember one day they were fighting and yelling, screaming at each other and you know, you'd think they were never gonna talk to each other again. I was standing out in the front in fact I was at the curb at the street. I expected a body to come flying out the window. Just at that moment their Sunday school teacher pulls up, Ruth Olson. Drives up and gracious Ruth, you know, what noise? Hoop me? I don't no, I don't hear anything. I'm expecting, you know, here comes one of 'em gonna come right on out and land on her car or something like this So what happens? Heather gets married, moves to Pittsburgh. Just recently she buys an 800 number so Julie can call her without having to spend money because Julie doesn't have as much as Heather. Julie has a free weekend this weekend. Where does she go? Where does she choose to spend it? She's up in Pittsburgh with Heather. Best of friends. Because generally there is a bond within a family that you may fight and you may scrap But there's going to be that which holds you together and brings you back because you share a life together that is unique. And that's the way it is among believers. Amen. Sixthly, we all have the same Spirit. Chapter 2, verse 18, again, you notice through him we have access to the Father by one Spirit. He is the same person dwelling in you and in me, whatever our backgrounds, whatever our race, whatever our culture, there is not one spirit For African Americans who shout and say amen and stomp and urge the preacher on. Listen, I'll tell you I once taught in an inner city uh class And most of them were in fact all of them I think. No, I think there were one or two whites in that class, all the rest were African Americans. And it drew something out of me I've never had drawn out in any other teaching I've done And one of the things that I learned was when they would start, you know, waving and, you know, yes, and that's true, and they wouldn't it wasn't just amens. I mean they get pretty creative in some of the comebacks you get, you know And after you go along for a little while, what's happened to me is I found, you know, that really is true. Yeah. You know, and I'd start getting into it. Well there's not one s spirit for those folks and another spirit for white Presbyterians who gaze and write. Remember Carl Ellis once preached here, Carl Ellis African American Brother? And when he's preaching at Columbia Presbyterian, he says, you know how you folks say amen? He takes out his notebook, he says, you go, hmm. So that's not a different spirit. There is one spirit that we have. And God's purpose is that spirit is to use different cultures in order to in their intermixing draw out those elements of praise and worship so that we learn from each other and we amplify each other in our love for the Lord Jesus Christ. You can't do that if there's no contact Don't have to necessarily be in the same small group or in the same congregation even. That's not necessary. But there is necessary, and not that that's not desirable, but it is necessary that there is fellowship and contact and ministry together and worship. Because we have one spirit. Seventh point. We all have the same, what do you think the next one is? The same trials. We all have the same trials. I think sometimes that this is the thing that most draws Christians of different races and backgrounds together. The same struggles You see in verse 19, Paul says, You are no longer fellow foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens. We are citizens of a different kingdom, a kingdom which is in hostility to the kingdom of this world. He goes on in chapter 3, therefore, to pray for them to be strengthened in their faith, to know that Jesus is in them. You know, one of the things that you can do to demonstrate how true this is is in some difficult situations, simply read Psalm 23. And you find that Psalm 23 moves the hearts of Asians, Latins, Blacks, and Whites in an extremely similar way. We all identify with the fact that we need a shepherd. That when we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, he is with us. We all had the same enemies, the world, the flesh, the devil, and death. Because we had those same trials We find that that draws us together in unity that transcends all differences. Just as last Sunday, one of you mentioned to me that as you're on the way out that uh person with um a number of physical problems, family problems, just a many difficult things and yet uh always amazes me with with uh cheerfulness and trust in the Lord and said one day that uh this person was saying they were down. Left work. As they were going out in the parking lot, this person was white and out in the parking lot there was an older black gentleman who greeted them with um Boy, it's a beautiful day. Never had seen this person before, didn't know. Absolute stranger. Now I don't know about you. When I somebody does that to me, I always think, Are you a Christian? Yeah yeah. Somebody's really nice, you know Begin to think, well, I don't know, I suspect. And so she began to talk to this person. Sure enough, he was a fellow believer in the Lord Jesus. And she said they talked for about a half hour And after that time her heart was unusually light. He had ministered powerfully to her. Somebody that she didn't know had no apparent any kind of connection or identity, but there are two strangers in a parking lot, one white and one black, different ages, different backgrounds. ministering together and fellowshipping as they share the trials and as they share the hope that they have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Finally, the last thing is we all have the same hope. We all have the same hope Verse 13 he says, You who were far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ. Verse 22 he says, We're not just near, but we are the stones of the living temple. You are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. And so we are those living stones of the different hues and colors and textures in order to give A beauty and the diversity of the wall of the temple of God's presence. We're not only the dwelling in which he lives here, but we read in Revelation chapter 21. John says there, I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. And our hope, brothers and sisters, is that we as that temple will go to be with the Lord. And John goes on to say there later on that there is no temple there. Because the Lord and the Lamb are the temple, and we are with him. He's going to wipe away every tear from our eyes. We're going to see him as he is. just this week when I was out and praying and on Tuesdays I'll take a psalm and was reading Psalm forty five this Tuesday and Psalm forty five it just um I don't know, it was me or the day or or what the Lord was doing but Just focusing on Psalm 45, the beauty of Jesus and who he is. And that Jesus is the one who loves right. And the one who is going to conquer all evil, who's majestic, who's glorious, who's faithful, I'm secure in his love for me. And I just began to think of the perfections of Jesus. in his character and his loveliness. And as I began to think about him, I began to see that all the other things that I came, you know, my list of concerns and this and that were also secondary to simply spending a few minutes. Resting in the hope of Jesus, wanting to see him, wanting to be with him. You think of what how true that is. We share a common hope To be with Jesus and to love him. We're going to see just this week some people that will be going to Jamaica Next week the Slovenia project beginning and then Hong Kong with Lisa and realizing that God is gathering from people of every nation and every tribe and every tongue. Joined together in that one new humanity of a common life and a common hope that we share in Jesus. That transcends every possible difference. And as we go through this wherever God leads us, you can believe that if this is going to give a credibility to the gospel and a power, For the gospel in the Howard County area, Satan is going to do everything he can to discourage us, to put it on the back burner, to destroy it, to say, hey, forget this. We don't need this. Is that that time we've got to remember now, what we share together transcends every possible difference. And it delight Jesus' heart. And it honors him and glorifies him when that unity is expressed. But it begins right here. The principle, just looking at the conclusion here now, the principle is that stated in chapter 1, verse 15. It's as simple as this. Paul says, Ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. That's what characterizes believers. Faith in Jesus and love for all the saints. Not just saints that are like me, not just saints that I find it easy to identify with. But love for all the saints, that intimate relationship that is the characteristic of Christian community. There was a magazine I saw just recently that guy did some research on what uh is the most lasting happiness. And it's entitled, You Gotta Have Friends. He was saying that all the things that seem to make people happy, the one thing that seems to be the most enduring is intimate relationships. And we have the guarantee of intimate relationships. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, if you do not belong to Jesus Christ this morning, If you're not trusting Him for all the things we talked about, recognizing your sin, your helplessness, that He alone is your Savior, then you do not have the possibility of that kind of intimate relationship that is established by union in Jesus Christ. But if you have that, then he calls on you to experience the working out of that. And some of us still want to keep that privacy, that distance, my freedom. Just this week, somebody called me and uh they gave me permission to share this. Somebody called me and and they said I need to talk to you. So we talked, and the this is a person who'd been coming, their family had been coming for over a year to Columbia Presbyterian, had never really gotten involved. Always been kind of on the periphery, come occasionally, considers us their church, but not really involved at all. But a crisis is hit the family. And as that crisis hit the family, they said, you know, we realize now we wish we had been part of the body. We wish we had established the friendships. We wish we had been part of a small group so that we could be now drawing upon that and the need that we have. And so we've talked about that. Okay, put that behind, go on, get involved. But what about your life? Who are the Christians that you're involved with? So that because you share that common life in Christ, it transcends whatever difficulties, struggles, problems, and you can Count on that. You can count on them. And through them to count ultimately on the Lord in those times when you need help. Just last week I um just uh sat with someone uh who I knew was kind of hurting and I was deeply moved this week when I received a note from that person. Saying basically, I mean this was a note saying, thanks for sitting next to me. Um nobody has sat next to me on purpose for a long time. And your kindness lifted my spirit and encouraged my heart this week. Thanks for doing that. Do we think about that and the simple things we do as we gather to worship and as we separate and You know, gotta catch the kids and gotta do this and do that. That our unity in Christ may be expressed in a gesture, a hug, a squeeze of a hand, a a tone of voice, something that expresses the fact that I count Your life is important to me. We share a common life in Jesus, and what you're going through matters to me. Brothers and sisters, we need to be practicing this. It's part of what Ephesians 2 is talking about. And then we need to practice it in places, secondly, where there's walls of hostility. Where we may feel alienated, somebody in our family, somebody in the body say, Oh, there's people here that I just rather not associate with. But Jesus doesn't permit that. He's talked here about a unity he has established. He has brought us near. He has broken down the hostility. He's broken it through the cross. How can you look at the cross and see your sin and what you've done to Jesus and what he has forgiven you and then hold against your brother or sister? And that which they've done against you and refuse to forgive them. Or look at another culture or another race and say, I don't want to associate with those kind of people. It just it just Not in me. I just am not up for it. Jesus has accomplished the reconciliation. And I want to be very honest with you. You hear me saying all this and it's sort of like, you know, I'm leading the charge and I'm going away. I I would rather, in my own heart, the Columbia Presbyterians stay the way it is I do not want Columbia Presbyterian change. When I look and I think we you know we have people more diversity, more diversities, more tensions, and why don't we do it this way and why can't we do it that way and we gotta negotiate and they're gonna look point to things in my life and I'm gonna see sin that I don't want to see there and all the rest of this kind of stuff. And I'm gonna say, you know, I really wish it was like it used to be. I'm not really eager until I look at the scriptures and I see what Jesus has done, and I say, if we are obedient to him, it means that we will more honor him. There will be more credibility to the gospel before a world that is broken in its racial relationships. And we will see a power that will honor him. And then I say, Lord. It's worth it. It's worth it. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you and we We want first of all, Lord, simply to thank you for that unity that you have given to us because of Jesus. That you have reconciled us to yourself. You have forgiven our sin. You have made us your children and you have given to us your spirit. Lord, how we thank you for that. We thank you that in that you have reconciled us with one another. With all the peoples of all the nations in Jesus. There is no one who can come here from any background that belongs to Jesus. That we do not have a closer tie with than members of our own families who are outside of you. Lord, help us to experience that more fully. Help us to search our hearts to those areas of resistance. Lord, that we might repent of protecting ourselves. Wanting to only associate with people that we like, Christians that we can get along with and who are like us. We pray, Lord, for those people who are part of this group that are wanting to do things, that in the weeks and the months ahead, Lord, that you will bring about opportunities. And that will show the demonstration as we begin to explore areas of unity and areas perhaps of reconciliation Lord, we pray that we will join together eagerly in that to see what you will do. Lord, it's exciting to consider what you will do and could do through a congregation that takes you seriously. And more importantly, through a number of congregations who take you seriously, even as as uh Dave Anderson is seeking to hold together uh a joint worship and merriweather post of all the Bible-believing congregations of the Howard County area. Lord, what a thrill that would be to see what you will do in pulling us together as your people. Begin with us, Lord, we pray. Begin with me in Jesus' name. Amen