This morning, what I want to do is we're taking a break from the series on the book of Acts, and we'll return there next Sunday for one more Sunday. I'll then be taking a break For the remainder of the summer, July and August, will be something different, and then we'll come back to the Book of Acts in September. But what is it that we'll be doing in July and August, this is to serve as, if you will, a twofold reason for this morning's sermon. Given the events of this past week, and actually I would say over the last year and a half, our congregation has been through a great degree of trial and difficulty. This past week, um, at the memorial service for Ellen Bell of both who went to be with the Lord, many of us have felt a lot of pain and a lot of loss. And in talking with Pastor Flora and discuss with him, desire that I believe it would be a good thing for us to take a Sunday To begin reflecting on the nature and the reality of heaven As a Church of Jesus Christ, we talk a great degree about salvation and eternal life, but rarely do we talk about what that eternal life really is. So, this sermon will not answer all questions, but it is my desire to use this as a springboard. For in the months of July and August, we'll do a four-part series on heaven. And then in August, being the hottest month, we'll do a four-week series on hell. So I'm sure many of you, as I know in the discussions I've had with many of you, isn't it interesting that as a Church of Jesus Christ, who talks a great degree about Salvation and eternal life, there are many who are confused about what heaven really is, and for that matter, what hell really is, and what the scriptures teach. We'll get to that in due time. But this morning wanted to look specifically at this brief portion in Hebrews chapter 11. It's verses 13 through 16. And as you turn there, or as you turn on your device, or if you choose to follow along on the screens in front of you It's an interesting section of Hebrews chapter 11 because the writer of Hebrews, the preacher to these Jewish converts in Rome, is specifically talking about the forefathers and the faith. But then in verses 13 through 16, he takes a break and he looks at specifically what were they longing for. And they were longing for a better country. That was a necessary message to those believers who were at Rome who were Jewish converts. Why? Because the besetting sin. That is underneath the book of Romans is spiritual apathy, taking for granted the truths which they had believed The power of God which had been brought been flourishing flourishing in their lives to bring them to conversion. Though they had knew the promises, though they had heard the work of God through their forefathers, though they had heard the work of Jesus Christ. They had taken it for granted to a degree that they were now falling away from the Lord. They were taking the truths of God for granted. They'd become spiritually apathetic. So, as a part of dealing with that reality, that diagnosis of this group of Christians, he means to draw their attention in the middle of this chapter. To what the longing was of their forefathers, and should therefore be theirs. And if you are a Christian, you believe in eternal life. My question for you this morning is, are you longing for the King of Heaven? Are you thinking on heaven? Do you know that the scriptures which have already been read this morning actually command you to do so? Let's do that this morning. Hebrews chapter 11, verses 13 through 16. Speaking of Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, and Jacob. The Hebrew writer says, These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country. That is a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared for them a city. Will you pray with me? Our Heavenly Father, loving Father, we thank you for your word. That is the truth that instructs us, indeed commands us to think, to reflect And to long for a better country, that place that you have said through your Son Jesus Christ, our Savior. For those who believe that he has gone before us to prepare a place for us. Indeed, he told the thief next to him on the cross, Today you will be with me in paradise. So then, Lord, we ask. Not only what is this paradise, but how are we then to live in light of the heaven? Will you enable us to do that? Now by your Holy Spirit, work in our hearts, every one of us. To give us a longing for eternal life through Jesus Christ alone, and to long for a better country. Help us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Early on, after becoming a Christian when I was sixteen, I was thrust into a world that I knew nothing of. I didn't even really, had never really heard John 3. 16. And so as a part of my discipleship and growing in knowledge of Jesus Christ, it was pretty early on that I began to hear about heaven. And what I now look back on is, I think, hopefully a short-lived statement I came into contact with broad evangelical Christian faith of the 1980s. And I remember Someone teach me, I don't remember who it was, but I do remember this phrase given being given to me, and it occupied a a pretty good size part of the real estate of my mind and my heart. And it was this phrase, perhaps you're familiar with it. Speaking of someone, some Christian, they would say, yes, they are so heavenly-minded that they are no earthly good. I heard a couple of chuckles. I see some smiles. Perhaps you've heard this phrase. Perhaps you've even used it. I know I did before I really realized. What are they really saying? Because on one level, that statement seems to get something right, but on another level, and I believe the level at which it was taught to me, I believe it's completely, and let me say it, unbiblical. On one level, let me say what I think it gets right. If by that statement we mean that you are, if you are a Christian You're focusing so much on heaven as a form of escape or a form of a way of denying the great degree of trial and suffering and brokenness that is not only in each one of our lives, but in the world around us, and you're simply trying to deny it or not focus on it, or you're afraid of it, and so you're just becoming so focused on heaven. I see where that could be completely wrong. That too is unbiblical. But the way in which I received this phrase, and that is, no, don't think on heaven, just think about how you're supposed to walk with the Lord now. You know, don't don't become so focused on what's the hereafter that you're just going to miss what the Lord has for you now. I think that that's just biblically in error. And I'm thankful for the fact that as the years went on, I fell under the tutelage of C. S. Lewis, as perhaps many of you have if you were a Christian. He said this, and I believe this is biblical. And reflecting on this idea, Lewis said before this idea became popular, he said this: he says, if you read history, You will find that Christians who did most for the present world were just those who thought most of the next. The apostles themselves who set on foot the conversion of the Roman Empire, the great men who built up the Middle Ages, The English evangelicals who abolished the slave trade all left their mark on earth precisely because their minds were occupied with heaven It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this one. Aim at heaven and you will get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you will get neither. I believe the writer of Hebrews, long before Lewis, was saying just this about our forefathers in the faith: of Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, and Jacob. David and Moses, Noah. They looked for something far beyond this place And it didn't make them escapists. It didn't make them deny the suffering and difficulty that they faced every day. Rather, it became for them a beacon. Of light in the midst of darkness. But it also became a place That enable them to walk in this life with all of its joys, not trying to grasp after those joys But to long for the one who is behind all joy, the King of heaven, Jesus Christ. So let's look together at these verses, and as we do, you'll see in your outline: living by faith. They were living by faith. They were also understood their place in this time as resident aliens, but then also the third looking to the city of God. So let's look at together this living by faith. You hear it in the first part of verse 13. These all, that is Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, and Jacob These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. And so what it has before them, he he puts before them, he says, You Christians who are now converts to the Christian faith, you know That right now what you're struggling with is asking the question, can I believe, amidst all that I see, can I believe that God will be faithful to his promises? Will I see the fulfillment? Of what is being preached and what I believe. He says, Do you remember Abraham? Do you remember Isaac and Jacob? And for that matter, do you remember Noah? Do you remember David? These folks believed, and they believed in faith, not by sight, but based on entrusting themselves to the promise of God, the God who was behind his covenant promises. They believed in those promises, and yet they did not see them come to fulfillment. They dreaded, they dreaded at times what was going to happen in the next day. We hear it in the life of Abraham. He struggled with unbelief. He fell into sin. And yet God would continually, over and over again, remind him of his promises. And what were his promises? Those promises, generally speaking, there were many, but two which loomed large for Abraham was one, that he would make Abraham a father of an enormous nation. And yet he made that promise at the point at which he was not even a father yet. But then even as he received Isaac as a as a first down payment of that promise, Abraham would not survive to see how Isaac would become Jacob. Jacob would become the father of the 12 patriarchs, and then the 12 patriarchs would be the fathers of an enormous nation. Abraham would not see it. Yet he believed in the promise. And these Jewish converts, to whom the writer of Hebrews is preaching, are the recipients of that promise. They are Jewish converts to the Christian faith. Of the fulfillment of what God had promised Abraham. The other side of the other promise that was loomed so large for Abraham was that he would give them not only make them a people and he would be their God, but he would give them a homeland. He would give them a land itself into which they would dwell. And that promise would be an interesting thing for Abraham, because Abraham would be standing In what would future become the peep, the homeland of God in Canaan, and yet Abraham would not realize it as his own country. The writer of Hebrews is trying to demonstrate to his hearers, as I want to demonstrate to you. There are many wishes and desires and promises, promises specifically. For example. When many of us have prayed morning, noon, and night for the healing of our loved ones. And we base that on the command of Scripture to pray, and that God gives a promise that He will heal all their diseases. And we pray that. And do you not, Christian, let me say to you, do you not, when you have prayed that prayer for a loved one, or even for yourself, have you not been tempted to go, Lord, where is the fulfillment of the promise? As I was standing with my father, as many of you have prayed, as he was getting ready to go into open heart surgery a week and a half ago. In the very hospital into which I was born, but I had not been there for 44 years. On my birthday, I'm now standing over my father praying. For this to be a successful surgery. Using those prayers, Lord, hear my prayers, heal him of his broken heart But I know that in this life, my father will die. And there are many within our body who have passed away, who are not healed. And we and the world wants to say, you see, that's just positive thinking. All you're doing is just positive. Where is the God? Where is his healing? We can go back. We can go to this passage and say we are a part of a people. Who believe in the promises and the God who is behind those promises. And though we may not see those promises fulfilled in my living days, I know a day is coming. When that promise will be yes and amen, and I will see its fulfillment. But I do not walk by sight but by faith This is what our forefathers did. Is it any different for us? So he turns to them and he says, not only were they walking by faith, that transformed the way in which they lived life. But before I go there, I want to say, is that not the rub that we struggle so deeply with faith? You see, we believe, Abraham chose to believe. Belief is a positive action. It is entrusting into someone else what we have and who we are. But this has been the problem from the moment that human beings came into existence through Adam and Eve, who stood there in the garden with God, knowing life as it was meant to be, in perfect fellowship. With the God of all creation, having everything that they need, knowing perfect free will, the ability to choose to obey, and also the capacity to choose not to obey And yet they were given the instruction that I will give you everything you need. He gave him Eve, he was providing for them a rich feast that was in the garden. That was paradise. God was in their presence. And yet he said, but you shall not eat of this tree. So in that moment there was a choice to be made. And in that moment, they chose not to believe God. They believed the temptation and the lie from Satan himself, who said Did God really say? And the lure and the object of their eye became not the God of all creation but became a desire deep within them to be like God. And this is the nature of faith. You may not have faith in God, but that doesn't mean you don't have faith. You may not believe in the God of the Scriptures, but that doesn't mean you don't believe. Because as human beings, we can't help but act on belief. And that has been the problem and underneath all the brokenness in all of the world, and indeed the problem that is behind all sin. At that moment, in Adam and Eve, our first parent, that has been replicated in every human heart that is sitting before me this morning, including my own, we say, I don't want you as my God. I choose to believe that I want to be God. They didn't just negatively, I don't believe you. Rather, they didn't. They said, I don't believe you, I believe this. And we began to invest our hope, our trust in our own human capacities. Instead of choosing the garden of paradise with God's presence, And knowing the joy of his presence and all of the riches that come with that, we said, no, I want something of my own making. And God's response was Twofold. God would judge us in our sin, but He would promise redemption. But in judging us for our sin, God said, Is that what you want? Here you go. And humanity has been seeking from that moment to rebuild paradise. Trusting in our own capacities, paving our own roads, building our own houses, seeking after our own gold, and all the things that we seek after. Why? Because in every human heart is this inescapable desire to regain Eden. And we keep trying and trying and trying, but God keeps saying, you'll never get there. And the only way that we can ever enter back into a relationship by faith with God is to know that He is a God of grace. who has pursued us by his son on the cross, who came as the second Adam, and he walked as Adam should have walked. He believed as Adam should have believed. He walked in his father's favor as Adam should have. And he, on our behalf, took all of God's wrath, though he was perfectly obedient. And in taking that wrath, we receive the exchange. Imputed to him, and on his account was our sin, but imputed to us is the righteousness. And the obedience of Christ Jesus. And so we believe that at the very crux, the very problem, we don't believe by faith in God, we believe in ourselves. God says, I know. I've come to rescue you. I've come to redeem you. I've come to prepare a place for you But for now, so walk with me, for now, since Christ's death and three days later his resurrection, and until the day that Jesus Christ returns, we live in the middle time. Between the resurrection, the kingdom of God being inaugurated, and the return of Christ, where the kingdom of God will be seen in all of its glory, in all of its beauty, and the promises of God will be completely fulfilled. We are now in the between time. How are we to then live in light of the return of Christ? How are we then to walk by faith Waiting for the return of the king. It is to be as resident aliens. Notice in the text But having seen them and greeted them from afar, meaning they saluted the promises of God and their fulfillment as a soldier does the homeland of his youth, and he says, I believe it. They surely saw the promises of God and its fulfillment from far off, and then it says, having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. That is the first time that that word in the scriptures is used to refer To heaven itself. Every other time it's used, it's used to speak of someone's literal homeland, where they were physically born. But here it means they were looking for a different homeland. The one that the Lord was preparing. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had the opportunity to return. He's saying the Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and our forefathers, if they simply wanted to go back to the Ur of the Chaldeans, they would have had plenty of opportunity to do so. Instead, they understood themselves to be exiles and sojourners. What I've translated here is resident aliens. So what does that mean? Well, let's look at its opposite first. The opposite of a resident alien is a refugee. Now, a refugee is someone who's had to flee, escape, or has been kicked out of their homeland where they were born. and they have to find refuge somewhere else. And usually all that they had can carry goes with them on their back, in their car, in their arms, and they take it with them. But when they land in the place where they are to find refuge That is not their home, they recognize that all that they have that was once theirs, they cling to it. Why? Because it reminds them of home But the desire of a refugee is to go back home. And all that home meant It's sweetness, its familiarity, its perhaps at one time safety, family, and so on. A way to make make a living. Now they're completely in this other place. They're completely foreign. They don't want to be there. But they long to go home. That's a refugee. But that is not what the Christian is called to be. The Christian is never to be considered, consider themselves as a refugee. Why? Because we are called in the between time to see all that God has provided, these buildings, our clothes, our jobs, our families, our children. All the wonderful things, meals and celebrations, all these things are great, but we don't cling to them in hopes that they will give us our identity. Rather, we're called to be resident aliens. What is the difference between a re refugee and a resident alien? This has been a question that has been asked from the earliest parts of Christianity. In fact, there are two letters that speak to this from the first century. Just a brief description. One is negative, because he's trying to challenge his hearers. The other is much more positive. First is from the shepherd of Hermas. He says, You know that you, speaking to Christians, you know that you are servants of God, are dwellers in a foreign land, for your city is far from this city. If then you recognize your city, in which you shall dwell, why do you prepare here fields and expensive displays and buildings and dwellings which are superfluous? The person who prepares these things for this city does not intend to return to his own city. The next is from another epistle written around the same time, written to the Epistle of Diognetus. Speaking of Christians, as one looking in on the Christian community, he wrote, Christians dwell in their own countries, but only as sojourners They bear their share of all the responsibilities as citizens, and they endure all hardships as strangers. Every foreign country is a homeland to them, and every homeland is foreign. Their existence is on earth, but their citizenship is in heaven. The resident alien can enjoy all the gifts of God wherever they are, but recognize that those gifts are not the same as the giver. That those gifts do not define them. So I ask you, how are you doing on this spectrum? Do you find yourself falling more on the refugee, that you're holding on to things of this earth, or do you find yourself leaning more towards resident alien? One way of getting at that is asking this question, what are you clinging to? What do you love? What you love is what you worship. Let me ask it another way. What if tomorrow morning, Monday morning, you receive a pink slip and you no longer have the job in which you've been working What will happen to your identity? What if tomorrow your house catches fire? What happened to you? How loosely are you holding these things? I was challenged to this because just a couple of weeks ago I was on the other side of the planet for the first time for my family. I returned home. And even though I'd only been gone eight days, it was so great to see my wife and daughter again. Though we talked on FaceTime, it wasn't the same. But to be able to get out of the car and to be able to see them there on the front doorstep, to embrace them, it was the first time in 18 years I'd not been able to celebrate my anniversary with my wife in the same place. I couldn't wait to see her, and she couldn't wait to see me, I believe. And it was great to see Caroline But in the moment that I see that and having walked through in this congregation over the last year and a half, Steve Green and losing his wife Ann Green. LaRoy Perry and losing his wife Kathleen Gandhi Perry. And our brother Rick Bellivo in losing Ellen But not just a wife, but a best friend, a mother, co-worker. Sister in Christ. As I've walked through these different situations with my brothers and sisters, I've asked myself this question: how tightly am I holding on? To the things of this earth. I want to say that as hard as I want my wife to desire to see me back on that doorstep I recognize that I can never be, nor can she be for me, my identity. Only my Savior can be. Does that mean then I don't love my wife or my daughter? No. In fact it gives me a freedom, a greater energy to love them because I know They do not I don't have to suck out of them something they were never meant to give me. My core identity. Yes, my wife Kate completes me in ways I can't imagine. I'm a man that I would never have been without her. But she is not my Savior, nor am I hers. Friends, I ask you, what are you clinging to? The resident alien can look and enjoy all the things that are good and right, jobs and family and children They are right and to be celebrated and to enjoy the best of food and great drink and great friends and memories. Those are all wonderful, but to be held. With open hands. That they are a gift from God the King, who has prepared a better place for us Which is where I go next. He says also that they were longing for the city of God. It says verse 16, but as it is, they desire a better country, that is a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. They longed for the city of God. They longed to be with the Lord To speak of a heavenly home is to speak of being in the presence and being in relationship with Christ our Savior forever and ever. Isn't it interesting that Jesus would describe this place to the thief who was next to him on the cross, and he said, Today you will be with me in paradise? And we think of heaven, this heavenly home, this great city, as paradise. But that is a word we need to look at just briefly. The word paradise is actually a Persian word, which is paradeza, and it means a walled park, an enclosed garden. It was used, in fact, to describe the walled gardens of the Persian king Cyrus in his royal palaces. In the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the word paradise is also used to describe the Garden of Eden. Later, because of Jewish belief, this idea of paradise was also something that Jews believed that God would restore paradise, would restore Eden. And to a lesser extent, it became known as the present heaven. But oftentimes this idea of paradise is seen as like this wild garden of like all this crazy growth and so forth and animals, but indeed paradise has within it a greatly cultivated garden, organized and beautiful. and uh trimmed and kept in beautiful growth. So what is this city you're longing for? The scriptures tell us, as we will look at next month in greater detail, it is not a place that is off somewhere out in the here by and by, but rather it will be a renewed heaven and a renewed earth. Now think on it just a moment. If in this life, or even in this past week, have you enjoyed a really good laugh? Have you enjoyed a powerful, sweet memory? Have you enjoyed a great meal that lingers on the tongue? If you've enjoyed such things, isn't it amazing that we can still enjoy such things in a world that is so broken? I remember for the first time in my life I had never seen the Pacific Ocean until beyond my imagination, the first time I would see the Pacific Ocean is sitting on the coast of Japan. For some reason I thought it would be from California somehow, but that's not what God had. Here I was on a completely rebuilt seawall just south of Sindai where the tsunami damage was. We were with our OPC missionary there, and we scaled this this seawall, and I got to see for the first time with my own eyes. The Pacific Ocean. It was so blue. The scent in my nostrils was so sweet and new and fresh. It was glorious. Isn't it amazing in a world so broken that you and I can have the breath taken right out of us? That happens when our skin bubbles up in goosebumps when we hear A familiar voice or a great symphony or a beautiful piece of art. When removed emotionally, our bodies tingle. We know it. We experience it and isn't it amazing that we can still experience that in a broken world? Can you then imagine? Let me challenge you. Can you imagine how deep and how rich and how glorious will be the beauty of a renewed heaven and a renewed earth. Where there will be no tear. There will be no sin. There will be no brokenness. But everything will be as it is meant to be. God in his righteousness will restore it. Let me ask you if you are a believer, do you long for this city? At the memorial service of Ellen Belavo, I had an opportunity to visit with what is to me a one of our young people. He's not young, really. He wouldn't say that. But he was sharing with me a brief visit that he had with Ellen a week prior to her passing. In talking with her, she reminded him that when he was a little boy He would come to her house with his brother to play with her son. And the one thing they wanted to do was go to Schoolie Mill Park, just down the street from where the Belivos live. If you've been to School Email Park, it's a great place. Beautiful park. But I can imagine as a little boy hearing Mrs. Bellivo saying, we get to go to the park today And she said him, Do you remember when I would say to you, We're going to Schoolemo Park, you would jump up and down, you were so excited? She said to him, That is precisely how I'm thinking of being with my Lord You see, paradise, heaven itself, is a high walled garden. And the only entrance over that wall is through the cross of Christ. Because on the other side of that wall, which is now veiled to our faces, and we will not see until Christ comes again. What is now possible is to know this. In fact, it's not about the garden at all. In fact, it's not about how great the city will be, it's about the king of that city. It's about being with the King of heaven and of earth. It is about being with God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, and seeing him face to face, and he seeing us face to face. Of knowing Him fully and our being fully known. Of being able to say to the face of our Lord, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. Do you desire that? Are you longing for that? Have you become so earthly minded? And clinging to the things of this earth, that you have forgotten that you are being made for a new heaven and a new earth. To live in the light of heaven, not so that we may escape earth and of its brokenness, but that we may have In the midst of trial and difficulty, a light, a beacon of light, drawing us knowing that this is not the end of the story. But so also in the midst of our greatest joys here on earth. The city of God is also that place which will promise greater joys, deeper riches, because the one who is behind all of it will be there. Our God. Our triune God. If you are not a believer this morning, much of what I've said may not make sense to you. In fact, it may make you mad. But I want to challenge you. For just a moment. Because I know something that you know. I remember what it was like not to believe And I know this. I was on a search for heaven, but I didn't call it as such. I was looking for that one more experience. I was looking for that one more relationship that would give me a taste of that which I wanted so dearly. Because it had been placed on every human heart a desire to know him and to know him fully and to be where he is. And my whole life, up until knowing him, was trying to get my way back. And you know it too. That drink of that wonderful wine, he's behind that. The upturned sides of your lips that end in a laugh or a smile or a sweet memory in your mind. That is something that really is the Lord is behind. That great symphony, that beautiful piece of art. That experience at a concert, that great relationship with someone that you love, who is behind it all? It is the Lord. And the Lord of heaven invites you to know him this morning. As C. S. Lewis once said, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures. Fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when an infinite joy is offered us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum Because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. Friends, do not be too easily pleased. Hear the invitation of the Lord of heaven that can begin today and stretch through all eternity. That will end in a city of God with the king. Let's pray Our Father, we ask that you would enable us to not be too easily pleased, but to long for you and to know you. But to long for that city which you are preparing that will end with a renewed heavens and a renewed earth. Lord, we pray that you would help us to live life in the light of eternity. But Lord, we cannot unless we know you, unless through your Son Jesus Christ, the kingdom of God takes hold. Lord, will you do this? For those who know you, Lord, give them a longing as resident aliens for a better country. And for those who do not yet know you, Lord, give them a vision of salvation that goes far deeper and is far grander than the forgiveness of sins. It is to know you completely and utterly forever. Help us, O Lord, to believe, even in the midst of our unbelief. In Jesus' name, Amen.