This morning's text comes from Mark chapter 10. I'll be beginning at verse 46, going to the end of the chapter. As many of you might remember and recall, the last few weeks we have spent looking at Mark chapter 10. And this morning we come to the conclusion of that chapter. So if you have your Bibles with you, please turn with them. Uh turn with me to Mark chapter ten and we'll read verses forty-six through fifty-two Before we turn to God's word, let us go to Him in prayer. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, have mercy on us, we pray. Lord, we thank you that you sent your son, who is the way, the truth, and the life for us to heal us. To free us from our sin, whose blood would be spilt that we might be cleansed. Father, we pray that your spirit would open our eyes this morning. That we might better know who Jesus is and what He's done for us. Lord, we pray for the distractions of our life at this moment to subside, that we might focus on you and who you are. Father, bless us this morning as we seek you by your word and by your spirit, we pray. Amen. Mark chapter ten, verses forty-six through fifty-two. Hear the living God's words for you this morning. And they came to Jericho, and as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and said, Call him. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take heart, get up, he is calling you. And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus. And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Go your way, your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. Throughout the Gospels, we read passage after passage, text after text, that tells of when Jesus used his miraculous power to heal people's various afflictions and diseases. But however, this text before us is the only passage given A name of a person that Jesus heals from their affliction. And here's the passage we find of the blind man Bartimaeus. If you know anything about Mark, the Gospel of Mark, it's almost puzzling that we have this text in front of us. The Gospel of Mark is an action-packed gospel. If you read Mark, Jesus is almost always on the move. And here, Mark stops to recount yet another one of Jesus' healings. And it seems puzzling that in this fast-paced gospel of Mark, Jesus or that we have another account of Jesus' healings. When Jesus is so steadfast moving and purposefully moving toward Jerusalem, where he was going to face the cross and the climax of his ministry. Next week is Jesus enters Jerusalem, that triumphal entry. But yet, Mark, as Jesus is making that triumphal entry journey, stops here for one blind beggar. So, what's so important about this incident in the fast-paced Gospel of Mark as Jesus is so purposely heading to Jerusalem, we stop to hear yet another story of Jesus healing. A blind beggar. So what's so important about this incident? Well, I think the answer lies in what we've looked at in the in the past week, particularly last week. With Jesus interacting with his disciples, James and John, who requested that they sit at Jesus' right and left hand in glory. As we recalled in previous weeks, true discipleship does not seek hope and wealth or riches or status. But we've seen that true discipleship comes from childlike faith. That true dis discipleship looks like serving. So Bar bro blind Bartimaeus stands in great contrast now to the disciples. As they were quarreling amongst themselves for status and for rank and glory, blind Bartimaeus was a beggar on the road. He was the lowest of the low. Clothed in nothing more than rags, simply hoping that someone would come by to drop a coin in his cup that he could perhaps get his next meal. So by taking the time to stop and talk and heal the lowest of the low, Jesus is sending a powerful message to his disciples. Jesus is sending a powerful message to all who would hear this text. And it is, what does true discipleship look like? And here we see it in blind Bartimaeus. What is that message? What do two disciples of Jesus look like? Well, if you see your text this morning and the outline before you, you see that true discipleship looks like those who cry out to Jesus. those who find mercy in Jesus and those who follow Jesus. A very simple yet profound text and profound meaning for our lives because as many of you know it is the simple that is the very difficult. Things to do. So first we come to those disciples that cry out to Jesus. In the first verse of our text, we read: and they came to Jericho. Jericho sits in the desert, but anyone who approaches Jericho right away knows why there's a village there in the middle of the desert because as they as you approach Jericho you can already see a mass of palm trees all around. Jericho is one of the richest and greatest and largest oasices found in that region. Jericho was known as a place of refreshment for weary pilgrims heading to Jerusalem. So Jesus was leaving the city of Jericho, accompanied by a great multitude, we're told, when he passes a blind beggar. Mark tells us his name was Bartimaeus, and that he was the son of Timaeus. And to any Jewish person, they would point out that Mark is being very redundant here. Because Bar Timaeus simply means the son of Timaeus. So what we can conclude from our text is that Mark is actually addressing Gentiles like us People who aren't familiar with Jewish names or customs. So Mark is talking to us. And we're told that Bartimaeus was blind and that he was a beggar sitting by the road. And there was at least one positive aspect about blind Bartimaeus sitting on the road, and that was his location. Jericho was situated on a major road of that day heading to Jerusalem. And we're told it was Passover time. So it being Passover time, Jericho and people heading to Jerusalem for the Passover, it would double, even triple in size. So hundreds per se perhaps maybe even thousands of people were passing by this road, passing blind Bartimaeus. And so for this reason, it was an ideal place for him to collect the alms, uh, collect coins, so he could perhaps find a place to stay at night, or perhaps gather food. Bartimaeus was probably an ordinary fixture on that road. I'd imagine he sat there all day, not seeing anybody, but listening closely as people would walk by. He would listen for footsteps. And as they came by he would ask for alms. So this sound now of a of a large multitude moving along catches his attention. And he's curious. And in the parallel passage in Mark, we're told he asks that hearing a multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. He hears a large group of people passing by, maybe an unusually large group of people, and he asks, Well, what does this mean? What's going on here? And apparently, someone must have told him that it was Jesus that was walking by. And it seems that he must have heard about Jesus. For Mark writes in verses 47 and 48. When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. You see, Barnamaeus had obviously not seen any of Jesus' miracles because he was blind. He had not seen the dead rise with the word. He had not seen lepers healed with a touch. He had not seen other blind men given their sight. But he must have heard something about Jesus. And with hearing about Jesus, believed. Because when Barnamae learned that it was Jesus that was passing by, he raised quite a commotion, we're told. He began crying out, Jesus! Son of David, have mercy on me. And some in the crowd told him to keep quiet quiet. The text says that they told him to be silent. Perhaps thinking that Jesus wouldn't want ha to have anything to do with someone like blind Bartimaeus, a poor beggar, maybe didn't smell quite right, torn clothes. We don't want Jesus wouldn't want anything to do with this guy, so please be quiet. You don't want to embarrass us. Blind Bartimaeus would not be silent. He would not be discouraged. But he kept crying out. In fact, he probably cried out even louder. And maybe some of you have felt that pressure before, like blind Bartimaeus, to be silent about Christ. Maybe you felt the demands from your family or friends or the culture around you to be silent or at least quieter? What have you done when you face that pressure? When you face that pressure around you from even those you would care about, what have you done? How did you respond? Did you become half-hearted and crying out to Christ and maybe not feeling like y y you need him as much as you maybe thought you once did Did you become deterred and discouraged in crying out to Jesus because you didn't want to bother others or you wanted others to really think good of you? So you are quieter, silent about what you believe and who you are in Christ? J. C. Ryle, known as one of the last Puritans, has this quote. He says, Let a man see his own guilt, and as he really is, and he will never rest till he has found pardon and peace in Christ. Let a man see who what he really is, and he will never stop till he has found pardon and peace in Christ. That's us. I think if we recognize our need, like Bartimaeus saw his need, we will not stop. And we will cry all the louder till we find pardon and peace in our Savior Jesus Christ. There will never be a lack of people to tell us to be silent, to tell you to quiet your voice about Christ. They were around in Bartimaeus' day, and they're around still in our day. But we too must ignore such requests. And like Bartimaeus, get Christ-like backbones and cry out even louder and go so much fervently for our Lord. Because that we know that Jesus is the only way, the truth, and the life for weak and weary souls. I'm also all always fascinated about Bartimaeus' cry and his request here and his plea. I'm fascinated at the theological soundness of the blind man's plea. He knew that the Messiah, the the long-promised deliverer of Israel He knew that he would come out of the family and lineage of David, that he would be David's son, yet David's Lord. And that's really the irony of this passage, isn't it? That here we have a blind beggar who sees Jesus more clearly than those who have too good eyes to see. He sees Jesus for who he really is. He sees Jesus for who he really is, and so he cries out to Jesus. He cried out to Jesus for mercy. And how very different is his cry than the request that came just a few passages last week, actually, as we looked. At the requests of James and John, the two disciples who asked for a position of power and authority with a sense of entitlement from Jesus. Yet here we have Bartimaeus who simply cries out for mercy with no suggestion that he deserved it. So not only do disciples cry out to Jesus, but they find mercy in Jesus. As we've seen, Jesus is marching towards Jerusalem with determination to face the shame, the pain. The suffering and the agony of the cross for sins that he did not commit. He would become sin, though he never sinned for us. But when he heard Bartimaeus's cry, we're told that Jesus stops in his tracks. As he's making his journey to the cross, he hears the cry of Bartimaeus, and Mertoli stops. Jesus stood still, and he commanded him to be called. He told his disciples, Find out who's calling me and bring him to me. I'm not moving another inch until I see this man. Bring him here. Mark continues in verse 49, which reads, Then he called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer, be of heart, rise, he's calling you. You see, it's one thing for us to call on the Lord, but it's something completely different when the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords calls on you. And that's where the true redemption lies here in this passage. That Jesus calls out and calls this man to himself The crowd had it right. Bartimaeus absolutely had great reason to be of good cheer, because it is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, the Messiah, the son of David, who is now calling him. I love this passage here at this point. God now uses the people who once kept Bartimaeus from Jesus Jesus now uses them as the tool to bring him to himself. And maybe that was some of you. Maybe some of you can recall the time in your life where you once rejected Jesus. Not only personally, but maybe you kept others from Jesus. And now maybe Jesus is calling on you this morning to be that tool, to be that instrument, to now no longer keep people from Jesus, but now to bring others with you to him. I love how God uses different ways and different means, and how we use people that kept Barnamaeus from Jesus, and now they bring him to him. Mark tells us now in verse 50 that throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and he came to Jesus. When Bartimaeus hears that Jesus is calling him, he springs up and he throws off his cloak and he runs to Jesus. He casts away his garment to get to him. This was probably one of the only things Bartimaeus owned. He he probably only owned rags. But yet He got rid of it. Probably one of the only things he owns and he gets rid of it because somehow it was slowing him down from getting to his Lord. And so he was going to leave it behind and go to Jesus. He let it go because he wants to be with Jesus. And that's precisely what everyone should do when they approach Jesus. They should throw aside whatever is hindering them, stand up, and run to Christ. Is there something that's preventing you from running to Christ this morning? Today? Do you love comfort too much? That you're afraid to go so foolheartedly to Christ because that might be a sacrifice of your your money or time Have you made sports or status at work a priority over hearing from Jesus and going to him every day and hearing from him every Sunday? Is there something that is hindering you from Jesus today? Resolve at once to break it off. Resolve at once to leave it behind and go full force and run to Jesus, however small it may be. Mark then records for us in verse 51. So Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do? So Bartimaeus is now brought to Jesus, and Jesus asks him, So what do you want me to do for you? And that's a familiar question. Sound familiar to us. We've heard this before. We've heard this before even in this in this chapter, haven't we? What do you want me to do for you That's the same request that was made to him by his disciples, right? Or that that's what that's what he said to his disciples just a few verses ago. And they asked to sit on his left hand and right hand in glory. But how different was Bartimaeus's answer? He simply said, Rabbi, let me receive my sight. You see, Bartimaeus had an opportunity of a lifetime. He had an opportunity of the lifetime to ask anything from Jesus. He w was a beggar, he was poor, you need, but he didn't ask for status He didn't ask for glory or to be exalted at in in God's kingdom in heaven. He simply wanted to be delivered from his blindness. He's begging the Lord for something that most people already had and were used to, to simply see. So he asked if he could see. Bartimaeus was a simple man, and he had one driving passion: to get out of the darkness that he found his life situated in. Where we were groped in danger, always dependent on someone else to take him by the hand and lead him. So we asked, All I want, Lord, is to receive my sight. All I want, Lord, is to receive my sight. But that's not exactly the way he said it. Again and again in the Gospels we read of people speaking to Jesus and calling him rabbi or or teacher. But Bartimaeus, even though our text it translates rabbi, the word is Rabboni. And Raboni here in our text, it's a different word than rabbi. Raboni is the same title that Mary Magdalene actually uses when she comes to the empty tomb and she sees Jesus. That resurrection morning. The slight alteration of Rabbi to Raboni is very significant. Because Raboni means far more than simply professor or teacher. It has an intense Personal significance. It's actually a confession of faith when that word is used and implemented. Bartimaeus is saying to Jesus, My Lord, my God, my master, let me see. He cries out for mercy, and mercy is granted. And here we have a portrait of a true disciple who was ragged and poor and blind, but who recognized the Messiah, who called out to him and found mercy. And last we see that true disciples not simply call out and receive mercy, but then they follow Jesus. Jesus had just taught his disciples that about the importance of being servants. And to be a servant is to serve the master. Whereas the disciples failed to grasp that, this blind man got it. He succeeded. And so we read in the last verse of our text. And Jesus said to him, Go your way, your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed Jesus on the way. With a word of commendation of Bartimaeus' faith, Jesus pronounced him healed, and he was able to see, perhaps for the first time of his life. Think about that. Most blind people probably, having their sight restored, what would you do? If you had never been able to see anything in your entire life, and then all of a sudden you're able to see things for the first time Well, I would think if I was Barnamaeus, I would want to run into J Jericho and see the palm trees and maybe see my family who I've simply just touched their face. I'd want to see everything around me, the people who've talked to me, maybe the people who were nice to me or not so nice to me. But what does Bartimaeus do? He doesn't go around and now see the sights. When he hits eyes are open, the first thing he sees is Jesus. And he wants nothing more than to follow him on his road to Jerusalem to his death. That is the desire of those who are given open eyes and ears to hear the truth of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you've heard the gospel and God has opened your eyes to receive it and hear it, that is the desire of true disciples to follow Jesus, to be with Jesus. Bartimaeus, as we're told, is at the very first verse, is sitting beside the road. And at the very last verse, we're taught we're told that he now on the road. And that's the difference between a bystander and a disciple a disciple. Those who are on the road following Jesus, those who have tasted the mercy and the grace of Christ. will follow him on the way and in their life. If you boast of being a Christian But you don't have an interest in Christ. If you boast of being a Christian and you do not seek to follow Christ in your life, you do not seek to follow him in what you do. You're deceiving yourself. Because true disciples who have tasted the mercy who have tasted the grace and the changed heart of Jesus Christ, they follow their Lord. Their eyes are open, their heart is renewed, their sins are forgiven, and all they want to do is follow their Lord Jesus Christ. True disciples follow the Lord because they've been changed Right before our text, in fact, it was up on the screens before the service started, was verse 45. Verse 45, Jesus has just said. For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. And Jesus is demonstrating exactly what he just said in our text. Even the Son of Man did not come To be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. He stops for one poor blind beggar. He went to the cross and would rise from the dead for sinners like you and me. So I plead with you this morning to cry out to Jesus, to find that mercy and grace in Jesus and to follow him on the way. He will hear you. He will have mercy on you, and he will draw you in his delightful and loving service. Is that your request? Is that your request this morning? If you could ask Jesus anything, would it simply be, have mercy on me? Let it be so. Let that be your request. Because these are the marks of a true disciple. Cry out to him. Find mercy in him and follow him. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for being a loving Father. Lord, we are poor and blind, beggars. Lord, have mercy on us. Forgive us. Forgive us for the things that we keep in our life that are hindering us from running fullheartedly to you. Lord, open our eyes, our eyes of our hearts, that we might see Jesus and love him. Might the things of this world grow strangely dim, that and our eyes for Jesus might be brighter and brighter, ever looking to him, ever thrusting ourselves at him, clinging to him, because he is the way, the truth. There is no mercy. There is no hope apart from him. Father, open our eyes, we pray. And it's in Christ's name, the Son of David, our Messiah. Amen.