What uh Ephesians six has to say about work. And uh here let me uh observe a bit of an irony I've noticed Uh this uh past week we had uh vacation bible school and that sounds like vacation is not work. It's just you know kind of a coast bible school, you know But there was an awful lot of work going on around here and I see Sandy and Ben smiling at that. Sandy was uh the coordinator and uh And yet with all the work that was happening, seem people really seemed to be having a lot of fun, having a good time, and that that really is by God's grace that's so much um went so smoothly. It was a great week and climaxed by Dana Tyson and things that he did here Friday night. I won't even begin to describe them, but it was just a great week that we had here. So how many of you here were involved in one way or another. Kids going or participating on staff in vacation violence, basically. A big hunk of you there. That that's great. That's that's just terrific. Well, now let us hear God's word from Ephesians chapter 6. And let's see it on the overhead as I read this. If you have your Bibles follow or look at the overhead What God says to you in this area. Slaves obey your earthly masters with respect and fear and with sincerity of heart. Just as you would obey Christ. Obey them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but like slaves of Christ doing the will of God from your heart. Serve wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord, not men, because you know that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave or free. And masters, treat your slaves in the same way. Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven And there is no favoritism with him. We're considering two matters from these verses. The first we looked at last week And we considered the question of why it is that Christianity did not condemn but even regulate slavery Uh we saw that uh this is something that surpasses brilliance on Paul's part. It's something that has to be by revelation of God that when he talks about three relationships, marriage parenting and home, that in the first two he states that these are God ordained, but in the third, slavery, he makes no such claim. And that's Amazing because everyone at that time in that culture considered slavery to be as normal as parenting and as marriage. But Paul, by the Spirit of God, makes a distinction. And so while he regulates it and tells slaves to be good slaves, he does it in such a way so as to undercut The psychology and the foundation of the entire institution of slavery, because first of all, he says that you are to do this uh as those who uh who are he addresses them as human beings of equal value to their masters, calls them brothers in Christ. And secondly, because he tells them to do this by the choice of their heart rather than out of compulsion. And uh Bill McDill told me after the first service that Cool Hand Luke is a good illustration of that, if anybody has seen the movie, of how you can transform slave mentality to free the heart without actually Loosing the chains. And so Paul does that. And even though it takes centuries for that to be worked out, we see brilliantly here how the gospel comes to provide the basis of freedom without overshadowing the gospel in that culture. Even more radically we see that Paul presents that Messiah, Jesus himself, was a slave, the one that we worship. was a slave, and that he was obedient even to death. So that in chapter 5, verse 18, when he says, Be filled with the Spirit, being filled with the Spirit issues forth in a heart that is in verse 21, submissive, it's a servant heart, and that specifically then is applied to chapter 6 when he talks specifically about how to be slaves. Now there are also amazing parallels. That was last week. Now this week, we look at the amazing parallels there are between the slave master relationship and the employee-employer relationship today. And I know you say, yes, you know, I I feel that parallel very keenly. I feel like I'm a slave sometimes. But you know, there are some principles here that we can take That will help us as Christians to look at what should my attitude toward my work, my job be? What should be my work ethic? What should be my attitude? It's amazing really, isn't it, how little we think about this when you consider how much of our work I mean how much of our life is spent at work. How little we think about What difference should it make that I'm a Christian in this job? Now I've I've put down four statements that I would like you to just think about as you think about your job. This is whether it's in the house, In the home or whether it's outside the home, in an office or any other context. Do you identify with any of these statements? Number one I see no lasting value in my work. It seems to have no spiritual significance as far as I can tell. Or secondly, I believe it's impractical for me to try to apply Christian ethics consistently to my job because it simply wouldn't work. I'd lose my job. So I live in that tension. Or thirdly, few people where I work know that I'm a Christian because I don't really believe that I behave differently from anybody else there. Or fourthly, I don't really feel like God is interested in what I do at work At least not nearly as much as he is interested in what I do in my ministry here at CPC or in some other context. I'm not going to ask for hands, but to identify with any of those statements And so because I believe that we do, if we're honest, I would like to look, before we look at the details of these verses, what I want to do is look at the background, the big picture. And I would like to look at what Scripture, and particularly Ephesians, says about what you might call a brief theology of work. Now, I'm going to lay that foundation this week. Then next week we take a break because we're going to have a special guest speaker from Kenya. Pastor Joe Muutuki, whose father was a witch doctor in rural Kenya, was converted to Christ by the gospel. And uh then Joe Tuki came to the United States, got a theological degree here, and now is getting his doctorate in South Africa to go back to Kenya to plant churches among Indians. And there are racial tensions between Kenyans and Indians, and so here is a man well qualified to speak to us about God's agenda for the world, particularly as he has been involved in racial reconciliation. So we're looking forward to that. That means I guess take a one-week break then, July 15 and 22. I want to come back to this and look specifically at Paul's instructions to the employees in the fifteenth and then to those in authority, the employers, one verse uh in January july twenty-two. So, what is the way that we're supposed to look at our work as Christians? How should it be distinctive? It's interesting to me that as you look at these verses, what he talks about your attitude, what motivates you, and what you do, there is nothing here about getting rich. There's nothing here about seeking promotion. There is nothing here about advancement. And so, whatever value those things have, they are not the issues that Paul sees as the drivers for a Christian at work. You notice there are five verses And what seems significant to me is in just this brief discussion, in every single verse you have reference to Christ. And I have underlined those just so that that becomes more apparent to you. And I believe that that is done to underscore the God-centeredness of our orientation. What's very basic to work is that It is not self-centered, and that's a radical thought for us. We look at work as about my satisfaction, about my rising in power, about my rising in income, and what it does to and for me. An example of that, and I continue to state that some of the best philosophy and cultural analysis today is in comic strips And I don't know how many of you follow Sally Forth, but that's one that I check every week. And uh this was one just recently uh about this Ted and Sally are kind of you know discussing stuff over breakfast as they often do, and Ted's reading the newspaper and he says A new survey found that forty-two percent of Americans would keep their current job even if they won at least ten million dollars in the lottery. He looks at Sally and says, Would you keep your job? And she says, sure, my job provides more than just financial security. It gives me a sense of personal accomplishment, structure, and community. It lets me interact with others while giving me the means to measure my own success. And he says, wow She says, so what would you do? And he says, well, I would salute your work ethic each morning from the bow of our new yacht. And as she takes another bite of cereal, she says, Well, I suppose that would make my going to work all the easier. Well, you see When we read that, we kind of think, wow, what a laudable ethic. You know, gee you know, he he's just impressed with this thing, and it sounds good compared to what we usually hear But you realize it's totally self-centered. You know, it's all about her accomplishment, her structure, her community, her being able to measure the means of her success, her getting the accolades, all it's all about her. Now, we are so self-centered, we have so lost a God-centered passion for his glory that that doesn't even jar us. Say, ah, sounds pretty good. Without seeing how twisted that is in terms of what God's intention for work is That in fact God created work and us as workers so that work would be worship. It would be an offering for him. In order to bring glory to him and not ourselves. And so three of the five verses that you see up here talk about work as serving him, just as you would obey Christ, like slaves of Christ, as if you were serving the Lord. In fact, Colossians 3, uh in the same parallel discussion about, says For you are really serving Christ in your job. Makes it very clear. So where you and I Think of it in terms of self-centered terms, Paul clearly is presenting work as a means of glorifying and serving God. That opens up four elements very briefly that you see in Scripture about work. So I just want to touch on these very, very briefly. Creation fall, redemption idea, and then particularly Ephesians. In creation, you see the Bible presenting work in Genesis 1. the very, very beginning, because the very first glimpse we have of God, before we know anything else about Him, we see that God is a worker, that He is a powerful worker. God speaks and he creates the heavens and the earth. And so we see him working. Then in Genesis 2, we see God assigning work to men and to women. And notice that that is before the curse. Work is not a result of the curse, it is sacred. Work is sacred. That's the first blank there. Because God has made it sacred. It is imitating him. A book that was very popular a few years back that had the title Working, people talk about what they do all day and how they feel about what they do. Written by a fellow by the name of Studs Turkle. I think the book was popular because any book by somebody by the name of Studs Turkle has got to attract some attention Studz Turklin, the very beginning of this book, opens it with these words. This book, being about work, is by its very nature about violence, to the spirit as well as to the body. It is about ulcers as well as accidents, about shouting matches as well as fist fights, about nervous breakdowns as well as kicking the dog around. It is, above all or beneath all, about daily humiliations. Yeah, you kids just can't wait to get into the workforce now, can you? You know, I mean what a grim view of work But that's not the biblical view. In Scripture, the only reason for the frustration and the aggravation is because of the curse. So the second point is. That curse, the curse has changed work. Work should be an offering To the Creator, Redeemer, Worker, God with all of your passions for creating and subduing and bringing order into the world. And instead, because God says in Genesis chapter three, in verses seventeen to nineteen, cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food until you return to the ground, for since from it you were Taken for dust you are, and to dust you will return. Because of our disobedience through Adam to God. We wanted to rule rather than to serve under him. And so because of the curse, there is frustration. Because of the curse, there is friction. But it's important for us as Christians to always remember that frustration and friction are abnormal. They are inevitable, but they are abnormal. They are not intrinsic to the creation. They are not the way God meant things to be, not the way he made them. In fact, when we think about the frustration and the friction of work, we always need to keep in mind that those are temporary. And that when Jesus comes back We will continue to work in heaven. Now you thought heaven was going to be the eternal Sabbath rest and vacation, didn't you? You say, Wow, I was looking forward to heaven until you said that. You're going to work in heaven. But you know what? It's going to be exhilarating, frustration-free, creative expression of all your passions to God's glory in a way that you have never known a single day of what that is like in this earth. In heaven you will serve with all your creativity an offering to God, displaying what that creativity can mean without sin tomorrow. Because the third thing is that Jesus has redeemed not only souls but work. Christ's work has reclaimed work. It's the next blank. To give it meaning, because work now is service to him in the building of his kingdom. Work has new meaning. And here is where the Christian has a different view from everyone else about work, because we see on the one hand that we will by our work, we will not build a utopia here. The world's always talking about how by our work we're going to just keep working at it and maybe achieve perfect society. The Christian is realistic and knows that will never happen. However, We are full of hope because we realize, secondly, that work is like a leaven to make a difference, as we talked about last week. Christians acting Christianly at work will make a difference in society. An example of that is a fellow by the name of Herbert J. Taylor. Has anybody here ever heard of Herbert J. Taylor? Wrote this little book. Nobody in the first service either. That's amazing. Maybe it's not. I don't know. I mean Herbert J. Taylor would have was known by many people back in the thirties, forties, fifties, and sixties And he wrote this little book and I got it when I came on intervarsity staff because um Herbert Taylor was a fellow who in the 1930s during the Depression Had uh already demonstrated that he was a very successful businessman and was given a very lucrative position. And he turned it down in order to take over Club Aluminum, which was at that point declaring bankruptcy. Instead of declaring bankruptcy, Herbert Taylor took it over, reorganized it And he organized its policy around four little rules, which he called the four-way test. The four-way test was based on scriptural principles, the golden rule And he used that without compromise in every one of his business dealings because Herbert Taylor was a committed Christian, a disciple of Jesus Christ. And he wanted to demonstrate that a Christian businessman could operate distinctively as a Christian and be successful in that in the business world. Now Herbert Taylor happened to be an extremely gifted person in administration, leadership, and his skills. But he in a few years turned club aluminum around, and those tests, the four-way tests, became such a potent matter in business. that it was adopted by m all his competitors in the uh cookware business in the cookware field, as well as dozens of other corporations in the United States at that time. In fact he became the president of Rotary International and that four-way test was known all around the world. And it was a it was in his mind a kind of a gaining a beach head for the gospel as people saw that you could operate in business with integrity as a Christian. He made so much money in this because people trusted him. They trusted Club Aluminum. They trusted all the things that he was uh head of and what he operated in. He made so much money in this that as a Christian, and this was his original goal, this was not a byproduct, from the very beginning it was for him to be able to be involved in ministry in business because he thought he could serve Jesus Christ most effectively that way. And his passion was for young people. Herbert Taylor was a very significant part of the founding of Young Life, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, Pioneer Girls, Christian Service Brigade, and Child Evangelism Fellowship. Those five organizations, he was one of the key founders and financiers of those five organizations in their first couple of decades. In fact, in a couple of the organizations He basically was their funder for the first years of their existence. Now you and I don't have the skills of a Herbert Taylor. But we can have the commitment that says, Lord, take what I have, and I simply want to use it as an offering for you to serve Jesus Christ. Because he's redeemed me and I love him and I want to serve him. Now, how does Ephesians take this particularly? Ephesians, remember the principle in Ephesians is that the commands are based on the facts Remember, we've gone over that many times. Commands in chapters 4, 5, and 6, every case, they're based on some fact of the gospels, teaching you to live out of the gospel in chapter 1, 2, and 3. What does this mean in work? Well, turn to chapter 2, verse 10, and you see the fact on which work is based for a Christian. In that verse, Paul says, For we are God's workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. What has God done in you? What is that workmanship that He has done? We look back in verse four, it says, Because of His great love, God who is rich in mercy made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in our transgressions It's by grace you've been saved, then down to verse 8, it's by grace you've been saved through faith. And this not from yourselves, it's the gift of God, not by works. That no one can boast. If you think that you can save yourself any more than Anne-Marie here can save herself, or wash herself, or baptize herself, you're deceiving yourself. The Bible says you're dead in your transgressions and sins without Jesus Christ. You can't lift a finger toward him. By grace you're saved through faith. That's not of yourselves. It's God's gift. God, through his mercy, the Bible says, came and he did a work in you. And that work was to make you alive and to raise you up with Jesus Christ. And so in verse 10, where you read, For we are God's workmanship, in the Greek that word workmanship could also be translated masterpiece. We talked about that when we went over that verse. You are God's masterpiece. That's the next blank. Feel like a masterpiece this morning? You are. However you feel You are God's masterpiece this morning, a masterpiece of grace transforming your life in Jesus Christ. In fact, in chapter 3 he goes on in verse 10 to say that when God looks at all the angels and he says, You guys want to see the display of my wisdom? The display of God's wisdom is and of his power and of his glory is not in the mountains and the seas. It's not in the stars and the heavens It's not even in human beings made in his image. The display of God's wisdom and of his glory, his masterpiece of all creation. is redeemed people. People who have been made new through Jesus Christ. And so he says to the angels, see that motley group down there, Columbia Presbyterian? You know what they're like without my son, don't you? Pretty ragged group. But look what I've done. I'm not finished the work yet. But look what I've done. Transforming their hearts. Changing them from self-centered people to God-centered people. Changing their hearts, changing their motives, changing them To become the masterpiece of my grace. And so the command is: offer to God a masterpiece of grace. In your work, you see, what he's saying here in these verses is as you serve him, you offer to him a masterpiece of grace. And that's just where we get into problems in our work, isn't it? Whereas your work is to be an offering of worship to the Creator God who works in you. We look at work as a masterpiece of grace for our glory The Sally Forth mentality for my satisfaction and my sense of accomplishment. You know, I'm consumed by what you think of me I need your approval. I need your recognition. I don't just want you to tell me that I'm a good preacher. I want me to tell you, I want you to tell me that I'm better than other preachers you've heard, see. I need to compare myself. I need to always try to satisfy that insecurity by comparisons. And that's what we do in our work, isn't it? And so in our work, we're just always looking for and craving the recognition and the promotion and the comparisons and all those things that say, I'm better. And when we do that, what we have done is we have introverted work. Rather than being an offering of worship, it becomes an idol to satisfy me. And by doing that I have taken work and I've distorted its entire purpose. How in contrast to a worker like a fellow by the name of Johann Sebastian Bach Considered still today by rock musicians, popular musicians, folk musicians, anybody, any serious musician I've ever read, if they are asked about They're the influences and they you ask them about Bach, they will say he was the preeminent musician It was Bach's habit to write the end of his scores, Sola dei Gloria. To God alone be the glory. Think about it. What if this week, in every report you turned in at work, or after you finished cleaning the kitchen and the house He wrote at the end of that report or on a little sticky note and put it on the counter, Sola dei Gloria. To remind yourself, Lord, this is an offering of worship to you. That's what work's about. That's what distinguishes it for the Christian. I was talking just this week with a brother here at Columbia Presbyterian who's in a tough situation of work, real insecure kind of situation. He was sharing with me about how the funding could be removed for what he's doing at any point. And he said how God had been humbling him so much over the last years that he's brought him to a place of just simply resting in whatever God would have him to do. He said, you know God has me to continue here, the funding continues, that's fine, I'll serve him here. If God takes that away, takes a job, and calls me somewhere else, then so be it. I'm ready to serve them in any place, anyhow. I said, that's really great. Have you ever shared that with any of the guys you work with? He said, well, you know, that's interesting thought, kind of a new thought. By the time we finished, we were praying for him to have the opportunity in the next week to do that, you know, because I mean what a distinctive thing you have to offer. You see, it's not so much what you produce in your work It is the heart attitude that says, I'm a living sacrifice. I'm simply here to serve Jesus through this. And if that means that I can tell somebody, as we heard um Katya Nascimento talk one time when she talked about losing her job and just Sharing with her co-workers and they're all giving her sympathy and she's saying, Hey, I'm trusting the Lord, what He's going to do, He's going to take care of me. There are so many ways, you see, when your heart enters into work to God's glory. To be able to make it an offering of worship. Because it's your heart attitude. That's what makes the difference. Which is it for you That work is a matter of plugging away, doing the minimum that you need to do to get the most of what you want out of it? Or is it sola dei gloria Lord, this is an offering of worship to you. Think about whether you'd want to write that this week, just to remind yourself of that. And for you kids, to think about what's going to motivate you for what you do as you grow up. You kids, some of you would say, you know, I kinda think I know something about the area that I want to go into, want to be an airplane pilot or you know, want to be this or that, you know, nurse or doctor Wanna do some kind of art, sports, whatever. Some of you don't have the foggiest idea Yeah, you're kind of like plants in my garden, you know. Some of them that grow up and you know right in the beginning it's going to be a carrot, because they got distinctive tops. But you know whether it's going to be a wax bean or a green bean or some other kind of pea or something, sometimes you just can't tell for a while. But that's okay. Because as it grows more and more, it'll become more distinctive and you'll be able to tell. And that's the way it is with you kids. Some of you are going to be able to use your minds more in the things to serve the Lord. Others will use your hands and you will use other gifts that God has given to you. The main thing is as you think about what it will be to say, Lord, what do you want me to do? How do I best make my life an offering of worship to you? That's what you need to settle in your life right now. Because Jesus served you. That's the final point. Jesus submitted even to death, the Bible says for you. That's the command, that's the fact In Ephesians 1 to 3. So that, chapter 5, you'd be filled with his Spirit, with a heart that is changed and transformed, particularly in work situations. to demonstrate the fruit of a supernatural gospel at work in you that makes you a servant, that makes your mind ready to serve. I want to serve my boss. I want to serve this company. I want to do what is best for this organization. That is seen in how you exercise or respond to authority. That you will obey your boss freely. With respect and fear with sincerity of heart. And talk more in a couple weeks about a little more what that means. But it means that you are set free to serve Because Jesus, who was above all earthly authority, the Lord of glory, became a slave and had a job. Jesus was given a job here. He had work to do. Messiah had a job description. And his job, his work, he said, was to be The Lamb of God to take away the sins of the world and to redeem a people by his blood to himself. And so he talks about that work. He works in the day before the night comes. He has a work to complete, a work to finish. And that work took him to Gethsemane where he had to submit himself in what seems an absolutely impossible and unreasonable circumstance to go to the cross for you. Is your work any harder than that? You know, one of the best ways to get a half hour earful from anybody today is to say, tell me about your work How's your boss? Reasonable, smart, competent? You know, I can't believe the stuff I've heard. You know, it's amazing. Do you know all my friends are are the most competent people in their companies? Everybody I talked to, if only the company operated the way they knew that it should, it would be predictable, it would be reasonable, it'd be orderly, and everybody would be happy. And for some reason it's beyond me that I've never been able to figure out, they don't operate the way all my friends think that they should. Because they have this insight. We all think today as Americans You know, you talk to the management and the people that worked for them are a bunch of incompetent boobs. You talk to the workers and they think that the hierarchy and those who are over them are all a bunch of incompetent boobs Do you know there is a guy who has become a millionaire just by connecting to that feeling and drawing it out? You know, Scott Adams? Now who know what what has Scott Adams produced? Dilbert, right? They're as good as the first group. Got it too right off. Scott Adams produced Dilbert. And Dilbert is all based on that idea. Now I'm gonna I'm gonna really discipline myself. I'm just gonna give you one Dilbert just as an example of what I'm talking about here. All right? Now uh you know if you follow this at all, there's ASOC. And ASOC is kind of the naive new engineer. He's gonna charge it in there, he's just gonna He's got all these ideals of how he's going to work and he you know he sort of assumes that things all operate by some sort of order and plan, you know. And um so usually the boss is the guy that's put down as really incompetent, but sometimes the boss gets his in. For instance, in this one where ASOC is uh in the boss's office, he says, Did you call me here to punish me? The boss says, No, no, ASOC. I want you to manage our annual business plan process. Oh, how do I do that? Well, first you beg your co-workers for information about their budget needs. Half of them will give you lies, the other half will ignore you, thus underscoring your own importance. Then you will combine the lies and guesses into a worthless ball of data for senior management. Then our CEO will make budget decisions based on magazine articles that he reads. He's walking out and there's Gilbert, you know, with his mug, and he Dilbert says, So how bad was the punishment? And Aesok says, bent over and says, worse than I expected. Worst thing to do, you see, is to be caught in the gears of all that, you know. Now, here's my point. In your situation where everybody's complaining and gossiping and saying this is all impossible. That is where your attitude and your heart as a Christian makes the biggest difference. When you don't enter into that, But you talk in terms of loyalty to what is to be done, a servant heart, and an attitude, an ability like my brother Who was talking about the security that I had, let me tell you where that comes from, and you begin to act and think as a Christian, God is most distinctly and uniquely glorified in that situation. I'm not saying if you're in an impossible situation, you never ought to get out of it. 1 Corinthians 7. 21 said to the slaves, if you can gain your freedom, do so. Sometimes you know you need to gain your freedom. But don't assume because it's difficult that you ought to just be out of there. It may be God has called you there in a distinctive way to make your attitude and your heart an offering of worship to Him. We are all Arrogant, slothful at times, self-seeking workers. But Jesus Christ has died For arrogant, slothful, self-seeking workers. He has given you his record of the worker who alone said, It is finished, I have accomplished it And he has given you that record, which you receive by faith freely. Now he says, as a masterpiece of my grace, go out this week. And right across the work that you do this week, Sola Dei Gloria. Let's pray. Father, we offer to you ourselves and recognize that so often we have simply looked at work and how it reflects on us Whether it gives us pleasure or frustration, we have forgotten it, the place where you have placed us is the place where we offer the gift of the masterpiece of grace to you. Lord, work in our hearts that we would be able to write by your grace the freeness and the forgiveness of Jesus Christ in transformed hearts. Sola Dei Gloria in all the work that we do this week because we love you and we want to serve you and not ourselves in Jesus' name. Amen