I'm going to commit myself to not cutting my hair, to wearing certain kinds of clothes, and to abstaining from any alcohol at all, because I am going to depend exclusively upon my God. Luke was an intentional writer, if nothing else. and disobedient are turned to wa to wisdom and to righteousness in a manner that prepares them for the Lord. Well, I'm mindful of the fact that that uh that choir put in a lot of work and really uh blessed us in worship. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. an elderly priest who had never been called on before to offer up the the incense on uh a great day of prayer, uh he's walking in, he's confronted by an angel, no doubt. and to call out for the deliverance or the rescue of Zion, the re-establishment of the kingdom of God as they understood it. And he offers up prayers on behalf of Jerusalem and the people of God. Zechariah, after his son John is born, says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And the other is kind of a clause attached to it by a word translated off an and. All of his fitness was perfect. And I'm going to knock on the door, and Carrie will have dropped me off or be in the car or go out to Starbucks or something, and I'll walk into your house. On the floor, President, I've reminded reminded, I spend my life reminding people. And help us to be salty and bright in this world that needs a real joy and gladness. If you've been by the church office, you know there's been a big uh well eight by eight by eight uh container that got delivered that has all my books and Lord, that it is precious. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. with a power beyond anything you could experience or imagine coming from another being. and to redeem his people. Deliver us. It doesn't say and you will be happy and glad. We're given two specific reasons. Your life can in some senses be described as a quest for happiness. whatever floats your boat. And what is it about the greatness of John the Baptist? And I want you to notice what Luke does here, because he does the exact same thing in the book of Acts. For my identity and in part my happiness. Look at this description. And the great signal in some respects of the fact that God is doing a work among us is that those hardest, most difficult, and yet most profound and necessary of relationships will be touched by the grace and power of God. And the people we hurt most deeply are so often the very people who share our DNA. And I'm sitting in my house and I'm I'm in pain and and I'm doing what I do best. Because we look back on the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, determined to have a ministry like his. That we abuse much to our dismay and eternal destruction. Stuff like that for my office in it and a group of guys while I was at Presbytery, not even helping, uh, came and uh unloaded that. Father, we pray that you would help us to, Lord, take the correct view of your word. And as this one text is read and as this one text is preached on this particular Lord's Day, Lord, we pray that you by your Spirit would do all things. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And these aren't subjects that the other gospel writers in your New Testament neglect or ignore, but they are of particular interest to Luke. Uh, Pastor, my teachers aren't focused enough on grammar and syntax. That's a uh talk about uh in California you can talk about your ride as a noun. You have that vehicle right there in the parking lot. who talks about gladness as a noun, as something that you will have. to go and have this great honor of lighting the incense on a great day of prayer. Zechariah has been through all sorts of feelings. The common experience, as it's described throughout the Bible, is one of absolute fear. Like Zechariah falling down. As they sort of serve as a key to something that text is trying to tell us about how God works in and through his people. Think all the way back to Genesis chapter 11. teach and to do and then he writes the book of Acts which is a continuation of that which Jesus continues to do and teach through his people through the church. of all of the props and bells and whistles that provide joy, and they do to some extent, but I'm going to be wholly committed and devoted to fellowship with my God, and that is it. Here is one who will be so full of the Holy Spirit that there will be no need nor room for other sources of pleasure. It's a word epistrefo, which is more to convert in the book of Acts. of rescuing that which was lost, of bringing back to God that which had strayed and wandered. You know, our lives are full of stories where we expect great things and we don't get them. have had very high expectations attached to us and have not followed through, partly because we can't Have people not quite fulfilled the expectations you attach to them. But he went before him and did the things God would have him do for the people of God in a way that is eternally comforting to the Church of Jesus Christ. That as we said earlier, Jesus himself would say, there's been no one born a woman greater than this man, John the Baptist. is affected where the rubber hits the road is as this compound turning or rescuing or converting of God's people in such a way that fathers' hearts are turned to their children. prepares them for Jesus Christ. This doesn't exclude you. I could perhaps preach a whole sermon in Spanish if I were, and I could say something to the effect that you are all hermanos in Christ. And so when he's talking about fathers here in this context, he is certainly referring to parents having their hearts turned to children and children to parents, because he's talking on the level of our human relationships. I'll share you a story that's happened to me many times in my ministry, and I guarantee you it's going to happen to me in my ministry here. There's going to be bad language. And then the phone is going to ring. gives us all that we need to grow and fix and restore even those relationships. Will be reconciled to your families. epicenter to the human experience and our horizontal relationships as they are affected by the grace of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. He has given his word and he has poured out his spirit. He is that forerunner that shows us what it's going to look like to see people full of the Holy Spirit like they would be in Acts chapter 1 utterly committed to this great kingdom mission that God has established in which He's going forth inviting people to repent and to believe because the kingdom of God is near. And the great warning, dear friend, is that if we neglect so great an offer and so great a promise, The land will be struck with a curse, as Malachi says, in the text so clearly referred to by Luke and well understood by John. who has become like us in Christ, who carried our burdens, who shared all of our infirmities. Not just against your family, but against the other people in your life. In the application section, which I'm in the habit of giving to folks when I preach, look at Psalm 103. We are a scaredy cat species. But the second most common, and these are forerunners, these are front-runners by by dozens, by hundreds of occurrences. Be committed to following your God with joy, depending upon Him and participating in this great mission. And is it that what John the Baptist did? And he's going to be a cause not just for you to rejoice, but for many to have joy and gladness. in meeting the deep, deep needs of his people according to his timeline, not our desires. Anybody else? And it is an exclusive calling. And there's a sense in which these things which should be to us a great source of joy and gladness are things that are And that preacher's mission was very simple. 100% in the flesh, as the uh mature Christians might say. And we've turned that into things like pornography. Well, if you have your Bibles with you today, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 1. I'm going to be reading for us from Luke's Gospel chapter 1, beginning with verse 11. As a deep consolation, as a warm invitation. And Father, we pray that the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to your word, Lord, bless that we ask humbly in Christ's name. And he goes from that to an invitation to rejoice. I have one of my commentaries on the Gospel of Luke, written over a hundred years ago now, makes the interesting comment that Luke is alone among the Gospel writers to talk about gladness as a noun. in the holy place, by himself, with all the other priests waiting and multitudes and multitudes of others praying outside for the deliverance of Israel. Now I want you to think about your life for a minute, or the life of Zechariah. And you will have joy and gladness. are the greatest values and idols of our age, some might suggest. But John himself, as the forerunner, shows us the immediate intent of the living God to redeem his people, and that is sufficient for our great joy. And he will not touch any fermented drink, wine, or it could be beer or strong drink, your translation might say, but he will be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, just as a passing note, the Bible nowhere condemns the use of wine or beer. But in the Old Testament, the Nazirites, a certain sect of people could uh and any it different people could be a Nazirite. That was in part the great sign of the Nazarite vow. in an unusual, unparalleled way. Because not only did we have here that the first grounds for rejoicing is that he will be great before the Lord, great in his commitment and great in his mission, but we have a second phrase. I want you to think about how many times you've been so, so excited that the NFL team you follow got a great draft pick. But one of the reasons we can have such joy and gladness as a possession is that the gospel, even in its first preliminary anticipations, The kitchen table, the family room, the backyard, and it grows from there. Who was lonely, hungry, thirsty, betrayed, abandoned, mocked, abused, beaten, murdered? But I want you to think about the deep joy that is yours if you have peace with God through Christ. And are given all that you need to have peace with your own family. And you say, well, Bob, what can we do about that? Help us to glory in Jesus Christ, a Savior of sinners like me, like all of us who have known the goodness of God. I am given everything I need to have joy because my sins are forgiven. And what a benefit that is. And the disobedient were turned to the wisdom of the just, learning to obey all that he commanded. Things like the great gift God gave us of sex for married men and women Now I know some of uh you kids bewail the fact that you don't have enough grammar in your education. A verb is something I'm doing or experiencing or feeling. But if I have a I meant to say riding in my car. And I want you to think about the evening prayer in the temple at the time of the turn of the great millennia in which Christ's reign begins. See, we know from the end of the book of Daniel that the evening prayer was a time when that incense was burned when God's people particularly gathered to ask forgiveness for their sins. And so that is specifically what Zechariah is doing when he goes into the holy place and he lights the incense before the Lord. at the same time as he provides for the great need of the nation. And you need to know this morning that you have been given everything you need to have joy. And it is easy to look by this text and think it's just sort of good for a Bible trivial pursuit game. We do what will make us happy. And the happiness that is afforded to us doesn't rest in the fact that we are great, but in that God has sent one to meet our needs who is himself great. Abstaining from those things in the world which bring great joy and delight, those things that are even good, like a five-star meal or a glass of highly rated Chardonnay. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And so John is going to come expressing God's grace by being mighty and great before the Lord, because he is wholly committed to doing the Lord's work. That's who this John will be. You know, it's one thing to have a lot of promise and to have all the tools, but it's another to actually perform the function to which you're called, is it not? And a year later you're thinking, man, we wasted that pick. Employers and employees. John's ministry before the Lord would be that of effective evangelism. He will lead people to repentance. where it matters most and it is hardest to perform. And I would call you to exercise it. to sing our songs and tell others of the blessings we've received. The most common command in Scripture is don't be afraid. Do not forget the Lord's. Have you repented and turned to the living God for the forgiveness of your sins? For example, I could be driving my car. Think about Zechariah and Elizabeth, and how they had no doubt prayed and prayed and prayed for a child, and they'd never had one. They've not been blessed with a child. By honoring the long unanswered prayers of his servant Zechariah and his servant Elizabeth, and provides for the great desire of their heart. The birth of John the Baptist signals this transfer of this precious gift of gladness, not just to Zechariah and to Elizabeth, but to others. Seasons of fear, deep anxieties, your hearts are troubled. I was going to quote him this morning as well, but now I'm going to sound like a coffee cat and I'm good with that, Pete. How we feel about something or how we perceive that thing is going to make us feel is of primary concern in the way most of us spend much of our life. to attain notoriety in some way, shape, or form, whether it be through good works or bad. We're driven, driven to get likes on our social media posts. And if shares aren't enough, we want followers or subscribers. constantly def to and points people to Christ, the greater one, the stronger one, the holy and the worthy one There's a sense in which that is something extolled by the living God. But wine itself in the Old Testament is a sign of God's blessing and pleasure and celebration and festivity. But instead, he's going to be wholly and exclusively full of the Holy Spirit. absolute spiritual dedication and commitment to derive all that he needs from the living God. As long as you are alive, you will be in a position where you will have a tendency to He will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. We don't think that's what we need, but it is precisely what the world needs. More than a retirement account, more than a family? We need the effective proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I know enough Spanish to know that that's a masculine form, right? Close? than it is for you to be the self-controlled, spirit-led, grace-filled man when someone calls whose name isn't even identified on your caller ID. inviting people to be restored in their relationship with their Heavenly Father and in their relationship with their earthly families. And the wonder of the gospel is that so great is God's love that he sent his people a preacher to get them ready for the coming of Christ. And in returning to God through repentance and faith, be reconciled to others, even your own family. And you think, Bob, you are a very great fool. to take hold of that which is ours. And functionally, they become more significant to us even than life everlasting, the forgiveness of our sins, the sure hope of resurrection, the glories of heaven. My goodness, I can be at peace with just about anybody, if they're willing. Oh my goodness. Make disciples of all nations. Not just to have a ministry like John's, but before that, that you have been called by a ministry like John's. Welcome and good morning. And that Nazarite vow saying, I am not going to entertain myself with the external celebratory rites and practices of my people. I want to plead with you as a gospel preacher. Shocked. But if I have a car, or if if I if I have, oh boy, I just tangled myself all up And isn't it something that the loving, gracious God shows forth his amazing grace? Cheer up, Christian. When it was completely absent when you were talking to your wife, it's harder for you to be the man God has called you to be at your own kitchen table. You see, if we choose not to be restored to the God who made us, who loved us, who has been patient with us, who is long-suffering, And he went nine months before singing a song. She went five months without telling a soul of the good things God had done for her. Often let the things of this life and even the godly and good sources of joy in this life, Lord, we let them become our everything. Luke is alone among the gospel writers and alone in the entire New Testament except for one text in Hebrews. And then Zechariah is invited to rejoice. And you are felled to the ground as if an angel appeared. He will be great before the Lord. The disciples are filled with the Holy Spirit and they conduct themselves in such a way that others think they're drunk. And yet his is not the final expression of God's desire to redeem. Partly because we won't. We talk about our great mission as being from Jerusalem to Judea to the ends of the earth. And Father, we pray that in every way you would bless us as your people St. Lord, as a promise, as a command, as an encouragement, as a rebuke You see, then you have it. In the presence of such holiness, what must the awareness be of our own frailties and follies? I want you to think about how you have needs, you have desires, and you've lived your life trying to provide for and supply yourself with those things you believe you need. And not only will he have a great dependence upon the Lord and an uncompromised, unswerving allegiance and commitment to him, but he'll be given a great mission. The great mission of the forerunner to the Messiah would be that he would come and bring about this repentance and a new obedience. You are more deeply disappointed in your children's performance, whether it's on the sports field or in the report card, than you are in the performance of any other kid. Why is that? We have forgotten how to be married. Father, open our eyes to see these beautiful things daily. But these commands that speak right to the heart of our condition make it so clear that we are fearful and forgetful, and we forget the Lord's benefits. Jesus Christ gave us one mission. People matter greatly, and the lost must be on your radar. God Himself invites you to come and taste and see His goodness. Well, if we were to think about the sort of emotional tone of that scene described for us in those verses, remember that's a scene where Zechariah. May that messianic age come. I want you to think now not so much about Ezekiel, pardon me, Zechariah and Elizabeth. I want you to know, dear Christian, that gladness and joy is a thing you can have. Luke chapter 1, beginning with verse 11, the Word of God. Throughout Scripture, God sometimes gives people names. And their biological clocks timed out. And then think about me as a Christian man going through a bout of melancholy, feeling sorry for myself. It's right there. Please join me in prayer. And the prayer that was heard. Imagine what you'd have to say to me if I said, man, I'm hungry. He didn't say that. And have joy and gladness as a possession, never more than a thought away. How often are you full of joy and gladness? Why is it that Zechariah is going to have joy and gladness? I see some hands. Bob. Luke in his Gospels talks a lot about feelings. That God would before the coming of the Messiah send a forerunner, a second Elijah, and that he would turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children's to the father, else God would come and strike the land with a curse. Why is that? God in Christ did all of this for you, so that he could pay the penalty for the sins you've committed. And in this evening time of prayer, Zechariah then sees an angel. But I want you to think about how if you're anything like me, you struggle with seasons of what the Puritans called melancholy, bouts of depression. gives John, and the first grounds for gladness is that he will be great before the Lord. His throws were spot on. Between these two commands, they outnumber all the other commands of God in the Bible. When we talk to a mixed group, we use the masculine form. And John the Baptist, as we're going to see, because John, who is the proof of God's grace, is none other than John the Baptist, who goes before the Lord. Oh, I thought I saw him over here. There's going to be stomping. And how often do we pursue this deep desire to build a reputation, to have a legacy? He will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. Almond Joys. I want you to think about how this has felt certainly when I was writing it. That is precisely what Zechariah recognizes God has done in Zechariah chapter 1, verse 68 Be careful. Lord, that it is necessary. So apart from the unstated surprise, we have great fear and trembling. It is harder for you to be a Christian man, guys, in your own home, than it is in many other places, if not all. The first one is this. And you open up my fridge and it's full of food. Earlier, Pete, our liturgist, quoted our founding pastor, Alan Harris. Many of you speak Spanish. And you're instantly going to say, hey, this is Bob. Wait, yeah, you guys are getting to be worse and worse Presbyterians the longer I'm here. And there's a twin, a twin sibling to this, and I would say it is greatness. And it was never intended that all of God's people should always abstain from wine. The two reasons given for why we're going to rejoice at his birth are one, for he will be great before the Lord, and two, and he will go before him There's a lesson there about the fallenness and the need of people like you and me. Do not forget the Lord's benefits in the very first one. And it is in those gaps between what you looked for and what you received that we so often find ourselves so deeply miserable. And think about this picture of fathers' hearts turning to children. We jump at our own shadows. There's going to be slamming stuff on tabletops. He's gone from great probably pride and satisfaction at having been selected by Lot. Rescue us from our sin. Happiness and its uh its uh steroid riddled cousin pleasure Sometimes just because we don't, for reasons we might not even know. You have everything you need right here. You have the ride. You have the keys for it. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. What motivated the ancients to build that Tower of Babel? He said, don't create states. What was the prayer? Utterly, exclusively, entirely committed. I want to thank all of you who are so active and so many things happen on a given Sunday morning and throughout the week to make our worship service possible. We have two things that seem like weird statements. And now you're looking anywhere in the world to pick up a different quarterback so someone can throw the ball better. Is over there? As we're going to see next week, Zechariah didn't. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. It says you will have, you will possess, you will own joy and gladness. He reconciled the hearts of children of Israel to the Lord their God. And those are the things we see in the coming of John the Baptist. I want you to think about what the Bible teaches about wine. And in our culture, we've forgotten how to do family. And then, refusing to forget the Lord's benefits, remembering all those things you've received from ministries with more detail and clarity, even than John's. This ends the reading of God's Word. And if you're a youngster or an oldster and you're filling out the bulletin blanks, greatness is the attribute of John the Baptist, and it is a cause for us to have gladness. That guy had everything. Why is it that the first murder was a man killing his brother? Let's start with Zechariah's life, and then we'll take it home to ourselves. Remember, Jesus Christ himself said, there is none among men born of women greater than John. We've forgotten how to be dads and moms. Driving is a verb. For John, the one whose coming signals the grace of Yahweh. And I would be inclined to agree with them. Stop looking in all the wrong places. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. Like so many others in Scripture, falling down, sometimes as though dead. Your brothers in Christ. You have everything you need to not be hungry right here To recognize that I've been given gladness. And in today's world, you are told to do whatever makes you happy and to pursue whatever fulfills you, which basically means more or less in many cases. It could also be but, it's a contrast, but he will be filled with the Holy Spirit. Yeah, I should always be careful of what I think I see. Oatmeal Raisin Cookies. And the multitudes are praying as well. Things like alcohol, but also things less benign, like drugs. And they are now of great age. And I I'm just pitching a fit. I just can't get enough of that. It's temporary. God sent John the Baptist. Now we've already had a reference to this in the first half of this text that he would turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Amen. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. Okay, let's cancel the word full for a minute. And here, John the Baptist is going to live his entire life. And I've reminded many young pastors, pastors I have mentored, pastors that I'm peers with. God never said, Pastors, I want you to build really big churches. And Father, we pray that you would help us to receive what you have said So whenever you need to go riding or take a drive, I'm complaining and arguing. You know where the gas station or the EV charger is. And whenever he does, it's very important to know what those names mean. Why is it that we have so much trouble being consistent and loving the people God has blessed us with most closely? Preach repentance and invite people to return to God. Help us daily to take time to remember our benefits. I'm at peace with God. You will have them. So many of us and so many of you, and at so many times in my life, even I are looking for so many other things to make us happy and give us gladness. It's likely the case that they quit praying that prayer a long time ago. Earlier in the service, Pete Floyd in leading the worship read for us the very last words of the New Testament. Husbands and wives, parents and children, siblings. I might have to interpose myself physically between you. We find a million reasons to stay home and hide in every way possible. If I were fluent in Spanish, which I am not by a million miles, But if I have a ride It's a word for becoming a follower of God or being restored to a relationship you have lost. He didn't say that. Lord, you know the needs that each one of us brings. Your prayers have been heard, the angel says, and you're going to have a son. See Daniel chapter 9, and the prayer recorded there. I want you to think for a moment, and it is entirely providential that today is Sanctity of Life Sunday. You know, Luke writes the gospel, those things that Jesus began to Drunkenness is condemned in no uncertain terms. That's how Hebrew and Greek worked. Full of food. For he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And of course your natural response would be probably much like John the beloved disciple in the Revelation falling down. God is gracious. We want to be great. John the Baptist by his ministry would accomplish something so radical And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And you need to know that the great prayers of the people and the greatest need of your life has been answered. The angel, we will later learn next week that his name is Gabriel, says, Zechariah, your prayer has been heard. Everything. What's going on? I hope you all are taking notes. Invite them to be converted, to follow Jesus Christ, and teach them to obey all that I have commanded. But it's a different quote. Lord, that it is highly exalted. And his greatness is going to be an absolute Well, the first place in Jerusalem it starts as your home. Elizabeth didn't Fear not. That's the car you own. But if I were speaking just to the ladies in the church, at say women's Bible study, I might call them hermanas in Christ. But chiefly against your heavenly father who made you. Thank you. He talks a lot about being glad, about being happy, about being sad. One is he must not drink wine or strong drink. You know, I'm I'm just uh hungry, ornery. Father, we confess that we In the temple. To turn, this is not the Greek word that many of you know for repentance, metanoia. And because I've learned of this wonderful thing called forgiveness and repentance, And we focus so much on don't lie, and don't get me wrong, don't lie. Now, if you or I saw an angel, I dare say it would be a pretty hair-raising experience. But these things are written to us to spur us on towards good works and to encourage us. Have you decided to stop pursuing happiness and all of the good things God has given? Nouns tend to be things that are possessions, as it were. It's an action word. They are calling out for the Lord to visit. And it's even food I like. They are nouns More than clean water, more than access to medical care And how often are our hearts slow? Truly anybody. Jesus said in the Great Commission. We see his grace there and his creativity And there is a lesson there for us. We've forgotten how to be kids and siblings. The second one is remember, be very careful, remember, do not forget, remind one another, this cluster of commands. The very first benefit. It's a regular complaint. Clearly, Jesus drank wine. Heavenly Father, we pray that you bless the reading and the preaching of your word. The confrontation with the holy You weren't born a Nazarite, you would take a Nazirite vow. I also want to thank all of you guys that helped unload my office pod. And as verse 25 says, they suffer the scorn of the people. And that's precisely what John the Baptist is going to be empowered to do. My birthday's in July. How often do you have even a modicum of joy and gladness? And the fact is that God has done everything needful for that to be accomplished. It's felt like a kind of heavy sermon. Why is it that many will be able to have as a possession this joy and gladness? Not only was he great before the Lord Uh and I'm being just Forget not all his benefits. But he did say, as you're going, whatever it is you're about. What happens in the beginning of Luke in chapter 1? Don't forget the Lord's benefits, dear Christian But there's a difference between a noun and a verb. They were specifically gathering to say, Lord, It's just the muscle I am refusing to exercise. They also call it a uh uh a whip, but don't know why they do that. I want you to think about yourself. How many of you remember hearing Alan Harris say, whenever you see a four, look to see what it's there for. I would dare say that many of you, and I myself I'm going to get a call at some point and go to one of your houses. We have utterly neglected that great institution God established in the Garden of Eden. I'm starving to death. His combine scores were great. And you and your spouse are going to be fighting as if to raise the dead. Be courageous. Thank you very much for that But it's more than that. And he is going to be given this incredible mission. And you do have it. Suddenly, self-control reappeared. You're ready to go. It's just the beginning of God's final redemptive act. He didn't say that. And lastly, dear friend, it is my hope and prayer that you have been called. And the name John in Hebrew would mean Yahweh, the Lord, has been gracious. We're to praise God for wine which gladdens the heart of man. We ask these things in Christ's name. We want to be happy. I am at peace with God and He loves me because Jesus Christ is my Savior. It's going to be terrible. But there is something here that is very important. You see, as you're reconciled to the living God, you necessarily And that at some point in your life someone came along and said. A possession that is yours. And Psalm 103 is one should be ingrained in our back of our eyelids. Stop looking there. But when we look at this, we have to see it as the Old Testament fulfilling sign that it is. He didn't He made wine. Now moms, sit up straight. Jesus said he would build his church. Amen. Snickers bars. At this very evening, burning of the incense. You shall call his name John. Yahweh is the Old Testament name of God, the Lord. And if likes aren't enough, then we want shares. He forgives all our iniquities. His 40-yard dash was incredible. And I want you to ponder something I shared with you a couple weeks ago. His first rate miracle in Cana. And one of them is certainly happiness. And it feels a little heavy right now. Now what happens in Acts chapter 1? You would say, For a season in my life, think of it as fasting in a way. They wanted to make a great name for themselves. I am going to be 100% full, not just. There's going to be murder in the air. He said, don't build me nations. Now notice the language. What has it gotten you? John the Baptist comes. I know that's probably a lot of you because the Raven's won. Amen. What he told me to do is make disciples. And many will rejoice at his birth. Don't commit adultery, and yes, do not commit adultery. Yahweh the Lord has been gracious. Let that sink in. The hearts will turn to their father. Don't be afraid. Am I getting this right, Jaime? Well the way this