And which of us, if we're expecting company, don't ask them, hey, are you going to have eaten dinner or can we feed you when you get here? So it would have been something of a chore to take that bar, that large beam, and remove it so the door could be opened again. And I think of all the times I asked, I sought, and I knocked, and God said, No. The depravity, the fallenness of our condition is such that it taints everything. And if we would open up, you will come in and have fellowship with us. Lord, help us to remember that Scripture is your word. And have no respect for the clock in your approach to the living God when you cry out for things like your daily bread for the forgiveness of your sins. But he says, I tell you, ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be open to you. You won't be told to go away. And then he says, with respect to the fact that you will be answered, you'll be received, you'll find, you'll the door will be open. In the ancient world, dogs weren't pets. He's not being mean. Uh children of wrath, enemies of the living God, you need to be redeemed. and I could take my points and get some kind of tchotsky or something. And I would invite you to consider that this text speaks to you as well as it does to me when it says, you though you are evil. As one of my favorite Puritans said, there is more evil in a drop of sin than in an ocean of suffering. Please join me in prayer before we read those verses. You are the God who has spoken. And he will answer from within. For every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and the one who knocks it will be opened. Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. How much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Well, this morning I want to submit to you that there is an internal logic to this passage, and our Bible is right to put them all into one section rather than to break them out as if these are just sort of For all we know, it's it's it's a parable, it's fictitious, it's like, think about this. you know, early Judais, uh uh Jewish context from the first century. They've arrived and you're expected as a host to provide them with food. And the fact that it is likely that if he had the temerity to knock on your door at midnight, he's going to do it again if you don't answer. I am invited to come to God and say, God, here I am again. At a time very inconvenient, he sets that up as something to be imitated, and he immediately talks about what? You ever notice the connection? There is an unnecessary verbosity to this phrase. The one who is repeated three times when grammatically it only needs to appear once. And there is therefore an invitation to be that one who with boldness comes before God, doing all those things, asking for bread, seeking out your neighbor, knocking on his door to get him out of bed. God will answer your prayers. does not appear to be concerned about calling a Syrophoenician woman a dog. And the angels in heaven will rejoice. To give us the Holy Spirit afresh and anew. First Sunday of every month, there's a whole section of hymns in which we say things like Spirit of the living God fall fresh on us. and perseverance? I always calculate, well, I think their budget is about $50. And say, I would have your spirit. Lord, it is in your word that we see redemption. Lord, bless this reading of your word to us. We ask in Jesus' name. And and and is there an internal logic to them that might help me understand something about prayer Before we move on with the narrative, you might want to know Jesus said a couple of other things about prayer. Because God answers prayer, and God is good. It was not unusual for people to arrive after a journey at someone's home late at night. And the people writing about this a hundred years ago said, well, during certain times of the year, you traveled as the sun was setting. And I I understood this a little bit. We're pushing, we're getting close to 60. Well, there were seasons of the year where that was evidently how people operated in in Palestine, in the Levant, the land of Israel. And so when we look at this account, we have to recognize that there's something of a failure of the host. Let's get in our time capsule and go back 2,000 years. You can't pretend you didn't hear him. Jesus is connecting this to prayer, and he's suggesting that there is a sense in which we should pray, I'll use the word boldly That the gospel spread and Jesus Christ be exalted and obeyed as King. And say, help me God. Neither can I say it's God's fault. Here I am again, Lord. Jesus goes from telling this story about someone who asks, knocks, and seeks at midnight for something they should have provided for themselves to have for their host. Clear references back to what has just been stated in this short parable about the host who knocks at midnight on his neighbor's door. There is an emphasis on the one, on you, you who ask, you who seek, you who knock. I can honestly tell you that every time I've prayed, I've gotten an answer. put in one of those one of those cans. But I honestly can tell you from this platform this morning that I fully expect it when I get to heaven And then what Jesus, the Son of God, is teaching about prayer. A serpent, a viper, a reference to something dangerous, untamable, and toxic, or poisonous as the case may be. Eaten by dogs is one of the worst things that could have happened to you. And you see the difference Jesus is working in here? You know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more? Who convicts us of sin? where he will respond to your return, bringing nothing but shame and failure. He is far better than our earthly fathers, the best of whom have sometimes given us less than good gifts. Be our Savior, be our King, be our God. And comforting us. Sanctify us, grow us, give us victory over our besetting sins. And Almighty God, we pray that if we have never drawn near to you, we've never knocked on your door, we remember that you yourself, Jesus, say in the book of Revelation, that you are knocking on our door. I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence he will rise and give him whatever he needs. Now, some of you know that as I prepare sermons, I like to read widely, and I have several uh academic sources from 100 and 200 years ago that really place these different events in the life of Christ in their ancient Aramaic. And so it's the middle of the night, and the whole family is already tucked in. quote unquote, provide you with the three loaves of bread, and answer you. Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. You know, everything about this text would make perfect sense if he didn't include this statement that I'm evil. Yeah, there's something to be observed here about Jesus Christ. working in the life of his people, isn't that where we most and best experience protection, provision? Well, Lord, what have I done for you lately? That they would know the comfort and the fellowship and the power of your spirit as you yourself give us peace, restore us to relationship with you by uniting us to Jesus our Savior. It's easy to think that way because it's easy. And outline that is really a sentence that breaks into three parts, each of which we'll look at separately. Pray with boldness, because God answers prayer, and God is good. And after she graduated from college, my wife and I went to help her move into her first apartment. It felt nauseous, and we had to go hang out in a restaurant with air conditioning until uh until the sun started setting, and then we worked again. We will find the door will be opened. What I've learned from over 30 years in different kinds of ministry is that when God says no, that is a precious gift. I only, you know, you all know I have tunnel vision and really physically see very little. So the thing that I think I need and want more than anything else, and I'm begging God for, God might see a bigger picture and say, Oh, Bjerkus, it'd be an unmitigated disaster if I gave you that. Pray with boldness because God answers prayer and God is good. Calling people, referring to people as dogs, just straight up telling them they're evil, telling them they're vipers. Even the twelve, whom he's speaking to right now. And isn't it in the action of the Holy Spirit exercising his gifts and graces as God, the third person of whom That is living water, that is you And they didn't pay us a penny, but man, they got their money's worth out of us. We own it, we accept it, but Lord, another part of us would reject it with every fiber of our being because we would be holy even as you are holy. And he said to them, Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And sort of like this is sort of the etc. Certain times of year where they they would not travel during the hot part of the day, but would rather arrive sometimes after the sun had set. Uh some of us do, but we need to be broken of that very quickly. Or protection from temptation. It's a big statement. You know, this last section of the sermon, and I've been looking forward to this. Have you ever like dared to experience a non-sequitur or an interruption in your reading of the Bible? Do not be like the prodigal son of Luke 15 and think, well, maybe, maybe, just maybe God will receive me back as a slave or something. There's a long tradition in Western Christianity that is well represented in the Trinity hymnal that this church used to sing from, and in fact we still were singing from it again at our Sunday evening service to which you're all invited. Yet, how often do we come and say, Oh Lord, fill us with your spirit afresh? Don't stop and think, well, what do I think I qualify for? Because your God answers prayer, and he is good. Do we really recognize that in a sense all of our prayers can be compared to the neighbor knocking on the door at midnight? And I tell you, ask and it will be given to you. The assumption in the day before cell phones and the ease of asking such questions was that you'd have something to offer them when they got there, whether they arrived at what we would call 9 p. Midnight. We should pray, recognizing that even when we are at fault and are in need of forgiveness, we should make it our mission to post-haste go to the door of God and start knocking. We should flee straight to the one who can provide us with the bread we need and start knocking. Be bold in your prayers that the kingdom of God would come and that he would be hallowed and praised, glorified by people near and far. And connected to our great and glorious doctrine of prayer, you and I are able to think, well, we should do all those things. That your pastor is in absolute terms compared to the wisdom and the foresight of the living God, I am profoundly blind there as well. Why did you have to go there? Saving faith offers a completely empty hand to receive from God. Word canod, same root. We are evil, he is heavenly. The one who, by his unique function, unites us to Christ and fills us with grace, gives us gifts, makes us fruitful as we abide in Jesus, who comforts us. He is the one who gives us the greatest gifts. Not just for protection from temptation, but do we ask him, as Jesus invites us to right here, do we ask him But the filling and the movement and the working of the Holy Spirit is something that we are invited in Scripture to ask for. And I I think it was illegal. Pray for the Holy Spirit to come and fill you anew. Convinced that you are good. If I had in my coffee cup here, if I had just a little bit of cyanide. Help your spirit to fall anew and afresh upon us, to break us, bend us, mold us, make us Whose fault is it? Don't bother me, the door is now shut. Get up and give him the bread, not because he's your friend, but because of his impudence Asking for bread, because he would provide for his guests. Yes. And one of the reasons I am so certain that God's answers are worthy of my praise because of this last point. Jesus Christ never hesitates to call fallen humanity out for their fallenness. Perhaps you're here and you don't have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And I would invite you, dear friend, become a Christian today. The houses we live in are one-room houses. You pray with boldness because God answers prayer. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Cheapness. It would still be unacceptable. And so the host goes to your house and he knocks on your door. Impudence is not generally considered a virtue. Isn't it something of an impudent act for someone as fallen and broken and messed up as your pastor to go before the living God? And I might not be able to experience or appreciate that in a way that's going to perceive me perceived to be happy or content. No, he wants you to come walking right back to the homestead, right back to the ranch, right back into the church And are we humble and confident? We come with nothing but humble hands knocking on the door of God at midnight. This morning I'll be reading what Jesus says about prayer after he teaches them the Lord's Prayer. We were cooked by the time it was ten. You think, well, well, no, but full stop. The living God is able even to give the Holy Spirit the source of true life. Your Heavenly Father tells you to come before Him boldly An observation about that text. What an amazing thought. That when I think about what I perceive my needs and my wants and my desires to be, what I see is just the tiniest part of the picture and it's usually fuzzy. And that keeps me asking. Pray with boldness. Have you ever read a text like that and sort of thought, well, this is kind of like Luke had some other things that he remembered Jesus said about prayer, so he sort of threw them all together there at the end. But on this side of heaven, I have to remind myself that God does in fact answer every one of my prayers to his glory and my eternal blessedness. He's making a statement about what we bring spiritually to the table, which, dear friends, is nothing. A whole section of prayers asking, O Spirit of God, have your way with us, work in us, fill us, move us, call us. I'm a very cold and calculating person when it comes to birthdays and Christmases. Boy, that's a tough ask. Whether we think it's midnight, whether it's a random day in the middle of the year or Easter Sunday itself. And you might say, well, that's not been my experience. Your God gives good gifts because he is good. Do we as Christians boldly ask our Heavenly Father, not just for bread, not just for forgiveness? In fact, I I might just do that. He doesn't tempt me or lead me into sin. You won't be defrauded of what you might expect from a father who is in heaven. Amen. So it's a little late, but not completely unheard of. Please provide for me. He'll knock louder. Because let me ask you this question. It was like sweatshop type work. And Lord, while you speak in all creation, and we see truths of your glory and your wisdom and your power in the universe, in the cell, and DNA, in nature. Do not bother me, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. No. This isn't just some new random saying on prayer being grouped together topically. And to one who seeks finds. They were kept outside of the city. We like dogs. I would have this living water. How many points? Who walks beside us? Isn't that where we are at our best and safest and most joyful and most comfortable? Your kids don't come and ask for bread and you give them something that's going to kill them. Give us your Holy Spirit that we might have life. Lord, hear our prayers, because we come boldly, knowing that you answer. Some translations say locked. He's saying that you guys, you know what I think of human nature. And depending on how many points I had, I could get like a plastic pocket knife that had a big spoon attached to it, or a canteen that I could string over my shoulder. One room, not one bedroom, one room. What can I pray for? If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. And in the preaching that follows, Lord, we ask your blessings on that as well. I like dogs. Many of you know I have four kids. And ask even for the greatest, most outlandish thing you could ask for: the presence and active work of God Himself in your life. Our daughter is a grade school teacher in Phoenix, Arizona, a place known for its balmy afternoons. Why do you have to call me out as evil in the middle of teaching me about prayer? They they belong outside the society with the dogs. Lord, we are here and we stand ready. If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, And he says, You, you twelve, Peter, James, Andrew, John, you who are evil know how to give good gifts. You must be forgiven. And so you're going to get up and give him the bread. From an academic point of view, as I sit back in my office and I look at the Greek text and I ponder at the Aramaic that was behind it, and I read my commentaries. And they didn't even pay me money. We pray in Jesus' name. And th then he says, he he says, and he's talking about fatherhood of God. Again, not something that is particularly tameable or friendly to have about the house. And I would I can remember looking through that catalog and thinking, well, I got fifty-eight points. It's easy to not stop and think, does this passage, this collection of teaching on prayer that are clearly connected by the conjunctions used? And not simply because it's a good exercise in humility. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 5, the Word of God. And to that end, Lord, give us your spirit. It's my own fault. Here I am again, Lord. And I would simply respond, hasn't it? It can nowhere be said that Jesus Christ does not think that the human condition is desperately broken in need of rescue. Almighty God, we thank you for your word, and we ask that you bless it to us. Be bold in fleeing to the one who invites you to come even with impudence. Later. We see your covenant. And what I have learned as a Christian from 40 years now of walking with Christ, more than that, 45. When I was practicing this yesterday, I was all excited, and I might get all excited again. That's why the Greek philosophers called people that were tend tended to be sour pusses, they were called cynics. Now, when Jesus says things like that, Jesus makes it clear: if you do these things, if you boldly come asking, seeking, and knocking, those things will be done. It keeps me knocking. , or a bunch of jumbled footnotes or an addendum to the Lord's Prayer. If Jesus here pivots to this three-part proverb, it rings like a proverb. Sin is worse than that. And that didn't mean not attractive. Come boldly, knowing that He answers, and He is good. How much more will the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Please forgive me. Every single time. Who has fellowship with who we are. I would have this hope eternal. We're in a village. You must be reconciled with God. We had to take a break. That would have been just a bar across the door, hung through hoops attached to the frame on either side of the door. And Jesus says, which of you will not? When your pastor gets in trouble, 99. Which of you has a friend who comes and knocks on your door, and how are you going to respond to this bizarre request in the middle of the night? When I am standing on the other side of that great Jordan River, and I look back on those times, God said, No, I will marvel at his wisdom and his love for me. When I was a 12-year-old boy at Harper's Choice Middle School, I had a paper route. Seek and you will find. They're grown. Life has its ways. The living God Himself will get out of bed Even Jack. We in our fallenness know how to give gifts that can merely sustain human life. They paid me like points. Perhaps you're here and you're trying to work out your salvation and your relationship with God based upon any merits you perceive yourself possessing. And it's not enough to say that you're mostly good. That's how we're invited to pray. Think about what it could have simply said. He says, What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent? Jesus invites us to pray with boldness by telling a story. Impudence is not generally considered, hey, when I grow up I want to become impudent. It's my fault. Did you know that the same is true spiritually? Don't. My wife and I are empty nesters. And to the one who knocks, it will be opened. So someone's showing up, and now all of a sudden all of the ancient Near Eastern rules about hospitality kick in. Sometimes we theologically in doctrine say, well, I have the Holy Spirit because I'm born again, and that is absolutely true. Wouldn't it be great if one time I said, you know, Dad, I'd really like for you to pay off my house. Amen. Lastly, I want to invite all of us here to consider this question. And that internal logic can be represented by what I'm offering this morning as an outline. Protect me from temptation because you know I'm weak. And Jesus does not hesitate to call out even his apostles. And Lord, it is the foundation for our life and of our knowledge of who you are. Trying to like rub my nose in it? And that answer has been one of three things. Ask Jesus for forgiveness. We were so parched and exhausted, not used to that. But yet with a fearlessness that is brazen And Jesus says, for everyone who asks receives. It could have been the one who asks, receives. You don't do that. We see that offer of life. Asking, seeking, and knocking And there's a raised platform in one of the corners where the entire family sleeps. And even in your fallen state. And it turns out And we showed up and we started working at 7 o'clock because we were told it gets hot. And suddenly, hey buddy, I need three loaves of bread. Be bold. And every other month or so I'd get this little catalog. I cannot get up and give you anything. And you might think this is kind of weird. If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts. And God Himself says, You come and ask me for myself, and I will give myself to you. We are knocking on your door and we are saying, Lord, hear us, forgive us for our sins. This ends the reading of God's Word. Jesus Christ He's making a statement But what's this about my children with me in bed? You're fallen, you are by nature It keeps me seeking Let me experience this for a moment. You won't get ghosted. Jack is one of my dogs that's more difficult to like. Knock and it will be open to you. Be bold in your prayers. That's the idea there. Yes, there are some things you do that are good, but And if you remember one thing from this sermon, remember this sentence: pray with boldness. Why? And whenever I have been asked by my parents, what would you like for your birthday? And Father, we pray that as many as come to you asking for salvation would find it and taste and see that you are good. That's kind of got my attention. Sin is worse than any poison or toxin you could ever imagine. I would invite you to impudence. Everything that I've ever prayed for, God's response to my prayers can be That meant someone of moral Do we humbly acknowledge the extent of His grace and goodness to us? I know that we look like we're in our early 30s, but that's not the case. The host is unprepared. But when we get down to it, there's a sense in which the boldness of that request Make it memorable and useful, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent? Now, what's unusual here is it's very specifically said in the middle of the night. Here is that sentence. It might happen He will respond to that return with a cloak and a robe and a party. It's somewhere between Galilee and Judea. I can't w I cannot say about a single thing in my life, oh the devil's, it's the devil's fault. Give to us anew that spirit that is life, that is breath. And that has had its way with our souls Because we will receive. Doesn't that comfort you? Dogs were not valued. What can I get? Acknowledge your sinfulness and even your evil. 9999% of the time, plus. He says, Pray our Father. And you who are evil know how to give good gifts. Pray with me. He is not evil. What can I get? It's an extension of the thought. It may have been original to Jesus, it may not have. So we're going to pick up in verse 5 of Luke chapter 11. And I don't care if they tell you, oh, it's a dry heat. God is preaching about prayer. I used to deliver the Columbia Flyer. Will we ask him for the Spirit Just a touch. Dogs are mentioned as a a curse that will lap up the blood from Jezebel. The heart of the saints' great desire. Do you ever feel that way spiritually? But here, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. Almighty God, we acknowledge our evil. He seeks and finds, knocks, and it is opened. I still like him. We bring nothing to the table. How much more, your Heavenly Father? And it's Sin Stuff that a twelve year old boy needs. You remember that? I'm not gonna give you that. How much more your Father? m. 001% That was the bed. or at 1 a. It's a heat. m. Be blessed.