You can turn with me to Philippians chapter 2. We're going to be looking at verses 5 to 8 this morning. I am very excited that we are digging into this passage as we begin Advent in a few weeks. This passage this morning really is a whole paragraph, verses 5 to 11, and we're going to break it up into two sections. I'm looking at verses 5 to 8 this week, and Dan Pastorelli will be looking at verses 9 through 11 next week. But what I love about it in light of the Christmas season as we go into that, we're going to be looking at Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. for this Advent and Christmas season. We're going to be looking at particularly of this phrase that Matthew says. He says, all this took place. And he's recounting story, he's recounting family, he's recounting, dare I say it, numbers He's recounting God's faithfulness to his people and the culmination of the Messiah being born. And I love it in light of the looking at our series in Philippians, our our joy that is in Christ. We're seeing something that is profound and counterintuitive, that's in the gospel of Christ, that brings about our unity, it brings about our joy. It it it has a a reframing of even how we would navigate the world with a sense of steadfastness And he gives us a path to follow, and that's what we're looking at this week. We're looking at Christ's humility, and then next week Dan Pascarelli will be looking at Christ's exaltation. So hear now from God's word, from Philippians 2, verses 5 through 8. Having this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God as thing to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the form of the servant being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we rejoice in this gospel. We rejoice in the person of Jesus, who is our Savior, and we rejoice in the work of our Savior, who is our salvation. And we ask, Spirit, for your help as we look at your word this morning. Illumine our minds and our hearts and knit us together in your love. And help us to know how you lived and died and were raised for our salvation so that we might share in that life, death, and resurrection as we follow in your footsteps. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Earlier this week, I went to a regional meeting of churches in our denomination. And uh a friend of mine uh from grad school, he was the preacher for for the morning worship time. And uh he he he made this passing comment. Uh I thought it was really, really captivating and interesting. And he drew attention to the very famous, the very wonderful song by Bob Marley, Three Little Birds. You may know it from its chorus, everything's going to be alright. And uh, you know, it's just it's very simple song. It is it's it's very enjoyable, it's upbeat, it's uplifting. It's full of imagery of, you know, rise up this morning, smiled with the rising sun, three little birds perched uh pitched by my doorstep, singing sweet songs of melodies pure and true. Saying, this is my message to you. Don't worry about a thing. Everything is going to be alright. It's great. And as my friend pointed out, however, the song itself gives no reason why you shouldn't worry, or by what power that you can stop worrying. This past several weeks, as we've gone through Paul's letter, we've been looking at his encouragement for joy. His encouragement for unity, and he calls Christians to be of the same mind. But he really begins to open the lid of our heart, doesn't he? He by calling us to that, being of the same mind, we have to ask, how? How can we do that when I want what I want and you want what you want? And those things often conflict, do they not? Paul encourages that Christians must do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count yourselves more significant. than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. These were the preceding verses, particularly verses two through four. We heard it earlier this morning, but James gives us something to consider in chapter 4, verses 1 and 2, about what might undermine unity. By asking this question, what causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. Now, the rally cry for unity is not unique to Christianity. Political parties call for it. Sports teams pursue it. Organizations conduct research and and surveys and write books and have white papers and everybody's trying to understand how unity works in in teams. But we're always faced with those challenges and obstacles where we have to navigate different personalities. We've got to negotiate competing interests. There's breakdown and there's divisions. And these things can just lead to just outright quarreling. They they certainly contribute to the breach in relationships that can be on one hand, cold and isolating or hot and explosive on the other hand. Well With unity, of course, it you have to pursue a common goal. You have to have a unified agreement of how to move forward. And if all humans are working together What is so special about Paul's call here to the Philippians to be of the same mind among themselves? And so as we look at what we're going into here in chapter 2, Paul is first giving an illustration. The whole passage really is unpacking how we are to have this mind among ourselves. He's giving an illustration by telling us more about Jesus. And it's for this reason, it's because Jesus is the ultimate example. we must have a Christ-formed mindedness. And so as we look at this passage, I'm going to divide it up into two main sections and then we'll have a kind of a third point to draw it together. But first, we're going to look at Jesus' nature. So it's because of Jesus' nature that we must have a Christ-formed mindedness. And this passage highlights two mysteries about Jesus. That the scriptures reveal about his nature. One, his pre-existence, and two, his incarnation. So let's first look at his pre-existence. First off, what does that mean, right? As you look at verse 6, Paul describes Jesus as being in the form of God. He is stating something about his divine nature by attempting to describe the reality of his being God. Something which the Bible teaches and certainly historic Christianity holds fast to. Upon Jesus' resurrection and upon his ascension. The first disciples came to understand more fully this divine nature of Jesus. As one commentator wrote, He had prior existence in the form of God. Though that doesn't mean he was like God, but not really. But that he was characterized by what was essential to being God. Jesus himself said this in John chapter 17, verses 4 and 5. Jesus said, I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. Again, he says earlier in John's gospel in chapter 8, verse 58, Truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. Paul, in his letter to the Colossians, he says this in verse, chapter 1, verse 15, that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. The writer of Hebrews says he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. So there's something mysterious that we are learning about Jesus' nature. I don't understand it fully, but it's something that we are confronted with as we are seeing the revealed Lord to his people and trying to put those things together and making sense of them. Paul goes on in verse 6 that he says that Jesus did not count equality with God as thing to be grasped. Now what he means absolutely hinges on the word to be grasped. Now the word can can mean violent seizure of property, you know, as to take something by theft and robbery. The word can describe the action of a person claiming a position, claiming or asserting a title by grabbing and kind of holding fast to it, you know, even by force. But the word can also take on a particular nuance of grabbing or using for gain or advantage. And that's more of the sense here in the context. Paul is actually presuming that Jesus is equal with God. But that he doesn't use his equality with God as a means to hold on to such glory and such privilege for his own gain. And we'll return to this more later, but it's important to interact with what Paul is saying about Jesus' nature. So his pre-existence, his divine nature, but but Paul goes on, he's telling us something about Jesus' human nature, his incarnation. In Christianity, incarnation refers to the living God, who is eternal, who is spirit, actually embodies humanity, and enters into time and takes on flesh. And where do we see this in this passage? As you look at verse 7, Paul describes Jesus as being in the form of a slave. Your translation may say servant or bondservant. slave is more appropriate for its uh grittiness and its rawness of what he's painting the picture of. He also links this this these phrases of being in the likeness of men and being found in human form. There's a lot of wonderful poetry that's happening, play on words and parallelism, and so many people think that this passage is a hymn. or at least poetry. And there certainly are elements to that. And if if I really wanted to step into that, we would be here for hours because over half of the literature on Philippians is about this passage. And we're not going to go there because I think what Paul helps us with is a direction of anchoring this to why is he telling us this? And it's because he's pointing us back to how we need to function as a community of Jesus followers. of having this mind amongst ourselves. Paul is saying something truly with this profound rhetoric. He's associating Jesus being in the form of God, but also in the form of a slave, being equal with God, but being found in human form. As the likeness of men. For the Greeks, they knew stories of their gods, sometimes taking on the appearances of humans. But it was usually for their own vanity. It was for their pleasure at the expense of manipulating either the fortune or the pain of other humans. But their gods would only take on the appearance temporarily. Their glorious gods could not stand by being limited, suffering the humiliation of remaining a common human. Paul is saying something even more controversial to the sensibilities and the morals of the Greeks. Our God became human. He didn't just take on the appearance and then and and and that was to trick us and then he's really some form of God. He he became man. And even more controversial, our God takes the form of the lowliest caste in Greco-Roman society, the form of the slave. The early centuries of the Christian church, they were working these things out. They were trying to understand these mysteries. The Council of Chalcedon in 433 A. D. , the Gathered Church there affirmed the following statement. We all with one voice confess our Lord Jesus Christ, one and the same Son, at once complete in manhood, truly God and truly man. Consisting of a reasonable soul and body, of one substance with the Father as regards his Godhead, and of one substance with us as regards his manhood. Like us in all things apart from sin. The church is working out and making sense of God. Christians follow Jesus as Lord and Savior, and we still worship one God in three persons. And so we're wrestling through how this makes sense. Jesus Christ is one person with two natures, his pre-existence as the second person of God, and his embodied existence as a human. Fully God, fully man. Just sit with that Do you want to turn on football? Do you wanna do you wanna kind of say I my my you know my eyes are glazing over? Like I ha how can I even grasp that? How can I Fathom the depths of that. Well, on one hand, we can't, but on the other hand, we move to praise, we move to worship of this great God. And so for us We are to believe that these are true. We are to believe what Paul is saying about Jesus' nature. And so at the at the very basic level, it's wrestling to understand them more fully. And so we meditate on these truths from Scripture. As we think and ponder and wonder about these mysteries. We explore Scripture. We understand how it fits together. How, because nowhere in Scripture does it explicitly say the Trinity, the Word Trinity. But we're trying to understand the comprehensive nature of what Scripture is revealing about God. Do we ponder? Do we meditate on these things? We seek the Spirit's help to grow our understanding of these things, and we expand our imaginations of God's nature. And we are moved to worship, moved to worship Him all the more in praise and adoration. And we go from meditating and dwelling on these things, these beauties, these mysteries, but we then move into our actions. the very kind of um choices we make, the way we go about our lives as we imitate these truths from Scripture. And of course Jesus has a unique experience from us. He has a divine and human nature and we we only have a human nature. Though we are in Christ, and the Apostle Peter writes that we will become partakers of the divine, we are not, we do not, we will not, we will never take on the divine nature ourselves. And though Christ is in us and he shares in our human nature without sin, we are born in our human nature, made in the image of God, yes. Reflecting beauty and glory, yes, but we are born into a sinful, fallen condition. But being made alive, being made free in Christ Jesus, we are to follow him in his way. We have a Christ-formed mindedness to see the ways Christ is in us and how he propels us. To walk in love, to enter into the full condition of our humanity, but also the full condition of what it means to be human for others. And as Paul Miller writes in his book, The J Curve, we not only believe the gospel, but we enact the gospel through our lives with other people. It is truly mysterious. As the world experienced Jesus and his public ministry and the disciples knew him firsthand and their friendship. People had to grapple with understanding how this religion can be one of worship of one God. They experienced his miracles, they heard his teaching, they witnessed his death, and they saw his resurrection. What do you do with that? Dead men don't rise. Men are not to be worshipped, even good men. But they knew Jesus both rose from the grave and is worthy of all worship. This passage reveals something about the very nature of God that we must understand in our mind, our the very forming of our opinion, the very Holding fast to what it means to have a lens, to see the world through the lens of Christ is to be formed by Him. And so we move on to the second part of this passage as we look at it this morning, that it's it's because of Jesus' actions, in addition to Jesus' nature. But we're going to look at Jesus' actions here. And here Paul talks about two main things as well. As we have this mind among ourselves. But having our mind in this way, our response is dependent upon these two. First, look at verse 7. It says that Jesus emptied himself. Some English translations say made himself nothing or made himself of no reputation This phrase has created much discussion and debate over the years. What is the extent of Jesus' emptying himself? For example, There are people who argue that this is to show that Jesus is letting go of divine nature, that he's rendering void somehow of these aspects of his essential qualities and characteristics of his divine nature in order to become human. And we briefly touched on that earlier, but But it's key to understand that he didn't consider it, that equality with God to be grasped. So it hinges on that word, as we mentioned earlier, to be grasped. And in the context and flow of Paul's argument, I don't think Jesus is emptying himself in the sense of divesting himself of some part of his divine nature. but rather divesting himself of the prestige, so to speak. This is shown as Paul contrasts these two forms, form of God, form of a slave. Because he is not grabbing equality with God for selfish gain and selfish ambition. He is opening himself up to take on what it means to be fully human. to be fully human. And so it's it's it's less about emptying himself as in subtraction of the divine, but but more as an action necessary for the addition of the human. Likewise, the second action that certainly goes along with this emptying himself in verse 8, he humbled himself. Remember, as we are talking about having this mind, that's what's in view of this whole passage. Christ's humility, his humiliation, Christ's glory, Christ's exaltation. The things that Jesus is doing, and the things God the Father is doing. And that'll be discussed more next week. But But this passage is having this whole passage is in that context. And some English translations may say in your Bible, have this attitude. Which back in verse 5. Which isn't wrong, of course, but we have 2,000 years of Christian witness and teaching that refrain humility as a virtue. Okay? Who who um doesn't look to a person that shows humility and we say, wow, they're humble. That's awesome. But we have 2,000 years of history that has reframed that gut response to seeing someone exercising humility. So it is an attitude of the mind, but it's more than just an attitude. Because being humble is more than that. It's not just the attitude, it's just not a character trait. Verse 8 is saying that Jesus was humble, yes, but it's amplifying it with his action. He's humiliating himself. The action is causing someone to lose status, to humiliate, to lower, and here Jesus is doing that to himself. You see, in the Greco-Roman society of his of the day that Paul's writing to, they did not seek out opportunities to lower their own status. or willingly accept any experiences of humiliation. A Greco-Roman person of the day, especially men, actually sought to do the humiliating of another. And they did whatever it took to avoid it from happening to them. Perhaps and and only in a few occasions it was encouraged. in Greco-Roman society to to kind of show homage uh to the emperor. So in effect you would be doing kind of services of humility. But this was for public rituals that were directed at Rome and to the allegiance of the emperor. And so Paul is going further with this imagery that he's painting about the mindedness that's formed by Christ in his people. compared to the mindedness that shapes the world of the day that the Philippians would have been interacting with. Jesus' act of humility was was further demonstrated by obedience. Obedience even unto death He conducted his life to the glory and to the will of the Father. He actively knew the point of his public ministry, and he willingly accepted the path and that it would what it would take to accomplish it. Paul goes further still. Jesus' act of humility is demonstrating that obedience unto death, but it was scandalized by the death on a cross. It seems repetitive in English to say, okay, yeah, we did it. He died. He was obedient to death. Why kind of have a flourish of even on a cross? Well the the correct Roman mind would have known what that meant. You see, uh Celsus, a second century Greek philosopher and uh uh an opponent to Christianity, had this to say about God dying on a cross. God does not suffer. God cannot be humiliated. It was unfathomable to put those things together. Deity and humanity, much less deity and passion. Cicero, a Roman statesman and a lawyer and a philosopher, he described crucifixion as a most cruel and disgusting punishment. In other places Cicero would suggest that the very mention of the cross, the very word cross should be far removed not only from a Roman citizen's body, but from his mind, his eyes, his ears. And elsewhere he said this, it is a crime to bind a Roman citizen, to scourge him, which is the physical beating part of the process, is a wickedness. To put him to death is almost paraside, which is akin to killing a father or a relative. You're killing a statesman, you're killing a fellow brother of the empire. This is a crime to do this to a Roman citizen, he says. He goes on, what shall I say of crucifying him? So guilty an action cannot by any possibility be adequately expressed by any name bad enough for it. And here Paul is flourishing with a pen, glorying in the cross. Greco-Roman society would have would have had a category for death, being glorious, even virtuous, but that glorious death was for Rome or for personal vanity. It was an act of self-will to rise above and to demonstrate that oneself is not weak, that's not a coward, that's not a slave to your fears and your circumstances. And so it would have been socially and culturally counterintuitive to the Philippians to read these words from Paul of what he's saying about Jesus. Jesus acted out of his will to go lower. And he demonstrated himself to be weak, but not cowardly, as he did not avoid obedience unto death. Even death on an instrument reserved for the lowliest in Rome, slaves and conquered enemies. A Christian missionary uh told a story about his time in a village in Africa and and I apologize, this story is third hand, so I I don't remember the name of the particular people nor the particular place. of this village. But due to the conditions of where they lived, this people, they would dig very deep wells. And they would have these shafts, you know, big enough for a person, and they would go very, very deep to access the water. Now, these wells would still, even being very deep, they would just barely seep. And so you couldn't just drop a bucket and have a pulley system and and and bring up the water. You actually had to have someone go down the well shaft. So they would cut these holes in the shaft, kind of like a ladder experience going down. And someone would scoop up the water and then climb back up. One day a man went down to get water, and as he was climbing back up, he slipped. He he fell and he got hurt. And there he was at the bottom of the well, and he could not climb back up on his own. So what did the people do? They ran to their leader. They ran to the to the chief, the king of the village there, and he he came out of his house. with his his ceremonial garb. He was strong in stature and certainly carried a kingly status about him. And what did this leader do? He went to the well and kind of assessed the situation. And did he say, hey, you, go down and get him? I'm the king. I don't do this kind of work. No, this this village leader took off his headpiece. That was the glory of his role and status in the village. He took off his beautiful robe adorning him, and he himself descended down the shaft. His feet and hands becoming dirty as he climbed, scraping the walls with his shoulders getting further scratched up and messy. He knelt down beside this fellow, he picked him up, and he climbed out of the well. Was this village leader Any less glorious, any less kingly without the accoutrements that show his status and position. Absolutely not. If anything, he was all the more glorious for who he was and what he did. Now, of course, this illustration falls short because he was a mere man to begin with. But it is an example for our minds to understand how one person having two natures, so to speak. Is engaging with this passage. This man, this village leader, did not assert his status, did not assert his rank for gain and advantage. He willingly emptied himself and humbled himself. to enter into the condition of this man at the bottom of the well. And this man at the bottom was saved because of the nature and the action of the king. And the king's joy, the man's joy, of course, and the rejoicing, the celebration of the village, we're all watching that day. It was completed in the sharing of it together. As we look at this passage, one commentator said this: Paul both states the equality and the substantial unity of Christ with God. But then he goes on to describe one way in which Christ expressed his deity. He did not exploit a status. But manifested, manifested it in humble service by becoming a slave and a human being What I love about Paul's letters, and whatever situation that's going on in the church that he's writing to, Usually he says, this is your situation. Let me unpack that a little bit. And then let me tell you about Jesus. And that's what he's done in this passage. So for you listening here today, perhaps you are experiencing spiritual dryness. Maybe you have personal disillusionment and you're not experiencing that sense of thriving or that sense of connecting what true joy is with having this mind of Christ. One of entering into the condition and the plight of the world, this intentional humbling yourself, this being obedient to demonstrate the love of God. There's all kinds of reasons that might be the case. We might be dry because we don't see it in ourselves. We might be disillusioned because we don't often witness it in the lives of others. But do we not do this? We demand it of others before we put ourselves on the hook. We become frustrated that it's not happening in the lives of of Christians that we know or or it or it falls short. of what's happening in the church at large. And that may be there's a proper place for analysis and consideration of those things. But the passage today is calling us to reflect upon Jesus' nature and Jesus' action. If we just sit back and we just analyze and we critique and we look through things, always seeing but never perceiving, we're not engaging with what the Lord has for us in these moments. We're not off the hook for not reflecting why it might not be happening in us. Or in our more local community as followers of Jesus. So, what do we do Well, the good news is we receive this by faith. We receive Christ's selflessness. We receive Christ's humiliation and his humble servants. We receive his obedience. In the work of our redemption. We receive that by faith. Praise the Lord. And in Him we have forgiveness of sin. In Him we await the renewal of all things. But we, in the meantime, are also called to model Christ's selflessness, Christ's humility and obedience, with an utter dependence upon Him as we labor in love and witness the Christ in us. We do that for each other, and we do that to a watching world. This mind that Paul is calling the church to is ours in Christ. The last thing I want to do to kind of hold those two things together is just that it's because of Jesus' invitation that we must have a Christ-form-mindedness. Now this isn't directly taken from the passage, but it's implied. And so let's just review a few things about having this mind. The word means to think. to give careful attention, to set one's mind on, to form an opinion with regard to something. That formed opinion shapes attitudes, it shapes opinions, it shapes decisions, it shapes motivations for how to make future decisions. that are in keeping with the formed opinion that you have. Paul is putting Jesus as the ultimate example for the Philippians. They are to understand his pre-existence and incarnation as playing out for their salvation. And they are to live Christ in their present-day existence by imitating this path of incarnation as it plays out in their vocation as believers. Our very calling is to be with Jesus and to be sent by Jesus. And so Jesus is inviting us with his own words. Matthew chapter 16. 24 to 26, Jesus is telling his disciples, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? Mark chapter 10 verse 45, in three cycles of this kind of denying yourself and Jesus is going to be condemned and Jesus is going to experience the pains of the cross. Jesus has this mind, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus, we learn in Acts chapter 20, verse 35, how he says it is more blessed to give than to receive. Romans 5, verse 6, for while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. Verse 8, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Verse 10, for if we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? And of course, this invitation is captured well by Paul in his letter to the Corinthians, second letter to Corinthians 4, verse 7 to 12. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. Always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. We have this thing in our life. Sensibility, it's a Western sensibility, it's a very American sensibility. But we have this thing that we love to think about, which is happiness. The General Social Survey has been conducting a survey about general happiness since 1972. And they ask this every year, taken all together, how would you say things are these days? Would you say that you are very happy, pretty happy, or not too happy? Since 1972, the results for Very Happy have consistently been around 33%, with 31% in 2018. So the other extreme, the results for not too happy have been consistently around 12% with 13% in 2018. Jumping ahead to 2021, the results for very happy is down to 20%, and for not too happy is up to around 24%. I might add that the middle range, the generally happy, pretty happy, is pretty consistent since 1972, but these extremes have fluctuated since just 2018. It's the first time since 1972 that very happy has exceeded pretty happy. You see, as we've looked at this passage, as we've kind of surveyed some of history, the Greeks, in their philosophy, sought to rise above the flesh and conquer the self. Eastern religions seek to diminish the self and kind of suffer the flesh to absorb into oneness. But both are just as guilty as we are in our tactics. We want to be happy. We want to avoid pain and we want to engage pleasure. We create systems of thought and rhythms of habit that seek to emphasize one over the other. Or we seek to do a cost-benefit analysis that might be associated with our choices. Humans are inquisitive, are we not? We are creative. We are storytellers to explore truth, but we tell lies to exploit others We craft beautiful art and we engineer marvelous tools, but we also build terrible weapons to wage war on each other and destroy. We contemplate the mysteries of the cosmos and we explore its wonders to understand our world and our place in it. But we also distract ourselves with pleasures to avoid our pains that disconnect us from true lasting joy with our God and with one another. You see every society, not just Christians, every society does theology in some form We grapple with mysteries of the cosmos. We try to understand the dynamics in our relationships with one another, and we may try to reflect and meditate and understand the complexities of our inner selves. Whether you think the divine order can explain the material world or not, whether you believe the human animals bear the image of God, our Creator or not. You are engaging in the great questions of life. How you answer some questions lead you to answer or to ask new questions to explore, and how you answer those questions directs you and really begin to shape out how you see and interact with the world. Brothers and sisters, we have a different vision here in this passage in Philippians this morning. We must have a Christ-formed mindedness because Jesus is the ultimate example for us His very nature, being fully God and being fully man, makes it possible in a way that we cannot in our own His very actions of emptying himself and humbling himself bring about the way we experience his very reconciling peace. between us and God and with one another. But it also provides the very path that we are to walk ourselves for his glory. But that the very the motivation is what's changing. Christ is the example, but Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit is what propels us forward in love. May we, Columbia Presbyterian Church, have this mind among us. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we give you thanks and praise for your mysteries. I don't understand, and yet I know it to be true, and I praise your name. Lord, help us to be a people who have experienced firsthand of what it means for you to humble yourself. With great intention, with great motivation from the very character of your love. Help us to receive it by faith and help us to walk it by faith as well. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please