As Rick stated earlier, we're continuing in this series, The Foundation of the Vital Church. And he was quite right in saying that the love of God in Jesus Christ is the found one is a part of the foundation of the vital church. And I also think you're quite right that the superstructure, that sounds like an inspector language. But the building that is built on that foundation will be built and ought to be built on the love that we have For not only fellow Christians, but even for enemies I have the opportunity this morning to preach from a text that preaches itself. And so I want to be careful not to add more to what already is a perfect sermon. But as I read it this morning, I'm quite aware of the fact that these verses are very familiar to you. Perhaps you had them in your wedding. Perhaps you've heard it in weddings. But either way, this text I recognize is one of those New Testament passages that are very familiar and well loved. So I'm going to ask that God's Spirit would open our eyes afresh this morning, that we could hear it. And that his Spirit would even begin to apply this word to all of us, even as it is read. So here now God's word, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verses 1 through 13. I'll begin reading in the verse, the end of the verse of chapter 12. And now I will show you the most excellent way. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding gong or clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have faith that can move mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flames, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not rude. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I w reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. Now we see but a poor reflection as in a mirror. Then we shall see face to face Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love. Will you pray with me? Our Father, who is love Who has given us your love through your Son Jesus? Come, Holy Spirit. That we would begin to recognize again what love is And enable us to respond to this word because you have first loved us. I pray for the entire body of Jesus Christ worldwide and for this particular church here this morning. That we would become by your design and power a community of love. Help us, we pray, and help the teacher. In Jesus' name, amen. In the state of New Jersey, there's a diner every mile. A lot like my growing up where there was a waffle house every mile. But it's interesting that when you go into a diner by yourself, the things that you recognize, not that I have to go into diners by myself very much, but when I have, inevitably there is a couple there. You've seen this couple. They appear everywhere when you're looking. But this couple is sitting at a table. And they're eating their food. They're going through the motions. An odd word might be said But there is no life. You see the rings on their fingers. And if you sit back and you imagine for just a moment. What was their wedding day like? The children that they probably raised. And you see that after years of being together, they've settled They perhaps have settled for just going through the motions. How many times have we heard this passage? And how often when we're honest that when we come to church, knowing we've heard this passage. And we treat one another, we talk to one another as if we're just going through the motions. That on one level, it looks like we're relating. But if we were to scratch below that very thin layer of skin, We would see that our love for each other oftentimes is born out of routine and not choice. And that when we begin to offend one another in various ways, that love becomes even more superficial. The smiles on our face are there, but the loving concern for another is not. God is not pleased when we go through the motions. We can be a growing church. We can have our orthodoxy and our doctrine so exactly right. We can persevere in the midst of persecution, but we can do it without love. Do you believe that? By way of introduction, I want to share with you exactly that church. Now you may be thinking, I'm talking about Corinthians. If you know anything about the letter to the Corinthians, they were an absolute mess. Praise be to God that that's in the Bible. Right? You know, I mean seriously, it's comfort the fact that God, by his design, allowed his apostle Paul to write two, maybe three letters to the Corinthian church. And it's all here for us to see. But there's another church which you may not first bring to mind. We learn about this church in Revelation, but we first learned about it through Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Hear now Revelation chapter 2. To the angel of the church in Ephesus, right? These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your deeds. Your hard work and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men, and that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. You have persevered and have even endured hardships for my name, and have not grown weary. Who wouldn't want that as the description for your church? But it continues. Yet I hold this against you. You have forsaken your first love. Remember the height from which you have fallen. Repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place. But you have this in your favor. You hate the practices of the Nicolaitians, which I also hate. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. Here we have the scriptures describing a church that stood But had forgotten its first love. Remember what we read earlier in the pa in the service? When Jesus was asked what are the most important things, Jesus said, To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. The one is the response to the God who has loved us, to love him back. The second is the fruit of what that love looks like. The fruit of loving one another. What I want us to do is to look at this passage from 1 Corinthians 13 as a way of encouraging us to evaluate how is our love? What does it look like? And so you'll see in this morning's outline the necessity of love, the character of love, the permanence of love. Let's look together, the necessity of love. Look again at First Corinthians chapter thirteen, verses one through three. He says, if I speak of the in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, if I have a faith that can move mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give poss I all I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flames, but have not love, I gain nothing. I He's talking about the necessity of love. But we need to be careful here because He's talking about the necessity of love in two quick ways. He's not saying first, love instead of gifts. He's not saying that the if you have love, you don't have to worry about the gifts. But what he is saying is this, that love ought to be in addition to, acts of love ought to be in addition to the gifts that you demonstrate. In the church, in your home, in your workplace. You see, this was a problem for the Corinthian church because they were using their gifts as a way of puffing themselves up. And they would compare themselves to others in the church who didn't quite have their gift set. She's just not very good at leading a fellowship group. You know, he does not know how to pray out loud. Simple things, the gifts, things that you can demonstrate. Paul is not saying here that love should be done instead of the gifts. He's saying it needs to be the gifts that you have expressed in the body of Christ. and acts of love. Because to have the one without the other makes the one irrelevant Is that simple? It's that simple And so when we use our gifts, we need to think about them in light of are we using our gifts in such a way that it is being done in a loving way. An example that comes up within the Corinthian letters is the fact that they are using the gift of tongues but are not considering the fact that there may be those within the body of faith are attending worship who have no idea what is being said. And so the question is, is that a loving expression of a gift? Not what is being done in that case. But what was not being done and what was not being done was a interpretation or a translation of those tongues in a way. that people can understand. Additionally, they were using their gifts as if the gift was an end and of itself. And therefore missing the fact that the gift, all the gifts that are given to you as individuals and given to the church, are for what purpose? to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Your gifts of speaking, your gifts of administration, your gifts of service. Your gift of encouragement, your gift of discernment. Those are great gifts, but they're not an end and of themselves They are to be used as an act of love towards the Lord, and to use them in such a way that you love others. Let me put a little bit finer point on this. If you have the gift of discernment Where you're able to, by God's wisdom, as you hear someone speak, you can perceive what is going on in their lives that maybe they can't see, and they're coming to you for wisdom. You can use that gift in such a way that is completely crushing. You can communicate what they need to hear. by way of confronting them for something that they don't see, and you can do it in words and in tone that completely cast judgment on that person. Or, let's say you do give that loving advice and you give that concern, you give that discernment to them, and and they receive that, but then you go home or you go to another and you say, I was meeting with so-and-so. Wow, you won't believe what they struggle with. Or, let's say you have the gift of discernment, see if this sounds familiar. Have you ever talked with someone else in this church about somebody else in this church? And you say, you know, the way they spoke to me, what is going on with that? And the person you just told that to responds, yeah, that's just the way they are. That's just their personality. Let me ask you. The person who noticed the way they were being spoken to was incor w what in an incorrect way was correct. Yes. The fact that they spoke it to someone else Marginal. How are they going to deal with that? Did they name names? But secondly, how did the person respond? Yeah, you know what? That's just their personality. Is that a loving use of the gift of discernment for just the sake of argument? Probably not. Uh no, I'm gonna go fr. It's not. It's not. But I'm gonna bet, without you raising hands, that many of you probably had a conversation like that. Let's just be honest. But he says here, the problem is not the gift. The problem is that the gift is being used with also loving. But then he goes further to not only talk about the necessity of love, but also the character of love. And he does this both in a positive and a negative way. Notice the positive. Look with me at verse. Verse 4. The first to two, love is patient, love is kind. He's stating that in a positive way. In other words, he's saying that love is both forbearing or patient. But it is also what? Kind. In other words, it is merciful. And do you know what he's showing us in that positive statement about what love is? He's showing us the anchor. Of every aspect of love. It is God Himself. For what do the scriptures say in the Gospel of John? God is What? Huh? I'm gonna make it the point is, what could not describe the greatest message ever heard Is God quick to anger? No. What does the scriptures tell us? He is what about anger? Those of you who are visiting, we don't always do this. This is a pop quiz. The point is that God is patient And he is merciful. So the point is, the one, if you will, is passive. God is patient. But even in his patience, God is active. He what does he do? In his patience, he also declares his kindness. It's what the whole point of Romans is about: that while we were yet his enemies, Christ. Died for us. God is patient and He is merciful What Paul is describing here in looking at love in its description is pointing us to God Himself, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, and their love also. Amongst themselves. If God is love, then as Paul defines love, here is pointing us back to the God who has shown us what love is. Can you put back up the the first John passage for me? First John four nineteen. Since I don't have it right here handy for me. Thank you. We love because He first loved us. He first loved us. Can we not drill that into our brains? Love is patience, love is kind, God first loved us That is the positive description. And in that positive description, Paul is pointing us, anchoring us in the fact that when we talk about love, we cannot help but talk about who God is. But there's also the negative. And what he's saying is, what love is not? And he gives us seven verbs. The first five describe the church at Corinth. Now just quickly going through these. Envy. It does not envy. In other words, it is not full of rivalry, competition, and strife. If you've ever read the first letter to the Corinthians, there's one way you can describe them. They were competing They competed against Paul because they called his apostleship into question. They competed against each other because they were deciding, well, I'm better because I follow Paul. No, I'm better because Love is not boastful. In other words A loving person is not a windbag. They're just full of their own description of what they do, can do, or don't do Pride, it it is not proud, it's not arrogant. Okay, we have a southern phrase for that. Bless their heart. But let me go back to what I often hear too, right? That's just their personality. It's the same thing, right? Think about it for just a moment. When we say that there's something that is not in line with the gospel about another person, and we say it's just their personality, you know what we've just said? We've just said Arrogantly, we put ourselves in the place of God's seat and said, they're beyond gospel change. So why bother? Love is not rude. It is not shameful. It doesn't say things that are shameful. And rude and give I'm gonna pick on pastors for just a moment. Some of you have heard about this prayer at a recent NASCAR race. I know who you are. See, you know what I'm talking about. In this prayer that was an invocation in the name of Jesus Christ, this evangelical, I think gospel preaching pastor took it as an opportunity for stage art. And described his wife in what everybody was laughing, but really just a rude way. He was quoting a film. A film in which there is a prayer at the dinner table. And it is such a deconstruction of what real, honest prayer looks like. He took the opportunity To take the name of Christ and turn it into art. And yes, it got laughters. Yes, it's gotten millions of views on YouTube. But I was ashamed. But I also confess I laughed because I know in my own heart That I can believe in the grace of God, but I can also be bound up in kinds of humor that do not please him. But it also says it is not, and and here's one crescendo in the whole text, it is not what? Self-seeking A person who is loving is not looking for self-gain, worth, or justification As a born-bred people pleaser who's given to easy self-defensiveness. This one hits me between the eyes. Because at the moment when something is pointed out to me, as I'm honest with my own heart, and I become defensive What I'm doing in that moment is I'm not loving the other person. I'm trying to build a wall between me and the other person because I don't want them to see me as I really am. And secondly, I'm not allowing my Savior to shine through me to the other person because I don't want the fact that I have fallen short of his glory to be exposed. And I'm not allowing the love of God to work. So in that moment, I'm seeking self-justification. Love does not seek self-gain Do you feel it in yourself when you are in the middle of a project with a team at work and somebody asks, oh, who came up with that idea? You said, Well the team did, but I Or put it like this, Tim was sharing with me a story when he used to work for the National Security Agency and he worked in in the office of his boss. He noticed that there was a a file cabinet drawer at the bottom and his And his uh boss would say, You see that drawer right there? That drawer right there has a key that only I have it have the key to it. And in it is everything that only I know. It's called job security. Because I know they can't fire me because I'm the only one who knows that stuff, and I want to make sure that it stays that way. Now that's a sort of a bold expression, but that's what self-gain looks like. Love is not self-seeking. And then as if he's folding back to where he was, he says, love does not delight in evil but rejoices in the truth. I apologize. It is not easily angered. And he keeps no record of wrongs. Back to that idea of being patient. You don't struggle with patience, right? My daughter this morning spilled some water by accident. But do you know I was in the middle of preparing something that I had to print out because I couldn't get to my office. I was getting ready for my sermon. And I responded to her spilling the water as if she just threw a million dollars in the fire. I completely overreacted, and then I got in my car and I'm driving on 32, and I'm remembering this verse. Why? It's so I had to get on the phone and I had to say I was completely wrong. I'm a work in progress. And if you're a Christian, you are too. And as we read this passage and as we read these words in description of love, can we just begin to be honest with the fact? That if we were to take our names and plug them in here, how would it describe us? Would I be able to say that Randy is patient and kind? I do not envy, I do not boast, I am not proud. How would you do if you plugged your name in there? I personally find that a very convicting exercise. But he moves on to the permanence of love. From its character to its permanence. And for the sake of time, I want to just describe here when he says, love never fails. And then he goes through the description which has been read and he's describing the gifts. And what he's doing is he's giving us a view of the end. The gifts are not eternal. They have an end. When Jesus comes again, these gifts that are given will no longer be in need. But though the gifts are temporary. What will last is love. And what is so humbling about this permanence of love is just how it says. Listen to Paul's words. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me, but now we see but a poor reflection as in a mirror we shall see face to face. He's saying that even in some ways our best use of our gifts Are imperfect. And I can't fully see, though I know the end will come, though I know Jesus will return and make all things right, I will be fully known. But even now, even with the gift of grace, Even with the work of Jesus Christ on my behalf, I still see imperfectly. But But, he says, now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. He's drawing these Corinthian listeners and readers to the point of having them look in a mirror. And he's holding up this word, and he's saying, You think that the exercise of your gifts is what brings you honor, you see falsely. You think by the one that you follow makes you better than another, you see falsely. By the use of these gifts selfishly, you are using them falsely because you are doing these things without love, which is the one thing which will be eternal. It is in the words of Bono, lead singer of U two, it's the only baggage we cannot leave behind. So for this church and for us, I want to bring you to one point of application. And then to conclude after that. This week, a friend and fellow seminarian of mine, Anthony Bradley Wrote in World Magazine a commentary called Be the First to Love. And he said some very convicting things. And he says this. He says, one of the profound distinctions between Islam and Christianity is that Christianity is centered on the chief command to love. But this is not but is this how Christianity in America is known? I wonder how a commitment To cultivating a Christian culture of love would affect the way believers are received in the Western world. That is increasingly hostile to Christian ideas. And then he says these words, and these are the words here He says, what if conservative Christians operated under the principle to show love first when engaging target adversaries? like political liberals and progressives practicing homosexuals and pro-abortion advocates. But then he turns the other way and he says, What if progressive Christians on the left use the principle of be the first to love when engaging conservative Christians who hold to classical Christian commitments. Progressive Christians claim to be different than the mean conservative Christians. That is, until you read their books, blogs, tweets, and Facebook postings about the Christian right. We're getting ready to go into a very long, protracted election season. What does love look like at Columbia Presbyterian Church with a diversity of political views and practices? Can I press in for just a moment? This is where I'm going to meddle just a little bit. We're a lot closer to Washington than I used to be. We had a diversity of views at the church that I pastored. But I had people who were on the left leave our church. because I wasn't left enough. And I had conservatives leave our church because I wasn't conservative enough. My hope is you will never know how I vote. Because it doesn't matter to the gospel. Let me meddle just a little more Is it possible for you to be a Christian and to vote Republican? Yes. But being a Christian does not equate being a Republican. Is it possible for me to be a Christian and vote for who will likely be the Democratic candidate, Barack Obama? Yes. But being a Democrat doesn't make me a compassionate Christian. When we allow politics, when we allow choice of education, when we allow how many children we have, When we allow whether or not you're married, when we allow all the stuff that Christians get so tied up about. Become a central thing. We leave them out of the area of implications of how you might live your Christian life. according to the Christian freedoms afforded to you by the New Testament. And we make them central to the gospel. And when they become central to the gospel, we begin to divvy out who we will love and who we won't, or how we will love and how we won't. Now you may fire me after this week. But let me say You are a Christian. If you are a follower of Jesus, you are a Christian first and a citizen of this country second. I'm not saying they don't inform. I'm just saying let's not make citizenship and how we live that out central to the gospel. And there are a whole host of other things which we could apply, but my time is short. But I encourage all of us. To take a moment and ask, how are we loving? Can we put Columbia Presbyterian Church and plug in those definitions? I don't know. But I know how I stack up. And I need God's grace. I need the gospel to continue to work. Let us pray that God would make us a community of love. Our Heavenly Father, I pray that you would begin now to make us a people centered on the gospel, a people convinced that you have first loved us. And we in response love you. And we in response seek to love one another. We confess to you this morning, Lord. That our love, stacked up against these definitions and these descriptions, falls short of the glory of the way in which you've described love. Lord, we need you this morning. And what we need We need for you to remove from us the thin veneer of what we call love, which really is just being nice. Give to us genuine acts of love for one another beyond shaking hands, sharing a cup of coffee, and a smile, and asking, how are the ravens doing? Lord, we confess that we have confused niceness with love. We confess that we have confused Christian companionship. With deep Christian love in relationship. But Lord, I pray that by your Spirit and your word, that we will begin with confession, and that you will clothe us. With this kind of love through your Son Jesus. And by your grace, empowered by your Spirit, enable us today to begin to walk in a renewed way. And I pray that you would renew us as the body here at Columbia Presbyterian Church to be a community of love. Not only for us, but for the world, for the sake of Jesus. In His name we pray. Amen. Okay, so here's here's what some of you may be wondering, which is why you should come back next week What happens when you're in relationship with one another, with your neighbor, with your coworker, and something happens that radically challenges your love for that person. It is called forgiveness. What does a community of forgiveness look like? Please come back next week so we can continue the story. Now let us worship God together as the worship team comes this morning.