Please be seated. You have your Bibles with you this morning. Please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 2. This morning I'm going to be reading for us the third Advent prophecy that Matthew, speaking by the Holy Spirit, wants to bring to the attention of the church so that we can understand Christmas. Better. Let's pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word, and we ask again and again that you would bless it to us. Lord, as often as we come and read your word individually in our homes, as families around a dinner table, Lord, as a congregation or a Bible study or a class, Lord, we we ask that you would help us. We freely confess that this is indeed a holy book. And we also confess that we are not holy, not in ourselves. And so we depend upon you, O God, to enlighten us. Give us eyes that see and ears that hear. Give us hearts that are yielded to a truth that sometimes contradicts Some of our most cherished desires and deeply held opinions. Lord, help us to become men and women after your own heart who Not only speak your words after you, but live in light of them. Bless the reading of your word to us. And Father, in the preaching that will follow, and as much as it is faithful, we ask your blessing on it as well, else make it quickly forgotten. We ask these blessings in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. Matthew chapter 2, beginning with verse 14, the Word of God. Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious And he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old and under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Rama. Weeping and loud lamentation. Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they are no more. This ends the reading of God's Word. So how many of you have a crush scene set up at your home? Pretend you're Baptist. You can raise your hands. I see a couple of hands. A couple of you have crest scenes at home? Okay, how many of you have in your crest scene a little porcelain figure of Herod looking furious? No? How many of you have a picture of of Rachel weeping? We have excised, cut out, removed as if it were a tumor. This short three-verse narrative from the account of the coming and the birth of Jesus our Savior. Because we don't really know what to do with it, do we? Matthew makes a point in Matthew chapter 2, after at the end of chapter 1, the birth of Jesus is very briefly narrated. We don't have a long description of the stable scene like we get in Luke chapter 2. Instead, we just get a simple notice and Jesus was born. And then we have these four accounts that specifically bring to our attention prophecies that are fulfilled in the advent of our Lord Jesus. And the first one is that the king who will be a shepherd will come from Bethlehem, rising from obscurity to fulfill all of his people's deepest longings. The second one is about his escape to Egypt. Fulfilling the prophecy, not in his escaping to Egypt, but in his coming back, fulfilling that prophecy that out of Egypt I will call my son. Jesus as a child goes to Egypt, so that even as the nation Israel was born in a sense in Egypt and delivered by Moses. Jesus would be developed in Egypt and also be delivered back to the promised land with the one remarkable difference. Where Israel as the Son of God had failed over and over and over again in the wilderness, complaining and grumbling, rebelling. Jesus, the Son called from Egypt, would be perfectly obedient and absolutely fulfill. The terms of God's covenant with us that we could never fulfill. And it was essential that he be that son called from Egypt so that he could be that Savior who could give his life. Remember, if Jesus hadn't lived a perfect life, if he'd have sinned even one time, his death would have been only for himself. For the wages of sin is death. But since Jesus in the flesh, becoming like us in every way, tempted even as we are, because he never sinned, He is able to die in the place of others. And because this son who is brought out from Egypt is not only fully man, but fully God, infinite in being. He can die in the place of as many as will look to him with repentance and faith. That brings us to this text. This text is shared with us so that we understand that then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Rama, weeping and loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they are no more. The title of this sermon is A Comforter for Rachel, and you might think, well, how are we going to get to that place, Pastor? Well, hopefully we will. This passage points us to the fact that Jesus Christ comes into a broken world, a badly broken world, in which we are in desperate need of salvation and deliverance. And it does so in ways that strike at the very deepest root of our sympathies, of our concerns, of our loyalties, of our loves. Dystopian literature has become something of a popular subject or theme, not just in the bookstores, but online in the movie theater. And can you conceive of a more dystopian moment than this? Bethlehem, a town of maybe 800 people? Maybe there are some scholars estimate at the very most in the immediate environs of Bethlehem and Bethlehem itself, maybe 20. Young boys aged two and under. Can you imagine a world in which soldiers show up Take children from parents who are utterly powerless and mercilessly kill those kids? Can you imagine that world? It's hard for me to imagine it. And it points us to a picture in which Jesus Christ is coming to a locale, to a place, to a village, this small city of David He's coming to a place where there's utter helplessness in the face of unrelenting power. Utter helplessness. If there is one thing that you could save if your house was on fire, it would be your babies. It would be your children. And that one thing could not be saved. The sense of impotence, of failure, of frustration, of utter defeat that would surely accompany the parents Perhaps for the rest of their lives after this episode had played out. Hard to describe. And it's important to note that Jesus came to that culture capable of that level of brutality. It's important to note that on that first Christmas, Jesus Christ did not come after the people of Israel had attained some level of civilization. Instead, it was a true nader, a low point. It was awful. Can you imagine a world in which you could find the soldiers willing to carry out that order? Can you think of a world in which everybody would simply stand by and watch it play out? That's the world that Jesus came to We as people have got to remind ourselves that whatever we think about cultures around us, whether our own culture or another culture, There is a sense in which there is, by God's decree, an antipathy, a contest between the world And the body of Christ, the Church. Between those who will follow the Lord Jesus and be children of the woman described in Genesis chapter 3, and those who will reject. The Redeemer, and be against him. We forget that friendliness With the world, love for it is enmity with God That God loved the world to change and to transform and to utterly obfuscate all the corruption in the world, but apart from Christ, that's all there is. Yes, there are signs of common grace, but that is not redemptive grace. And when Jesus comes into the stark reality of first century Palestine and he comes to a place where even the home team Is perpetuating gross and flagrant and horrific crimes against the weakest in its society. Jesus comes for that society. And indeed, he will spend his life serving them and pour out his blood saving them. Jesus comes to a world in which sin has left us helpless and oppressed. You know, it's not such a bad thing to be helpless if you're not being oppressed. For example, let's consider for a moment young uh Andrew Joseph Dimmick. He's helpless. But I he's living the life of Riley. He gets weighted on hand and foot, I'm willing to guarantee. I mean any any fussing and I I bet your Ryan's there like in a split second, am I right, Amanda? We can be helpless and doted upon, cared for, nurtured, comforted. That's how I in my imagination look at my retirement. Nothing but wearing slippers and eating soft foods. That day will come, Lord willing. And I will be helpless, but I will not be oppressed. But that is not the case with these helpless people who watch their families be ripped apart. They are oppressed. And that's one of the things that's brought clearly to our attention as we look at the fact that this was fulfilled. A voice was heard in Rama, weeping in loud lamentation. What is Rama? Rama is a city. Just kind of on the border of uh Judea and Samaria. It's technically in Judah, right on the main trade route that ran east-west. that ran uh uh over across the to the transjordan area. The Transjordan is the area that is east of the Jordan River. And it was a very significant city. By the end of the histories in 2 Chronicles and 2 Kings, we read about it as a fortified city, a city that troops could be stationed, a significant city, a place of much trading. It's not a city that we have any reason to believe Rachel ever lived in, or even that it was a city at the time of Rachel's life Remember, if you think back to your early Sunday school class experiences, our God is the God of who? Abraham? Jacob. Rachel is Jacob's second wife. I know kids, it's very confusing. It didn't work out One wife is definitely the plan. Rachel was one of the patriarch's wives. She had two kids. Anybody remember them? Joseph and Benjamin. Now, did she lose either of those kids? Nope. She died giving birth to Benjamin. So when we think about this text, we're struck with a little bit of a riddle right out of the gate. We're told this voice is heard in Rama weeping in loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more, and we're struck with the fact that, now wait a minute, Rachel didn't lose any children. And we're also struggling to say Rachel didn't live in Rama. What's happening here? Go back to Jeremiah chapter 31, where this citation originally comes from. When Jeremiah says this to the Israelites living in Jerusalem and in Judea, right during their time of captivity going off to Babylon, this surely would have meant something to them. He wasn't just uttering nonsense. So let's go back again and ask who is Rama what is Rama and who is Rachel. Rama, according to Jeremiah chapter 40, verse 1, was something of a staging ground for people being culled from the people of Israel. The tribes of Judah and Benjamin, the southern kingdom of Judah, was comprised of Judah and Benjamin, those two tribes. And the reason I say culling, I don't mean it in the sense that a herd is culled and the cows that are removed are sent to the butcher shop. I mean it cold in the sense that the Babylonians had a practice where if they conquered a state like Judea. One of their first orders of business would be to take all of the powerful people, all of the people who were the influential folks, whether because of society, military, social rank, trade, learning. They take all of those people that were of influence and remove them with the stated goal of leaving the people that remained. With fewer resources to even think about rebelling, to leave them without leadership, to leave them without the personal resources that they might need to lift themselves up out of captivity. And when the Babylonians carried the people from Judea in Jerusalem and in the cities and towns of Judea and Bethlehem and Benjamin off into captivity in Babylon, they did it in the two stages. First they took all of this the The jet setters, the important people. And then later, when they still didn't get their act together, they cut deeper and took even more people. Rama was the staging ground where they gathered up all the captives. For that trip to Babylon. Ezekiel would have been one of those captives. Before he sat and wept on the banks of the Kabar outside of Babylon, he would have sat on the floor in some forgotten building in Rama. Jeremiah 31, Rama is the place where great weeping takes place. But why is Rachel weeping? Rachel is noted in the Old Testament because of all of the women who longed for children, Rachel surely ranks among the top, top tier, desperately wanted children. Her sister Leah had children, and Rachel didn't, and she cried out to the Lord over and over and over again. She schemed, she did all that she could to try to get children. The Lord finally blessed her with children, and tragically she was not able to enjoy them for long. Rachel's tomb is located somewhere between Bethlehem and the city of Rama. We don't know exactly where, we just know the general region. And it's entirely possible with when Jeremiah uh first declared this statement, a voice is heard in Rama, a voice of great weeping, Rachel weeping for her children. It is in the experience of God's people at that time, combining these images of the children of Israel being carried off into captivity. They will be no more. And Rachel, this sort of representative mother of the people of Israel who longed to be a mom, who desired to be a mom, recognizing that I will never see these kids again. And weeping inconsolably, utterly subjected to the cruelty of others In the captivity, and here in the slaughter of the innocents, the killing of the boys. So Jesus comes not only in a time when people are helpless, but in a time when they are terribly oppressed. He also comes in a time when they're hopeless. Consider again Rachel. Rachel's story is described in Genesis 35. When she gives birth to Benjamin, she cries out, Ben Oni, son of my grief or my suffering, my pain. What a difficult thing. The name Benjamin is given by Jacob. He says, no, surely this is the son of my right hand. The thought that children are no more and they might not be able to be held, coddled, raised, taught, trained, rejoiced over, given away in marriage, That is a very difficult thought. And it's a thought that wasn't far removed from Rachel's husband Jacob. In Genesis chapter 42, when he learns that Benjamin was taken down to Egypt, where Joseph already was sold to Egypt, he says, My sons are no more. What have you done? All of us deal with loss. And I know it's Christmas and it's not a popular theme, especially from pulpits But I know that at Christmas time sometimes we're particularly painfully aware of loss that we've endured. And this is a Christmas text. It's just not a very popular one. Now I want you to think for a moment about if I were to say. Hasta la vista, baby. What comes to mind? Terminator. Terminator. How about if I say, make my day? How about if I say I'm your Huckleberry? Okay. All right. Those of you who know all your movies that well, come see me in my office. We need to talk. It is the case that the human mind works in such a way that sometimes one phrase is evocative of an entire text. An entire part of a canon. Where the sidewalk ends brings to mind a whole book with a cover that is imprinted on some of your memories. The phrase, a blustery day, brings scenes of piglet and roux When the Old Testament is cited in the New Testament, it is never simply as a matter of a kind of theological gene splicing where some Elements are chopped out of this chapter and brought into here. Rather, it's a more organic thing, in which The use of that scripture evokes the entire unit or pericope, the technical word for you, seminary students, or chapter, or division, or passage. When Jesus, for example, in the Sermon on the Mount cites the law, it is very clear that he is intending to refer to the entirety of the law, not just to the two commandments he specifically cites. And it is very important for us to look at Jeremiah chapter 31 and recognize what Joel observed earlier in the service. Chapter 15, that is cited, says this. Thus says the Lord. A voice is heard in Rama, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children. She refuses to be comforted for her children because they are no more. Thus says the Lord: Keep your voice from weeping. The very next verse. Keep your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your work, declares the Lord, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy. There is hope for your future, declares the Lord, and your children shall come back to their own country. I have heard Ephraim grieving. All of that would have come to mind. And I want you to consider this thought. If it were not for the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ was born a babe, If it were not for the fact that he was raised by his mother Mary and stepfather Joseph If it were not for the fact that he lived a sinless life from his earliest childhood coming from Egypt all the way through to his death on the cross at age 33, if it were not for the fact That he suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried, and on the third day rose again. We would none of us see our children again. But because he was born, because Jesus was born. The weeping in Rama becomes temporary. Because Jesus was born, all that you have lost, dear Christian, will be restored. Because Jesus was born, every tear that you have shed, which has been meticulously drop by drop recorded in God's scroll, according to Psalm 56, Every one of them will one day be wiped away because Jesus was born. And Jesus was born not just at the darkest time of day in the middle of the night, but in the darkest hour. In a time when this small town, which was utterly helpless, completely oppressed, and without any hope whatsoever of ever seeing those children again. That's when he came to be the helper we didn't know we need, to point us to an eternity free from oppression forever. A life in which we have been set free for freedom, according to Galatians. A God who, according to John, has intended to give us Christ that Christ may give us life and life abundantly. A Savior who says that he is the resurrection and the life. And in fact, a savior who brings children back from the dead. Talitha Kum, little girl, I say to you, rise. And one day those words will be spoken again. The covenant children of Bethlehem and the environs will be raised. And those fathers and mothers' tears will be wiped away. Because yes, a voice was indeed heard weeping in Rama. But a voice was also heard. In the skies, over the fields where flocks were kept by night. When you think about Krishna, Christmas, think about the context of it. And dare to consider how broken and dysfunctional the world is, and how desperate our need is for a Savior who comes from without, embraces our condition. And sets us free. This Christmas text, this rarely considered difficult Advent passage Points us to the fact that in a world where we are quick to sacrifice our kids to preserve our own power, the living God gave his own. That we might become his children. The contrast could not be clearer, and the invitation could not be bolder It's an invitation to weep in a Godward direction because it's an invitation to hope To seek help, to recognize it only through the sovereign goodness and grace of God. Can we endure and persevere? It echoes the theme of the entirety of the book of Revelation: that ours is the kingdom and the suffering and the patient endurance. Because we belong to Jesus. This Christmas, I want you to consider the fact that you grieve just like I do. Every one of us in this room has many, many things in common. One of them is heartache. We all of us have some heartache, some grief, some burden. And in some respects, all of us have something in our life that we find we refuse to be comforted for. And I want you to be confronted by this text to realize that that's the world into which Jesus came. And he came born in a village full of people like you and me. We sometimes refuse to be comforted for things that Jesus came to address. And then hear the second note. Of the quotation Begun in Jeremiah 31. Stop weeping. Recognize that whatever we have lost for Christ's sake will be utterly restored beyond our imagination. I want to invite you as community groups, small groups, as families, spend some time meditating. And that's the lost art of meditation. It has nothing to do with the Eastern practice of emptying your mind. The biblical Christian Judeo meditation is focusing your mind and dwelling on a subject particularly And I want you to spend some time really pondering, meditating on Psalm 56. 8 and Revelation 21. 4. Those two verses have become such dear friends to me, as I'm reminded that God knows every tear and he will wipe everyone away. There's going to be no remainder. There's going to be no puddle of my tears that never get accounted for. And it's all because Jesus came. Amen? I want to ask you if you came to church this morning to you came to hear our kids talk about Christmas. You came to see one of our kids baptized. What you did not come to do was hear about kids being killed in Bethlehem. Nobody comes to a sermon to hear about that. But yet you have. Will it make a difference? Will it make a difference to you that Jesus came to such a world as that? that he hazarded everything and endured all, in order that he might live a sinless life to give himself for you. Will you take the griefs you've experienced and those things you've refused to be comforted over, and take them to this High King of Heaven who was born in such a state? Because the invitation is for you. Come and see this babe who was born, who had to escape to Egypt. who lived a perfect life and came back. And as we will see next week, was called the man from Nazareth. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. Lord, we pray that even the passages that seem difficult to us, that we don't quite know what to do with, that cause us to stumble or to skim read and get to something a little more cheerful. Lord, help us to remember that those two are part of your word. And Lord, help us never to forget as we celebrate Christmas for all of the festive glad things, help us to never forget the context into which Christ was born for us. A situation in which things like help and hope were fantastically rare commodities. They were alien to the experience of most people. And indeed, that is the case with us spiritually, even today. Our brokenness is desperate and deep. But you, Lord Jesus. You came and you offer us forgiveness, freedom, life. You offer us yourself. Bless us, we pray, in Christ's name, as we celebrate Christmas. As that awesome alternative to a world without a Savior and with no salvation. You are a good God. We glorify you. Amen.