Would you turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the Book of Acts, chapter one? And I have the double privilege not only of being here with you and uh am I doing something wrong with that little thump? Am I doing something wrong? I am being told that I'm doing something wrong. Uh what am I doing wrong Move it down. Like that. Does that matter? We'll try that. Okay, we'll try that moving it down a little bit. And uh In Acts chapter one, we have a classic passage on a great theme, uh the great theme of missions, of missions And uh I want us to read together just a few of the verses there, beginning with verse six. You're aware that in Acts chapter one, the context is that the Lord has been raised from the dead. And he's meeting with his disciples for the last time and giving them last minute instructions right before his ascension. And uh they asked a question in verse 6. So when they met together, they asked him, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. After he said this he was taken up before their very eyes and a cloud hid him from their sight. They were looking intently up into he up into the sky as he was going when Suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them. Men of Galilee, they said, why do you stand here looking into the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken from you into heaven, will come back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven. Comic actor W. C. Fields was uh once found by a friend reading the Bible. Now, if you know anything about W. C. Fields That was not a common occupation for him. And so the friend asked him, WC, what in the world are you doing reading the Bible? And the classic humorist responded, I'm looking for loopholes. There are a lot of people who, consciously or unconsciously, are looking for loopholes when it comes to this last command of Christ, which is to be our first concern. It's expressed in Matthew 28, go into all the world and make disciples of all the nations. It's expressed at the end of Mark's Gospel and here again in Acts chapter 1. The last recorded words of the Lord Jesus before he ascended to the right hand of his Father. You shall be my witnesses. Someone has said in the school of the saints the Great Commission It's not an elective course, it's part of the required curriculum. But our greatest danger as it relates to this Our Lord's last command, which is to be our first concern, is a vision problem. I think that uh the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ through the centuries has had a vision problem. These disciples, you know, were always looking in the wrong places. Even as Jesus had just ascended, they kept gazing at him, and the angels had to say, Hey, fellas, you're looking in the wrong place. We've had a vision problem. We've looked at the wrong things and we've looked at them with a distorted vision We are in dire need of a great spiritual ophthalmologist. And one aspect of our vision problem when it comes to extending the gospel over the whole earth is a kind of spirit of pessimism. Humanly speaking, we might have reason to be pessimistic. It doesn't look like we're doing a very good job, does it? Particularly in this country. You look around, you see America looks like spiritually is going to hell in a handbasket. And it looks like we're getting further and further behind in this task of spreading the gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth. But let me share with you a few interesting statistics. We can, with a myopic view, being spiritually short-sighted, not see the wonder of what God has been doing through the ages. In 100 A. D. , there were approximately 360 believers for every one unbeliever. Excuse me. The other way around. Three hundred and sixty unbelievers for every one believer. And there was uh one church for every twelve unreached people groups at that point. Now in nineteen eighty that number had shrunk from three hundred and sixty to eleven unbelievers for every believer. You say, well now that Just people who profess. And maybe there's a whole lot more people today who profess but don't possess faith. That could very well be But I think it's pretty much comparing apples with apples. It's professing believers to those who do not profess. From three hundred and sixty to one to eleven to one And by 1980, it's estimated that there were 162 congregations for every one unreached people group. By 1989, just nine years later, the number had shrunk from eleven to one to seven to one. And Ralph Winter, who's one of the great uh missiologists and mission strategists of our day said that that drop in that nine-year period from nineteen eighty to nineteen eighty nine was equivalent to the drop that took place in the first nine hundred years of the church's history. The Lord Jesus is on the march as never before. So that myssiologists who are noted for their conservatism who are noted for speaking short of the mark and wanting to say, you know, be very cautious in their interpretation of statistics. are literally clicking their heels in delight and saying, this is a finishable task and finishable in our time. What are some of the marks of spiritual myopia that we see illustrated in the disciples here in this immediate context and throughout the book of Acts, and that we see in our own lives? The first is a carnal curiosity. Notice in verses six and seven, they ask the question Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Now I don't think that their main uh curiosity centered around the timing of things. There is a popular evangelical radio personality today that I understand has Uh forecast October of this year to be the month in which the Lord Jesus is going to return Uh you know, that's happened a lot before, and the history of it is unilaterally the same. Every prognosticator of times and seasons has been an abysmal failure. But I don't think that the disciples were concerned so much about, Lord, we'd like to know how everything's going to turn out time-wise. I think their their their question was, Lord, is this the time? Is this when we get our reward? Is this when Israel, our personal part of the world, our kind of people, will get their spiritual blessing? Their focus was that old gravitational pull towards spiritual dominionism They wanted to see the consummation of the kingdom. And their concept of the kingdom was that they would be established as the big shots who would get to call all the shots all the all of what was happening Uh they wanted to see a reformed nationalistic Judaism. Even yet they were still thobbed on what the kingdom was. Even yet they wanted supremacy without sacrifice. Even yet they wanted the victory of the kingdom without going through the servanthood and the self-denial and the sacrifice of the kingdom. How are you going to serve my needs, Lord, my desires, my priorities, and my longings? It was that old meistic consumeristic focus that so marks and characterizes our culture and even our mutated Christianity of today. The church is often seen as a product and a service to be consumed and people decide which church they go to and which ministry they're a part of of based on what seems to most serve their needs and their agendas and advance their own personal comforts and conveniences. It's not new, it was there all along. Disciples of Jesus Christ have always struggled with that kind of pathological selfishness. There's a constant tendency also to try to demote God to a nice, harmless tribal deity. Whose sole object is to advance our status among men. When are you gonna Lord, when are you going to establish the kingdom? Is it now for Israel? God's strategy from the very beginning in choosing Abraham and in choosing the nation of Israel is that they would be a servant people to reach the ends of the earth. As God inaugurated the covenant with Abraham, you remember, he said, I'm going to be a God to you, Abram. and to your seed after you, so that all of the peoples on the earth will be blessed through you. God's purpose in choosing you personally and choosing you as a congregation to be an influence for his kingdom in this community is not so that you will be personally comfortable spiritually. But so that he can powerfully work through you to touch others. The big question is not what is God going to do for you But what is God going to do through you? And they were still basically asking the question, God, what are you going to do for us and when you're going to pull it off? We're getting a little bit uh uh impatient here. Let's let's see the unfolding of this thing. Let's see the final consummation of this thing. We want to enter into the full enjoyment of this thing, every man under his vine and under his fig tree. The territorial concepts of the kingdom of God die slowly. L Our narrow, personal, nationalistic aspirations that we identify with the kingdom. Through the centuries Uh Christians have constantly confused the kingdom of God with the kingdoms of men. And um we have to learn something, particularly as we come up on another anniversary. In a sense, of our country on July the fourth. God is not an American citizen. And the kingdom is not American. This uh the question that they're asking here indicates this kind of I want to be in charge, controlling spirit that also marks. our generation and is part of the pathology of our culture. It blurs world vision. You see, you can't be in charge When someone else in some place else might receive a bigger blessing halfway around the world than you. You see, missions is the ultimate selfishness buster. And the reason that people don't get excited about missions is that it doesn't affect them personally. Personally as much. Of course it does greatly beyond anything they ever imagined, but they don't perceive it as such. And so they don't give themselves so much in the advance of missions because they don't see how it's going to affect them personally today and tomorrow. We'll come to conferences and seminars of all kinds that help us on our jobs, or with our children, or with our marriages. But uh we're not as excited about going to conferences that the whole focus of which is to teach us how to be effectively a blessing in the lives of someone halfway around the world. whom we will probably never see. The spiritual provincialism that marks these disciples and marks us dies a stubborn and agonizing death, and it has more lives than the proverbial cat. Another mark of spiritual myopia is a commitment to comfort. A commitment to comfort. The holy huddle syndrome. After receiving the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. Uh they began to understand the universal worldwide scope of the kingdom of God At least incipiently, because Peter said on the day of Pentecost in his sermon, the promises for you and for your children and for all who are afar off. But it was still mostly theoretical, still mostly abstract. still somewhat vague because uh it hadn't reached the full practical proportions of understanding that the gospel included the Gentiles. When Jesus said to them here in Acts chapter one and verse eight That you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts. It's very clear through the early chapters of the book of Acts that they largely conceived of that as reaching the Jews who were in Jerusalem. The Jews who were in Judea, the Jews who were in Samaria, and the Jews who were in the uttermost parts of the earth. And The Holy Spirit had to literally force them out of Jerusalem, out of that holy huddle Uh their carnal comfort zones were so powerful that a persecution had to be brought, as you know, in Acts chapter 8 As we read that a great persecution broke out against the church at Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria. And those who had been scattered preached the word wherever they went. God had to just catapult them uh into the missionary work. It wasn't so much out of a sense of missionary vision that God had the force vision. I'm telling you something, if you don't get the missionary vision of the New Testament, God has some interesting ways of catapulting you into it. My own spiritual pilgrimage is a classic reflection of that. somewhat against my very will, and certainly very contrary to my narrow and parochial perspectives. It's possible to paraphrase that their thinking in this way. You know, we're doing a fine job here. Look at what happening. 3,000 came to Jesus in one day, a couple thousand another day. The church is growing. There's plenty to occupy us here in Jerusalem. Why don't we just let the world come to Jerusalem and hear the gospel from us here? This will just be sort of a a center of world evangelism and the world can come here to hear about it. That kind of centre pedol inward focused, holy huddle kind of thing, the centrifugal outward focus of the gospel was still not yet understand. And look at this. The the leaders didn't even get it. Most of them stayed back in Jerusalem. They still didn't get it. Aren't you glad that God used Dull witted people like those first leaders, that means he can use people like me and you. The third thing, the third characteristic or mark of spiritual myopia was a cultural exclusivism and superiority. We've already kind of touched on that The story of Cornelius in Acts chapters ten and eleven is a classic illustration of that. Here was a Gentile, Roman soldier An officer in the legions of Caesar. He was a God-fearer, probably had not fully proselytized into Judaism So he wasn't considered within the community of faith, but he was curious about, intrigued with, and even it appears, a private worshipper of Jehovah. He was a man given to prayer and to giving of alms and so forth. And the Holy Spirit, or rather the Holy Spirit, sent an angel who appeared to him and said, Go up to Joppa, send a messenger up to Joppa and ask for one named Simon and bring him back and he will share with you the gospel. And you remember the story as it unfolded and Simon Peter had to have a a vision. He had to go through some great spiritual shock therapy as it were. uh theological shock therapy to even get get reached the point where he was willing to go down and enter the home of a gentile dog, unclean gentile, to share the gospel But as he did so, the Holy Spirit interrupted his sermon. It's great when the Holy Spirit interrupts the preacher's sermon. takes over and pushes him aside and says, Step aside, son, let me show you how it's done. Seems that he interrupted him in the middle of his sermon, fell upon these people, the Holy Spirit mightily worked faith in their hearts. They embraced Christ as Savior. Boy, about this point, Peter is really going through a major worldview shift. He comes back and he shares with the Jewish believers there in Jerusalem what had occurred. And in chapter eleven, verse eighteen we read, When they heard this, they had no further objections, and praised God, saying, Well, this is Ron Steele's amplified paraphrase Would you look at that? Wonder of wonders. It's amazing. God has granted even to the Gentiles repentance and delight. Now the counterpart of this kind of spiritual myopia today is uh you know the world's important. It's important that we get out there to the world, but you know the really important mission field is right here in America. And our country is in a free fall into neo paganism and we need to take care of things right here. You're probably aware of the fact. The statistics And have been batted about that only about 10% of the people in Howard County, Maryland on any given weekend show up at any kind of church or synagogue or cult or anything else. I'm told it's only about 2 to 3% in Columbia. So you a lot of our world missionaries are sent to places more evangelized and more church than Howard County, Maryland. What in the world are we doing? Having a whole month of emphasis on world evangelization, man, we got enough right here on our plate, right here. Haven't you heard that before? Haven't you heard that objection? I've offered that objection January was a year ago I had that objection in my mind and heart as I was on a commercial airline headed for Phoenix, Arizona, to hear about evangelizing the old Soviet Union And thinking to myself, what in the world am I doing going to a meeting like this? If I get all excited about world evangelization, we don't have any more money. We're building all this building and doing all this stuff and trying our best to make an impact right there in Howard County in central Maryland and And besides that, here's America rapidly sliding into spiritual oblivion. What are we doing? Worried about Russia. So I get there and um I'm about a day early. Had to get there a day early because I got real cheap flights that way. Preachers are really penny pinchers when it comes to such things, but uh so I get there a day early and I hold up in my room and I think, well I'll take advantage of this time and do a get a lot of studying done. So I opened this book, The Unfinished Task, compiled by John Kyle, a series of addresses at the hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of the so-called Haysak prayer meeting. How many of you have ever heard of the Haysak prayer meeting? Well that's good. Several of you. Okay. The Haystag prayer meeting, church historians and myssiologists say, was in a very real sense The birth of the great what Kenneth Scott Lateret called the great century of missionary enterprise from North America in 1806. It was on or near the campus of uh Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts. It was a prayer meeting, five Young men, students there, met together in the woods and started praying. Thunderstorm came up then August. So they ran for a haystack and huddled in a haystack and prayed some more and covenanted there to spend their lives. In the pursuit of world evangelization. Now, I knew all about this except there was one aspect of it that I didn't know until I was there holed up in that motel room in Phoenix, Arizona, reading this book, that I discovered. And that is, why were they out in the woods praying? Why were they huddling under a haystack? They could have been back at their college dorm or something, praying back there You know why they were out in the woods praying? The Christian faith had become so un unpopular. And Christians were so Such objects of mockery, scorn, and persecution, even to the point of some physical abuse They were physically assaulted and hounded and harried and harassed continually. So they figured, man, if we're going to have any peace and have some uninterrupted prayer time, we need to go flee out into the woods. So they were out in the woods praying. By the way, this had happened at campuses all over America. Right after the War of Independence, in a sense, many people had declared independence not only from the King of England but from the King of the Universe. A lot of people don't realize that in our early American history we were rapidly sliding then into steep spiritual decline And they're out there praying, but what are they praying for? Well, the main focus of their prayer was for world evangelization, and they were praying specifically for China. And it hit me like, you know, the Lord's wake up call, buddy. Wake up and smell the coffee. These guys are praying for the world and praying for China when their own campus is going to hell in a handbasket. What is their problem And I suddenly realized they didn't have a problem They had God's perspective, and I don't. They understood What Jesus is saying here in Acts one chat verse eight They understood what Jesus was saying here, and it takes the whole rest of the book of Acts for the disciples to begin to get a clear grip on it And that is that you cannot have a proper perspective for the evangelization of your own neighborhood unless you have got a heart for the whole world You cannot have a passion for the person next door unless you have a passion for the person halfway around the world And your spiritual vision will always be too narrow, too myopic, too provincial, too self-centered. Too comfortable, consumeristic, egocentric, narrow, confined. straight jacketed and ineffective unless the whole world is on your heart. That's true of a person, that's true of a church. So what are the corrective lenses? To correct our spiritual myopia and deal with our exclusivity and our spiritual superiority. and to deal with these other features and characteristics of our myopia, our commitment to comfort and our carnal curiosity. Well, first of all Jesus gives a promise. You will receive power. They receive miraculous power, they receive mental power to understand the gospel. When the Holy Spirit came upon them. To understand the gospel is a supernatural thing. This gospel is foolishness, it's utter absurdity to the natural mind, to unaided human reason. It takes the Spirit of God to illumine the gospel of God for us to understand it. And all of our intellectual idols to be broken down so that we embrace Jesus as Savior and Lord. So that our pride can be broken down and us brought to the place of authentic repentance. But it's also moral power. There is no way that we can change ourselves. There's no way that we can, through religious self-effort, pull ourselves up by our spiritual bootstraps and bring our lives in conformity to the will and way and word and law of God. It's only a supernatural work of God's Holy Spirit that can change us and make us living exhibites of who he is and what he's like. But the main focus here was messenger power. You will be my witnesses. An individual or a group of individuals, a church knows that it has been anointed by the Spirit of God and the practical reflections of that close encounter uh of a third kind, if you will, with the very being of God, is that we become vibrant, effective. Infectious witnesses for Jesus Christ. I want you to notice that the command here is really in the indicative. You will be my witnesses, not you ought to be. Now boys, you better get it together. You be my No. He says, when this happens to you, the Holy Spirit falls on you, you will be. This will happen to you I'll never forget Bill Iverson, Dan Iverson's uh father. I was at a meeting of our denominational uh general assembly. Several years back, I walked up to him and said, Hi Bill, how are you doing? But to shake his hand, he looked at me and he said, Ron, if I followed you Would I become a fisher of men? I thought that's a nice friendly greeting. Uh some of you know Bill Iverson know he's given to such things. What was he saying? He was saying, well, Ron, if you're following Jesus, you're becoming a fisher of men, to such an extent that if I follow you, I'll become a fisher of men also If people hang around with you, is that what happens to them? A number of things ought to happen to them from a biblical point of view, but that's certainly one of the things that should be Unavoidably the result. If people hang around with us, they should get infected with this. They should become like us to this extent. Uh and a witness is one who avows what he's seen and heard and knows. You don't have to be an expert witness. You don't have to be a uh one man, one woman theological brain trust. You just need to have had an authentic encounter with Jesus Christ in your life as been and is being changed by him. It was interesting to me when I was in Russia and I would be sitting down with these uh teachers from their public schools And I'd be sharing the gospel with them. And it was interesting the questions that they asked were not the typical intellectual questions. You know, what about the heathen in Africa? Or uh what are the other things, you know, uh how do you know for sure that the Bible's true and you know, all that kind of stuff. Or I don't really believe in a heaven and a hell, I believe your heaven and your hell is right here. You know the typical American object they didn't raise any of those objections at all. You know what they asked? They ask, does your wife believe these things? Does your children believe this all? Do your children believe also? What does this look like in your family life? What they were interested in is, you know, we want to see this thing. We want to know that it's real. What kind of impact? What kind of practical change does it affect in your life, in your home, in your community? I was really amazed by it. You know what they were asking for? They were asking for a living incarnational embodiment of it. That's what a witness is. A witness is exhibit A, where we can stand up before men and say, as the Apostle Paul said, follow me because I follow you. Christ. It's not just simply our words, but it's the very tone and temper of our lives that is a witness. Also a witness. The word here simply means Or it's uh excuse me, it comes uh our word martyr comes from the word martus here for to witness And uh what is a martyr? A martyr is a person who sealed his testimony or his witness with his own blood And we are to die to ourselves in the control of our own privacy and our own schedules. You see, being a witness costs you something. And this is an aspect of the gospel that we've lost. We've lost the theology of suffering. We've lost this theology that the Apostle Paul was expounding when he said, I am filling up the sufferings of Christ. We tend to think that being a Christian and having the abundant Christian life means that we don't have any more problems, there are no more difficulties, there's no real price to pay But we are called in being a witness of Jesus Christ to live out that kind of persecution, that kind of rejection that he experienced. And what is the major reason why we're like Arctic rivers frozen at the mouth? It's because we're afraid of rejection. E. P. Scott, a pioneer missionary to India, once came upon a hostile band of warriors. And they seized him and pointed their long spears at his heart. And feeling utterly helpless but resting on the promises of God, he drew out his violin and began to play and to Sing in the native language of his captors, all hail the power of Jesus' name. He closed his eyes so he wouldn't see the spear thrust when it came. All hail the power of Jesus' name Let angels prostrate, fall, bring forth the royal diadem and crown him, Lord of all. He kept singing and even reached the third stanza which says, Let every kindred and every tribe on this terrestrial ball to him all majesty ascribe and crown him Lord of all Reached the end of that stand and peeked to look to see what was going on. The captors had dropped their spears, their eyes were filling with tears And they cried out almost in one voice, Tell us about this one who has such a name that men from every tribe and every kindred will crown him Lord of all. So he went back to them with them And ministered there in their midst for many years, and many, many of them came to Christ When the Holy Spirit comes upon you, it means a number of things. But it certainly, among other things, means that this one main aspect will re be reflected in your life. You begin to think like God, have the priorities and values that God has. Your attitude toward the peoples of the world will be like God's attitude toward the peoples of the world. And you'll begin to hunger and pant after and Thirst after and pray after and long for the salvation of men from every tongue, tribe, nation, and people And the where? It's always a valid question. Jesus answered the where for them. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the uttermost parts. Again, what he was saying is you cannot Have Jerusalem on your heart if Judea is not on your heart. You see, it's Jerusalem and Judea. Interesting the thrust of the original here reflects this same idea. You can't have Jerusalem and Judea on your heart unless Samaria's on your heart. You can't have Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria on your heart if the uttermost parts is not on your heart You can't do the neighborhood thing unless you're engaged in the world thing. And we have a distribution problem. Ninety percent of a missionaries, some seventy-eight thousand plus, are distributed in the first time. among the reached peoples of the world. But only 10% of our missionaries, some 7800 plus, are distributed among the 12,000 yet unreached people groups. of the world. Our problem is not a money problem either. It's a people problem because Jesus didn't say, Pray the Lord of the harvest that he'd raise money for you. He said, Pray the Lord of the harvest that he would thrust forth laborers. If people respond to the summons, God responds with the money. We've seen that. In January, uh just last January was a year ago, we got involved in this thing, and uh we decided we were going to send people. To Russia. We've got two of them over there right now. A single woman, single man. There for a year Involved in this enterprise of sending twelve thousand one year missionaries over a five year period, as the seventy plus evangelical organizations and societies are working together to do this thing of of uh inculcating incorporating within the public school system of the old CIS A curriculum called Christian Ethics and Morality a Foundation for Society. We didn't know where the money was coming from. We were out of money We're still out of money. And I still don't know where the money came from to do all this. You get in the slipstream of what God is doing though, and you get into the power search. You say, where do we go? Well the reason that we're going over there to the CIS is because there is a hunger there that eclipses maybe anything that we've certainly seen in our time and maybe is unique categorically distinct in the history of the church. The hunger, the openness there. I could go on for hours describing to you what I saw there. blew my mind. How many times have you run into an atheist down here in Columbia who says to you, well, you know, I'm an atheist, always have been an atheist, but I'm very curious about the Christian faith And I came to this conference because I want to hear. You know, there's something inside of me that really wants to know. And I have a spiritual hunger and my atheism just somehow isn't satisfying me any longer. When was the last time you heard a atheist in Columbia, Maryland say that? So where we go is somewhat reflective of that whole theology of the open door that the Apostle Paul talked about in describing his mysteological priorities. Pray for an open door for the gospel. And when we go through that open door, we get caught up in the slipstream of God's chariot and get swept along in the flow of what He's doing in our time I commend you for spending a whole month of emphasis on these things. And I pray for you that Almighty God will give you individually and you as a church a vision for the world because I guarantee you to the degree that he does for you here in this church, for us, just down the road from you, a sister church in many respects, to that extent, we will not only Be used by God in world evangelization, but then we'll be able to effectively have the vision that's required to really meet the needs of our next door neighbor and the spiritual. needs within our own community in Columbia, in Howard County, in Central Maryland. May God bless you. Holy Father, do this for us, we pray. Put the world on our hearts. And teach us How to hunger and thirst not only after personal righteousness, but to hunger and thirst for thy kingdom come and thy will be to be done all around the world. And to hunger for the fulfillment of that prophecy that encapsulates your great, grand design and purpose in all of history, that the knowledge of you would cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen