But the like-mindedness that Paul is saying, we seek this like-mindedness, it's we we share the comfort that we enjoy from Christ. I figured it out. Now a lot of times we don't think, okay, what did that? But I wanted to see us have see greater growth in student ministry, youth ministry, and men's ministry. being a part of that. And so what we have this morning actually is my fifth talk, I guess it was, that I was going to give to the men's retreat, and I asked PD, I said, well, it really is something for the whole congregation. I commend your leadership on that plan to bring people together, to have those surveys, to say, what's God doing? So you had these little uh cards, and so here's what the probably it's sort of like an escape room or something like that. He's echoing what Jesus said in John chapter 13 in the upper room. And we look at our families and what our children are going through and what our children are talking about. Paul is saying those who are in Christ seek to have the same mind. It was of the rope, of course, and it had the flag on it, and you'd have a line here, and your goal is to bring the flag over on your side. you'd see different tactics. who was facing that in his congregation. it had always been a burden, you know, follow the rules and and now I was learning more how do you live in relationship with Christ. is we're a committee of the General Assembly, and we're the committee that helps local churches make disciples in the congregation. And how is that the foundation for our future? Where underdog team goes into a big game and the coach gathers his team and in the pep talk he's saying, we can win this game if we play together. Or it could be we have a common foe. And we had heard from previous classes that had gone to because there's a facility and you go and you and we had heard it was a really great time, a fun event. Okay, all of we are all agree. What Paul is saying is a relationship with Christ sets your relational priorities. And so this is flowing out of that. His love, and then that love flows into others, and you've received love from others. How the teams, which were mixed, you'd have, you know, mix of boys, girls, some junior counselors, and so they would get together and they would come into the tug-of-war pit, which um heavier people maybe, let's put it that way, and they pull and pull and they just all pull and they just overpower the other side. You could have people who would say, okay, we've got our more our heaviest person, we'll put them in the back. You're going to be here, and then one person would be sort of the the he would call out and he'd say, pull two three, pull two, three. or vain conceit. And it runs like this. of being the second person of the Godhead. Is echoing Jesus, where he says, seek to wash feet. Love your neighbor as yourself. Brothers and sisters, we can't be the people on the sidelines saying, I'm just going to wait to see how this pans out. It had to do with TV watching. uh or or maybe a little bit before when I was still in the Air Force and we were getting ready to go to seminary. Lord, I pray for Columbia Presbyterian Church. And but we were excited about our faith. We were going to spend the four weeks ministering to campers a week at a time, helping them know about Jesus, and they would hear the gospel. And the way they challenge us is, hey, let's look to Jesus. be here with you. C DM back in January of twenty thirteen I had goals. I love you, man. Especially as you're going into this season of pastoral transition, I know Matt Bowling and I have high great respect for him. So I invite you now to turn in the book of Philippians to Philippians chapter 2. Any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind. Having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. But in humility, count others more significant than yourselves. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. It was the summer after my sophomore year in college. And we had our in our four-week camp, there was one day we had the bulletin board. all around this facility, and you were to go rotate stations, and each station had a different problem to solve. Living together, sleeping together, eating together, exercising together. Well, the results were mixed. It happens in denominations, and what do you do? Believers are in Christ. Verse 2, Paul says, Bring my joy to fullness. And part of my job was to help with the youth camp that we would have every year, junior and senior high, and and I was one of the counselors. Verse 1, we participate. God is working in you, and God the Holy Spirit has the same purpose to glorify Jesus Christ. And the disconnect comes when we, because of our fallen sin nature, begin to walk outside of the Spirit and walk more in our flesh in what we desire rather than what the Spirit is trying to accomplish in our midst. That's why verse 5 he says, the mind you seek is the mind of Christ. And all of a sudden this guy I call my brother or my sister becomes my opponent Because as we grow in unity, we have to resist selfishness. What's he saying? He has a chapter that he entitles The Great Sin. You can always learn. And they prepared everything except one thing. The way John puts it is Jesus knowing that the Father had given him all things, and he was going to the Father. To wash feet. But then Jesus said, if I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you must watch each other's feet. Our women's ministry coordinator Karen Hodge in her book, Life Giving Leadership, she wrote this. These people, even those who may betray me. And always avoid this. And these people over here said, if the leadership doesn't do this, I'm out of here. Selfish ambition or vain conceit says, this is what it is. You know, the Westminster Standards, chapter 26, it talks about the communion of saints. And graces, how a grace of God is showing. We are called to say, here's what God has done. She figured it out. It's the yearning of God the Holy Spirit at work within you. I was had the opportunity to work at Windygap, North Carolina. And about 30 of us were on the crew, and it was a real exciting time, especially right there at the beginning, because we didn't have a whole lot in common. And your spirit is at work within us. Is in their midst. Others were waiters and waitresses who got to move around and interact with the campers and tell good stories. worship times with the whole camp together, they would include testimonies of what God is doing. So, how do local churches make disciples? Challenging but good. One you would okay, you're gonna escape from a prison camp. When I was a pastor at Kirk of the Hills, and that's where I met P. is at work and you're getting in step with what the Spirit is doing among you. We don't want to serve the table. relationships. Or Virginia, I'm sorry, Western Virginia. For the benefit of other people. Or something along those lines. And part of the field day was a tug of war. What happens is there's competition rather than cooperation In fellowship with the Holy Spirit, which brings us in fellowship with each other. Here's the question. So it's that putting self aside, but then it's that third thing. To be able to consider the interests of others. You're called to engage and participate and maybe be patient, maybe build relationships. To sort of decompress. He begins a work unto unity so that we do truly glorify Jesus. And the camper said, I realized what the difference was. Consider your coworkers, how you can help them, how you can encourage them, how you can honor them by saying how important their role is. One night we had a story of a camper who, as he told his testimony, he said, You know, I'd never really seen people work together as a team. Now, all of the projects were doable, but they were challenging. And there was anticipation among the cadets who say, hey, we're going to do Project X today. They will know that you belong to me. It's the idea of I'm putting myself forward. It could be that you have a lot of experience, experience in life, experience in the church, whatever. And it led to the fall of man. What we're called to do is called to serve. Example of care. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. And so the idea was she would let me come home, watch, you know, 20 minutes or so, and then I was to turn everything off and focus on her. And to sacrifice ourselves for the benefit of others. Now it's interesting because in chapter 1, he talked about how there are people who Paul's in prison, and there are people who are preaching the gospel in order to make it tough for Paul in prison. By the power of your Holy Spirit, work in and among us Some of you have been to Military Squadron Officer School or something, you would know what Project X is. You are our Redeemer. No, and well yeah, I tried to help you and you didn't listen to me. Or sometimes you have people just slowly leave the church. And to be united with Christ means we grow in unity with each other. Then they would be working together. And it's the Holy Spirit. As Lewis says, it's the complete anti-God state of mind. In Luke chapter 22, Jesus sent Peter and John to go prepare for the Passover. He got up, disrobed, put on a towel, and prepared a basin Well, brothers and sisters, humility is hard because our human nature as Into a body. And so we share together that position in Christ. All of us are called to glorify Jesus. We have an obligation to participate in the communion of saints, pursuing others' needs Just major on the majors. For the way great things can happen. And then he said this, if Jesus could unite this work crew, then Jesus could bring peace to my troubled life. Is the world knows we belong to Jesus. And though we cannot see Jesus physically right now, those of us whom you have given the grace of salvation, we know Jesus is alive in our hearts Of waiting. And they pursue and consider other people. And so what do we do? And selfish ambition. Of how we can grow in pursuing others in a way that really promotes humility and unity. And we were there for this four-week summer camp as part of my scholarship and going on to be an officer in the Air Force. It's the mind given to them in the grace of salvation Tell me about her day. Now I tried to watch and listen, but it didn't work. It's amazing the plan that you have to redeem all things through Jesus Christ. Got to spend time with campers. Which also means how you work together. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. Lord, as the psalmist writes, let the words of my mouth and the meditations of all of our hearts be acceptable in your sight. But the success was when those who were taking lead and those who were ending up being a follower were thinking about each other. Because in that movement together, the individual pull worked together in the synergistic effect where it became greater than all those people pulling. The danger is when disagreement separates us and the goal that we begin to have is I want to win. Of being above other people. We need to ask ourselves, how can my gifts help others glorify Jesus more? Your passions are important. I was once challenged with that in my own marriage. And then when that happened, we would have a quiet dinner. I was still learning about this whole idea of having a relationship with Jesus. Because our unity reveals the beauty of Jesus. I just never really see people uh I'd seen people do that. As you come to Philippians 2, Paul is writing to the believers in Philippi, and he's calling them to unity. And right in the middle of that is Philippians 2, where Paul writes to them and says, God has done something in Christ. And what God has done, it changes who you are and how you love Even death on a cross. Relational wreckage. It's a unity of purpose. Just working together for that same purpose. And then Lewis says, power and control is what pride really enjoys. It's a form of manipulation. For unity is that key. Brothers and sisters, you are a gift to each other in this body. He said, don't glory in personal success. Don't worry about that. I really enjoyed the time with the men who were on the retreat and and uh uh it was fun to as Wayne said just bringing up the the whole uh And then you've got to ask the question, well, what's going to unite you? And then in Philippians 4, we have two women with whom Paul had served. In verse 27 of chapter 1, he said, live a life worthy of the gospel. In the last couple of years, we've had to deal with different opinions on how to deal with the pandemic. But it does mean how do we behave when we do disagree? I figured this out. And Jesus got up, poured the water, washed their feet, including the feet of Judas. I want to see at the table where my words are considered, my plans are done, rather than finding how I can serve. Another form of manipulation. So we were called how do you get your marriage, marriage, first year marriage? All of us were together. And do that with the campers. How they work together. Now, O Lord, with your word before us, we pray you'll open our eyes that we may see the wonderful things you have for us in your word. Things aren't really working out the way you want. There's nothing else I can know or learn from anybody else because I figured it out. Look again at verse three. And so we can listen to the other person. And submit for our salvation. We can do it in different ways. Because she was so important. Lord, earlier we sang, open the eyes of our hearts, because we want to praise you. For we pray, Jesus, in your name. No self team. And his glory is our overarching purpose. They didn't set up for that. Well, uh some people were called to be yard men. But how do we do that? Now, this is a common trap for people who are particularly gifted. We're just Well like me I was called to clean the sewage treatment plant every day What Paul is saying is pull together. That's what we're called when we said pursue the mind of Christ. Seek common ground wherever you can find it. There are times you have to give critique, but when you critique, give encouragement and show a hopefulness And here's the beauty of the gospel. And so our leaders address these issues that were starting to tear us apart and create competition. Well he's saying the other person's needs and ideas, you're willing to consider them before you consider your own. Because when they're there at the meal, they're having the meal and Jesus Now in that culture, that was part of coming to a meal, especially a Passover meal. We do that, we're called to do that in all relationships, particularly in the body of Christ. Now that summer, when I had gone to Air Force camp, that lasted four weeks. Uh and I am grateful for the sacrifice and the gift of this congregation and allowing PD to be part of our men's ministry team as I came on board as coordinator of Well, what hinders that? It's a person you see when you look in the mirror And then he went back and he said, you call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. In relationships, and this could be a relationship in your marriage, a relationship in your family, of late relationships here in the church, in those relationships, do you see control But there are others with you. Some groups would get together and they would just grab onto the rope and just brute force. And so we got in our buses, we drove our flight, drove to the facility, and we got off and they separated us into smaller groups because there were a whole bunch of stations. Others are more significant See, as Lewis does that he says, a truly humble person will take an interest in others. St. We try to scheme and then we try to gather allies. Nothing. Christopher Hutchison, who's a pastor in uh West Virginia. And he gave his life to Christ. We live in a world that is moving away from God. My ideas are important. I don't know. All of us are saved by grace. My wife and I had not been married for very long, and it was before children. In verse eight, we see Jesus pursued sinners even to a shameful death. It's not some sort of esprit decor where we're all participating together. And uh you can ask the guys on the retreat what that what that meant. But the picture of Christ has been obscured. Even in your committee meeting or a group, meet a small group meeting, and you're having a disagreement, there is always something you can learn. And I think my wife might be watching this on a sorry you did teach me. Well, those people over on that side of the sanctuary, they don't agree with us, so we're gonna and sometimes you just gather into tribes. And so Paul is saying, look, if you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if you have any comfort from It doesn't mean we will never disagree. Well they set up the room, they found the room, and Jesus said, go here and you'll meet this guy and you'll go to that place. If X doesn't happen, I'm leaving. But I participated with a group. No, he put aside those rights to assume human nature. Human nature makes unity hard work. Even as you oversee, and even as Peter says, followers obey. Oh Lord, bind us together. Paul, but multiplied effort, and they were over to come And when he looks upon us, he never sees us apart from that body. In the original text, the nothing is actually emphasized the way Paul writes the word order here. It has the idea of the rivalry. He had people over here who said, if the leadership decides this, I'm out of here and I'm never coming to a PCA church again. We'll tell you maybe after they make the decision. We have fellowship in the same spirit. We want to beat up on those guys. No, I'd rather argue about who's greatest. And don't make something very minor that's really tied to your own personal preference, something that's so important that we're going to split over this. Because you're in the situation, we're trying to figure it out. We can be very passive. We had a common faith. Sometimes people have been friends for years no longer really talk to each other as they once did. Now, it's it's saying your interests are important. And we have an obligation to share our gifts with others. Lord, I pray that you will bind them together, that the city of Columbia and all around here will know that Jesus. And as I told the men on the retreat, that's good indication of churches that go through a transition and come out flourishing. Through children's ministry, youth ministry, men's ministry, and women's ministry. The jailed Apostle Paul was saying to the Philippians, strive to further the gospel. But then look at verse six and seven. Your gifts are important. It was a real exciting time, but after about 10 days, you started seeing some cracks. And so you would see these others over here just woo, and they were grunting and trying to pull, and then these were pull, and then you would see that flag just move. I know I am right. He wrote a book called Rediscovering Humility. And we'd have our devotional time in the place where we slept every night. Well, my wife also worked. O Lord, we ask this in your name. My ideas are right. Maybe you've worked with a sports team, it could be a youth sports team, it could be a more of adult, but or you've heard stories Dean Kelly, I part of my job is at that time I was Minister of Christian Education. How can I use my gifts to enable my wife to glorify Jesus more? Lord, I pray that you will do a powerful work of unity even in this midst. Some were cooks and cleaners, washed dishes in the hot water. How are you gonna do it? Earlier in chapter 1, verse 6, he said, God began a good work in you, and he will bring it to completion. Here's the thing. I was a ROTC cadet. There's disagreement. I want to participate. And she was God's gift to me. You fight to win. And it was always good. The world knows that Jesus is real. Some were more mature in their faith than others. You know what they were doing that night? Think about it. Maybe you you're assuming you understand the other person's position. The Holy Spirit works in us to enable us to live like Christ. Be of the same mind. It was a young life camp. Amen. Don't get over here and then tie. Or you're trying to cross this river or cross this bridge and the bridge is booby-trapped. There's nothing more I can learn. I'd grown up. We had some inside jokes that we started and so we would just enjoy the inside jokes and we'd be, ah, you know, and we would do the inside joke and then other people would be felt le they left out. I wanted to see greater efforts in the area of men's ministry. It needs to be my way. Something was different. Peter, in his letter, 1 Peter 5, he goes after the leaders. To grow in unity, you pursue others. Defer your personal agenda. Sometimes we mock the other person. Look at verse 3. In fact, the same term is used of those preachers in chapter 1 that were trying to cause trouble. My plans are the best. But in humility, consider others better than yourselves I'm never coming to a PCA church again. Other times I don't pout, I react in anger. I told the men this. Let others praise you. And what was on the bulletin board for that week, and especially that day, was Project X. Now the problem is we say, amen to that. And wait a minute, that we didn't grow up with that. And what Lewis says, he unpacks that he says, what pride is, it's the desire and the pleasure. Where my ideas were accepted. They weren't lifeguards. As you said through your prophet, the grass withers, the flowers fade, but the word, your word, O Lord, stands forever. Tensions do happen. And if you know the Holy Spirit is working within you, then you will seek like-mindedness. Now, we don't say that, but we think that This is what we're to pursue. Sometimes in a church environment, there's financial hardship. In our conversation, in the meetings we have, listen first. Your ideas are important. The key to success was teamwork. The truth is there in verse 1. And I love how the Westminster Divines put it. We need you. I'd been Christian for many years, but I'd never really It could be you have a lot of knowledge, maybe Bible knowledge, you could have a lot of doctrinal knowledge. The difference is Jesus But note the source of the like-mindedness. Pray with me We're following Christ. And the conceit is the pride that's based on self Okay, how we do it? And we knew it was a leadership training exercise. The night he was betrayed, he said, You, when you love each other. We find out about that in John chapter 13. Well, each night of the camp we would have a nightly worship, and sometimes those He's like, let's pull together because the Spirit And all of us are sinners It's key not only of brothers and sisters, it is the key to our marriages. Well it could be we have a common goal. So how do we do This is the truth that Paul is presenting. Well, my wife had needs to talk about the day. And then five, he said, be the first to confess and be quick to forgive. And that is so true Or if X does happen, I'm leaving. In your relationships, do you seek control? Well, what if they don't listen to you right away? They resist selfishness. My needs are really the ones that need to be taken care of. But part of the hope of the world To have the same love, the love that Christ has for us, we're going to share that love with other people. I want this and I'm pursuing this. So here I was 20-year-old person, 20-year-old man, and And you would have stories sometimes of a camper who had an incredible event happen to him during the week. It goes across the whole military. Usually at that time I was one of the judges or something like that. What hinders us having this same mind? Oh I just remember the trauma. Almighty God Lifeguards got a lot of intention. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interest of others. There are things that put pressure on our relational connection. The idea here is to have the same disposition. You would clean your feet. And so here we were that day. Sometimes we gossip about the person. He says, do many menial tasks, sometimes even if nobody notices. The Apostle Paul writes, so if there is any encouragement in Christ, And then you have people over here, we're running out of time, we're running out of time. So you were given this, and then you were told to do it, and you were timed. They'll be the anchor. Do nothing out of selfish ambition But when God saves us. I was about 20 years old. And uh it was uh a good time that we had together And all the while you've got a culture around us that continues to decline and move away from Scripture. Celebrate that, enjoy that, pursue each other's. What's the pastor supposed to do? It's actually what led to the fall of Lucifer. It could be just this idea of a spree of corps. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. And there's all of this pressure. Let's just pull it and they'd be real excited if they had some more It's a common trap for any leader. God saves us as individuals. What she liked to do is when she would come home, and sometimes she would get home before me, is she would like to And in that, he has a chapter entitled Humility Towards Others. The world knows that Jesus' message is true as we love each other. Okay, we failed that one, you go to the next one, and then it would work out all right The Spirit is working. I like to come home. But we were also excited about our purpose. What I unfortunately do in my marriage, if my wife's not doing what I want, I begin to pout. Wow, this person has something very valuable to say. All right, where's the camera? Now, what we did is we negotiated our needs. They had served together in the gospel, and they are now at odds with each other. But don't be pleased All of us are equipped by the Holy Spirit And at this time, I think it was when we were in seminary. He said, but I watch this work crew. The second person of the Godhead did not hold on to his rights. Your opinions are important. Paul And sometimes people can say, well, we won. There's an interesting event. And the teacher wants the room prepared, so they prepare it. And so here I was on this summer work crew and four weeks, so four week Air Force camp, four weeks of work crew Brothers and sisters, it's not a maybe, And really what he's saying here is you put it together. And so they would Get in step with what the Spirit is doing. And I inherited a ministry that had a lot going on in children and women, and we're continuing that. The Great Sin is Pride. What we see, what what we want, we want to seek a seat at the table. And so PD is a part of the plans we're trying to make. Even that night, they were arguing about who was greatest Not denying that, but your interests are enfolded. Oh Lord, we trust you. Where does he have us? Yeah, we're all, yeah, we agree. What's the result? We're putting on the character of Christ. You just hold on. Why? We were from different areas of the country. If you have faith in Jesus, you are a part of the body. That leads to the question. C. Follow your leaders. She is God's gift to me. Brothers and sisters, that's Paul's message We see the humility of Jesus No. That's why we need this text in Philippians two, because But then on the other side And we show affection, we show sympathy, we show what it means to have a life. Verse 4. They said, each of us share in each other's gifts. And then the other night, one of the work crew members had given their testimony Because he sees us in Christ. How do I use my gifts? We would have that devotional time. My thoughts were made prominent. Maybe you just need to ask, tell me more about what you're thinking. Maybe you hear it. We had been together for about three weeks, developing relationships. Paul also says, for believers. S. The rest of the summer before I returned back to school, We want to win. And pride gets very frustrated and angry when it can't have power and control. Our our role at CDM Sometimes we exaggerate their faults. Now I wish I could say I did that perfectly. And so what do we do? Lewis in his book, Mere Christianity. I just talked to a pastor this week. Speak in a way that blesses. Both of us worked. You may have heard the phrase: a crisis can unite us. You dig in and hold on. I want to get my way. I thought all this out. How would you do it? He's saying this should not happen. No, we're to wash each other's feet. So uh what happened was we were Amen. We're all moving in the same direction. And then once you get that rhythm, I didn't get involved. He's saying, leaders, focus on serving. That doesn't give you the excuse to check out. Well, hurt feelings It's a repeat of that great commandment, Matthew 22. How do we respond to it? It happens in churches. We we've developed these relationships over time and And part of youth camp was we would have a field day. What do we do in response to that? Look to Jesus. O Lord, you are our strength. Well, get over here and help us. Sometimes we just gloss over it. I like to come home and just turn on the TV and watch the news. But uh it was always fun to see Now the others of you He said, Leaders, you must set the example. It's true in all Again, one of the lessons I learned early. Let's respond in psalm. Well we gather allies They're preaching out of selfish ambition. And he lists five practices. And and a lot of times it's So thank you for Consider others. You had a certain amount of time that you could do it. Others. But then pressure comes. It's not a unity of thought necessarily. I didn't, but I wanted to. I grew up in a broken family. Do menial tasks. Why? Well Teach us now.