Last week I began a series to finish out the millennium and uh it's on Ephesians. Actually I don't plan for this series to be that long and I know you're some of you are gonna say, yeah, we've heard that before But it's not going to be verse by verse from Ephesians 1 to 6. Actually, what I'm seeking to do is to establish a thesis uh that I believe that the book of Ephesians presents. And and that thesis is simply that a disciple Of Jesus is a person who is learning to sit, walk, and stand together in balance. That the those three things seem like, you know, how can a person sit, walk and stand at the same time? And just as that seems impossible physically, spiritually It is not possible except as God enables us to do it. But it's that balance, it's that idea of doing these three things. Now why am I so um concerned about that? Why is that something I'm taking all this time for? Well, because I believe that One of the big problems that we have as Christians is that we have, by and large, most discipleship programs, training that is given to us. presents the idea that sitting is kind of the doorway. You first learn to rest in Christ for salvation. Then you go on from grace to this walk with Christ, the discipleship. And somehow it's very difficult for us to put those two things together. So that we hear grace messages, yeah, it's all by Christ and you know unconditional love, and then we hear these discipleship messages, take up your cross, follow me, sacrifice. And these things don't seem to fit. Seems like God can't make up his mind. Is he giving us a free gift or has he got a lot of strings attached to this thing? And so how do you fit grace and discipleship together? And I believe that until we understand the connection between those two, we're going to be frustrated as Christians and frustrated in our seeking to follow Christ. Because we can't understand how grace and discipleship are interwoven. And the book of Ephesians, my thesis is, is in large part designed to help us to see those things together. That in the book of the Ephesians, what Paul does is that he takes the first three chapters to talk about how to sit, how to rest in Christ's finished work. How to rest in what he has done. In the first three chapters of Ephesians, there are almost no commands. It's simply statements of fact. This is who you are, this is what you have in Christ, here is what he has done for you, and you just bask in all that and you say, wow, that's great. And then you come to chapter 4, verse 1, which I say is the key verse of the book. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. And we saw last week how that word worthy Is the Greek word axios, which is a word which means to bring something into equilibrium, to bring two parts of a scale into balance, into equilibrium. And what Paul's saying here is As a prisoner then, he's in prison as he's writing this. He's saying, you know, I'm I'm not writing this theoretically sitting in some ivory tower, just writing from my study. I'm writing as one that's on the firing line, then I'm urging you. to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling you've received. My point in all this then is that the calling and the living are both by grace. The the calling that he's calling you to do, that means the living he's calling you to do, he's saying, be what you are Uh chapters four to six are mostly imperatives. They're mostly the commands. They're telling you how to live this. But every one of those commands, if you trace them back, is based on some statement about who you are and what you have in Christ. There is never a command in all of Ephesians, and it's true the rest of the New Testament. Ephesians is just much more precise about it to show you. There is nothing that God commands you to do Particularly as you see in Ephesians 4 to 6, that you can't relate back to some promise about what you have already in Christ. So the Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in your experience that which is already true of you in Jesus Christ. Therefore, it is appropriated by faith. Not primarily by sweat, by determination, by simply saying, this is what I got to get out and do. Alright? Now that's foundational to this whole thing. That's what I'm seeking to demonstrate to you. Ephesians is telling you that these three postures, sitting, learning to rest in Christ's finished walk, walking, learning by faith to appropriate the new life that is given to you by Jesus. And standing. As you walk, as you know, you start by sitting. I mean I say they all go together, but you know, you you have to start by resting in Christ. Then as you begin to walk, you begin to see this new life, God begins to bring to your mind things that don't fit. with one who is naming him, who is following him. He's changing your life. As you begin to do that, what happens? You get slapped down, get blindsided by Satan You're walking along, and all of a sudden, you know, discouragement, some temptation, some sin pattern begins to get you, and you say, That's the way I am, that's the way I'll always be, I'll never change, why bother to try? You get discouraged, you fall down. Paul says, stand. Now he doesn't just say stand, get up, you know, don't be a dummy, just laying there, get up there and stand. He says, no, stand in the power, the resurrected power, Ephesians 1:19 and 20, that you have in Christ. So it's the same thing. It's this idea of appropriating what is already yours. Now it's interesting. Last week I got a lot of feedback. That's one nice thing about that survey. And I said I'm trying to find some image to put this together and people, you know, describe what try this, try that and sorry guys, I'm not sure we found the perfect one yet. We're still working on it, but at least I'm really glad you're wrestling with this. And some people, well, you know, do you sit, then walk, then stand, how do they relate with you know, order and all. Well, that's good. I hope you're thinking about that, because it really will help us. As we seek to live for the Lord Jesus, if we understand the inner relationship of these things, as Ephesians puts it forth to us. So wrestle with that. Keep doing it. And I guess the best thing I can tell you so a number of questions were raised last week. is to think of it in terms of a spiral. That you start from, you know, it's like one of those little slinky springs, you know, or something like a bedspring, or I don't know. But you know, you start from the bottom, and there it is, you learn to sit in Christ. Then you begin to walk and so you begin to move around. As you begin to walk, then Satan hits you with something. So you gotta stand, you gotta stop walking. You know, because if you've got to stand, you gotta stop. So you stop, you stand And you ward off the attack by the faith and power of Christ. Then you keep and by standing, what are you doing? You're reminding yourself of the finished work of Christ for you. You're standing in that, so you're back to sitting So you get back to sitting, remind yourself of that, you begin to walk some more. So you get, you know, you you try and some other area the Holy Spirit begins to nudge you in. Some area of an attitude or materialism or self-protectiveness or demandingness, whatever it is, you begin to walk. You should begin to walk. You get blindsided again, discouraged, you know, you think, well I got this thing licked now and then down you go. Stand, sit, walk, stand, sit, walk, and sit. And it's going around and around and around like But every time you're walking, stand, and sit, you're doing it on a little higher level And that's what oftentimes we don't see. We think we're at the same spot that we were ten years ago. But if we could see in our hearts And if we could see maybe the way other people see us, they'd say, no, you're not sitting. You are different from what you were. You're not the scumbag that you were five years ago. You're a scumbag on a higher level now. So it's a difference going on. You're dealing with sins more in their root levels. Alright, but that it that's the process that I think the Lord calls us to from now to when he comes or he takes us. So, having said that, we start by the sitting. So now what I want to do for the next few weeks is to talk about how to sit. How to rest in the finished work of Christ. Sitting is a posture of resting. And I find in the interaction I have with you guys and myself as I think of my own life One of the most important things we need to learn as a congregation is how to rest, how to keep on learning to rest and to sit in the finished work of Christ. So many of us are harried. We've uh come to the place where we lack joy and power In our Christian walk, uh the Christian walk has become to us a series of religious habits without any sense of intimacy or passion for the Lord Jesus. Do you find this in your life? You know, things have become a kind of a routine. You know what to do. You've been a Christian long enough that you know how it ought to look. But when you're honest in your own heart, you're going through certain motions, and there's not that resting, there's not that sense of sitting in the finished work of Jesus that produces the joy and power that you wish that you had or think that you should have as a Christian. Alright. So Resting does not start with chapter 1, verse 1. It flows all through. But where this word that we're where this command comes most precisely in Ephesians is in chapter 2, verse 6. And so what I want to do is I want to start there as a window into what Paul's saying in this book, and I want to ask four simple questions. Of Ephesians chapter 2, verse 6, that verse which says, And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. We have been seated with Christ. Four questions. First of all, who is it that he's describing there as sitting? Well, it's you. Now that blank there is then your name. Uh who? Put your name. First name, last name, both names, I don't care what you stick. But just so you understand and emphasize to yourself, it is me who he's talking about. Not some general vague Christians, the church. church triumphant universal something like this. It's me he's talking about. Alan Harris is seated with Christ. You are seated with Christ Now who is that you? How does he describe you? You say, Abs, you don't know me. You don't know what I'm like. If you knew what I was like, you wouldn't say that so glibly. Well, let me tell you what he says you're like In chapter 2, verse 1, he says, you're dead in your transgressions and your sins. You were dead. Four D's he'll describe you. The first one is you're dead. You notice he doesn't say you're dysfunctional. He doesn't say you're sick. He doesn't say you're lacking a few things. He doesn't say you're a sad case. He says you're dead. You can't use a stronger word than dead. You're not alive. You can't be partially dead. You're dead. You have no response to the things of God. You have no more ability to respond to Jesus Christ than Lazarus in the tomb. You are dead until he calls you from death into life. You are hopeless. You're like that movie that's out now. Dead men walking. You're dead. No spiritual response. It's a flat line. No response to the things of God. Secondly, he says, you're not only dead you're worse than that, you're disobedient dead Verse 2, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdoms of the air, the Spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. In other words, what Paul's saying there is there are two basic ways to live. The way God says by his wisdom, the way the world says seems right. Paul says the way you live was the way the world said to live. You didn't follow God's ways. But every time you watched Oprah, you said that makes sense to me. Yeah, I'll do it that way. You pick up Glamour magazine or some other magazine. This is the way to have a full life. This is the way to go for it And it says, basically, do your thing, take charge of your life, you see. This idea of you as the center of the universe. That's the basic essence of disobedience. God says, go this way. I'm not going to go that way. I'll be happier if I go the way, pleasing myself, disobeying his commands. He says, put hims put Jesus at the center. Have no other gods before me. Honor your father and your mother. Don't covet. No, I'm not going to do that stuff. That makes sense. I will do my way. The spirit of disobedience that characterizes this world. That's what he says, verse 2. Verse 3 He says, you're even worse than that. You're depraved. You're depraved. Look what he says. All of us in verse 3 also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature. And following its desires and thoughts. You have certain things that you want, you demand, you're going to have And if we could put up on the screen here your thought life, the things that you pursue, what it is that are your cravings, the honest to goodness cravings that you don't even like to think about when you're sitting in an auditorium like this. Those sordid things that appeal to you, the things that you want to pursue, the things that you have pursued, the cravings of your nature All those things that come and spew out like the cesspool coming from your heart, Paul says, that's what you are like. You're dead, you're disobedient, you're depraved in the kinds of cravings that characterize your inmost wants, demands. Because of that you are damned. The end of verse 3. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. Objects of God's wrath. Because of our disobedience, because of our depravity, because of our simply going our own ways in every possible opportunity We are under God's wrath. We don't see that today. We don't have a sense of that. Rarely is that kind of notion ever coming to the surface. But you know it practically knocked me off my seat when I read of an instance where it did, because uh this is so rare that I I couldn't believe this thing. I read this article three times before I could believe it was actually in print. Recently, one of the persons who most epitomizes the appeal to every salacious appetite, every everything that is raunchy and vulgar and crude in our culture is Howard Stern, right? Everybody vote for that? Howard Stern was on the Tonight Show a little while back. I don't know if you heard about this. He was on the Tonight Show and he's promoting his new book. And uh this is the Tonight Show with Jay Leno. I am no fan of Jay Leno I've watched that guy. I used to watch him when I visit my mother. She always had this guy on. She didn't like him either, but she always used to watch him anyway. I don't know. I guess, you know, got her in the mood for going to bed or something. I don't know. But anyway we'd watch this guy and he would always really kick me off. His his his his Cynicism, the kind of crudity of his humor, and all this. Well he's on there, he's hosting this thing, and Howard Stern's promoting his new book, and he holds up his book and he holds up the Bible And he says, you know, my book is the fastest selling book in history. In fact, it's outdoing the Bible. In fact, the Gideons are now putting my book in the hotels. Jay Leno hopped up, listen, this is so amazing. I'm going to quote him. They got this thing on tape. And at that point Jay Leno leaped up with the Bible and he said, Howard, something horrible is going to happen to you This book is going to strike you down as you go down the road. It will go through the windshield and pierce your heart. I'm sounding like an evangelist now, but I predict that that's what will happen. Suddenly, all that is in this book is making perfect sense to me. Leno concluded, still holding up the Bible. Imagine what Stern thought. Imagine what the audience thought Here within all this cynicism and all this secularism and all this poo-pooing of spiritual things, this guy, comic, cynical comic, stands up and he says, This book is going to strike you dead, Howard. Yeah, I probably could have heard a pin drop. That was no joke. That characterizes you and me, dead in sin, disobedient, depraved, damned. And it's when you understand that that you're ready to see what he says in chapter 2, verse 4. It's not until you see that, that you then can go on to see The verse 4 makes sense. But, he says, but God in the Greek. But God. One of those great buts of Scripture. Hopeless, absolutely hopeless, helpless situation. Then Paul says, but God, because of his great love for us. God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ. You see, there is no other possible hope But the fact that God loved you and me. I'm gonna tell you, I was out in the woods, and I have a habit on Tuesday of reading over the text and trying to just get away from all my notes and go out and just Had the Lord speak to me afresh and anew through the things that I've thought about. And I read through those verses and I came to verse four. And I thought, but God, but because of his great love for Alan Harris, for me. in what I am like, what my past is like, what all of my nature is like, all the things that I know about me that disgust and shame me Because of what? His great love for me? Because he is rich in mercy? Because verse 6, it is by grace that I've been saved. I'll tell you, I stopped and I I couldn't go on. Have you ever stopped to think in your life That the only reason that you don't get what you deserve is because of God's great love for you And have you ever stopped to say, how in the world could he love the kind of person he's just described in verses one to three? The person who I fit that description so perfectly? Why? Why would he so love me? Why would his mercy be extended to me? And so you see, we come to that second question. Why? Why is it that he has seated me with Christ? And the answer is, first of all, because he loved me. Because of his grace and his mercy to me. There is no other explanation. There's nothing in me. I wasn't wise enough to respond. I'm not better than anybody else. Why did he choose me? Look what he says in chapter 1, verse 6. Excuse me, in one verse, again to verse 4. It's in love that he predestinated us to be adopted as his sons. It was his love that caused him to choose me and to select me as one that he would have mercy on, favor, and not wrath. I was doomed. But he loved me. And because he loved me, he raised me up and seated me with Christ. Have you ever rested in that? But the hope that you have, nothing that you've done, not that you could make verse 1 to 3 any better in your life. But simply because of his great love, who is rich in mercy toward you But how is he able to do that? Why? You push the question deeper, and you find that the second way to answer that is part B there, because I rest in Christ's finished work. I am resting in his finished work. Now let me there's a picture that's here, it's implicit, but you gotta see it. The Old Testament pictured salvation, it anticipated salvation in the work of the priest in the temple. When the priest would bring the sacrifices into the temple, they were only basically in that holy place where the priest operated four articles of furniture. There was the altar on which the sacrifices were laid. There was the table, secondly, of the bread of the presence. Thirdly, there was the table of the candlestick, the golden candlestick, the light. God is our bread, he is our light. And then fourthly, there was directly ahead the altar of incense, symbolizing the worship and the prayers of the saints. There were no chairs in the temple, because the priest never sat down His work was constantly to make sacrifice after sacrifice. He made the morning sacrifice. And as soon as he finished making the morning sacrifice, it was time to prepare the afternoon and the evening sacrifice. There were the Sabbath sacrifices, there were the new moon sacrifices, there were the Passover sacrifices, the Day of Atonement sacrifices, and the sacrifices, as Hebrews 10 tells us, were simply a continual reminder. That there could never be a completion of those sacrifices because the sins were never paid for. The priest never sat down. But then Jesus comes. And the Bible pictures him as the priest who offers himself as the perfect Lamb And when Jesus died on the cross, he was offering himself as that Lamb to take upon himself all the curses That were due to the people described in verses 1 to 3. All those who were dead and disobedient and depraved and damned, and Jesus was damned in your place and my place if you trusted him. And when he took all of those curses upon himself, what's the last thing that Jesus said before he died? It is finished. And so the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 1, Paul's prayer is that you would know Verse 18, with the eyes of your heart, something of that hope to which he's called you. Verse 19, his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power which is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Now let me correct myself. I said there is no seat, no chair in the temple. That's not quite true Because if you were to go from the holy place into the inner sanctum, the holy of holies, what was there? Just one article of furniture, right? The Ark of the Covenant. Now what did they call the lid that covered the table of the law in the Ark of the Covenant? The mercy seat. The picture that the Bible has for you and for me, it's presented in Hebrews, is that when Jesus offered his blood for your sin and my sin He walked into that heavenly tabernacle, into the Holy of Holies, the veil was rent, he sat down on the mercy seat, because his work was finished. Now, the staggering thing is that when you come to chapter 2, verse 6, Paul says, God has seated you on the mercy seat with Jesus. He's raised us up with Christ, and he's seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Where is he? He's seated on the mercy seat. His work is finished. It is done. There is nothing more to do to accomplish your salvation. Then he invites you in, and God, notice the passive here. You don't seat yourself. God takes you and he seats you there with Christ on the mercy seat. Perfect access to him. And what are you sitting on when you're sitting on that mercy seat? You're sitting on the law. His mercy has covered the law. There is no possibility of you breaking the commandments to bring God's disfavor upon you because Christ's sacrifice has covered it perfectly. That's what Paul's saying, to rest in by faith and to see yourself in that position. But now we come to a third question. And this third question is perhaps the most difficult one for us to answer in this. And that's the question of where. By the way, in the sea there, of course, you're sitting there by faith. Verses 8 and 9, by grace you're saved through faith. It's not by what you've done, simply by faith in Christ. That's what enables you to rest. Because it's simply faith in what he has done. The third question about where we're seated. You notice he says in verse 2:6, chapter 2, verse 6, God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him where In the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Now, literally, so you get your little blank filled in there, you don't have to worry about that. That's literally in the heavenlies. In the Greek, it's just one word, in the heavenlies, not heavenly places or anything like that. That's significant, I believe. Because where is it? You know, you say, you know, this is what bothers me about the Bible. You get this kind of language, it doesn't make sense. I am sitting here in the Ministry Center in Columbia, Maryland. What do you mean I'm sitting in the heavenlies? You know, am I divided? You know, and say it you you know your mind wrestles with, well, I guess it's talking about my position in Christ. You know, somehow I'm up there and I'm down here at the same time. Maybe my soul or my spirit's up there and I'm down here. No, I don't think that's what it's saying. In fact, I'll tell you something more. I don't think it's talking about heaven. What's it talking about? Never understood this until I realized that this word in the heavenlies is used by Paul five times in this book. Now let's look at them real quick just to get the gist. Chapter 1, verse 3. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenlies. NIV agains in the heavenly realms, literally, one word, who has blessed us in the heavenlies with every spiritual blessing in Christ. Okay? So that's where we're blessed. Chapter 1, verse 20. We just looked at that one. Christ was raised in the dead. God seated him at his right hand in the heavenlies. Alright? Same thing. Chapter 2, verse 6, he's raised us up. He's seated us with Christ in the heavenlies. Chapter 3, verse 10, talking about the church. God's making his infinite, manifold wisdom evident to all the spiritual powers in all the universe And so he says in 310, his intent was that now through the church, through you and me, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms, literally in the heavenlies. Same phrase. Chapter 6, verse 12, when he talks about standing. He's talking about our spiritual struggle. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers. against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. There it is, fifth time again, in the heavenlies. What's this saying? I believe that what Paul's saying here is that this is not referring to heaven. Three times it is in connection with the rulers and powers of the universe. Twice it is in connection with our blessings and our position in Christ. And so I've written it out there so that you can't miss it. My conclusion is that heavenlies refers not to heaven, but to the unseen spiritual realm of enduring transcendent reality. Now I have you fill in that word reality because I believe that's the key word. In other words, how are we to understand this? We tend to see it in terms of theoretical position Theoretically, I am positioned with Jesus seated in the heavenlies. In fact, in my life, I'm down here grunting it out on earth. That's not the distinction. What Paul is saying is that in fact there are two superimposed, intertwined realities. The physical reality we see, the spiritual reality, that is in fact more enduring and transcendent. The only way I know to illustrate this, even though the illustration is not perfect, but the only way I know to illustrate this is to think in terms of dimensions. Let's imagine that you were a creature of only two dimensions. Alright? All you've got is length and width. You don't have any height or depth. You just length and width. You're flat as a pancake, flat your fat as a pancake. Pancakes have a little bit of height. At least when I make them. Maybe they're not too much height when I make them, but they got a little bit of height. Alright, but there's no height to this thing at all. Just a piece of paper. It's got length and width. Now the only reality that this creature that has length and width can perceive is the reality of its own plane. What is passing through that plane? Pass through the plane, it can see it. Ah, there's something there. Don't pass through that plane. You're above it or below it. Can't see it. It doesn't exist. Spiritual reality is like the third dimension. The third dimension can intersect so it can be perceived, or it can be not perceived. What Paul is saying is that in this third dimension, in this reality, which is just as real as what you're living in, In the spiritual dimension of reality, you are in fact as a person seated with Christ in his position upon that mercy seat, having wrested from all your work. before God in his favor because of what Christ has done. That's your position. That's where you are. Now, that other dimension of you is also involved in this world. But he's saying you've got to see that other dimension. See, here's where I think what what I what I say confirms my understanding of this. Twice Paul prays exactly that. Look what he says in chapter 1, in verse 18. He prays in 118. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. The whole point of this prayer that we memorize for our purpose and all this begins Uh after he's praying about your knowing him better, he's praying that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to see something you can't see simply with your physical eyes And you will not in fact see apart from God's supernatural opening those eyes of faith to see. He said there's something around here that you're just oblivious to. I pray the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you see it. What is it that he wants you to see? Your calling. You see, and what is that calling? That God has raised you up and seated you in the heavenly realms with Christ. All the rulers and the authorities of the universe see it. They're very aware of it. In fact, God's parading it. In fact, Colossians says he's making a spectacle before them to show the victory that he has had in bringing a sinner what they would consider vile tiny puny vermin, that the Father has chosen you and me to be his sons, to be those upon whom he has set his glory. And God is saying, I am displaying you before these in these heavenly realms. Now look what he says in chapter 3, verse 17. In chapter 3, verse 17, he says, And I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have the power, together with all the saints, to grasp How wide, how long, how high, how deep is the love of Christ. You see, he's saying, I want you to see what you can't normally see. That you are in fact a creature who has been set up on high in the finished work of Christ, justified and adopted. Now we're out of time, so I'm not going to hit that. Don't sweat dick, I'm quick Well, pick that one up next week. That's the advantage of a series, all right? Think about it. How often do you see yourself As seated in the heavenly realms, all your labor, all your effort is completed. Jesus has accomplished all that is necessary for all that really matters. Be accepted by God. Let's pray. Lord, I know that there's many of us here we we think we're not getting what we deserve. We're anxious. We're cynical, we're fretting, we're laboring, and you need to open our eyes That we might see, we might simply be able to grasp what it means that we are seated in the heavenlies. In this dimension that we cannot right now perceive, but is more enduring and transcendent than anything that we see and touch and feel right here and now. We are seated on the mercy seat with Jesus. Because of that, all of our fretting, all of our worrying, all those things, Lord, simply are so foolish Put our hearts, Lord, at rest. Whatever the thing is, whatever the issue for each one of us, put our hearts at rest, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.