Next week I'm going to do something that I have never done before at Columbia Presbyterian. I'm going to begin the exposition of an entire book of the Bible. The prophecy of Amos. Why Amos? Well, because I believe that we need the message of Amos in our day. And also because I believe that while there is a general misconception about the Old Testament prophets and their place and their message, there is in particular a misconception and an unfamiliarity. For many of us, with the message of Amos. And so we will be looking at that beginning next week. But while Amos wrote to God's people in the 8th century BC a particular message. God raised up a man, Asaph, a contemporary of King David, to write the same message 250 years before Amos. And so this message was given in a psalm. Psalm fifty. And if you understand the message of Psalm fifty, Then you understand the message of Amos. Because I believe in the twenty-three verses of this psalm you have the essence of the book of Amos. Therefore, as an introduction to the series on Amos, I want to open up to you this morning Psalm 50. Turn in your Bibles then to Psalm 50. And let's consider. This is God's Word. God Himself is speaking to us. Let's give our attention to His Word. Psalm 50. The Mighty One, God, the Lord, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to the place where it sets. From silent, perfect in beauty, God shines forth. How God comes and will not be silent. A fire devours before him, and around him a tempest rages He summons the heavens above and the earth that he may judge his people. Gather to me my consecrated ones, who made a covenant with thee by sacrifice. And the heavens proclaim his righteousness, for God Himself is judge. Hear, O my people, and I will speak. O Israel, and I will testify against you I am God, your God. I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices, for your burnt offerings, which are ever before me. I have no need of a bull from your skull, or of goats from your pens, for every animal of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills. I know every bird in the mountains. The creatures of the field are mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you. But the world is mine, and all that is in it. Do you want to eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Sacrifice bank offerings to God. Fulfill your vows to the Most High. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me. But to the wicked God says, What right have you to recite my laws or take my covenant on your lips? You hate my instruction and cast my words behind you. When you see a feet you join within, you throw in your body with adulterers, you use your mouth for evil and harness your tongue to deceive. You speak continually against your brother and slander your own mother's son. These things you have done, and I kept silent. You thought it was altogether like you, but I will rebuke you and accuse you to your face. Consider this, you who forget God, or I will tear you to pieces. With none to rescue. He who sacrifices bank offerings honors me, and he prepares the way, so that I may show him the salvation of God. What is the message of Psalm 50 then, which encapsulates the whole book of Amos 250 years before it was written? Notice how it begins. It begins with three names for God. It begins El, Elohim, Jehovah. The mighty one, God, the Lord, this is the one who comes to speak. Now you remember when God spoke from Mount Sinai? But his speaking was accompanied with thunder and with lightning, with clouds and with smoke, with fire and an earthquake. Can you picture the scene? What it must have been like to stand there at Mount Sinai You feel the whole earth shaking under you. You see the fire coming out of the mountain. You see lightning coming down and thunder splitting the air. You see the smoke and the clouds. And you're terrified that this God has come to speak. And these are simply the things that accompany his glory. These are the side effects of the glory of God. But the Bible says that his own innate glory is utterly indescribable. And God comes in that glory to speak. He spoke to his people so that they said, please God, don't speak to us directly again. We can't bear it. It terrifies us. God's awesome majesty strikes terror to our hearts. But there'd be an intermediary. God's now saying he's coming again. He's speaking from another mountain now. Verse 2, from Mount Zion. And again we see the same kind of phenomena accompanying this. He's speaking from Mount Zion now, Mount Zion, perfect in its beauty, God is shining forth in his majesty. And then as he comes. And again there is a fire that's devouring before him, and around him there's a tempest that's raging. So once again we're terrified and awestruck by the majesty and the power and the holiness of this God who comes to speak to us. And what is he coming to do? You notice he's coming to summon all the heavens and the earth to witness a judgment that he's about to carry out. Verse 1. He sweeps and he summons the earth from the rising of the sun to the place where it sets. The whole earth is to come. Verse 4, he summons the heavens above and the earth that they may judge, that he may judge his people. You notice that the heavens and the earth here are not coming as objects of his judgment for the peoples of the world, but they are rather witnesses to his judgment. Who is he judging then? He's judging his people. Look at verse 4. All the heavens and the earth, from one end to the other, are coming that he may judge his people. He's judging the church. He's judging the evangelicals, as it were. Here's all the professing Christians standing before. Notice verse 5. Gather to me my consecrated ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice. That's Old Testament language for who have a profession of faith Those who say, I stand under the blood of Jesus Christ, I've made a covenant with God. He is my hope. Bible-believing Christians, that's who he's judging in this Psalm. And notice what he says. Gather them to me, and the heavens declare as righteousness. God's going to judge. Why is he going to judge us? Isn't that an article of our faith? You know, you say, well, God, you have any business judging us. We've already been judged, you know. He judged us in the cross, Jesus Christ. You're going to judge the world. Go judge those people. Judge the people who don't believe the Bible or claim Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord. But don't judge us. And yet, that's exactly why we have this song. For God to remind us and to warn us that He must warn us of the presumption of saying, because I'm a Bible-believing Christian, I'm exempt from the warning of judgment. As John Berling puts it in his book, Songs from a Strange Land, the people of God are ever in danger of relaxing. Of assuming that they're all right. They see themselves as God's chosen, and they are that. But history is littered with people who let that conviction become a presumption. When God acts in judgment, whether at the end of time or in history, then judgment begins with the people of God. 1 Peter 4. 17. So this is a warning. A warning against presumption. And God is speaking to the Bible-believing Christians as a warning in history before the final judgment comes. Now what's the basis of his judgment? The basis, of course, is his law. That's always the basis of God's judgment. And it's his law in this psalm as summed up in the Ten Commandments. And so you look and you analyze the psalm, and you'll notice that verses 7 to 15 are the first table above all. Now the Ten Commandments are divided traditionally into two tables of the law. The first table of the law, the first four commandments, had to do with our relationship with God The vertical relationship of worship, our relationship to God directly. The second table of the law, commandments five to ten, had to do with our relationship with other people. And what God says about how we treat other people. So summed up, first table of Allah, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind And then the second table of the law is to love your neighbor as yourself. Commandments one to four and five to ten. In this psalm He deals with the first table of Allah in verses seven to fifteen, and then the second table of Allah in verses sixteen to twenty-one. And notice how he applies that. The first table of the law, then, reminding us of the command to love God with all our heart, soul, strength, and mind. And God is saying here, remember that I am a spirit, that I am a person. Don't turn the relationship that I want to have with you into a ritual. Notice what it says in verse 7. Hear O my people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you. God's testifying against the church, against the Bible-believing Christians, against those of us who name the name of Jesus Christ. Now that should wake us up to say, Why is God testifying against his people? What is it that he has to say to us to profess his name and bear it and say, Jesus is my Savior and my Lord Notice what he says, verse 8. He says, I don't rebuke you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings, which are ever before me. You're very busy people. So there's nothing wrong with having your Sunday school classes. There's nothing wrong with having worship every Sunday morning. Nothing wrong with having the Lord's Supper every Sunday evening. I've told you to do these things. Nothing wrong with having a film series. Nothing wrong with having other special events. Nothing wrong with having evangelistic Bible studies and discipleship groups and era fellowship groups and growth groups and all the various groups and activities. That we all gather around. Nothing wrong with calling a weekly prayer meeting to gather together. I don't rebuke you for all these times that you come before me as a people. The problem, God says Is that you think that I want the things? You think that I want the activities, as if I need them somehow to satisfy. That is what he says, verse 9. Says I don't have any mean of a bill from your spa or fruits from your pens and every animal in the forest is mine. And the cattle on a thousand hills, I know it'd be burned in the mountains, and the creatures of the fields are mine. If our home that wouldn't tell you, for the world is mine, and all that's in it Do I eat the flesh of goats? Or drink the blood of goats? You see what God's saying? He's saying, for me to ask you for your time or for your money as if I need it. You see, because we don't have these physical sacrifices now. Those were the Old Testament worship. We translate that now into the spiritual worship that we bring, but still the activity of coming together, giving our money, spending our time, doing our efforts. And that's over me to say that I need that from you, they'd be like the ocean asking its fishes for a drink of water. That says I don't need these things from you. I don't need your time, your activity, your money. It's not like I'm in need of something. Rather, I have called you into a relationship. Don't treat me as a superstition. What was the first question that you asked yourself when you banged up the car? Why didn't I have my quiet time this morning? Why did I skip over my bear time? See what happened? Well, nothing's going right And one after frust one frustration after another comes through the day. And the immediate thing that we come to is why didn't I do things right? Why wasn't I faithful in this or that or some other thing? God says in verse 14, come on. Sacrifice bank offerings to God and fulfill your vows to the Most High. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you and your honor. See what he's saying there? You see, the bank offering there in verse 14, the bank offering was also called a peace offering. And the bank offering or peace offering Was the fellowship offering. It was that one offering, and this is why I believe God picks this offering. It was the one offering of all the offerings in the Old Testament, more than any other that spoke of communion with God. It was that offering that we presented to him in order to draw close into his presence and share his fellowship. It was the one sacrifice that God ate, as it were, with his people. Because he said the priest was to have part of it and then you're to take the rest of it home and you eat that and we're having a meal together. Of course, God is not consuming any of it physically, he has it burned uh for the priest and then uh you ghost it. But the symbol that he's giving there is this is fellowship together. Now God's saying, don't be superstitious about our relationship. Don't put me into some sort of a box of religion whereby you appease me, you induce me somehow or other to bless your activities by things that you do superstitiously. But God says, when you're in trouble, call on me. Remember, I am a person. I'm a spirit. You can't see me. But I am a person, and I want to have a relationship with you. Don't ritualize the commandments that speak about worship with me and turn them into something hollow. And as Christians, again and again, we need to hear that note. As evangelicals, as Bible-believing Christians, we reduce so easily our relationship with the Lord Jesus into a ritual. And God's saying here to us, that's not something to take lightly. That's not well, you know, you're missing a few blessings because you're not having so much joy. God's saying, you have forgotten me. I am missing out on that. And I have established this relationship with you by covenant of my son, so then we will have a fellowship together. And you have forgotten that You're not calling upon me when you're in trouble. You're trying your activities. You're trying to do little things, religious activities, in order to induce me to bless you. But he said, when you call upon me Then I will deliver you. And then you'll honor me. You ever have a situation where you experienced a blessing and some answer to prayer? And what's your thought subtly? I must have done the right stuff. It worked. I asked my friends to pray, and it worked. I'll have to do that again. You know, I read this passage and I spent a little extra time or I basket and I skipped this and I did that and it worked God's saying here when you're in trouble, remember that you're calling upon me. It's not some mechanism. It's me. I will deliver you. And when you remember that, then you will honor me when I answer. Not say to yourself, Well I've got to give some blessing to God and give him some credit, but I've got to remember what I did the next time. God says that doesn't honor me. That's religion, that's superstition. Honor me. Then verses 16 to 23, he goes on to the second table of the law. Here he begins to move from the vertical to the horizontal. He talks about our relationship with other people. Beloved thy neighbor as thyself, part of the great commandment. And what does he say? Notice in verse 16. He says, What could the wicked God says? Now wait a minute. Here he said first of all in verse 5, Gather to me my consecrated ones, those who made a covenant with me Now he's saying, now but to the wicked. He must be changing his audience. First of all, it was to the believers. No, it's not to the believers. Now it's to those who don't profess Christ. Not at all. Read the rest of verse 16. To the wicked God says, What right have you to recite my laws or take my covenant on your lips? He's still talking to Bible-believing Christians, those that profess Jesus Christ, those that say, yes, I've taken Jesus, my Savior and Lord. Yes, I've claimed John 3. 16 for my life. Oh yes, I believe the Bible. I believe that Jesus died for my sins. Gallup says that you could ask a third of this country if they've been born again and have some vague relationship to Jesus Christ for that. And they'll say, Oh yeah, I've been born again. Yes, sure, I trust Jesus as my Savior and Lord. Yes, we need blood of the Bible in our society. Yes, let's have the year of the Bible. Yes, let's have prayer in the school. And yes, let's have all kinds of activities that show that we're Christians. The Lord saying to us in verse 16, he says, I have something to say to you about that. You recite my laws. That's reference. to the commandment in Deuteronomy to read the law every seventh year at the Feast of Tabernacles and on certain other occasions. And he says, You gather together and you read, and you know sometimes we recite the Ten Commandments as part of our worship. God's saying, yes, I hear you. You recite my laws. If you recite them, you say, yes, this is what God says. This is what we ought to do. No argument. Let's do it. This is what we're committed to doing. And we take this covenant on our lips and claim them as Savior and Lord, then he says, verse 17, You hate my instruction. And cast my words behind you. How do you do that? How does he possibly say that you and I, people who trust Jesus Christ, who claim him at least as Savior and Lord, how can he possibly say? Did you cast my words behind you? You hate my instruction. What person in this country that read the Bible? We claim to be a Bible-believing Christian, and yet we'd be addressed as one who hates his instruction and cast his word by it. Doesn't make sense, does it? So you read an article in Context magazine, November 15, 1981, was an interview with the founder of McDonald's hamburgers. Founder McDonald's Hamburgers died last month. And in this interview in 1981, he was asked the question about his own personal faith, and this the president said Said, I speak of faith in McDonald's as if it were a religion. I believe in God, family, and McDonald's. And in the office, that order is reversed. At home, For the Christians, it's God, family, McDonald's. And so as soon as I get into the office, McDonald's first, and then family, and then God. Our religion has become something very private and personal, like a hobby. There was an interview with a person who was on the board, in fact he was the vice president. of NBC. This fellow was professing to have become a Christian, a Bible-believing Christian. This interview was conducted with him, it's quoted in Os Guinness's book, The Grave Nigger File. But in this interview, the Vice President of NBC was interviewed by the Washington Post He went out of his way to stress that his new Christian outlook would lead to no good moral standards around NBC. Quote, All it does is to give me peace of mind in my personal life, he said. But whether it will affect my programming, it doesn't. It just makes me think clearer, and that just means I probably think more commercially than I did before. How can God say, you recite my laws, but you hate my instruction, and you cast my words behind your back? Because we have come in a position in our country, I believe, in which we've so privatized Christianity that it's like a personal father. And we can recite it on certain occasions, and we can profess to believe it. But then we have to ask ourselves: how much does it really affect the way I work, the way I relate to people? The relationships that I have outside the church. I am convicted by this the same way that you are But it's something I think we have to face squarely. And God, in his mercy for the world over here, gives us three concrete examples of what he means by that. He doesn't leave it back. You notice what he says in verse 18. You see a thief. And you join them. What do you mean by that? He says you look at a thief and you say, The recite when you're with me, thou shalt not steal. And then you go out and you see this guy and he says, Hey, I got a deal for you. You know, there's a way that you can get this, and you can avoid the taxes. There's a way that you can get this, and I can get it and bypass the company. And you can really save a profit on this. Or I can just switch this around a little bit, and I can really save you a lot of money. By saving the money, you're just bypassing the way that that thing was to be sold or what the government should get out of it. I was over at Bradley's just last week and I was buying something and I happened to mention to the cashier, boy. You know, it's a shame. I just got the the same thing last week and it wasn't on sale. I missed it. Yeah, that's no problem. Too much you just return it. They'll give you the money back and then buy it on sale. I said, well that's not right. You shouldn't do that. So what? But so it's Christians. There's that subtle pressure, isn't there, constantly. It says, well, you know, it's not really stealing, it's just being a good steward, you know, saving a little money. And there's nothing really wrong And so we begin all kinds of mental gymnastics, and God says, Deceive the thief, and you join to this tactics, you join to that spirit of seeking to get something that you're not paying for, bypassing the system one way or another. Then he goes on to say, you look at an adulterer. Control in your lot with the adulterers. You recite and worship, thou shalt not commit adultery. Then somebody sneaks into your bedroom drawer and they find the Playboy stacked there. We had to stop our kids playing with one Bible-believing family. Because they were finding all the Playboy magazines in the badged room. The kids would get them out and they would look through them for curiosity. We find it there's so many of us who's had double standard. This is wrong Yet in our dating life, there's petting it. There's excusing it. There's saying, this isn't really wrong. It really isn't technically wrong. And we've taken a low view of marriage, divorce, living together. God says you throw in your lot with the lifestyle, with the mentality of those who Cast my words behind your back, and you've begun to step down. He says in verses 19, 20, use your mouth for evil. Will you harness your tongue to deceit? You speak continually against your brother and slander your own mother's son. You recite, you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. Then he says you gossip. Do you notice the kind of gossip he's describing? What kind of gossip he's describing? It's like a family I heard of, where they said, let's get together. And we'll invite Joe and Charlie and Uncle Sam and you know all these and they left out Aunt Harriet. Somebody said, Well why are we gonna have Aunt Harriet? And the answer was we've got to have somebody to talk about. Yeah, whoever isn't there, you know, that's the fun for the evening. You know, what's it like when your family gets together? I know with a lot of families, whoever isn't there, watch out. Their ears could burn I hear what's being said about them. He says here, you even slander your own mother's son. Your own brother. You talk to your other brother or your other sister about what a jerk he is, and how he's giving you a raw deal, and what he's this and he's that, and he says, Oh, within the family, there's no loyalty. But there is that bearing of false witness, that turning, that malicious tongue. What he says, stand up and you say, I believe in Jesus, and I say, You shall not bear false witness against your brother, but we compromise. And the ways of the world have eaten into us. God is graciously willing us here. He's graciously calling attention to his own people. And he's saying, look out. And Philip is how he says it. Look at verse 21. He says, these things you've done. And I kept silent. There wasn't any vote from heaven. There wasn't any enlightenment that struck. He didn't see anything that dropped down onto your Bible that said, Look out! That's a violation. And so I said, what did you conclude? Because I didn't do anything observable to bring about judgment. He says, well, your conclusion was he thought I was just like you You read the Bible and you said, well, we're doing these things, and God seems to be basically blessing, and therefore you must have the same kind of standards we do. You see really doesn't matter to God either. Sure, he says these things, but God's a realist. He knows we're sinners, he knows how we ought to act. And God looks the other way. God doesn't really mind if we privatize our profession of Jesus Christ and his ethics into some personal sphere. Asap is saying here, the words of God are, you thought because I didn't speak, because I didn't judge you visibly in history. But therefore, I was agreeing with you, and I was saying it was okay, and that you were presuming, therefore, on the covenant. You said, We're under the blood of Jesus, and there is no judgment for us. God is simply saying, Here, look again. Are you really under the blood of Jesus Christ? Or have you taken this gloomily upon your lips? Said I can trust him as my Savior and Lord. But just don't explain to me too much of what that wordships. And God is warning us. He warns us, and he goes on to say, at the end of verse 21, I will rebuke you. And I will accuse you to your face. Now, how is he going to accuse us? He accuses us by his word. This saw Right now, God is speaking through this word to our hearts. And He'll be building in the weeks ahead through the book of Amos So his conclusion is: consider this, you who forget God, who forget what I'm like, or I will tear you to pieces with none to rescue. See, the issue isn't simply a matter of losing a few blessings. The bottom line issue is whether we really are united to Jesus Christ. But whether the church has fallen to such a level of spirituality in our day that we've come to a place where we don't even notice the difference between the church and the world. And therefore, there's no way of visibly seeing these people are committed to Jesus Christ, and their ethics and their lifestyle and their worship, their social peace, and the rest of that is different, markedly different. God says you've got to look. Do you really know me? Do you really know Jesus Christ? Or have you forgotten what I'm like? Have you forgotten? It's the same thing that he says in the New Testament. Where Jesus said that there's going to come many in that day who will say, Lord, Lord, Heaven, I've done wonderful works in your name, and he says, I will say to them, I never knew you, because you heard my words, but you did not do them. He confessed the man to build his house on the sand, as the one who hears my words and does not act on them. With the one who builds his house on the rock, characterized as the one who heard my word and acted on it. It's not enough for us to just hear Sunday Sunday by Sunday the word of the gospel. But God is saying here that if you've taken my covenant, you've got to live it, you've got to act on it. So he says in the final verse, he who then sacrifices thank offerings honors me. He who is in that personal relationship. Of dependence on me, of communion with me. He's the one who really honors me. And he prepares the way. A better translation of that would be: He orders his way. He sets his way. That is, it's the second table of the law. It's verses 16 to 21. Not only is he in worship and fellowship with me, but he is also one who's ordering his way the way I have commanded. He is setting his way. He's watching his walk, you see. That's what that's saying. So that I may show him the salvation of my God Praise God, Jesus Christ is that sacrifice. You see, the thank offering was a blood offering. And the blood was the picture for us that the communion that we have in the fellowship with God is through Jesus Christ. So don't despair. If God has convicted you this morning, don't despair Jesus Christ is that blood offering that we can have, and we can trust him, and we can know that our sins are forgiven and washed away, but that he will never judge us, but that we are secure in him. But don't presume either. Don't presume that because you can quote John 3. 16, that you know a few Bible verses, therefore you have salvation. Because he has said, it's he who knows me, and that's evident in the way that he lives, to whom I will show my salvation. Don't despair and don't resume. Let's look to the Lord together. Lord our God, we come to look to you. To look to you and to be warned by you. Thank you, Lord, that in your kindness you have given us this warning, both in this Psalm and in the book of Amos. We might not presume to think that we can gloomily take your name upon our lips and then live in the world's way. To compromise and to rationalize, as if your holy laws did not cut across our simple and worldly inclinations. Lord, may we see you working that work, as Steve reminded us earlier, of sanctification in us, setting us aside more and more wholly and consistently to be like the Lord Jesus. In our relationship with you, and in our love for one another. Deliver us this week from those subtle areas of compromise, in theft, in impurity, and in gossip. Lord, we look to you for your workingness. And if there is anyone here, Lord, this morning It realizes now that what they have seen as the gospel has really been a very shallow statement of cheap peace And we pray, Lord, that you would bring that one to be able to see what it means for their whole life to be given over to Jesus Christ. And that you would bring that person into that relationship of peace and joy. And with you as their Savior and their Lord, we look to you together for these things in Jesus' name. Let's sing together a