To drive home in this series that we live the Christian life of discipleship by faith, primarily by faith not primarily by a learned set of skills, though that's important, or a learned set of behaviors, or a kind of a lifestyle that we put on. We live the Christian life of discipleship by faith. Too often I believe that discipleship is presented as faith being the doorway. You come into the Christian life by faith. And then you learn certain behaviors, you learn certain things to do. And you remember that faith. That's important for getting to heaven. It's important for certain things that we can't do. But it's not a daily foundation. I'm trying to show from what Paul says in the book of Ephesians that faith is the foundation. of our Christian walk. Or as we put it in another analogy, it's like a three-legged stool in which you sit, walk, and stand simultaneously. Those are the three legs. Sitting, walking, standing in Christ. Sitting, resting, in the finished work of Christ, Ephesians 1-3, walking by faith in Christ Because of what he has done, working out by faith that new life that is given to you in Christ, Ephesians 4, 5, and beginning of chapter 6. And then standing, the third leg, when you're attacked by the evil one, by faith in the power of Christ. We feel that our attacks are so often something we just view on a human level. This person is out to get me. The computer's out to get me. The traffic lights are out to get me We don't see that beyond the circumstances. Satan's behind that traffic light. No. There's something going on here that's beyond. We need to get the heavenly perspective that we've been talking about. And that's why you notice. And Paul deals so much with this idea of the heavenlies in Ephesians, right after his greeting, the theme statement in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 Blessed be to the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenlies with every spiritual blessing in Christ. I said last week that I believe that most of our troubles are rooted in the fact that we do not see life from the perspective of the heavenlies. Heavenlies is not a place. The heavenlies refers here not primarily to heaven, but to the spiritual realm of transcendent reality. To see things from that spiritual realm. That flows through Paul's book here. He's blessed us with every spiritual blessing, better than any material blessing you could have, because that's in the heavenlies where it endures. Gets to the root issues. And so then down, you go down to verse 20 of chapter 1, Paul says, I pray that you will see and know God's power which he exerted in Christ. Verse 20 When he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand, where? In the heavenlies. Christ is seated in the heavenlies. That's the place of power. That is the place of his authority. And so then in chapter 2, verse 6. The Gesurverin says, and God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him. Where? In the heavenlies. In Christ Jesus. I said that last week Colossians parallels the book of Ephesians. And so I'm trying to grasp this idea of what it means for you and for me to live in the heavenlies. Be able to understand that. It's a difficult concept. I understand that. It's difficult for me. I wrestle with this. I've been wrestling more with it, trying to preach it and trying to open it up to you guys. Be able to see what this means And Colossians parallels Ephesians. In some places, Colossians expands on the ideas of Ephesians. In other places, Ephesians expands more in Colossians. But in this particular case, Colossians chapter 2, verses 16 to chapter 3, verse 4, expand on that whole idea of the beginning of Ephesians 2. And so turn, please, to Colossians chapter 2 in order to see a little bit more of what this means for us to grasp this. The key word to understanding what Colossians, the end of chapter 2 and beginning of chapter 3, is talking about is the word with. W-I-T-H, the word with. Learning to sit means first of all learning to sit with Christ. To make sense of Christianity, you and I need to understand that there are four key events in Jesus' salvation for you. Four key events. His death, his resurrection, his sitting in authority, and then his coming again. And Colossians 2 and 3 says that you and I did those four things with Jesus. What Jesus did physically and spiritually, you and I do spiritually, and eventually will also be joined spiritually. When Jesus died on the cross, he didn't die alone spiritually. You died with him. Colossians 2. 20. See it? Since you died with Christ Spiritually, you died on the cross with Jesus Christ if you are looking to Him as your payment for sin. Trusting in his death to cover all the things you've done wrong. You died with Christ. The second event was his resurrection, chapter 3, verse 1. John read it before. Since then you have been raised with Christ. So you've been raised with him When he came out of that tomb into new life spiritually, you received new life accounted to you, new power. You are also seated with Christ. Verse 3. For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. That parallels Ephesians 2. The idea there is of your being seated in the heavenlies with Christ. And when he comes, you'll appear with him. Verse 4. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Now it's difficult for us to grasp the connections in this, isn't it? You say, well, you know, it seems like I live in two worlds. And Sunday I hear all this stuff that sounds like religious spiritual talk. I died with Christ, I rose with Christ, I'm seated with Christ, I'll appear with Christ. But through the week, how do I grab a hold of that? It seems like there's a disconnect. You ever feel that? You know, you you're you're feeling like during Monday and Tuesday You see yourself as a crummy failure, not able to do stuff like other people can do it. Seems like I'm always messing up. Everything I think I'm going to do, I don't do it as well. I get tired of saying I'm sorry, of always messing up and having to restore things that are broken. The stress on my job, the impossible demands that are upon me just seem like they're overwhelming me, and I'm not able to rest. It seems like when I look at my life that's simply full of stress and disappointments, these things don't seem to relate too clearly. Seems like everybody else is able to cope with life better than I am. With this frantic rat race and other people seem like they can do it. I feel like I'm falling apart sometimes. They come here on Sunday mornings and I sit and I watch all these people around me and they seem so competent and I think, does anybody else here struggle with the stuff I struggle with? Listen, I I meet with you guys. Let me tell you, you do. You're not alone. You're not sitting in the midst of a bunch of people who are competent and have it all together, no matter what appears. We're all struggling with the same basic issues. Worry. Seems like my gift of the spirit in the body is the gift of worry. I got a little plaque on my desk that says, Why pray when you can worry? Seems like I'm just always living in this level, this sphere, feeling like I'm a victim And I can't cope with these things. And I try to rest. I hear what you're saying. Paul says, rest. You're seated with Christ in the heavenlies. Boy, I wish I could get a hold of that. I wish that my perspective could be moved into that realm. That's why I want to try and grasp a bit more with you this morning. Because you notice that in the beginning of Colossians 3, Paul calls on you to focus two things. There are two commands in the beginning of Colossians 3. He says, focus your heart, and then he says, focus your mind. Look what he says. Colossians 3. Since then you have been raised with Christ. Alright, that's done. But now what do I do? How do I make the connection? Set your hearts on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Secondly, set your minds on things above, not on earthly things, for you have died, and your life is now hidden with Christ, seated in the heavenlies. Focus two things, your heart and your mind. On what? Notice verses one and two. The same thing. Things above. Where Christ is seated and you are seated and hidden with him. Two points then I want to see with you. First of all, what are the distractions to my resting? And then secondly, what are the keys to resting? Surprisingly, as I looked at this, you and I would think that the distractions are the kind of things that we feel on that secular material level each day. That's not what Paul addresses here. The two kind of distractions that he's most concerned about are religious distractions. Very interesting. Two kinds of distractions that keep you and me from resting. Are religious distractions, at least that Paul is addressing here. There are other distractions, but what he's most concerned about here are two religious kind of distractions, spiritual kind of distractions. They keep you and me from resting. First of all, rules to keep. The first is rules to keep. Keep us from resting. Look at chapter 2, verse 16. Therefore Do not let anyone judge you by what you eat or what you drink or with regard to a religious festival, a new moon celebration, or a Sabbath day, then skip down to verse 21. Do not handle, do not touch, do not taste, do not touch. These are all destined to perish with use because they are based on human commands and teachings. Such regulations indeed have an appearance of wisdom with their self imposed worship, their false humility, their harsh treatment of the body. But they lack any value in restraining sensual indulgence. They don't touch the heart. They're the basic principles of this world, verse 20. This is what you died to. The basic principles of this world, which say basically, that in order for you and for me to live on a higher plane. There are things we must achieve and disciplines we must accomplish in order to be able to rest. That's basic. We don't have time to go into all the particulars of what Paul's referring to in verses 16, 21 to 23. But I sum it up simply by calling it the monastery mentality. The monastery mentality says that I can escape being in the world, escape this living on this material level by getting out of it. If I can simply live by certain rules that will escape this, that get me out of it, if I can achieve more, accomplish more, deny myself more Then I will put aside those things, and at a certain point, after I've lived by the rule of Saint Benedict or Saint Whoever, or this book, or that seminar, or whatever it is, if I live by that rule Then I will get to a place where I am able to rest spiritually in Christ. I've told some of you before about a time many years ago when I was out praying, and my habit has been for many, many years, each Tuesday, to take a couple of hours outside. And I was remember it was in a winter time and I was along the Potomac River, lived in a This was back in the seventies when I didn't live around here, live down along that area. I was praying along the Potomac and I remember I was struggling there to praise and to worship God and I was You know, there's one of these times when you just feel like your prayers aren't getting any higher you can't say the ceiling when you're outside, the other boughs of the trees or something, you know. And I'm out there struggling and I'm thinking, God, why is it that I can't enjoy you? Well, it's this sin and that thing comes to mind and I'm going on and on. And you know, and on all I'm doing is just focusing inward because I'm thinking of how rotten I am and how cold my heart is and how I'm not able to really praise or enjoy God or anybody identify with that? I'm going along with this and one of the times, I know you do, don't sit there and look like you don't. I w remember one of the times that I felt the Lord most clearly spoke to me Because that's why it's so vivid in my life. It was as if the Lord shot right back in my mind, it was so clear. Alan, if you are ever going to enjoy me in this life It is as a sinner, until you can accept that, you will not enjoy me I don't know about you, but that that was just like somebody taking a giant weight off of my back You have died, verse 20 says, with Christ, to the basic principles of this world, which are you must achieve in order to rest. The gospel is Jesus achieved so that with him you rest. And if you are ever going to enjoy Jesus Christ, if you're ever going to rest in this life, it's going to be as a sinner. Not when you get to a certain level of self-accomplishment Certain spiritual rules you are able to keep, certain spiritual disciplines, as good and as important as they are, whether it is the poise for growth or how to study the Bible or any of these things, as important as those are, your rest comes not from the achievement. But from what Christ has done for you. By the way, one of the things that Is is concerning. I be I'm just beginning to see this. We don't have the smoking, drinking, dancing kind of rules anymore. Very few rules left in this culture. Uh most of them have just all gone out. There's not a sense of worldliness, so that's not an issue to fight for most of us. And that's unfortunate in many ways because we've thrown out with illegalism a sense of holiness The one thing I see beginning to creep in is vegetarianism. Don't eat meat to gain to a higher level of spirituality. That's not just among unbelievers. Again you say among Christians. I have no problem with people who are vegetarians. That's fine. Want to do that? That's great. But not for spiritual reasons. In order to attain to some spiritual dimension. That's not there's nothing in scripture in that Colossians 2 is specifically against that kind of thing. The other thing that distracts us from resting Not only the rules to keep, but the experiences to seek. That's the second thing. Experiences to seek. Some people feel that if I have just some dramatic, mystical, spiritual experience, that will prove that God really loves me. And so I speak in tongues, where I have a second blessing of the Spirit, where visions, particularly angels, are really in now And so if I've seen an angel at the foot of my bed who has told me something, man, hey, that's great. I mean that's worth fifteen times of confession and Bible study I had an angel speak to me. Beat that. Share that at the next testimony time. Look what Paul says in Colossians 2, verse 18 or 19. Do not let anyone who delights in false humility and the worship of angels disqualify you for the prize. Such a person goes into great detail about what he is seeing. And his unspiritual mind puffs him up with idle notions. He has lost connection with the head From whom the whole body, supported and held together by its ligaments and sinews, grows as God causes it to grow. See what Paul's saying there? Says if what you are looking for to rest is your experience, some spiritual mystical experience, you've lost connection with the head. Because our human hearts are such that I will always begin to look to that experience rather than to Christ for my rest Fix it clearly in your mind, brothers and sisters. The basis of your rest is exactly the same as the Apostle Paul's. He was caught up into the third heavens. In Corinthians, he says, Hey, you want to match spiritual experiences? I'll go here a couple rounds. How many of you guys have been up in the third heavens and heard direct revelations from God? But your rest and my rest is exactly the same as Paul's. It's based on Christ. You died with him, you rose with him, you're seated with him, you will appear with him. Period. There is nothing else to rest on. Beginning to catch it? Now, how do we do it? Look at the keys. First of all, choices You and I have choices. That's the first, that's A under point three. Notice that Colossians 3 is appealing to your will. It's not appearing to your feelings, to some mystical experience, to rules to keep, or the rest of this, but there are two things that Paul says: set your mind, set your heart. Now those are choices. The Greek in there indicates that in the words that are used. First of all, then notice what it is that you're to think about in verse 2. You set your mind. You decide to think about something. What is it? Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. That is, not on your achievements or your lack of achievements, not on your experiences or your lack of experiences. Rather, set your mind on, verse 3, things above. Verse 2, set them on things above, and verse 3, what? That your life is now hidden with Christ. In other words, what you set your mind on, what I set my mind on, is the radical separation that has been accomplished for me by Jesus Christ. I am now separated from the world. Verse 20, back there in verse 2, twenty of chapter 2, I have died with Christ to the basic principles of this world. And so you set your mind on the fact that I no longer am controlled by this world, its principles, its rules, its values. What makes a person feel significant in this world? What kind of job they have, how much education they've achieved, what kind of car they drive what kind of position they have, how many people they control, who jumps when they speak, all the rest of these things, Paul says, those are the things that control the world. You died to those things. Not just to its rules, but to its manner of attaining significance. Your life is now hidden with Christ in God. You have a whole different value system. Your identity is different. What gives you security is different. You are separated from the world. You have died To the world. You are no longer controlled by the world. You are no longer ruled by what the world thinks is important. You are not in bondage to what the world says you must do and achieve You have died to that. And until you and I choose to set my mind on that, rather than to get sucked into the value system of my neighbors and the comparisons And all the things that I must do in order to feel like I am okay, then I will never rest. Paul says, set your mind on your life that is hidden with Christ and God. Your new identity that is fixed in what He has done for you. Secondly, he says that you are to seek this. You are to set your heart on it. Number two, there is what to seek. Verse 1 he says, Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your heart on the things above. That is, seek. The Greek there is the word that Jesus uses, seek first the kingdom and its righteousness. Literally it's not set your heart. That's that's a way of phrasing it. You remember when Jesus told the parable about the merchant Who sold everything? He was seeking, find pearls. He found the pearl at a great price and sold everything. When it talks about him seeking the pearls, it's the same word that's used in Colossians 3:1. Seeking. Setting your heart on something. Fixing your affections on it, cherishing it. Paul says it's not just a matter of setting your mind on these things, but primarily the first thing he says is to set your heart on it You set your heart on it by thinking about it. That's why I think he puts it in that order. I called attention to the thinking of it first Because it's beyond the thinking that you and I go further than that to cherish that life that I have with Christ. I set my heart on that life And the only way I can do that is by thinking about it, setting my mind on it each day to stand up and to be able to say, I now rest in the finished work of Christ. I have his record. There is nothing I can or need to achieve in order to have God's own acceptance of me. So that leads us into the things that we are to think about. What are the things that you are to think about in this world, in uh the heavenlies? And I come back to the same three things. I've said them before, I'll say them again. Your justification, your adoption, and the extent of God's grace. Those are the three things that Paul talks about in Ephesians chapter one. First of all, your justification. I have the very righteousness of Christ. Colossians 3:3. You have died. You have died to the law Paul said in Ephesians chapter 2, after he said, You and I are by children, children of disobedience, children of wrath, but God Out of his great love for us, he who is rich in mercy has caused us to be raised with Christ and seated with Christ. He's taken away the wrath. You have Christ's record and it's objective. It has nothing to do with what you have done. It's only what He has done. And that's why you can rest. Because you can't mess it up. Even you can't mess up what Jesus has done. Even I can't tamper with that. It's perfect. It's complete. I can rest in it. I need to do that every single day. Not just a fond memory or a once-a-month at the Lord's Supper as we'll do tonight. To fondly recall, yes, that's right, it's good to remember Jesus died for me every single day, brothers and sisters. I have the record of Christ. I rest in that. I am seated in the heavenly. That record has given me access into the direct presence of God. And that's where I sit. And that's where I sit in. Not only that, but because he has given me that record, I am adopted as a child, a son who is an heir, firstborn son, the status Of that person, whether I'm male or female, I have that status. That means I never go to God and He says, I don't have time for you right now. You need to wait in line The sad thing is too often we don't have time for him. But I always have access because I'm a son. Ephesians one, in love, he's chosen us, predestined us to be adopted as sons in Jesus Christ. And so I have sonship, I have access, I have that position, I have that relationship, I call God Himself daddy. And then I think of the richness of his grace lavished upon me. Ephesians chapter one, when it speaks of this, then says In verse 7, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. You and I need to set our hearts and our minds. On the lavishness of God's grace. That's setting your heart in the heavenless. Notice how many times Paul speaks of God's riches that he's lavished upon us in the book of Ephesians. In chapter 1, verse 7, that I just read, his forgiveness is in accordance with the riches of his grace. In verse 18, Paul says, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he's called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance, which is in or for the saints. Chapter 2, verse 4. It says, You and I were children of wrath, but because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy. He has made us alive in Christ. And so he has seated us with Christ in the heavenlies in verse 6, verse 7, in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace. Expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. It's going to take all the ages for him to do that. They're so rich you and I could not explore them, the vastness of them In a thousand years, or a hundred thousand years, or a million years. And so He's given us all the ages to come to say, take your time. There's a little more here to explore, there's a little more there There's an increasing wonder at the riches of his grace. And so Paul says in chapter 3, verse 8. Although that I am the least, less than the least, of all of God's people, this grace was given to me, namely to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. In chapter 3. Remember, it's 1 to 3 whereby he tells us what we have and who we are. And so it is six times he uses this word riches, and they're all in chapters 1 to 3. He finishes off in chapter 3, verse 16. I pray that out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you with power. To his spirit in your inner being. You want to dwell in the heavenlies this week and think about riches? Look up those six times that the word riches appears in Ephesians 1-3. Think about what each one implies. The lavishness of his grace for you. Then realize that when you and I live on a level whereby we simply focus on ourselves and our deficiencies, it's like The son of a billionaire going to him and saying, But Daddy, could I please have just one more dollar? The riches of his grace, which he has lavished upon us. Now, how does this hidden become revealed? That's the third and the last thing. How does this hidden life become revealed? Four things, real quickly. First of all, you and I need to recognize that my new life in Christ is hidden to this world. I don't have you write out the word hidden there because that's, you know, some great insight I've been talking about the whole time. I'm only having you write it out to fix it in your own mind. It is hidden. Don't be surprised. When you look at your life and you say, it seems so ordinary. I look at my life and sometimes I wonder what's the difference between me and the guy in the next cubicle? What's the difference between the woman across the yard? What's the difference between me and the woman in the next office? What's the difference between me and the unbelievers that I rub shoulders with? Our life is hidden with Christ. Primarily, no matter how much it's revealed, primarily, chapter 3, verse 3 says, Your life is now hidden with Christ in God. The most you see are deposits and first fruits. The full extent of it is hidden. That ought to put a little smile in your heart because you ought to be able to see whatever I'm tasting now, the vast majority of is still hidden. Secondly, then, I am discovering, I'm beginning to discover that life as the Spirit reveals it to me, and he does it as I exercise faith. The Spirit is the link between heaven and earth. In chapter one of Ephesians, after Paul has talked about what we have, begins to open up the The extent of all the spiritual blessings that we have in the heavenlies. Look what he says at the end of verse 13. Your finger's gotta be, you know, stay in Ephesians and Colossian, flip back and forth, flip back and forth And I said used to that. Just a couple more flip backs and forth to go. Ephesians one, the end of verse thirteen. Having believed You were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possessions. To the praise of his glory. What's he saying? You and I are sealed by the Spirit who is giving to us in our life right now a down payment of that new life hidden in Christ. And as you and I exercise faith, setting our minds, setting our heart on that life that's hidden in Christ, the Spirit begins to reveal little bits Of the preciousness of what that means, what it means that you have new life in Christ. How does he do that? Number three, as you walk in that life. As you walk by the Spirit as a new creature, you begin to experience something of the newness of that life. Following Jesus, as he says, do this, and you say, I can't do that, Lord, he says, You can do it by faith. It's my power, not yours. And say, Well, Lord, if you say I can do it, you say I can talk to that person about you, they're lost. Now I told you last week about my neighbor that showed no spiritual interest and I went and told him about promise keepers in ten minutes he said he'd go. This week he brought over the check. That's one more step. Went and told my wife, I guess we need a little consciousness raising around this neighborhood. I don't know what he thinks he's in for, but uh then Lauren told me after last week's service that fella he and I were praying for, went over and asked. A fellow seemed even less likely. And he said he would go. You know why he said he would go? He said if you'd asked me a couple weeks ago I wouldn't have gone. He said just last week I was flying through Memphis and I saw a bunch of these guys with promise keeper shirts on. And they seem like they were having so much fun together. They were just seemed like they were enjoying each other so much. It made me really curious. What is this thing that's going on? Did I hear about? Then Lauren comes over and he says, by the way, did you like to have Promise Keeper? He says, Sign me up. And so as you and I begin to walk by faith in Christ, he begins to reveal to us, yes. What God says is true. What his word says is true. I can believe it. I can rest in it. He really is giving me all that he has said. And then when I do that, begin to hunger and thirst for it, then I look forward to discovering. This is the last point, more and more. That Jesus is going to reveal even when he appears, the fully standard. Sometimes I think of myself like a pioneer back 1500 Now the King of England has sent me over, and just imagine yourself, you're there on the Eastern Shore. And the King of England has said, this whole land As much as you can explore, I give to you. Hey, you have no idea how big it is. All you know is that you're there and there's a sandy beach and you look and he says, As far as you can see, it's all yours, explore All you can do is walk and so you walk a few miles to the north, a few miles to the south, begin to go inland, yeah, you get up up around the bay and you start moving inland and you begin to see, and after a few years you've explored some of the vastness of The herds that were back there then, the orchards, the lush vegetation, all this great wilderness, and you begin to think, this is all mine And then I think of dying as like getting a plane. Now I can really begin to explore this territory. And I can land anywhere I want, and I can move a hundred miles to the north or a hundred miles to the south, and I can move west, and I can explore the vastness of the regions of all that my father has given to me. Only in heaven it doesn't end with the Pacific. It goes on and on and on through the ages. And the territory is not land, primarily, it's himself. The perfections of his glory that will appear when you appear with him in glory. And the more you choose now to set your mind on this or your heart on it, the more heaven will begin to enter your heart right now. Lord, set our hearts, set our minds on Christ and on that life which is hidden with Him. That we might begin to live out of the power of that life, out of the riches of that life, as people who rest Teach us, Lord, what it means to rest in Jesus.