Message on the book of Ephesians, a paradigm actually, not going through the book verse by verse, but a paradigm of discipleship. In the book of Ephesians, the key to discipleship. I'm seeking to demonstrate my thesis. I'm trying to display Is that in order to live effectively, successfully as disciples, we need to learn to sit, walk, and stand simultaneously by faith in Christ. Sitting, walking, standing is what we're pursuing. Learning, first of all, what it means to sit in Christ, Ephesians 2. 6. He has seated us with him in the heavenly realms. Sitting, resting by faith in the finished work of Christ, walking, learning what it means to walk by imitating Christ, walking with him in the new life he has given to us. Ephesians 4. 1, Paul says, as a prisoner of the Lord, I urge you, I beseech you that you will bring your life, your living into balance. That word worthy means into balance, into equilibrium with the calling, the sitting, what you have received in what Jesus has done for you. that you will learn to walk in that. You will appropriate that by faith, that new life. And then as you do that, you will find that you get attacked. You're in a spiritual battle. Satan will come at you and so you need to learn to stand. So you're a sitting, resting in Christ, his finished work, not trying to think that you're going to please God by being religious, by how much you read the Bible, how much good stuff you do. but learning to rest in what he's done alone. Then out of the gratitude of that, learning by faith to walk with him, learning then to stand as your attack Learning by s to stand, by learning to sit again, by walking, standing, the spiral that we've talked about, moving on w upward in the Christian life. And we're looking at the first part of that The first leg of the stool. That's the image I've got wrestled with images and you guys can give me a lot of feedback on this series. Some people said the stool is like helps the best. I'll forget this other stuff. The stool, three-legged stool. You know, the scales and all the rest of that. The three legged stool, the sitting, the walking, standing. One of those legs is collapsed, you know, it's not gonna work. So we're talking about that first leg of the stool to sit what it means to be seated in Christ, to sit by faith, resting in his finished work. Again, it's Ephesians 2. 6 that is the basis for this that we've been looking at. Let me read the verse to you again. God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Why are we sitting with him? Because chapter 1, or at the beginning of chapter 2, we read that you and I are described as dead, disobedient, depraved, and damned. We've seen that we are people who have no hope in what we do. Everything that we do, every inclination is against the things of God, what he has intended for us to be. Jesus came, took our place, and in chapter 1 we read that He, when God raised Christ up from the dead, he seated him after he had finished his work in the heavenly realms. And so Jesus is seated. You are now seated with him. His work is complete by faith. You rest in him and in that work. I really believe. Now last week we talked about the need, therefore, to perceive the heavenlies. That you and I are seated in the heavenlies, but that's hard for us to understand. What do you mean? I'm sitting here in the ministry center. I'm, you know, what is this in the heavenlies business? And that Paul's saying the heavenlies are not, that's not heaven. That's not a place. The heavenlies is another dimension of reality. The heavenlies has to do with that ultimate dimension of transcendent spiritual reality. That Paul prays twice in this letter, chapter 1, verse 18, chapter 3, verse 17, that God will open our eyes to see. You can't see that with your physical eyes. You can't see yourself seated with Christ in the heavenlies by imagining it, by just kind of making up some visual image. You see it with the eyes of faith. It is a position of a different dimension. It has to do with your spiritual nature and how that nature is positioned in Christ. And I really believe that most of our problems, most of our problems, come from not perceiving the heavenlies. Most of our problems in life come from the fact that we only perceive things in the physical realm We perceive our problems, our tensions in terms of psychological dimensions. We see things simply in the way that we react to other people, what we feel, the tensions, the anxieties that we're wrestling with. And we have forgotten the heavenlies. We have forgotten to see the two things that Paul's talking about here. First of all, what you are like without Christ. We see our sin primarily in terms of what it does to us. And so our repentance is always mixed up with remorse. Well, you know, it's really yes, sin's really a terrible thing because it's broken my relationships or You know, it has gotten me in trouble this way or that way, things I regret. We think of sin primarily in terms of what it's done to us rather than The way it has marred God's creation, the way it has assaulted His Majesty, to see it from the heavenly perspective. And secondly, we see our salvation. in terms of mostly earthly perspective. It's nice that I've been forgiven and God says that when I die I'll go to this vaguely nice place up in this place called heaven and sounds like it's good, it's better in the alternative, so hey, you know, I I'll hope for that and but there's no real sense of the reality of it. There's a sense that God has simply forgiven me and that's and he moves me on. But to see that I am living in the heavenlies, that God's salvation for me is far beyond simply as mighty as that is the forgiveness of my sin, but as he says in chapter one verse three, God has blessed me with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ. That's the way he starts the book. Yeah, what I'm trying to get along here is the first part. I'm still finishing what I didn't get to last week, you know, because I talked too much on the first part The thing I'm trying to wrap up from that is for you and I to see what a tremendous statement that is in chapter 1, verse 3. He has blessed us in the heavenlies with every spiritual blessing. Now, if you could have two buttons in front of you And you push the left button, you'll be blessed with every material blessing conceivable. The button on the right says, you'll be blessed, push this button, you'll be blessed with every spiritual blessing. Which button would you push? I know you're all saying, oh, push the right button. Hey, if you're sitting here, what are you going to say? You know? You're thinking that's the right answer. But isn't there something in you that just a little bit would be tempted to say That's kind of a hard choice, you know? I mean you really mean I can get either one by just pushing each button. And the reason for that is because we view the material as so pressing in its reality upon us, don't we? The spiritual seems still theoretical. It's vague But in fact, when in Phesians 1 chapter 1, verse 3, Paul says, Praise be to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenlies with every spiritual blessing. He is not coping out saying, hey, it's easy to say that because you can't prove or disprove me wrong whatever I say, you know, you've got to believe it, because who can know? But in fact, what he is saying is that the spiritual blessings are incalculably more valuable than the material blessings for two reasons. First of all, because the spiritual blessings deal with the root issues of our lives. I mean, if you were blessed with every material blessing that you could conceive of that still wouldn't guarantee happiness, joy, peace, satisfaction, would. Material blessings are simply the means. All the money is the means to certain pleasures, to satisfaction, to security. status to certain power. Those things are the means to what is spiritual in us, the satisfaction, the pleasure, the security. Those are spiritual ideas. Spiritual experiences. And so if Paul says, I'm going to bypass the means to the end, And I'm going to tell you that God has given to you the means to the end of the satisfaction, the security. the the sense of well-being, then he's saying, I am really giving to you what is infinitely more valuable. Secondly, it's more important, more valuable, because it's more lasting. The material values will last simply a few years. Beauty will fade, health will fade, our lives will come to an end. But the spiritual blessings that Paul's talking about are eternal blessings. They will just begin to kick in in their fullness after this life ends. Now, what am I talking about? You say, you're still being too vague for me. What are these spiritual blessings that are so tremendous? Don't have time to go into a lot of that because I do need to move on, believe it or not. Uh this series is not meant to go to the year 2000. I have four other series waiting in the wings to do, and so I am not going to drag this out and every time I get onto some tangent say, oh, there goes another three weeks, you know. But let me give you just two examples that I was going to touch on last week of this. They're in chapter one. The first is the blessing of justification. The blessing of justification. That's the first blank there. Look what Paul says. Verse 3. Bless praise it. Actually in the Greek, it's Three blessings. Blessed be the God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless. In his sight, then down to verse 7. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace, so that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. This refers to the blessing of a clear conscience. That's the next blank. Blessing of a clear conscience. That you are blameless, you are forgiven because of the work of Jesus Christ if you trusted him. The word justification means you are acquitted. You are given the very record of Christ Himself. Verse 7 and 8. Through the redemption of his blood you have forgiveness of sins. In accordance with the riches of grace, God looks at you as good as Jesus. So, how can I compare myself with him in God's sight? You are seen with the goodness of Jesus. That's what those verses mean. And so when God treats you, He treats you as not holding anything against you. Your conscience is clear. All the things that you know that you have done to bring shame upon yourself, that haunt you, that disturb your rest. Jesus Christ has borne those things, so that you have forgiveness. You are in verse 4 holy. You are blameless. In his sight, your conscience is clear before him. Therefore, you have the freedom of being known and accepted. Isn't that a tension that you and I always have? I want to be known, but I'm afraid if I'm known, I won't be accepted. If you really know me as I am. You won't accept me. And if you accept me, it's because you don't really know me. But look what verse 8 says Then after it says he's forgiven our sins in accordance with the riches of his grace, it says that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. I love that verse. Because you know what that says to me? That says to me, and my God knows me better than Larry Bazaar. He knows me not only As anyone my friends know me, he knows me better than Kathy, my wife. He knows me with all understanding. He knows every crevice of every crummy motive. He does every shameful thing that I have done. And I am holy and blameless in his sight. Now that is one of the poles of the spiritual blessings that Paul says that you have because you're seated with Christ. He knows everything about you, and you're accepted in his sight. Beyond that, the other thing that he speaks of is your adoption. Your adoption. That's B. Again, look back at verse 3. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us. In the heavenlies with every spiritual blessing in Christ. And then down the end of verse 4, In love, He predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will. To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one that he loves. If you are in Jesus Christ this morning, the earthly reality is You know who your parents are, your mom, your dad, your grandparents perhaps. You know where you came from in terms of your earthly lineage Spiritually, you are a son of the living God, whether you're a man or a woman, because sonship in the Bible is a generic term. It refers to the privilege of inheritance and position. The privilege of the firstborn son. And so you are a son of God. And that refers to the blessing of never being alone. It's the next point. You are never alone. Our fears so often revolve around our being abandoned. I'm going to really be alone in this world. Nobody cares what happens to me Isn't that one of those terrible things about the stresses, the anxieties, and the pain that you feel various times? It's not the circumstance itself, it's the feeling that I am alone in this. Nobody really cares. But Paul says you've been blessed with every spiritual blessing that the living God, who has made the heavens and earth, has in love Adopted you as his son in Jesus Christ. He will never abandon his sons. And therefore, every need that you have will be provided for. God can no longer can no more abandon his adopted children than he could abandon his own son. Every need. Not only every need, but every desire is important to him. Everything that you're going through, the very hairs of your head are numbered. He knows everything about you. And he cares intimately. I've seen situations in my life where I have been overwhelmed By the tenderness of God in his concern for the desires of my heart, not just my needs But how he has shown me that some some trivial thing that if I were to tell you about it, you might say, That's really silly. But God knew it mattered to me. He knew in in his tenderness of his relationship with me. Haven't you had that where he'll communicate something to you? You know, we all kid about parking spaces, but something that was tender at the moment you needed to know of his love. You are not alone And not only are you not alone, but it refers also to the freedom of knowing your identity and your purpose. You know where you came from. You were me by the one true living God. You sinned and went away from him, but he's adopted you. He's brought you back. He's forgiven you. You know who you are. You don't have to wonder about that. You know why you're here and where you're going. You're a son of the living God. And so you're to imitate the Father. And you're to bring honor to the Father's name. And the Father's going to bring you into his palaces when this life is done. All that is only if you're conscious of the spiritual realities So we need to hurry on to the last point here to try and catch up so I can finish and not have to catch up from last week, uh from this week, next week So let me quickly move on to the basis to show us what is the basis of this blessing. The basis of it is your union with Christ. That is so important that I'm going to take the next few weeks to develop this. Here I touch in what I call the precious prepositions of the New Testament. We so often ignore them. I mean how much have you gone to somebody and said, Boy, I just had the greatest quiet time on the word in this morning? Man, that word has just made my day But you know, we miss these prepositions, and because we miss them, we miss a great deal of blessing. I've listed for you five that I'm going to be going through in the next few weeks. And these five all appear in the book of Ephesians. I believe they're all very important and often overlooked in understanding the threat of Paul's thought and how you and I rest. in Christ, how we are seated in Him, because they describe the nature of our union with Him The simple little words with, through, in, on, and under. And you see in your outline there the key references where they appear. So you want to have some exciting times in the Word this week, besides the meditations, take a look at with through in and on and under. And see what that'll do for your spiritual life. I want to begin with the word with this morning. I begin it this morning and I'm going to finish it next week. Because this is the most obvious one. You see it in chapter 2, verse 6, verse 5 and 6. You see it three times. Look again at what we've been centering our thoughts on. God made us alive with Christ. Even when we were dead in transgressions, it's by grace you've been saved. And he's raised us up with Christ. And seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Two ideas that you see there. We have been made alive and raised, both similar ideas, with Christ. Secondly, we have been seated with Christ. That idea is expanded in Colossians chapter 2 and 3. So turn over to that for just a few moments, because that's what I want to develop this from, because it's a little fuller. Remember, Colossians and Ephesians are parallel books So the ideas that Paul deals with in Ephesians, he deals with a slightly different manner in Colossians. Some of them are more condensed, some of them are more expanded. And this is an idea that he expands on in Colossians So I want you to just look at Colossians, look at it on your own in the meditations later this week. But notice that in a few verses, Colossians chapter 2, verse 20 to 3, verse 4. Four times in those few verses he speaks of what you as a Christian have done or experienced with Christ. They have to do with the four key events of Jesus' saving career. Verse 20, you died with Christ. Chapter 3 verse 1. Since then you have been raised with Christ. Chapter 3 verse 3. For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ. Christ. That has to do with our being seated with Him. And then verse 4: When Christ who is your life appears, then you will appear with Him in glory. Very briefly then, look at these four ideas. This is the basis of your sense of being able to rest in The finished work of Christ, being able to perceive the heavenlies, being able to enjoy the fact that you have a clear conscience, that you are adopted, because of these four things you've done with Jesus. You have been identified, joined with him in these four things he did. What are they? First of all, you died with Christ Look at again, Colossians 2. 20. Since you died with Christ to the basic principles of this world, again in verse 3 of chapter 3, for you die. And that's talking about with Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, he says he made us alive with Christ. He implies we had died with him, but he picks that idea up, doesn't develop that. Now what he's saying here is think of it this way When Jesus died on the cross, physically he died alone. He was all alone on our cross. Nobody else was there with him. Spiritually, he was not alone. Spiritually, when Jesus died on the cross, if you have Believed that his record of what your life is like, that you are dead, disobedient, depraved, and damned apart from him And you have trusted Jesus in his finished word. If you have done that, you spiritually were on that cross with Jesus. In God's sight you died on that cross with Jesus. That's what that's what Tom was reading from Romans 6. Did you see it? We have been crucified with Christ. Our body was crucified with Christ. Galatians 2. 20. I have been crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. The life I now live, I live by faith in the Son of God. I died, I was crucified to Him. Now, what does that mean? It means that you died in principle to the law and its condemnation. When Jesus died, Colossians 2, he says earlier in verses 11, 12, 13, that he nailed the accusation against you to the cross with Jesus. And therefore the law has no more power to condemn you. It cannot condemn you any more than a criminal that has been executed can then be condemned after he's been executed. You can't be executed and then say, raise that guy up, dig him up, we're going to kill him again. You've died. The word death refers to finality. We speak of the death of a dream, the death of a relationship, the death of a marriage. It means that you have moved out of that. It no longer exists. And Paul is saying, when you died with Christ, you died to your old nature in Adam. In Adam, because he represented you in his disobedience, because you have inherited his sinful nature. You with that nature are in a living death. You died to that nature. You no longer are in that realm. That's better understood when we go on to the second thing. He says you were raised with Christ. Chapter 3 verse 1. Since then you have been raised with Christ. Set your hearts on things above. That's the heavenlies. Talk about that next week, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. You were raised with Christ. Chapter 2, verse 5 of Ephesians says the same thing. What's that saying? It is saying you now exist in a new realm. It's hard to describe this. These are complex ideas. I've been wrestling all week with how to communicate some of this to you. Think of it this way. One example doesn't do it all, but maybe helps. Let's suppose you were living in Bosnia, or let's suppose you were living in some country in which there is a vile dictatorial government that holds its citizens in slavery. You are a refugee and escape from that country. You come under the protection of the United States. You become a citizen of the United States. You have now died to your citizenship of that old country. The dictators and those who would persecute or who would try to hunt you down and throw you into prison and torture you and all the rest of that. Those no longer have power over you because you are now a citizen of the United States. You may still be influenced by values you held when you were a citizen in that country. You may still have memories that haunt you because of experiences you had in that country, but you are no longer under the power of that country. You are now in a new realm. That's what Paul's talking about. You have been raised with Christ. You have died to the old nature. It no longer has power over you. Can tempt you, you can be distracted by it, but it no longer holds you in its grip. You are raised with Christ to a new realm. And that difference of the realm is the difference between the realm of judge and father In the old realm of death, your relationship to God was that under the law. He was your judge. Paul says you have died to God being your judge. You have been raised. That's what he develops. Read it yourself this week in Colossians chapter 2. The elemental principles of this world, talking about the spirits of this world that enslave you. You have died to that. You are now raised into a new realm where God is your father. You are adopted. You are not only justified, you are adopted, not only forgiven, but a son. And because you are in that realm, you've died to the old realm, you exist in this new realm, and you are now seated with him. Look what he goes on to say. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things, for you died and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. You are now seated and hidden with Him. That's what Ephesians 2. 6 says. Colossians 3:1 to 3. You became a Christian. And at that point, when you trusted Jesus Christ and gave him your life, what happened? Do you look any different? Nah. Skin color change? Nah. You get shorter, taller? All of a sudden, instant slim fast? No. None of those things change. You look like the same person. That's the problem we have in the church, isn't it? We look around and say, these people all look like the same old sinners I know everywhere else. We look the same, you see, in the earthly realm. It takes spiritual eyes to see that what you have become, a new person, is hidden in Christ. You see, in Ephesians, Paul says you're seated with Christ. In Colossians, the same progression, he says your life is hidden with Christ. Now, again, how do you how do you understand that? Just try. An illustration gives you one little part of it. Let's suppose Gary Ahrens was talking yesterday about a guy he knew that won the lottery. All right, let's suppose that you have had deposited in your account $1 billion Now, you see, used to be able to say a million dollars, but people say now, yeah, I I can imagine a million dollars. I gotta get something that's beyond what you can imagine, beyond what you could think you could exhaust in spending Some of you say, hey, a million dollars? I can get through that in about a week. Man, give me one good, you know, the mall and everything else. But a billion dollars, okay? Now, this billion dollars has been deposited for you in the Bank of Heaven You may draw upon it with the checks of prayer deposited through faith. You may draw from that account, but what you can draw is only the first fruits. That's exactly what Paul says in Ephesians 1, 13 and 14. After he talks about the spiritual blessings, he says he gave us the Holy Spirit as a down payment of experiencing these things. Then he goes on to our purpose and he says, I pray That you will know this, that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened, that you will see what? The inheritance he's given to you. Ephesians 1. 18 So you draw upon what is hidden in the bank through prayer to experience little bits of it. Begin to draw upon that. It's by prayer that you and I begin to have our eyes opened to the heavenlies. Just last week, Steve was talking about a couple of his friends he invited to Promise Keepers, and I thought of one of my neighbors who's without Christ. And so I prayed that God would maybe uh bring him to a willingness to come and I called him up And I just, you know, I thought brooch the idea with him and see uh because we built some relationship and uh but he's never indicated any interest in spiritual things And so I talked to him, and after 10 minutes, he said, sign me up, I'll go. Now, you see, not only am I excited about that for him to be going But it was a glimpse of the heavenlies for me. God is there. As I speak to him, I am not speaking to some theoretical construct My Heavenly Father hears me. And so it helps me to realize again that I have died with Christ. I have been raised with Him. My life is hidden with Him. And then, as I'm exploring that, and we'll look at this a little bit more next week, but I want to bring you around full circle to see the pattern here. One day I am going to appear with him. That's the last point. Now, remember, when Jesus lived on earth, his life was hidden Right? People did not see the Lord of glory. They saw a Jewish carpenter. By and large, what people saw of Jesus was the hiddenness of his glory, not the revelation of it. There were a few breakthroughs, like at the Transfiguration. But by and large, what people saw was someone who looked like anybody else. When Jesus at his trial said to those who were trying him, The day is coming when you will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven. He was saying, one day you're going to see me as I really am. You're going to see me as the Lord of glory. Brothers and sisters, when he comes as the Lord of glory. You're going to come with him. Look at chapter 3 of Colossians, verse 4 says. When Christ Who is your life? That life which is hidden appears. Then you also will appear with him. Your secret's going to be out. You will see, and all your friends will see, and everybody who thinks that you're being a Christian is the dumbest thing they ever heard of are going to see what your life really is. They're going to see the glory that is revealed in you of the transformed nature of Jesus Christ working in you. And in that day, all the doubts and all the wondering about may have really changed. I mean, this is really true. What has God? And it's all going to be manifest. There will be no more faith needed. And you will see what you are really like in Christ. Your eyes will be opened to the heavenlies. And in that day, all doubts will flee. And you and I will be ushered into the most incredible experience. Of the fullness of glory, because we will appear with Christ. And so as you think of this week Think of it in terms of the spiritual. Think of it in terms not simply of who hurts you, stresses you out, but as you're going through those anxieties and those tensions, to be able to remind yourself. But I am seated with Christ. And that means more to me than anything that anyone can say that will hurt me, cause me pain, cause me doubts. All the things that I endure here, I endure as a son of God, and who's able to call on my Father. He was able to live above the circumstances, not out of touch with them, but above them, because my life is hidden in Christ. Let's pray. Lord, truly most of our troubles do come from being out of touch with the heavenless. Open our eyes, Lord. That we might see our position. That we might know that we have died with you and been raised with you, that we are seated with you, and our life is hidden. And one day it's going to appear. One day, all that you have made us and transformed us to be in Jesus is going to be manifest openly. We will no longer need to live by faith. Lord, help us this week to honor you by living by faith in what you have done for us. Resting in that alone in Jesus' name