Well, last week I began our capstone campaign series by looking at Psalm 115 with you. I did that to point us to God, not ourselves, our own resources at a time when God is calling us, we believe, to take on a rather ambitious seven million dollar project to complete this base of operation the best we possibly can on this seven acre piece of property for Ministry and for the Lord's glory. I tried to make three points at that time. First of all, that this will challenge our faith, but our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And that as he does that, we need to be careful to remember that as we see God work, it is not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but to your name. be the glory for your covenant love and your faithfulness. And so we point to him in that to give him glory. And thirdly that we need to expand our vision to see that God is blessing us to be a blessing to the community that asked, where is their God? Now this morning I want to look more specifically at our vision to see how it is connected to our purpose in Ephesians. And then to see how our purpose and our vision direct our facility, its need, and its design. that it's driven by our purpose and on by our vision. I was reminded uh this week about something that um Our capstone chair John Vandenhoobel said back uh when we kicked off this campaign in the beginning of April in the middle hour. Remember John mentioned back there that uh you're gonna hear a lot about money next couple months. Uh some of you are gonna complain it's too much, feel shaken down a little bit and all that kind of thing I want to tell you that I recognize that my job Sunday morning is to point you to Jesus Christ. I am not a fundraiser. My job is to preach the gospel, point you to the gospel, to open up Scripture. so that uh you who come here hungry for a word from God will hear from him. And I recognize that. And that's my intention this morning to do that. I want to begin with Scripture. But then toward the end, I want to also lead us to see some connections where God is leading us together as a congregation. The connections between Scripture, our purpose and our vision, and our plans for the facility. I believe that there is a tendency today when people come to church that we want to hear how Jesus is there for me. That's just part of our American individualism, isn't it? And I believe also what is needed is to hear how Jesus is leading us as a corporate body to follow him. How I am called to follow as part of that body because I love him and because I love his body and I'm part of it. So I begin this morning by reminding you and me of our purpose together, individually, but also together as a body, which comes from what book? But that's a be bold. It's a good book. What book's that found in? Ephesians, all right, chapter 1. Verses 17 to 23. Alright, that's an okay start. All right, hang in there. If you've been part of Columbia Presbyterian for some time, you're quite familiar with that. Can't get through Discoverers class without being able to say that. Uh and well let's let's do it together. The the basic purpose of Columbia Presbyterian threefold is to know Him. To know our hope to know his power. Okay, that's better. Okay, now we're on a roll. I hope that if you've been part of us for a while, that those verses have become precious. to you as they are to me and have been to me since that April day twenty-seven years ago when outside of Syracuse I was praying about this work that we were about to start down in Columbia. On this brink of a waterfall that had, after the Ice Age, dwarfed Niagara. And on that beautiful April day, coming to see, this God is the purpose that Paul prays for the church at large, and therefore for us in particular. Our purpose, uh you saw, begins in verse 17, but as John pointed out, you can trace it back, trace it back to verse 15, or actually you can trace it all the way back to verse 3 But let's begin there at verse 17. We only have time to focus on a few things, and I want to particularly focus on verse 17. Paul says the first purpose then is that we will know to know him I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him better. That refers to him specifically to God as he is revealed in the person of Jesus. And immediately when you look at that, we see something It sets us off quite a bit from the culture and even from a lot of churches in our culture. That is that we believe that God is a person Who exists independent of our thoughts and our feelings. We want to know Him. That's important because we live in a day of spirituality a day of uh maybe pseudo-spirituality, but we live in a day of spirituality. I thought of that when just this last week my wife bought a an aromatic candle from a garage sale to put into our bathroom. And I smelled it and I thought, that smells pretty good. And I checked the label to see what the scent was The scent was spirituality. I didn't know that was a scent. And I thought about, you know, I don't think twenty years ago or thirty years ago they would have called a candle spirituality. Um I guess what it's supposed to mean is that if you smell it you feel spiritual, you know Um and and isn't that the way we are today? We want something to make us feel spiritual And so what we do is the ancient cultures, back in the time when Paul was writing them before, they had their tribal deities. Now we have our own individual deities that we create In order to make us feel spiritual but without any demands on us. Now, Paul's talking about something utterly different here. He's talking about knowing him who exists independent of what you and I think. This God he described in verse 9 is the one who made known to us the mystery of his will. His separate independent will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. Not you, not me. He's the head. It's to know him. That's the purpose. Now, when we became Christians, we barely knew God We may be known not much more than what he says in verse 7, that in him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. When we knew that we were sinners and we needed forgiveness and that God had provided that through the blood of Jesus Christ, his unique sacrifice. Then we knew that his grace was lavished on us. Is there something coming through here? Is it part of our sound system distracting you? I don't know if there's anything we can do on it. But uh play with it and we'll see if we can you let me I'll just keep going. I try to try to screen it out. You know, I just it's like telling you just now, don't think of the color blue, but just Don't notice try to listen to me. All right. Um so Paul is saying here that you and I are called to know one who exists completely independently from us, but who is so worth knowing And you notice that he says there in verse 17 that we would know him better. And you've known that in times past I've pointed out that that word that in the Greek means to know him experientially, to know him more intimately. So the idea here is there's both the the content of knowing him, it's not just my feeling or how I want to shape God to make me feel spiritual. But on the other hand, it's not just a matter of cognitive information. and knowledge. I know him experientially. I know him in my being, in my feelings and my experience as well as mentally. Let me ask you, how well do you Feel like you know the God of the Bible revealed in Christ. How well do you know Jesus? It's so easy, isn't it, for us to, after we become Christians, to come to know Him to a certain level And then kind of plateau at that point, and we just kind of move on with Christian duties and activities, but we we don't really know his heart. Jesus is so full of surprises. He's on the one hand so accessible, but on the other hand so mysterious. You read through the Gospels and you find that uh Try sometime reading through an incident and see what the people are doing and then guess how's Jesus going to react? And if you're like me, most of the time you're wrong He's confrontated when we don't see that there's any problem. He's gentle when I would be vindictive To know his heart is to know that he is so different from us and so different from what we imagine. I talked to somebody just this week who had received a very creative and kind gift from the Lord. And before they were even able to begin to enjoy it, They anticipated that God was going to diminish its joy in order to teach them a lesson so that they wouldn't really enjoy it. So hard for us, isn't it, to believe his love and his grace. In fact, he tells us that it's going to take all eternity in chapter 2, verse 7, to teach us the extent of the kindness of his love in Christ. We so bring in pictures of our parents, our father, our mother, and convert that to God and say that's the way he is, but to know him is to learn to shed those cultural personal experiences that are so often in contrast, some in comparison, praise God, but so often to be able to understand what he is like different From what we expect. Others of us uh think that God's kindness is simply uh exists to to bless me and give me what I want Take a group of Christians, a typical group sometime, and ask them, how have you experienced God's blessing in the last year or five years or whatever it is? Thank you very much. I think that did it, John. Thank you. Be able to uh say how have you experienced God's blessings in the last uh five years or so and And then see that the blessings are so often simply an equivalent for getting what I wanted And yet so often uh in the Bible that's not the case, is it? God is so far beyond that. Um You think of uh how when we pray, so often our prayer is simply a grocery list of here's the things I want or need But how little is really simply seeking his face, not just his hand, to say, Lord, I want to know you, I want to know what you're like, I want to know your heart, I want to know how wonderful you are, how gentle, how sweet. Strong, how capable, how complete. Knowing you is better than knowing anyone else I've ever met. I want to know you. Paul says that Philippians chapter 3 and verse 10, I want to know Christ. But then notice how it goes on. I want to know the power of his resurrection and I want to know the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conform to his attitude in his death There's a real turning point in my life and for us as Christians when we move from saying my goal in life is to have a life of ease and comfort To saying, no, more than that, I want to know Jesus. And that means that there's times of pain and difficulty Are going to be probably the times when I'll enter into what his attitude was at the cross and understand his heart more completely than those times of simply pleasure and enjoyment. Does God then intend that in order for us to know him, he takes away pleasure and enjoyment and gives us only difficulties? No Absolutely not. I think uh who could believe that when you live in Maryland in the month of May, huh? Can you drive up and you see what God has created for our enjoyment How could we see that he's a God who wants to diminish joy? But as C. S. Lewis once said, the joys that he gives to us are like a sunbeam And while we look at the sunbeam and we enjoy that the sunbeam draws us to look up the beam to the source from which it comes, the sun itself. And while we cannot look at the sun, we're not capable. God intends that we have the first fruits of looking at what he is like and knowing him just a bit before we get to glory and are able to fully understand, not completely, not exhaustively. But to be able to know without avail what he's like. So our purpose at Columbia Presbyterian as a body is that we believe that there is a God who exists independently from all our thoughts and feelings, and we want to know him because there is nothing absolutely nothing Nothing in this world is more wonderful than knowing Jesus Christ. And there's nothing more wonderful than being able to introduce somebody else to know him too. To know Him more fully, more completely. Have you ever consciously joined us on that journey? Have you ever consciously adopted that purpose and said, that's my purpose? And I'm glad to be part of a body where we're saying that's our purpose together. We want to know him. Paul goes on to say, you can't simply know him by yourself. And so look at what verse 17 says. He says, I pray that this God, the Father of glory, notice it's a Trinitarian verse. It's the Father who gives the Spirit to know the Son. And so Paul is saying there, I pray that God will give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. You can't do it on your own. He needs to open up to you the riches and the glories of Christ. That you and I will have that Spirit come and teach us and instruct us and show us Jesus. And how does he do it? Well, the only way he does it is in the gospel. And so Paul goes on in verse 18, that the Spirit then will open our eyes. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, may be opened, in order that you may know the hope. to which he has called you. The riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. This refers to gospel transformation, the fact that you and I can't see with our own eyes until our hearts are open to see what he is like and what that gospel is that transforms you and me. Our friends think So we're crazy when we say that our lives belong to Jesus and He's who we live for. But you see, you see something that your friends don't Your eyes have been opened to see the kingdom of heaven. You can't touch it. You can't demonstrate there it is, except in the lives of changed, transformed people Paul prays that your eyes and my eyes will be open to see. And it's interesting how he describes that, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. There's two ideas, I believe, that are involved in that. And they're beautifully woven together because that little word in can be translated either in or for. So you look at that idea of his for the you and I are to know the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, that's saying that we are his inheritance. His inheritance is in the saints. That means that we're his treasure. For you to know that God gave Christ the forgiveness of sin, verse seven, so that you and I would be brought into a relationship with him, not simply to be part of the redeemed, to not die and go to hell but to be his treasure, to be his delight. And then he says that same idea that we know the glorious riches of his inheritance for the saints. That's what he gives to you, the hope, which is a new heavens and a new earth. You see, the whole thing's wrapped up in a hope in something that's future, something you and I anticipate, something we've begun to taste, but now that we begin to move in more and more deeply as the spirit of Wisdom and revelation opens our eyes to see that. And so it's like the song of Solomon, his inheritance in the saints. I am his And it's his inheritance for the saints, and he is mine. I am his and he is mine. That's the delight, the beauty of the gospel. To know Jesus, our great bridegroom, as the bride who belongs to him. That's our purpose. Have you joined us in that purpose? Do you say that's what I'm committed to, and I'm glad to be part of a body who's encouraging one another and discovering with one another in our trials and our difficulties, our brokenness And in our struggles to also be able to see the glory of the gospel in the face of Jesus, that we remind ourselves of that You can't do it just yourself. You need the body to be able to do that. And as we do that, you see, it's so that we will experience his power in daily living. He goes on, verse 19, to know and then his incomparably great power. And that power he describes as the same power that raised Jesus from the dead. The same power that brought Jesus out of the tomb, he says, is available for us who believe, for you and for me. In fact, he goes beyond that. He said, not just the power that raised Jesus from the dead, but the power that raised him up and seated him in the heavenly realms at the right hand of God, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every name that can be named, human and spiritual, both in this presentation. Age in the age to come. He is above all things, and God has placed him at the head for the church. So that you and I are safe and secure in his rule, in whatever you need this week, that you can know him through that and know the gospel as you see in that hope of the transformation. Of Jesus' sufficiency for you and his power at work in you as you lean hard on him. That's our purpose. That's our basic purpose as a body. And so that purpose is what we are committed to, what we own. And it's that purpose that translates into our vision. The vision to have a passion for this God, demonstrated, this God in Christ, demonstrated in our worship, in our expression. Of his worthiness in our hearts and with our minds, in our love for one another. As we seek to live within small communities, face to face, reminding each other of who Jesus is and how worthy He is to know. What God is doing and how sufficient He is in your situation and my situation today, what we're struggling with. And then to know our compassion for his world. That is the desire that we have as a body to hold intention and balance those two things of being different from the world but not being separate from it. Being different from it, that is being holy, being distinct, being a people who are not like the world around us, but who are engaged with people who don't give two cents for who Jesus is. Because we care for them and we want them to know Him who's so worth knowing, fueled by the gospel and fired by the Spirit in us. Now that tension, I would suggest, is one that is much greater than when we began as a church 27 years ago. If there's one thing that discerning Christians are becoming more and more alarmed at, it is how similar the church looks to the world today. How we have all but lost the distinction. It's in Barnes' polls and Gallup's polls. Most notably in a new book by Ron Seiter called The Scandal of the Evangelical Conscience. Where he points out that in most studies the divorce rates of Christians are approximately the same as those who don't claim Christ. That sexual activity is not distinguishably different. There is some difference, maybe 10% different, in infidelity and promiscuity. Between those that claim to be born-again evangelicals and those that don't, that racism is actually worse among those who claim to be evangelicals compared to those that don't. that materialism is no not noticeably different among the different groups. I was um Rather taken back um when I was reading the April issue of um the Penn Gazette University of Pennsylvania. Fellow was in school at the same time I was. He's now director of the Borsall Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College. He's recent has written a book recently called The transformation of American religion, how we actually live our faith. And in this article taken from the book, he says that he has discovered that in his studies of homosexuals and evangelicals that the language Which is almost identical. They're both narcissistic, self-absorbed, and use the same kinds of terms of self-discovery. He then goes on to talk about the American church and uh let me quote to you what he says. He says, Enter a mega church and you will find not an organ, music's provided by a rock band, flashing the lyrics of various praise songs on a huge screen using Microsoft PowerPoint. That's fine, right? But then notice this. The preacher more knowledgeable about psychology than theology will deliver not a thundering Jeromeid in the style of Jonathan Edwards. Come tonight. We're going to look at sinners in the hands of an angry God. And even if you are not a part of Columbia Presbyterian, you're just a visitor, a seeker, that's somebody that's saying, I don't know if I even believe this. Come on tonight and to find out. What God used to bring revival back in 1741 through a simple message that was delivered at that time back in July And he says, Hey, not going to find that kind of thing today, but an uplifting sermon reminding all and sundry of Jesus' love. You'll be so captured by the warmth and the friendliness of the place you'll probably never notice that there's an absence of any cross. Mega churches don't want to send a message to non believers that they might be unwelcome Doctrine plays a relatively small role in the religious revival in which the megachurch is a part. Now what's interesting is you're going on and you think this is criticism But he ends the article by saying basically that in this culture of narcissism we live in, American Christians are really just as much American as they are Christians. And so here we are in this secular culture, we fear them, we think oh they're a threat and all this. See they're not. They're no different from us. All they do is they talk about this faith they have. But in terms of actual life, there is no difference. And he ends, I for one, think that that is all for the better In other words we say, see, they're not a threat. What are we so upset about these guys for? They're just like us. There's no difference. They say they believe these things that we don't believe, but that's okay. Just let them believe it. Because it really when it comes down to it There's no difference. I take that and then I take uh experience I had last week when I was reading Time magazine. And uh you remember on the cover of Time magazine last week was Ann Coulter, Ms. Wright, and uh says this is a long article about her and what she says and believes, you know, kind of a foul-mouthed conservative, and uh you She goes and says these outrageous things and goes along and you say, Well there's some insight there and go boy You know, and people say she had a net plus or minus for, you know, what conservatism is trying to say. And as I'm reading the thing, I'm thinking, you know, what would happen If God got a hold of this woman, there could be some grace in her life, and you know she could begin to look at life a little differently. She's very articulate and she's very influential And uh, you know, she's a bit different from Michael Moore, but the two of them have some things in common in their a you know, their approach to things, you know. But what would happen if some Christians with some credibility could get into her life? And then you come to the last paragraph of the article. And this guy, Cloud, who is doing the interview, says, Not long ago I went to church with Calder We gave a Presbyterian, an evangelical congregation in Manhattan. The actor Ron Silver had also tagged along. Cola brings lots of people to church, including at one time an ex who's a Muslim Pastor Timothy Keller spoke of the importance of allowing one's heart to be melded by the sense of God's grace because of what he did on the cross for you. Well that Timothy Keller is the one who's written a lot of the material that we use for discipleship and uh a lot of our discipleship around here. So here he is in time quotes. I mean that wasn't some off-the-wall quote, the grace of Christ on the cross. And then he says, after he finished, I asked Kohler Colter whether she had managed to convert her Muslim boyfriend. Nah, she answered, her heart apparently not melted. I was just happy he wasn't killing anyone. With that she threw her head back and laughed. End of the article. You know that that gripped me because I thought, now, there's a church that is committed to the gospel of Christ to be distinctive, to be holy, but she wants to go there. She does her regular recess. She brings people. She brings Muslims. She brings all kinds of people there. Because there's something that attracts her that says, I'm interested in this. And I think, oh God, would you use Columbia Presbyterian to be that kind of distinctive light? Where people like Ann Calder and people who are perhaps far from Christ but come and they say, I want to hear this. I want to hear what's going on. And that's why we want to build a base of operation for us to be able to be more involved in the culture in displaying Christ to our community that says, where is their God? And we can say our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And so a couple minutes to show you what does that mean? How does that control the kind of thing we're trying to do? Well, let me just give you a couple of examples of that. Our vision is for worship, for love for one another, and for compassion for his world. Take just those three ideas. The worship center. Ephesians 1 talks three times about the praise of his glory, the praise of the glory of his grace. And so our desire is that we enhance our ability to worship in a place that is more designed to enable us. to do that. We're going to use the seating arrangements to help us to come closer in our fellowship. And the way we're going to do that is quite simply we're going to have really cushy seats right down in the front. And then behind that we've got padded seats. And behind that we've got wood pews. And then behind that we have bleachers with splinters in them. And they said, and all of a sudden it won't be the front rows that are all vacant. You see, and I no, I was just kidding. But the idea is that there will be a redesign of that. Now in this in this place, I'm done I'm not particularly connected to you who are in the rear. Now you may like that or not, but the fact is it's hard for us to feel much connection because you're 90 feet away from me. In the new facility, the furthest anybody can be from me is 55 feet and there's over 200 more seats. Now you say, how in the world do you do that? We'll talk about the design later. The fact is there's a a desire to bring us more into connection, to hear the word, line of sight, the ability to be able to not only be in more of a round to see each other as well as me, but you notice no setup and no takedown. Amen? That means that you can come in before the first service and quiet your heart and prepare for worship. It's not going to be the band up here practicing. It means that after the worship you can sit there and continue to pray because you're not going to be shoved out of your seat with people taking down the chairs, putting them up on the racks, and wheeling them all away. You can have a conversation, you can pray. The whole idea is that the center produces this atmosphere of seeking after Christ and minimal disturbance, nothing opulent, but a soft beauty that draws you to worship. We take our love for one another. Pete Burphy has said we're a basically a hospitable congregation, but our facility works against it. This new facility is designed to fit our personality. Isn't that what you said? And so what we uh have here is uh you know it's gonna be a a lobby where we can linger, coffee stations, the The um nursery is going to be much more user-friendly. The cry room will allow you to be able to take care of a fussy baby but not be separate. You'll have a window you can look right in to still be part of the worship service. We'll be able to have a number of activities going on alongside of Upward during Upward season, seminars, the community room, the lobby and the library. And then there is our desire for the compassion for his world, the outreach. Ephesians 5 speaks of that a number of times our being the light within the darkness taking the gospel to the world. Again, we can have numbers of events, multi multi-ministry events going on year-round, not and during upward season, not just the other seasons. A lobby to linger together and talk after the services. A prayer room where teams can pray, seeing into the service what's going on and pray for particular people, and that same room then being used for counseling after the service. If somebody wants to talk about something that God spoke to them about during the message and perhaps want to pursue how to know Christ in a personal way, a meet and greet room for visitors to come and be able to give them a packet and just talk for ten or fifteen minutes about questions. And to meet with them personally, not having to stand where everything else is going on and can't hear each other and can't really get any time to be alone to talk This is our final phase of what we're trying to do on this property as a base of operation for worship and for ministry. And so we believe it's worth sacrificing to do that. To do it right for his glory, to use for the gospel. But see, the basic question is, does CPC's purpose and vision capture your heart? Have you owned it? Is that something you're part of? Do you say, I believe this is what I want. I want in my life and with my brothers and sisters to know him, to know our hope and to know his power. I have a passion for him that I want to see displayed in our worship and our love for one another and our compassion for the world that he's playing. Placed of sin. I mentioned last week that forty some folks who are the leadership team of place the capstone campaign met together and decided that we would pledge first to show that this is not just something we're telling you to do, but that we're saying join us in this. This past this weekend the pledges were all due, and when I looked at the final figure, I was absolutely flabbergasted. I was just overwhelmed Forty-some families and individuals had pledged over $722,000. That's nearly three-quarters of a million dollars Now I hope that encourages you. I hope it encourages you in two ways. Number one, to believe that with that kind of a beginning and a need for at least two million dollars, but you know, with almost a half of it in the initial leadership team that God is showing He is in this with us and that He intends to carry us through it And secondly, I hope that encourages you to see that God has provided through people who are willing to sacrifice for that, but that you're encouraged, not discouraged, because some of you may be feeling, I can't come near that. If I look at the average that that was, it's staggering. Per person or family. And it'll be many of us that won't be able to come near that, won't be able to do almost anything financially The whole point of this is the spiritual focus that it's not the level of or the amount of what we give, it's simply the quality of the commitment to Jesus Christ. If we're all just committed to him, it's up to him to provide. And he's shown that he's willing and we're able to do that. So it's a question of really, do I own the purpose? Am I have I captured the vision? Am I sold out to Jesus Christ in a way that I'm simply available to him? Because I love him, I want to know him, and I want to see him made known. In our community. That's really what it comes down to. Let's pray. So our God, we come and we thank you. That you desire us to know you. Lord, increase our hunger for you, to seek your face, not just your hand, to know you better more intimately, that in the experiences of this week, that as we think about what you think about what we're doing or what's happening, Lord, that we'll better know your heart and not read into you All those satanic distortions that alienate us from you, that you would draw us to you, to know you, and to know our hope and to know your power That we would be a church that's both holy and different, but also engaging. Where people come and they are drawn to the people of God to hear the gospel. of our Lord Jesus. Lord, we thank you that you indicate from this first fruits of the pledges that you are leading us to do this, that you are Going to complete that which we believe you've called us to do. And we give you the praise. We give you the glory for that. Only you could move in hearts to that level of commitment. Thank you so much. Our eyes are on you for what you will do. That our church could be a church used by you for your glory in ways that we have not yet begun to dream about. Because of your great name. Amen.