Me. Uh I don't believe there's eleven o'clock children's church. Is that what we're figuring out? So if you've dismissed or excused your children to children's church, you may want to go get them Let me set this Well Dad, let me uh start with you. Um how many have a new power tool today that they didn't own yesterday? How about uh a set of golf clubs? Maybe just a putter, anything? How about a new tie? With Larry the Larry the Cucumber, Veggie Kales Shameless plug for vacation Bible school, July 26th through 30th, from 915 to 1145. Registration downstairs No new ties? Anybody? Golf shirt. Anyway, if you can believe the Hekinger's ads and Home Depot ads, today's Father's Day This is the uh family-oriented uh message that Alan told us about on Mother's Day. I think they took a secret survey, at least I didn't participate in it, um, to find out Which pastor on staff needed to study the um verses on fathering the most? And that's why I stand here before you One of the ways that God clearly describes himself to his people is as a father. Jesus emphasized the fatherhood of God over and over in his earthly ministry. And That's what we're going to look at today. Some people, though, I know, may have difficulty relating to God as Father. Um I think we tend to borrow our notions about the Heavenly Father from whatever model we had. as earthly fathers, from our earthly fathers. If we had a dad who maybe was distant or uncaring, we project that quality onto God and are fearful when He bids us to draw near to Him. Maybe if our fathers were abusive and harsh, we may flinch when someone describes Hebrews 12 and the loving correction of our Heavenly Father. Or if you've ever unsuccessfully tried to please your earthly dad, you may suffer um Feelings of failure as you seek and strive to fulfill the goal that Paul uh gives us, to make it our goal then to please him. Um it's an unhealthy comparison, I think. There are comparisons made between the Heavenly Father and our earthly fathers, and I think that Christ draws our attention to that Several times in the gospel. Um in Luke seven, uh Luke 11, excuse me, in Matthew seven, Jesus makes that comparison. He says, If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? See, Jesus is making that comparison, but he wants us to make the comparison to see. the magnitude of who God is as Father, and to see the caring heart and the loving tenderness that God that God has with which He deals with His children. Facts of life are this. All earthly fathers are going to fail those under their charge at least once or twice. Sometimes more. And our Heavenly Father is that one and only one who is sufficient to fill and meet our every need. So we'll never be perfect fathers, but we can be genuine fathers, willing to allow our failures to be used by Him to show forth the wonders of his love and grace in our lives. See the key for us, I think, is to know God for who he really is, on the basis of his truth and then to allow others to see him through us. So in order to do that, I'd like to focus our attention on one verse, Ephesians 6, verse 4. If you were around in January, specifically January 10th and you were here, I preached my first sermon at CPC that day. And I actually used Ephesians 6, 1 through 4. I think the youth and families pastor, the first two sermons, you have to preach that text. And so That's today as the second sermon in this in that series. So you may hear some recurring themes, but I want us to focus today on the heart of the Father And we'll do that with one verse, Ephesians six, verse four. Paul writes this. Fathers, do not exasperate your children, but instead Bring them up in the nurture, the training, and the instruction or the admonition of the Lord. Other translations, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath. But bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. That word wrath there is a is a a good one. We're going to look at that in just a bit But we have this one command, but I want us to see that this command is housed in the context of what Alan has worked us up to this point from Ephesians chapter 5. And all of the uh commands, the speaking to one another, singing to one another, thanking, and submitting to one another. It's this In this environment that Paul gives this command, the environment of a spirit-filled life When you think about when Paul was writing this uh command and the context with which he was in in which he was writing It's really amazing the radical call that he's calling fathers and mothers to here, and we'll get to moms in a second. Because there was a Roman law at the time, Patrias Potestus, that basically said that the head of the household could do whatever he wanted. with whomever he wanted, whenever he wanted to, and he was accountable to no one. If a child displeased him, he could have that child sold into slavery or, in fact, executed And um that is the context in which Paul says to fathers, when the Spirit of God dwells in fullness in your life You're in a mutually submissive relationship to your children, and you're going to be a different man than what you were before you met Christ. And so that's the context. Secondly, as we get started in this command, I want us to see that he refers directly to, particularly to, fathers. I believe this is because as heads of the household, God holds fathers primarily responsible for their families. And we don't want to overlook the moms here. In fact, the same word that's translated here for fathers is translated in Hebrews 11, 23 to refer to both of Moses' parents. So we have something to go on there. And in fact, if your home is anything like my home, you know that mom is with the kids much more than dad is with the kids. And so she exerts influence and has an impact in their lives like None other on earth. In fact, the old adage the hand that rocks the cradle is rules the world is probably true. And my heart goes out to you dear ladies who, for whatever reason, whatever circumstance, find yourselves shouldering the burden of father and mother in your home. My heart goes to you gentlemen who have children and for whatever reason you're separate from them and uh your heart aches to fill this role in their life. Which basically begs the question to whom is this message applicable Is there application here for everyone? I think yes, there is. Fathers, of course. We can't get off that easy. It's Father's Day. This verses written to fathers. Moms, yes But single men and women as well. I believe that this verse is a has application for you. In fact, first John in chapter two, John refers to um one group of people in three separate ways. He calls them fathers, he calls them children, and he calls them brothers. And I believe his use of the term fathers to that group of people indicates that those of us who have received the truth, who have received and have had God's grace applied in our hearts are in a position then to pour our lives into others in that discipleship relationship. And I believe that so as we look at this aspect of this quality of fathering someone else Parenting someone else, discipling someone else. It has application for everybody. You high school and junior high and middle school people, you listen too Even though we're not sitting around a pizza party right now, God has application in this text for you as well. I studied the book of Ephesians the first time through when I was in my early twenties. I was a single man. I had no kids. But it's never too early to begin to understand what God may be calling us too and the role that he has for us. So I want us to look at that. It's one command here in Ephesians 6 4. Bring them up. And it's expressed in a couple of different ways. Express neg negatively. Do not provoke them to wrath. And express positively. Um bring them up in the nurture and in the admonition of the Lord. And you benefit from coming to Second Service. If you're following your outline, I've s squeeze the second and third point together so um hopefully we can you know have an afternoon to enjoy as well. But this command is written in the active voice, it is in the present tense, and it's in the imperative mood. And very quickly, what that says to us, the active voice, is that we do something We don't sit idly by and let nature take its course, because if nature were to take its course, our children who are born under a death sentence, bound for hell, would continue on that trek So the command is active. Do something. Be about it. The command is in the present tense. It is one of these jobs that we can't take a vacation from. Now, yes there are babysitters and yes there are other things because this doesn't imply smothering our children and never leaving them uh to grow and to be independent. But the present voice says that fathers, mothers, parents, disciplers, it's a 24-7 job. And you're on duty. And it's also in the imperative mood. It is a command of God. And I believe that this is for me when I studied this, the thing that jumped off the page is that God reveals his character to us through his commands. Look at the Ten Commandments. Look at any of the commands of of Scripture. That's how He reveals to us who he is, what's important, how to approach this thing called life. And so that's what I want to do. Look at this command to bring them up. How is this accomplished? Well first he does express it uh negatively, do not provoke. Do not provoke them to wrath. This word Translated wrath here is a literally uh it literally means uh a seething hostility, that kind of anger that boils and bubbles and festers beneath the surface And it's a long, it's the idea of a long, drawn out process whereby this anger anger is squelched and and kept down and forced to go underground and forced to be in the hiding In fact, one of the things that um uh is most disturbing about the Columbine um incident in Colorado was that every time I read an account of Dylan uh Eric Harris and Dylan Cleebold, they were described as angry young men And yet other accounts I read said that they stood before the juvenile court judge and fooled him. They were requested to go to an anger management class and they Breeze right through that, but this anger erupted one day and many lost their lives and this nation was changed uh forever, probably because of that too. We think differently. So I have compiled a list of ways that I've seen counselors and pastors and various and sundry other people talk about what it means to avoid provoking our children to this kind of wrath. And I think your outline has five numbers. I think at one point I had eleven. I pared it down to nine. I looked at maybe seven and I think I had six in the first sermon. The first way I think that we can avoid provoking this kind of wrath is to practice what we preach Children are historically the best hypocrite detectors that have been known to man. In fact, if you don't have a good hypocrite detector in your home, I would be glad to loan you one of ours for a couple of days. 'Cause I think my kids can spot a double standard from across a football field in the fog. Um it's it's just one of those things that they do. You talk to them about what it means to use your tongue wisely and and not tear others down. And then when you start to do that, they point that out It's one of those strange things that kids do. So if we're to be about the business of avoiding this wrath or avoiding this provocation to wrath, I think that we've got to practice what we preach. I hope that I get to the point as a father, as a parent in my home where I can say like Paul did to the Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 11, 1. Imitate me as I seek to imitate Christ. Wow. So we must practice what we preach. I believe another way that we can avoid this provocation is that we should never use love as a tool of reward or a tool of punishment. I I don't know about you, but I've talked to some who grew up in homes. I know them personally, people who grew up in homes who had love given to them when they behaved well, and love cruelly withdrawn from them when they misbehaved. And if there's one thing that the gospel of Jesus Christ teaches me about the character of God, is that I am secure in my relationship because of what Jesus Christ has done. because his work is a completed work on my behalf. And that there's nothing that I can do in and of myself to make God love me any more than he already does. And equally true, there's nothing I can do in and of myself to make God love me any less. And so we need to avoid this fleshly tendency as parents of withdrawing love or even bringing Jesus into the picture when we um when we correct our children and when we train them up. I think that we should uh in that regard seek to freely communicate and uh and express to them our appreciation for them, our love for them. I can tell you that I have uh one or two uh fond memories of growing up, um of where my parents would say to me, You know, I'm I sure am glad that God put you in our family. I sure am glad I get to see you grow up And um I want to do that to my kids. Every once in a while I'll just out of the blue just say, you know, I I'm glad that y God gave you to me It's really neat. You're a neat little guy. You're a neat girl. I can't wait to see how you grow and what's what God wants to do in your life I recall when I turned thirteen, I don't know if it was one of those rites of passages kind of thing or into manhood deal, but my dad wrote me a letter that I still have where he expressed to me um how very honored he was to serve me as his a as my father. And um they lost uh their first son, my mom and dad did. Um his name was Kevin. And Then after Kevin they had uh my brother Jeff and then they had me. And uh there was some difficulty my mom had had and stuff, so they really saw me coming along as a gift from God. Go figure. But um when I turned thirteen, my dad wrote me this letter and expressed that to me that, you know, they didn't know what had happened when God had taken Kevin from them. And they their world was just turned upside down. But as I grew and that when God brought me along and as I grew they they realized that God may have made a way possible for me to be there and it just uh I can't tell you how that spoke to me of his love for me. So I I I want to be free with my expressions of love and affection for my kids as well. I think another way that we can avoid provocation to wrath is that we need to be careful about the way we correct. We need to be careful about the way we reprimand. Proverbs 15, 1 states A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. I don't know about you, mom, dad, but sarcasm, as far as I'm concerned, is one of the best weapons that the enemy has for us to use with our kids. Uh a little barb here or there We think we're teaching, but we're just getting digs in because we have superior wit, and we think that it's an easy way to get them under control James describes to us in his letter the destructive nature of our tongues and how such a small little thing can do so much destruction, so much damage. So we need to be careful when we reprimand. We need to be careful when we correct. I do James also reminds us of another way to avoid provoking. Learn to listen. I recall when I interviewed uh with the session for this position, in fact, came up from Georgia and spent a weekend here and I was at uh one of the elders' homes. I won't mention his name because I didn't get this prior approval, but I remember one of the elders pointed question right at me and he said, Tim, you can answer this with a yes or a no, but I want you to answer it. Do you ever give people a chance when you talk to them? Do you ever stop? Do you ever pause before you respond? And I paused And I said, yes. And uh I would I told Dana about that encounter after I got home from the meeting, and I said There's a group of guys that I think can help me grow. And one of the factors in uh the Lord leading us here was that group of guys. I'm I'm very honored to be a part of them as I serve you all in this church. Well we need to learn to listen. We need to avoid that mind reading tendency that we have where we fill in the blanks for everybody, we've finished sentences, we jump to hasty conclusions, we've Got it all figured out before the kids even start. And they don't necessarily need a mind reader. They need someone who's going to listen to their heart and then reflect what their heart is saying. So that we can help them see their need for Christ as well. Another way that I think that we can avoid this provocation to wrath is that when we do mess up, when we do make mistakes when we sin against them, we should confess that as sin, and we should uh seek forgiveness from them And we should also seek to make restitution where necessary, because I think that that speaks more of the character of one who has been transformed by God's grace than most anything else we can do. One of the last things, uh I just want my children to have as many good memories as they can have. I don't want them to uh to have uh this testimony in some coun group counseling setting somewhere when they're twenty five years old that the only time my dad touched me was when he was spanking me I want them to have spontaneous hugs and displays of affection from Dana and myself. I want them to have good memories. I don't know if you've seen the Parent Trap, the movie. We've seen the updated version a couple of times, but we've seen the old one with Haley Mills like twenty times. And um one of the things, I don't know if you're familiar with the movie, but it's two twin girls, they get separated at birth, the mom goes to live in Boston, the father goes to live in California. And they meet at camp and they decide we're going to switch places and they go with the r parent that they haven't grown up with. And the girl that goes back to Boston and she's with her maternal grandfather at one scene in the movie and she's holding on to him and hugging him and she's not wanting to let go of that cling just yet and he says, What are you doing? And he and she says, looks up and grandfather, I'm I'm making a memory She says, years from now, when I look back on this, I want to remember the smell of my grandfather. It smelled like peppermint and pipe tobacco. I want my kids to have good memories. I I want their lives to be pleasant. I know that this world is filled with turmoil. It's filled with strife. In fact, Jesus promised that Filled with hardship. But he said, Take heart, I have overcome the world. And part of that overcoming, I believe, is as his spirit goes in power into families of lives that he's touched. Um we can affect them. And so I I want to have some good times with my kids. This command is also expressed in a positive way And he says, bring them up by not provoking them, but also bring them up by doing something. Bring them up in the nurture and the admonition, the instruction of the Lord. This this Greek phrase here literally means to put in the minds of them who you are discipling. Put it in their minds. But what? The admonition of the Lord. Where do we find that? The word of God. It's simple. I mean, we complicate it But God has given us a very simple command. You were reminded of Paul's words to Timothy in 2 Timothy 3 In fourteen and fifteen it says, You must continue in the things that you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them. And from childhood, from infancy, some translations say, that you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation, which is by faith in Jesus Christ. We put the word in their minds. We put the concept of God as Father and Judge and Holy in their minds. And we let God's Word do what it can do in their lives. Paul told the Romans in chapter ten and verse seventeen, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God It said, I I looked for this quote so I could read it to you directly, but I couldn't find it. A rabbi is attributed to this saying. Um, our job as teachers of the law or teachers of the word is to put as much of God's word on to lay as much of God's word on the hearts of those under us. So that when God breaks open the heart, all of it falls in, takes root, and begins to grow. That's what I think Paul's getting at with this command to raise them, to bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Deuteronomy 6 and verse 4. I just want to read that to you. Listen to this. Moses records Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. These commands that I give to you today are to be upon your hearts. Impress them to your children. Another translation says, Teach them diligently to your children. Talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk along the road and when you lie down and when you get up. and tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads and write them on the door frames of your houses and on your gates. The image here, the implication here in this command is one of diligence and regularity. And I think that it's clear that the designated place for instruction is the home. Now, keep in mind, I'm not putting anything down The CPC, uh, Columbia Presbyterian Church has a fine Sunday school program and our kids attend. In fact we were blessed this year to hear how um the word became more clear to them and some of the things that they learned. And so I I love Sunday school. I'm a firm supporter of Sunday school Kevin and I, my five-year-old, are looking forward to, I can't tell you how much, to be tree climbers together this fall. Christian Service Brigade starter program. And Emma's going to be in her second year pioneer girls. And we are up here on Wednesday night and giving them over uh to those leaders that we trust that will show them who Christ is and their need for Him. Other things going on, youth group and and and different things. BBS, July 26th through 30th. From 915 to eleven forty five, registration available downstairs. I I just think that we um are fortunate and very blessed to have so many resources available to help our children grow. But we should not let that truth salve our conscience to the fact that we're called by God as parents to be the primary source of instruction for them. And I believe that takes place from the home. Jonathan Edwards said in his farewell sermon, family education and order are some of the chief means of grace. If these fail, all other means are likely to prove ineffectual. And you get a better idea if you if you do the math, 168 hours in a week. I'm not a mathematician by any stretch of the imagination, so you might want to check me on this. But if you have an average eight year old here at CPC, he could probably come do about four hours worth of stuff, maybe five. If you have a parent and leadership, maybe six, I don't know. Um Six hours, four hours tops out of 168, the rest of it is you and how you choose to use it as you see fit. And one of the ways I think that we can address this command is in the area of family worship, a regular time of worship. Listen to the author of a book entitled Thoughts on Family Worship from the preface. In a period where the world is every day making new inroads into the church, it has especially invaded the household Our church cannot compare with that of the seventeenth century in this regard. Along with Sabbath observance and the catechizing of our children, family worship has lost ground. There are many heads of families, communicants in our churches. And according to a scarcely credible report, some ruling elders and deacons who maintain no stated daily service of God in their dwellings It is to awaken such to their duty that this volume has been prepared. Now, what I find alarming about this observation is Yes, the serious nature of what this guy is saying, but I find more alarming the date in which this preface was written. July uh June 15, 1847. And we live in nineteen ninety-nine. So what do I mean by family worship I simply mean a regular time where the head of the household, however, whoever that is, gathers those under their charge together for a time to enter into the presence of God. Maybe a time of um I see these elements existing in family worship. You're the worship leader. So You basically decide, but you need to probably go with what the scriptures say. That's a time of praise, a time of coming before God and and praise that may be a prayer or a song A time where you open up a portion of scripture and as kids get older, or maybe just you and your spouse right now, you discuss that scripture and think on that and meditate on that. See what we need to obey in that. And then a time where you pray with and for your family. I can't tell you the times that my heart has been literally amazed and enthralled when I hear um prayers offered up by uh my two oldest right now. Uh hopefully the other two come along in that as well. Um as they they hear prayer requests that we've mentioned here at church, we we look at the back of the blue bulletin or the order of worship. They get the emails The daddy pulls off the prayer chain. And we pray for members of the church. It's really neat to hear them going to God with big prayer requests, by the way, because I think they recognize with a childlike way he's a big God. And he can answer big requests. And then maybe close out with a song of praise or thanksgiving. I don't know. It's this is one of the ways in which we help prepare our kids to come here on Sunday morning. Um, we use some of the songs that the worship leaders incorporated into their sa services. And um then it's not like a foreign language when they get here. Then they're they're familiar with something and we can lean down and nudge them and remember this one? You know this one. Look. And if you're interested in this kind of concept, next uh semester or in the fall when we start, I believe it's the week after the 12th, and I'm not a good at math where I would tell you what date that is. It's a Sunday There's going to be a three-week course offered called Parenting in the Pew. If that strikes you as something that is interesting to you, I encourage you to attend that. And not only for parents who have small children, but I encourage those of you who have raised your kids, have parented in them in the pew. seen them go and and have kids of their own even. Encourage you to come be a part of that class as well because that's how we learn as um parents and brothers and sisters in Christ. So How long should family worship take? As long as necessary. If you can enter into the presence of God in five minutes and and do what needs to be done, then five minutes is what it takes for you Don't beat yourself up over this thing. Set aside some regular time Um you've heard this probably, but it doesn't take long to develop a habit. Thirty days some people say, sixty days other, ninety days other. It's taken me a lifetime, or at least I'll be married eleven years this year Um taking me about eleven years to figure out how to call those that I'm responsible for into a regular time before the Lord And of all the dads I've talked to in my life, and granted, my travel and my experience is uh limited, but of all the people I've talked to about this subject I haven't found anyone who's had it modeled for them growing up. Now, probably have some in this congregation who have. But um if we believe that God is calling us to this, then we need to submit ourselves to Him and do it. And that's the way I approach it You miss a couple of days, you miss a week, you miss a month. What do you do? Confess your failure to God and start again. That's what I've done. It seems to work There's really no need for us to be beating ourselves over the head with our spiritual disciplines. More on that in a second. It is going to take some time out of our schedule, and it is going to require a sacrifice. I ran across a quote from Cal Thomas in his book Making um The Things That Matter Most. And he said this, you can't microwave children like the dinner that overworked parents cook for their overstressed children. Children require time, attention, and heavy doses of love. Requires time on our part. It requires sacrifice. And I I I just need to share this with you, as a converted Baptist, you have to mention at least one cartoon in a sermon. So I ran across this cartoon where this guy's looking at this uh this book, the nineteen ninety man's guide to fatherhood, speaking about sacrifice. Chapter one, Fatherhood. It doesn't have to change your life Chapter 2. How to change a diaper on the golf course. Chapter 3, Bowling with a Baby in One Arm May Actue Your Score. Chapter 4. Proof that late-night poker games help stimulate a baby's language skills. Chapter 5. Tennis. Don't let that baby on your back slow down your next game. And on and on. But this type of command requires a sacrifice on our part. We shouldn't kid ourselves that we can be bop in And be bop out of the house and um expect things to happen. Remember the command was active. That's why I believe the most important thing about family worship, the most important thing probably about fulfilling this command, is that we need to keep our eyes firmly fixed on Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith, and on his cross. Too often we turn God's means of working his grace into our lives into man's means of works. Spiritual disciplines can do that. We elevate them beyond where they are supposed to be. I found this in preparation for this message, in fact You know how you wanna I wanna have a hundred percent, you know, something or another before I stand up here before you and and call you to family worship time. Well, since the beginning of June, I have logged, today's the 20th, by the way, four times with my family. So I speak to you as one who really firmly believes that if you approach family worship as something that you call you see God calling you to, you need to look to the cross of Christ. The finished work of Jesus. In fact, R. C. Skrull Jr. , speaking on this very subject, says it much better than I could ever. So I just want to read a quote to you. He said, if our focus at family worship is on what we do, then we will miss the import of what he did. If family worship becomes a chore, the final words of Jesus on the cross will be misunderstood. It is finished, should cause celebration in our homes. Not because it signals the end of our work, but because it signaled the end of his atoning work It is finished. Your family worship can add nothing. To see our spiritual disciplines as additions to the work of Christ is like running the base pass at a baseball game which has already ended. We may think we're padding the score. We may think we're participating in earning the victory, but the stadium lights are already off We cannot add to the infinite value of Christ's death for us. In fact, if we think we can add to the score, R. C. Jr. says, we're probably on the wrong team If you're prepared to submit yourself to this command, you're going to need to look at the cross of Christ. God does reveal to us his character through his commands So as fathers, don't provoke your children to wrath, but instead bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It's a tall order to fill. In fact, it's impossible in and of ourselves. Reminded of uh Mark Twain. He said this. Most people are bothered by those passages in Scripture which they cannot understand. But as for me, I've always noticed that the passages in Scripture which trouble me the most are those which I do understand. And that's how I feel it when I approach a text like this. That parallel passage that I mentioned at the beginning of the sermon so long ago Matthew 7, and then in Luke 11, Jesus records the same question. You then who are evil You evil fathers, you know what it means to give good gifts to your children, but Luke records a distinction in the way Jesus responds to that. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give to you his Holy Spirit to those who ask him? That's the difference. The difference in our lives is that it is by His Spirit that He makes His life available to us. Stephen Curtis Chapman recorded a song several years ago now. that I think about. And I ask myself, and I want to pose to you today, as we look at this idea of discipling others Can they see God for who he really is and what they see in you and me? God is an awesome God. He is a mighty warrior. He is a strong tower. He is a caring father. He is a tender savior. Are you trusting in the finished work of Christ on your behalf? Are you resting in that which He has done? Are you living by grace? Are you walking by faith? Only then can we hope to uh Enable others to see God for who He really is. Let's pray together. Dear Father, how wonderful it is to call you Father. And Lord, we do recognize the truth that Unless you had intervened in our lives, we would not have that spirit by which we cry out, Abba, Father. And we can have relationship which was broken in the garden. Lord, please enable us and equip us to fulfill your commands. We want to fulfill your commands, Lord, not because we think that we're going to add to something, but simply because you have done That which we could not do. And we want to please you, Father. Help us to do that. In Jesus' name. Amen.