Church, we turn this morning as we continue in the book of James. The book of James, as we've uh gone through this series, wisdom, faith, and practice, we come to what is perhaps The locus of so much debate in the among theologians and even in the history of the Church As we unpack wisdom and faith in practice and specifically a faith that works, we turn our eyes to this brief portion of Scripture. But before I begin reading it, I want to share with you a little bit that we will take a break from the letter of James for just a little bit as we prepare ourselves to go into the season of Palm Sunday and Easter. You'll be hearing more in the coming week about the services and ways in which we will gather digitally as we seek to celebrate the resurrection of our Savior. the giving of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross for our salvation. You'll be hearing more about this celebration and this season. as we go through these next few days. But we'll take a break from the letter of James and go through the Easter season, and you'll be hearing more about what we plan to do afterward. I look forward to gathering with you and sharing with you more in the coming days. With that said, we go to this passage this morning, and I I want to just pause and just share briefly. of why I considered, should I continue preaching in this text? I wondered this week whether I should continue with this passage. Or perhaps pick another passage which might seek to comfort us in a different way. I wondered even up until this morning as I came to the church to prepare for this live stream. Should I even be preaching this text? And I was reminded by Pastor P. D. And of course in the writing which I had done in preparation for this week. That so oftentimes the passage which we will read this morning becomes the neighborhood for theologians and for seminarians It becomes the neighborhood for Sunday school classes, but rarely does it become a neighborhood that we actually go to as the gathered church. We debate in books, we debate in seminary, we debate in different ways on what does faith and works actually look like? And in the midst of that debate, it's very easy to forget the season in which James wrote. James was writing in a season. And to those who had become converted to Christianity coming out of their Jewish faith. And they were writing in a season in which they were experiencing great persecution and suffering. And so at one glance, it might seem like the territory for theologians and not the territory for a group of people, even for a nation that might be suffering through a pandemic. But as I dove deeper, as I saw the application to the season in which James was teaching I saw the way forth that the Holy Spirit was guiding me, and I hope guiding you to see how this can very much be applied to our life even now, even today. So here now God's Word, James 2, verses 18 to 26. But someone will say, You have faith, I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. And the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way, was it not also Rahab, the prostitute, justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. May the Lord bless the preaching of his word. So to understand a faith that works, as I was preparing for today, I was reminded of a very different story, yet the same sort of idea that came out of this week. in preparation for all the the proposed cures and possibilities and medicines that might help us in this pandemic. It is the problem of scientific discovery. You see, a science that works is a science that first begins in theory and hypothesis. But for a science to work, that theory must be replicated in practice. It must be shown that it actually works, not just once, but multiple times, and be reviewed in different environments. Two years ago, Julius Strand, an assistant professor of psychology at Carleton College, published a paper in the Psychonomic Bulletin and Review about how people strain to listen in crowded spaces. In some ways it's she was studying the idea of when we're surrounded by a lot of noise and yet we're trying to Attune our ears to something we're trying to hear. It's the mental strain. It's almost like our ears are squinting. The mental strain we put in to try to hear something when there's a lot of noise around. And so she developed a theory that there might be a way to increase speech recognition while at the same time reducing the mental strain that is required. She said, we planned our follow-up studies and the data was absolutely gorgeous. It was impeccable, and it was also repeatable. And so she was able to design an app for use in clinical settings. She wrote and was awarded a National Institute of Health grant, her very first one, that would actually fund the work. And as you can probably tell where this story is going, several months later, Dr. Strand, in a follow-up study to replicate and extend the effect of what they had discovered, She was surprised that under very similar conditions, the finding did not replicate. The difference wasn't just slight, it was massive enough. that she was confident that this must be a fluke. You don't go from a hundred percent of the participants showing an effect to 0% of participants showing no effect. She said the effect we thought was discovered was in fact perhaps a programming bug. And then late one night she identified the error. She was shocked, she said I felt physically ill. I had published something that was objectively, unquestionably wrong. I was celebrated in its finding, presented it at conferences, published it, and had gotten a federal funding to keep studying it. It was now, I realized, completely untrue. You see, for a science to work, for a theory to work It must be shown in practice, repeatedly, that it is reliable. It's not enough to have a mere theory It must show itself in actually working. You see, this is what James is doing in this passage. In this passage, what we will see is that he's describing a complete faith, verses 18 to 23 He then looks at the heart of the matter in verse 24, and then he gives us a powerful analogy in verses 25 to 26. A complete faith, the heart of the matter, and a powerful analogy. First, he wants us to see a complete faith In verses 18 to 23, what James does is he's creating, perhaps it is a real person that he had had this conversation with. But it could also very well be simply a rhetorical method that he's seeking to create this possible argument with this person. And he's trying to demonstrate what is for James a necessary thing for understanding the life of faith. And that is, faith is not merely belief. It is not merely knowledge. It has to show itself in actual fact, in demonstrated action, in demonstrated obedience. And so what he does is he uses a familiar passage from Genesis chapter 15 in the life of Abraham. and looks at it, and he also seeks to provide a way in which we can understand this relationship between faith and works. And so in describing the life of faith of Abraham, he says, was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up his son on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. And so scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. Now what he's talking about is that by his action, God accredited to Abraham a righteousness. that was not inherently his own, but by his actions God gave it to him and pronounced it upon him. And so often what happens is we believe that James is in somehow disagreement with Paul, but they weren't writing at the same time. And in fact Paul would write later, So what if are James and Paul in disagreement with each other? Because you see, Paul refers to this same episode in the life of Abraham. But he does it in a different way. So let me help you understand and let's look together at this passage that James gives us through An analogy, if you will, in comparing it to how Paul does it, in describing a complete faith. And what I hope you will see is they're describing the very same thing. And so first we have to focus on this word justified. Both Paul and James use the word justified. On the one hand, Paul says we are justified by faith alone. And James says that we are justified by our works and not faith alone. And they're using the same person, even the same event, to describe the same thing. How could that be? I believe the way of understanding this is the way of understanding different kinds of photographic lenses If we look at what Paul is writing about in the life of Abraham, what we begin to find is that Paul is using, in photographic terms, he's using a macro lens. A macro lens is a lens that allows you to get up very, very close to your subject, to see minute detail. It allows you to create different ways of seeing something so close and in such detail and in such perfect focus that only it can understand absolute detail. And in some sense, what Paul is describing about the work of justification is he's looking at it, how are we justified? How do we get into a relationship with God? And it is quite true. We only come into a living faith with God by faith and not by the merit of our works. Paul is looking at how Abraham came into a right relationship with God, and that was Because he believed that God and what he had revealed to him was true, and therefore he acted. And he's looking at the work and the actions of Abraham. as a part as chronologically in the life of Abraham as being at the beginning of his walk of faith. James, on the other hand, looking at the same event, is not using a macro lens. He's not looking at justification about how we get into faith. No, he's looking at justification with a macro lens or rather with a wide angle lens. He's looking at the life of faith from a much broader perspective, not looking at the actions and works of Abraham in this case. as the beginning of his faith, but rather as one part that represents the whole. In this sense, he's looking at it with such a wide angle, he's saying Absolutely. We do not come into faith by the merit of our works, but a living faith will show its validity, its genuineness. As it is expressed as we live in faith. And that is the key. He's showing Abraham and how he lived in his faith. in demonstrating his belief and trust in God by what he did. Paul looks at justification of how Abraham came into faith. James is looking at it of how he lived it. And so it is not that they are in disagreement. They actually show us different perspectives. of the same thing, that justification is a much fuller thing than just a part of coming to faith. A justification, a saving faith is something much larger. And this is what he is demonstrating in verse 24, when he says the following. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. Now, what's interesting is he's telling us something about the nature of not just justification. He's actually showing us something about the nature of something much larger that is saving faith. And I didn't skip over it on purpose. I wanted to wait to 24 to help us to understand why did he bring up this idea of the demons believe that God is one? And even they shudder. Again, he's telling us something about saving faith. So let me describe it here briefly, and then we'll put it together as a whole in understanding the heart of the matter. You see, as we understand saving faith, and I'm grateful for the for the work of the great uh contemporary theologian, Dr. John Frame, as he understands the nature of saving faith, and and he's he's quite right as he describes it this way. On the one hand, saving faith first begins at understanding that there is a piece of knowledge. In other words, that we know intellectually that God has revealed Himself, His character, and His actions. And so we know about how God has revealed Himself. But second to knowledge is that there is also belief, meaning there is a sense. to what it is that we say we know. Much like Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6, and without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. Hear those words, for whoever would draw near to God must believe. So it's not just know of facts about God and his character and what he has done or his revelation and his word, but it is actually giving assent. And there I think we begin to see something about the nature of what James was referring to with regard to the demons. You see, he's speaking to a Jewish audience, and so he brings up the first words of what is known in the Jewish faith as the Shema. The Lord our God, the Lord is one. Which was something they were to memorize and to share with their family and with their children, and in fact to roll it up on a scroll and have it affixed to the exterior threshold of their homes. So what he's saying here is if you believe that God is one, then you do well. What he's saying is, okay, so you you've acknowledged that God has revealed himself, that the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you've given some form of assent. But if it doesn't issue forth in the third part of saving faith Then you've simply done what the demons have done. The demons and even Satan himself knows how God has revealed himself in his word and to his people and to the world. And he actually believes that God is real. And yet he refuses to walk in obedience. He refuses to trust, in fact, has waged war from time immemorial against the works of God, against us, against his church. Demons believe that God is one and they shudder, but they do not trust him. They wage war against him. Because you see, saving faith is more than just knowledge, it is more than just belief. It is what is the heart of the matter for James. It issues forth and must issue forth in trust. Let me quote directly from John Frame in his systematic theology when he says the following. He says, trust is from the Latin word fiducia. is trust in Christ as Savior and Lord. We not only must trust Him as Savior to save us from sin and give us eternal life, But we also must believe and trust and draw near to him and then allow him as Lord To work in our lives. And he says it this way. The second element of trust is subjection to Christ as Lord, a willingness to obey. A willingness to show itself as a living faith, an obedient faith, a faith that works. That then allows us to see when we hear the words of Jesus on the Sermon on the Mount as we looked at in the fall, as we hear the wise utterings of Proverbs as we studied it in January. It's one thing to know what God has said. It's another thing to say that we even give intellectual assent to it. But if we completely ignore it, And do not allow it to have effect in our lives, demonstrated in our actions, we see here what James says. That a person who is justified by works and not by faith alone, he sang in the language of the ESV, which I think is an absolute wonderful rendering of the Greek here. You see, faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. You see, what James is talking about is that a saving faith is by faith. But it is a faith which will inextricably lead to itself working itself out in obedience. It is completed, it is demonstrated by actions. We do not merit favor before God by those actions. Rather, we reflect the goodness of his grace and the power of his work and the truth of his word. It is similar to what Paul said. He said, I can have all the gifts, but as I have not love, I am merely a clanging symbol. We can have all the knowledge of the Word of God. We can even give intellectual assent to the reasonableness of his existence. But if we have not given our hearts over to and allowed Him to work in us that which is well pleasing to Him, showing itself in obedience, then our faith. is of little use. But I want you to hear, friends. James here, though it might seem, is issuing a threat. This is not a threat. It is actually an invitation into the interiors of saving faith. No one can read this, and I dare say it is a scary thing to preach this because as I prepared for today, I cannot help but find myself at the end of preparation in repentance. Even this morning, as I was preparing to preach this to you, I recognized, even in the last 24 hours, how I failed to walk in obedience, in showing the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and my responses. in my thinking, in my attitudes. So it's not a threat. It is an invitation. And when I hear this invitation and I see James Bringing us into what it means to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ in the walk of faith, I ask the Lord, as I invite you to, Lord, show me As by your Holy Spirit, you have already demonstrated ways in which I fail to show forth in my obedience the gloriousness of your grace. That you mean to work out in me. Lord, forgive me. And by your spirit, help me to walk a renewed walk of faith. and life of obedience, not because it earns one ounce of your grace, but rather that I might show the glory of your love. Lord, have mercy. Help us in our unbelief. But James finishes this passage by looking at a powerful analogy. And while on the one hand, it seemed obvious why with a Jewish audience James would have chosen the life of Abraham, but what is beautiful is he chooses the life of Rahab. The prostitute, who showed the messengers another way to escape that they might not be discovered. What an amazing story that we have for us. But what's beautiful in the description of Rahab. is that it is glorious that he would pick, if you will, the crime de la crime of the Jewish faith and looking back over God's revelation and seeing Abraham, but then he would choose this woman who might fall into disregard or we might even remember. But he remembers Rahab and he brings it to our attention, to this Jewish audience that he is teaching, who's come to faith, and I think there's a message there too. It is not for the high and the mighty to hear that saving faith works itself out in obedience. It is for every single one of us, great and little among us, that the Lord has something for you and me even today. And he says, Rahab the prostitute, she was justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. He's using Rahab in the illustration of Rahab. to tell us something very fundamental about what it means to be a human being. And this I think Perhaps is why he uses this analogy. He's bringing it home to you and me, taking us from the high top, high watermark of what Abraham did. down to the work of a prostitute who showed the messengers of God another way, and then he comes straight to you and me into our human existence. To tell us something about the nature of faith and works. What is he telling us? As many of you know, I've had to attend to far more funerals than I cared to admit. But one thing is a consistent testimony that when we see the body of our loved one As they have deceased, our friend, our brother or sister in Christ, when we see their body laying at rest, The overall response consistently is, I know that that is their body, but they are not here. And I've seen people of faith and people who do not believe in the Christian faith say the same thing. What are they demonstrating? That we are more than just material flesh and blood That while it is fundamental and valuable and beautiful and created in the image of God, we are more than flesh and blone, we are also spirit. And the Lord has given us a soul. A spirit. And that when the body is apart from the spirit, it is dead. It is no longer there. And then he says, a faith apart from works is dead. And so may I borrow back from frame. You can have great knowledge of the character and revelation of God You can know it with such expertise. You could teach at any university, including Harvard and Yale. or Brown, you could teach at the finest institutions in the world about the nature of how God has revealed himself in the scriptures You can have that knowledge. You can even give a sense that, yes, I believe that what the Christians say about God may very well be true. But without that third step of trust, of subjection To the triune God and the work of his Spirit working out in us faith in how we love and live in that faith There is something missing. And it is as a body apart from the spirit. It is dead. And so it is an invitation to you and me. It is not to cause doubt. It is an invitation. That we are called to more than just intellect. We are called to more than just logical understanding and assent. We are called to give ourselves Our very life to him who gave his life for us. And he means to do more than merely forgive us, church. He means to restore us in our works, in our actions, in our attitudes. That we might be sent forth as instruments in the Redeemer's hands to be those who are part of God's restoring work in the world until He returns. And so as we consider this passage then, of what value does it have for us in the midst of our present suffering? I have two points of application before we finish today. First, this past week I'm grateful for my colleague Pastor P. D. Mayfield as he shared A quote from Richard Baxter, one of our great forebearers of the Reform faith. Writing in England, he had a question and answer, a catechism, if you will, as he was directing his church in the time in which he ministered. It's question 109, and here's the question. May we omit church assemblies on the Lord's Day if the magistrate forbid them? In other words, is it okay for us not to gather as the Church of Jesus Christ here at Columbia Presbyterian Church if the governor or the mayor has told us we cannot? Baxter says the following. If the magistrate for a greater good, that is the common safety forbids church assemblies in a time of pestilence, assault of enemies, or fire or the like necessity, it is a duty to obey him Because positive duties give place to those great natural duties which are thereend. So Christ justified himself and his disciples violation of the eternal rest of the Sabbath. For the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. Friends, you might have heard some Christian teachers and leaders and say, We must continue to meet. It would be disobedience to our faith and obedience to the law of the land and not to our Lord if we fail to meet together as the Church of Jesus Christ. And I say to you the opposite. I believe that is destructive and hurtful to the church and making vulnerable our churches to the spread of this disease and then also to many others. I do believe we are called because we were not made for the Sabbath. The Sabbath was made for us And in this time it is actually, and here I'm quoting the mayor of Los Angeles, it is literally an act of love for you and me to stay home. And so one act of our faith and obedience to the one we say we believe in is to even obey the law and magistrate over us. But that we seek to use all the technology at our fingertips to create and encourage the gathering of his church for the building up of his church. For I believe this is not the time in which the church will be hurt, but rather this is an opportunity for the praise of the Lord Jesus Christ and his church to flourish. Because it is not a time for grandstanding and great actions of Christian faith, but I actually believe the greatest obedience which we are called to by faith from this passage. Are the quiet small ones to love one another in our families? To serve one another. To care for one another, even when we are so annoyed at each other. If only these kids could go to school, if only my spouse could go back to work, oh Lord, in this pestilence. But maybe. But maybe by putting us all together in our homes There's something we're learning about what it means to walk by faith and obedience. But I said there are two points. And it's this. I was taught by my history, church history professor at Covenant Seminary, Dr. David Calhoun. To never waste suffering. And so that is my second point of application. Do not waste this time of suffering, friends. And I borrow the words from Dr. Calhoun himself after he, and in the midst of his suffering with cancer, he came back to the seminary to preach on Psalm 23. I remember as if that sermon was preached yesterday. I've listened to it countless times. I've shared it with many of you. But he said this at that time with regard to his suffering, and he said this. I've had to learn not only that the Lord is with me always. but also that the time I spend in this valley is not wasted. These last few years have not been a parentheses in my life Indeed, they have been essential to the totality of my life. Something has happened in the valley that is for me. at this time more important than teaching and preaching and writing books. If I did not have cancer, my life would be a failure forever. Whatsoever comes, the Christian doesn't despise this life. There are green valleys and quiet waters. But even in the valley of the shadow of death, the Lord is with us. He is our joy and our comfort. CPC, friends who are gathering from around the country and around our community. Let us not waste our suffering. Learn more of God. Read His Word. Pray for our first responders. Pray that the Lord would demonstrate his grace and mercy in great and in small ways during this time. Pray that the Lord would teach us how to go deeper in our trust and saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That he would equip us in this time of the valley of the shadow of death to walk by faith, showing itself in a life of obedience. Pray with me. Now, Heavenly Father, we ask that you would grant us grace and mercy to walk with you, to love you, and to trust in you. Lord, we ask that you would remind us that faith and works go together Our works do not earn us anything before you, yet they are indispensably the gift that you have given to demonstrate that Jesus Christ and his salvation is working itself out. You, O Lord, have begun a good work in us, and you will bring it to completion And we, as the Church of Jesus Christ, the ecclesia, the called-out ones, are called to reflect the glory of your name by how we live. Show us, O Lord, how to live in this faith, in this time. In Jesus' name. Amen.