Perhaps you are familiar, in fact many of you I know are familiar. With this hymn. And can it be that I should gain an interest in the Savior's blood? Died he for me who caused his pain, for me who him to death pursued. Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? What does the life of faith look at in relationship to the love of the Father? There are many places within the Old Testament that we could look at to talk about the love of God the Father, but perhaps the best place to look is in the prophet Hosea. As a backdrop, Hosea was prophesying during the time of Jeroboam the Second. It was a time that Israel was enjoying relative economic prosperity and military prosperity But they were full of false worship and turning from the Lord. And there are many places we will find in the Old Testament when the Lord speaks to the prophets, he asks them to go in his name. to speak and to act and to do in his name so that the people might see and hear the word and actions of God through the prophets. And Perhaps there is not only any other any better book to talk about the love of the Father than Hosea, perhaps there's no more inscrutable Command that the Lord gives to any prophet, like the one he gives to Hosea. He tells Hosea to take for himself a prostitute as a wife. Now, some commentators suggest that perhaps, well, maybe it was his wife, and she became unfaithful to the point of becoming a prostitute. But that would be to ignore the face value of what we see in the text, in the letter of Hosea. What we see is that it was the Lord's instruction. To go and to pick for himself a prostitute, because it was analogous to the Lord choosing Israel. That Israel as a nation was unfaithful to the Lord, yet he pursued Israel. So consider this for just a moment before we go any further, as Christopher Wright writes in his book, Knowing God through the Old Testament, he says this of Hosea. Hosea did not join a society to debate the social evils of prostitution, nor did he theorize about the possible strategies of the uplift of fallen women Nor did he simply complain about prostitutes or even merely take pity on them. He went and married one. The same is true in any account of how we can come to know God. It is not through a process of speculation about what God may or may not be like, nor is it a matter merely of checking off doctrinal checkboxes about God's attributes. God the Son was not content either merely to discuss with the Father possible strategies of dealing with the human fallen condition or to send a cosmic sympathy card telling us, I share your pain. He came and he died to save us. Knowing God means knowing what God has done, knowing it was what He has done for me, and knowing the response I should make. When he instructed Hosea to marry this woman. It was to teach us and to see what would she learn about the love of Hosea, but most importantly, it's what we learn about the love of the Father. What is it like? And then putting it together with where we are in the life of faith. Do we trust in the love of God the Father? Do we trust in it for us? Do we trust in the love of God the Father for others? We will look at that as we go along in this sermon. Together you will see as we read together. In chapter eleven of Hosea, we learn of the extent of a father's love. The Father's love for Israel. Hear now God's word, Hosea chapter 11, verses 1 through 12. When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. The more they were called, the more they went away. They kept sacrificing to the Baals and burning offerings to idols. Yet it was I who taught Ephraim to walk. I took them up by their arms, but they did not know that I healed them. I led them with cords of kindness, with the bands of love, and I became to them as one who eases the yoke of their on their jaws, and I bent down to them and fed them. They shall not return to the land of Egypt, but Assyria shall be their king, because they have refused to return to me The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because of their own counsels My people are bent on turning away from me, and though they call out to the Most High, he shall not raise them up at all. How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like Admah? How can I treat you like Zeboim? My heart recoils within me. My compassion grows warm and tender. I will not execute my burning anger. I will not again destroy Ephraim, for I am God and not a man, the holy one in your midst. And I will not come in wrath. They shall go after the Lord, he will roar like a lion, and when he roars, his children shall come trembling from the west. They shall come trembling like birds from Egypt, like doves in the land of Assyria, and I will return them to their homes, declares the Lord. Ephraim has surrounded me with lies and the house of Israel with deceit, but Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me. Lord, help us to see In this passage of your word, the living breathing promises of an Almighty God. who is a father who has set his love not because of anything anyone has done, but because of his providential sovereign Plan to redeem those who are not worthy of redemption. For who of us could stand and say that we are worthy? You alone are worthy of praise. We, Lord, falter, we run away, we turn away. But you, O Lord. Are constant and tenacious in your promises. May we be able to see To be renewed and revived again in a trust and an experience of the Father's love, that you might be glorified, that we might be renewed. Help us, O Lord, and help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. So you'll see in your outline as we go through this passage together, what you will see is we'll look at together at the tenderness of the Father's love, verses 3 through 4. Then we will look together at the discipline of the Lord's love, verses 5 through 8, and then the mercy that is demonstrated by his love, verses 9 through 12. All the while, with this question, I want you to be thinking about What does it mean in the life of faith to trust in the Father's love for you? And to make that love known as you have been loved. What does it mean for us? Before we go Let's look at these three avenues, three perspectives on the love of the Father in this passage. Verses three through four, what you hear about is the tenderness of the Father's love. When he talks about Israel, he does so longingly. He does so as any parent would for their child. He says that he loved Israel, loved them so much that he called them out of Egypt. Even though in their disbelief, even after he freed them from Egypt as a caring father through his servant Moses, they still wondered had the Lord led them into slaughter. But the Lord stayed faithful. He led them. Notice the language of tenderness in these verses. That despite their turning away, despite their false worship, Notice what it says again, verse one, I loved him, I called him my son. Verse three, I taught Ephraim how to walk. I took them up in my arms. I led them with cords of kindness, with bands of love. And I seized, or rather I sought to ease the challenge that they felt in their jaws. Because of their hunger and the oppression that they were facing. And I leaned down and I fed them. What you hear in the tenderness of this language is all the imagery that anyone who has seen a parent with a child Can see or you have experienced it. Of how we long to see our children walk, but we don't just set them up next to a set of stairs and say good luck. We begin with them on our knees, lifting them up onto their feet, holding them, guiding them, that they might learn to go just a little bit, cruising from pieces of furniture, and we're there. Yes. There is stumbling involved. There is even falling involved. And yet, as a loving, caring parent, we don't chastise them. Rather, we teach them, we pick them up and learn how to walk. What is being talked about here is the love of the Father that he has for his son Israel. And this is the tenderness of the language. I will carry them in my arms. But there is also the language. Consider that an Almighty God, who is holy, who is righteous in the face of the disobedience of his children, what we hear is the tenderness, even the humility. The humility of the love of the Father, who is righteous and holy, when he says, the more they were called, meaning the more that I called them lovingly. As my child, the more they went away, they kept sacrificing to Baals and burning offerings to idols who did nothing for them. Nothing And yet the Lord, in his tender love, humble love, he says, I taught them how to walk. I bent down and I said them. Is the language of the love of the Father. Even he says, even he says, perhaps One of the most difficult things for a parent. Children, if you are so blessed and you grow up and you one day have children, you will know. Someday, what I'm getting ready to say experientially. But one of the most difficult things for a parent is to do something lovingly for your child. Knowing that you did it with selflessness and tenderness, and yet they refused, refused to acknowledge your help, That is the greatest pain that a parent can feel. Some of you know exactly what I mean. And all of us to a degree know. When he says this He says that he healed them. He healed them. When I read those words, I remember. My brothers, when I was just prior to being a four-year-old, my brothers were surfers and skateboarders. And so they put me on their skateboard at the end of the driveway. And um they taught me how to skateboard, but I didn't know how to push it and balance it at the same time, but they would push me. And I would get very low down on the board because I wanted to be just like my older brothers. And I would go around the back of the house underneath this bush. I thought it was the coolest thing ever, till I saw my mother. come out the back door and she saw me on the skateboard for the first time and she said she about had a heart attack and she didn't she thought she was gonna yell she didn't want to yell she didn't want me to fall. And I got off and I was like, that's the coolest thing ever, you know. And I'm like, teach me more. Well what that would end up was I would go to the hill just beyond our house. I think you can see what would come. I would run back home I don't know how many times my knees could tell the story, but my mother with that horrible orange stuff, whatever it is that they use, and it burns. And she would say she would blow on my knees. I'm like, that was not helping at all. If you've been healed by the hands of a loving parent, use your imagination here. That this is the tenderness of the Lord for his people. And yet they did not know That word no is used multiple times, twelve times in the space of 14 chapters, but then its synonyms that mean the same thing are used even more times in the book of Hosea. In other words, it's about knowing the Lord. So what it means is it's not that they didn't know that it was the Lord who provided, it's that they did not acknowledge him. This we are meant to see because it is in the midst of their rebellion that the tenderness of the love of the Father takes on an even greater beauty. But to talk about the tenderness of the love of the Father, we cannot also Then just exclude his discipline. For that's where it goes next. Verses 5-8, he talks about the discipline of the Lord, Now it says here is that they shall not return to the land of Egypt, meaning they're okay, so they're not going to have to return to the bondage that they once experienced in Egypt, but it says to us, but Assyria shall be their king. Now on its face again, it might seem as though the prophet and therefore the Lord are talking out of two sides of their mouth. How can on the one hand the Lord be tender in his mercy and love, but at the same time disciplined? Because it says here, No, I'm not going to return them to Egypt, but an Assyrian king, an enemy king, will now be the one who rules over them. And it's not a pleasant one either. It says, because they refused to return to me, because they refused to listen. The sword shall rage against their cities, consume the bars of their gates, and devour them because of their own counsels. The language there is, they listened to their own understanding. They sought the wisdom of one another. They sought the wisdom So they thought, of foreign and enemy kings, and they sought to worship foreign gods. And so what it t this tells us here about the discipline of the love of the Father is Though the Father is tender in his love, he says, but you continue to refuse to acknowledge me. So I'm going to allow you to experience the consequences of your decisions. It's not because the Lord delights in it. No parent enjoys or delights in their children experiencing the detrimental consequences of very horrible decisions. In fact, it is so painful that when we see our children make the most painful choices, we keep them in a box. Deep inside, and we don't even want to share it with those who are closest to us It is painful, but it doesn't mean the Lord does not love. He's trying to pursue his children, his love, he's pursuing them so that they might come to the end of themselves and recognize that their own counsel does not lead to life, but rather leads to death. To ignore them, the opposite of love is not discipline, it is apathy. If the Lord did nothing, if my mother had not told me not to skateboard in the street, She would not have loved me. This is love. And it is painful for the Lord. But notice it is contingent on something. He says, it is because they refuse to return to me. The inference is, if they return to me. I will free them from this bondage. That return is what the Lord desires, what his discipline is meant to bring. It is never discipline for discipline's sake. It is discipline for the sake of return and reconciliation. The ultimate goal of the discipline of the Lord. Is a return. This is what the Lord calls out confess Your guilt to me. Repent and renounce your idolatry. Repent and renounce the ways in which you have sought to provide for yourself and did not acknowledge me. Repent and renounce the ways in which you refuse to acknowledge that I am the one who is given to you. You refuse and repent for your distance from me. You see, here's the challenge. In the life of faith, when we experience seasons like this, it is often As though we speak of it as if the Lord is far from us. But I'm here to tell you: the Lord is never far from us. It is we who turned from Him. Consider these words. These are the words of one of the church fathers, St. Augustine, when he said, God is more near to you than you are to yourself. God is more near to you than you are to yourself. My friend Dr. Chuck de Grote wrote these words As he reflected on this truth, he says, now let that sink in for the next 50 years of your life. He says, that means God is home. But we are away. God abides, but we wander. God pursues, but we drift. He says, When I was younger, I had a strong theology of God's sovereignty, God's omniscience, even God's judgment. But I must have missed the best news of all: God has made his home in me and in you. And it is God who is infinitely and unfathomably delighted in you. He says, I shared this while teaching a group of twenty-somethings in a large church this past week. They're since they are sincere and passionate. They pray hard, they circle up and call upon God to show up, to be present, to come near, but they also blow it. They drink a little too much. They click on pornographic website that links to another and then to another, all the while wondering what God must think. They raise their hands in praise, but five minutes later find themselves gossiping about the person who hasn't shown up for a few weeks. In other words, they're like you and me. They are prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. But this is the reality. We try to solve that by saying it is God who is far from us. And we try to we try to pursue him. And so the reason why we try to pursue him is we we allow guilt and shame to set in We say, oh God, I am so sorry. You feel so far away right now. I feel so bad. How can I make it up to you? Guilt, that's it. I'll just feel worse about myself and really wallow in it this time. But seriously, you're so far away. So I'll do my best to deserve you. DeGroat summarizes. Like the prodigal, we wonder. But God is at home all the while, residing in the very depths of your soul, not at all surprised by your restless And disobedient and silly spirit. Did you wonder? Of course you did. Do you think because you are fickle that I am fickle? God is more near to you than you are to yourself. Let that sink in. When the Lord allows his people to fall under the Assyrian kings. difficult and oppressive rule. It is not his love which is absent. It is not his presence which is absent. It is precisely the opposite. He is always present, ready to receive his children who come in repentance. It is the Lord who will allow us to go to the end of ourselves, as the confession says in the catechisms, in various ways, in diverse ways, he will allow us to reach the end. So that we might return. That is not an expression of wrath or apathy. That is the loving hand of the Father. Which is why this passage ends with promise, the promise of mercy, verses nine through twelve. Again. He says, Though my people are bent and turning away from me, verse 7, though they call out to me the Most High, I shall not raise them up. Allowing them to experience their decision, the consequences of their decision. But then he says, My heart recoils within me. My compassion grows warm and tender. The Lord does not grow cold. In fact, his love grows more white hot. And he says, I will not execute my burning anger. I will not destroy again Ephraim, for I am God and not man, the holy one in your midst, and I will not come in wrath. It reminds us. That the Lord tells us in his word, it is his kindness that leads us to repentance. His wrath will be poured out on the last day, but thanks be to God, that is not this moment. This is a moment of grace and mercy. And he says, I will not come in wrath. I am the holy one. I am not sickle. My love does not have a short shelf-life. It is tenacious and his promises are sure. And he says, they shall go after the Lord. He will roar like a lion when he roars. His children shall come trembling from the west. Notice it is a trembling, not for fear that he is a bad God, but trembling because his holiness is so white hot with his holiness and his love together. that the r the beauty and the righteousness of the picture of a lion in the majesty of his roar that is a command that re calls our attention to it, does not come to us with sharp fangs, but rather it is a roar that invites us, but reminds us of his power. His power. That is why we tremble. Which is why on the last day, when the Lord returns again, as he has promised after his resurrection, will not be just a day Like at an amusement park, even for believers, for he is righteous and he is holy and he is powerful. We will tremble properly because he is worthy. Because he has all power and all authority. And he says here that when he roars, when the Lord calls out, they shall come trembling. like birds from Egypt, like doves from the land of Assyria, and I will return them to their home, declares the Lord. This is his mercy They will receive homes that they did not build. They will receive homes that they do not deserve. Despite their disobedience and waywardness, the Lord says, Come home to me. I'm waiting for you. I'm already here. I've made a place for you. Now that is mercy And even he says, even though they've surrounded me with lies, the Lord knows our lies. But our own lies Cause us to fall under their own deceit, and we think that God somehow can't figure it out. And he says, the house of Israel is full of deceit. But the Lord is faithful. He will retain for himself a remnant. That God The father of love, tenderness, discipline, and the mercy, the promise that God's love and in his promise does not fail. And it stands to reason that he invites us again, as he did his people Israel, through the prophet Hosea, who looked at his wife Gomer, despite her unfaithfulness. He said to her, I chose you when you were unfaithful, and I still choose you now. Return to me. Now that is gratuitous love. Gratuitous in its most, in its best possible definition. It is foolishness to us that God would love like this But if we are willing to stay still for a moment, to be at home, and to be reminded of this is the Lord's word to Israel. How much more, then, does he not also set his love on his church who he has claimed through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ? And can it be that I should gain an interest in my Savior's blood? Who died he for me who caused his pain to him who I can't remember it all, who him through death pursued Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? If we are willing to stay at home and recognize that it is not God who has left, but it is our own waywardness that has caused the distance. We will remember that the Lord's invitation is always come home. Come home. This is the Father's love. The question is: do you have faith in his love? Or are you trying to depend on your love for him? That is an enormous difference. Our faith is never in our faith And so what we try to do is we begin to think about our how we feel guilty and ashamed, and so therefore we project that onto God, and so therefore we conflate our understanding with ourselves with God's divine initiative. That this is how I feel about myself. This must be how God feels about me. But the word of God says, no, that is a lie. I have sent my son to die for you while you were yet my enemies. I have not left you as orphans. I will come to you. The Lord is closer to you than you are to yourself. And his message is: your faith is not in your capacity to hold on to me. Your faith is in me who holds on to you. Who has held you in my arms, who has led you by cords of kindness. But what happens is when we begin to conflate the view of ourselves with what God's divine initiative might be, we do the same when we look out at others. This Book is a demonstration. It wasn't Hosea's job to judge those in prostitution. He was to love as the Lord commanded him to love. That isn't the suggestion. that our his command is our command, but the point is this, if God loves us, whom can we not love? Whom To the point that Jesus did say, I say, love your enemies. Now that's a hard one. That I don't want to do. But the only place where we can begin to learn to love like the Lord loves is to go to the heart of who we are, individually and corporately, that at the heart we are fallen because of sin, disobedience, idolatry, and at the heart we were his Enemies, and yet he loved us. So we have to go back to that place. We have to recall to mind the Father's love through his Son, the Lord Jesus. Who is the ultimate Hosea? Who gave himself to those who scarcely understood it? was raised to life, and is now seated at the right hand of God the Father. We must go to that place and say, if I have been loved like that, Lord, will you help me in this place learn, teach me how to love even my enemies To have faith not in my capacity to love, but to begin to trust in your love and ask that your love would be displayed more and more through me. This is the call for the church. The faith to believe in the unfailing love and mercy of God for ourselves, and faith to proclaim his unfailing love. To anyone and everyone. This is the call of the Father's love. So I say to you, if you are a believer this morning, I recommend to you, you can write it down. It's a wonderful new song by a husband and wife duo. Their names are The Grey Havens. I have a new song that was just released over the last two weeks. It's called Storehouse. And he talks about in this song that he was lost. He says, because sorrow for sin and the need for repentance is such a great constant in my life. And in the life of any believer, it wasn't hard to know at a 30,000-foot level what I wanted to write. Ultimately, the song gets at the inner thought life And behavior tied to cynical temptation and sin, but also the hope of the grace and forgiveness we have in Christ. And he says this, and his wife wrote together: I'll go to the storehouse. I'll go to the storehouse, to the storehouse of mercy. I've been a fool, went down, thought I could walk the line, but just in time to turn it back around. But I fall, though, that old forbidden door, and though I knew the stakes still made my way, just like every time before I'm over my head and lost and know there's no way I'm able to pay back the cost. But this I call this I call to mind that I'm not alone and I can come back home anytime. You're caught, standing still, think you'll be fine, the colors fade, you drift away, and you're back to what you know, what's easy, what you like. You don't look back. You refuse to turn. Like I'll build my own makeshift house, but it only ever serves to make it worse. So I'll go to the storehouse. I'll go to the storehouse of mercy. Believer, if you believe that you can work your way back to God, Because of your sin. Stop. The Lord is already home, and all He asks you to do is to confess And his renewing mercy will remind you that he never left. You did, but this door is open through Christ If you are not a believer, know this: that his invitation to you is one of a father's love. That does not fail, that does not keep a record of wrongs, that says, I will separate you from your sin as far as the East is from the West. And I will give you a sense of understanding, a sense of identity as my child beyond your wildest dreams, because I know you better than you know yourself, and I call you this day to me. His invitation to you is to trust in his love. If today is that day, may you know his love this day I invite you to put that face in Him. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, I come this morning on behalf of your people. As one worshiping you with them, and we acknowledge that you, O Lord, are a Lord of love and mercy. And indeed, you have a storehouse of loving mercy. You demonstrated this to the house of Israel and to Judah. Despite their rebellion, your invitation was to repent and to come home. Lord, your message is to us through the work of Christ: that you have paid our debt and set us free, that you call us again away from our sin and our waywardness. To return home, trusting not in ourselves but in you alone. Will you restore those whose faith and trust is in you, reminding them of your faithful, forgiving, tender, disciplining, but merciful love. And for those who do not believe, Lord, I ask That they would know that you welcome them, that they can confess their sin and find forgiveness and trust no longer in themselves but in you. Do this, O Lord, and bring renewal in our midst. In Jesus' name. Amen.