For God to do and to experience. And we'll be talking about that some more. There are 13 particulars that we presented to you last week. We'll be discussing that more also And uh for this morning what I want to do is call your attention to number eight. So if you have your sermon outlined there, you'll notice that I copied over The eighth particular of our vision statement we'll be discussing tonight. This statement uh that remember was uh crafted by all the elders joining together in our discussion and our working through this thing draft after draft. One elder said after we put this down, this is the most radical statement in the entire document. It's a sleeper. And here's what it says. Our vision as is that we individually and corporately will be building relationships with the unchurched That is those without any Christian church background, and winning a hearing for the gospel lovingly presented to them. You might look at that and think, eh, well, most Bible-believing churches would agree with that. So what's so radical? Well, what is radical is if you take it seriously. Because most churches don't, and I'm not sure that we really have. If you don't believe that, let me demonstrate my point by a very brief survey. Let me ask you right here to, with a show of hands, this will not embarrass anybody, very simple, neutral question. How many of you We're never to a church, never attended a church before Columbia Presbyterian Church. Put up your hands. How many never attended a church? CPC is the first church you ever attended. Right? See? Same results as first service. Zero. That means every single one of you had some sort of church experience before he came here. Now, we realize a number of you came to know Jesus Christ personally here. But you had some sort of church experience or background. What we're talking about in number eight is all those people that are out in Howard County, this region, all around this community who have no church connections. What do we think about them? Are we serious? Is the gospel for them? We really believe that? Do we really care about bringing the message of Christ to people who could give who couldn't give any attention to the church because it's not relevant to them. Martin Marty once said, for an evangelical The lifestyle incorporates every area of their life. You know, we have this whole subculture of evangelicalism. He says if you're outside of that, it is utterly unknown to you. Utterly. You have no clue what these people are all up to. And what we want to do is begin to penetrate that culture I quoted to you from last week from Rick Warren, pastor out in California, wrote that book, Purpose-Driven Church. Fifteen years they have seen over five thousand professions of faith, and most of those have been from secular unchurched people. So when he says something about this, I think, well, I'll listen to what he says And here's what he said in his book. No church will be effective in reaching the lost, especially the unchurched, that does not love sinners. That does not love unbelievers and want to have them with us. And that's the question, isn't it, for you and for me. Do we really want to have unchurched people? Secular people with us here. And so uh my purpose is not just to make you feel guilty, and we have failed and beat our breasts, and you know beat ourselves with our Bibles and then cry and talk about Nea Culpa, how guilty we are. We need help. And so as Christians we get our help from the Lord. We need to remember that Jesus is not only our Savior, He is our example. So I'm going to look at Jesus this morning We want to look at him as our example and remember that he was called, among other things, a friend of sinners. What does that mean? What's it mean for us? He's called a friend of sinners in Luke chapter 7, verse 34. So if you haven't turned to that so far, please do. If you remember the situation in Luke 7, in verse 34, the context of that, let me review it for you very briefly. Do you remember the Pharisees and the law experts, that is the theologians of that day, refused John's baptism of repentance? You read in verse 29 of Luke 7, all the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard Jesus' words, acknowledged that God's way was right because they had been baptized by John. They had been prepared for this, by repentance. But, contrast verse 30, the Pharisees and the experts in the law, the theologians, rejected God's purpose for themselves because they had not been baptized by John. Like most religious people without the gospel, they were very critical. That's almost axiomatic. And they were critical both of John and of Jesus. Very different styles of ministry, and neither of them pleased them. So Jesus reflects on that in verse 31. He says, then, to what then can I compare the people of this generation? What are they like? Jesus says they're like little children sitting in the marketplace and calling out to each other. We played the flute for you and you didn't dance. We sang a dirge and you didn't cry. What's he saying? He's saying, you know, like petulant little kids, they say, We made a happy tune, we wanted you to dance a jig, you wouldn't do it. So we played a sad tune and we said, now dance a dirge and you wouldn't do it You know, you dance the way we play the tune. He said, neither will satisfy you. So he says, verse 33, John didn't satisfy it because he was too tight. John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine. You say he has a demon. Criticize me because I'm too loose. Son of man came eating and drinking, and you say he's a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners Criticize John because he didn't eat enough. Criticized me because I ate too much. But he says verse 35, wisdom is proved right by all our children. The ministries will be vindicated. Now you notice in verse 34, Jesus is quoting them in calling him a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. It's significant that far from denying the charge, Jesus confirms it in the very next verse. If you look at verses thirty-six to fifty, the next incident, you have Jesus in the home of a very religious fellow. One of the evangelicals of the day, fellow by the name of Simon. He comes to eat with him. And while he's there eating, this woman comes in, who's a very secular person. She is, in fact, a very immoral person. And she comes in, begins to weep. She bows before Jesus, pulls out some perfume, pours it on his feet, weeps Spilling tears on his feet, mixing it with her perfume, dries it with her hair, and she just can't stop crying. It's a rather disturbing scene, sort of, you know, disturbs the dinner a little bit. And Simon comments, this man couldn't be a prophet, because if he was, he'd know that this woman is a sinner. Verse 39. That word sinner there does not mean all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. None of us are perfect. We all fall short. We're all sinners. We all agree to that. Amen. Okay? That's not what he's talking about. The word sinner there is referring to somebody who is immoral and outside of the religious pale, somebody who doesn't fit with religious people, not proper, scandalous. She is an immoral woman. What's he doing hanging around her? Why is he let her be so familiar with him? And Jesus tells a story to Simon to show that the woman has more of his favor than Simon does. He forgives her sin. He takes up her case, defends her, and shows that in fact he is a friend of sinners. There's three things that I would like to point out about that for you and for me. First of all, what this does not mean, secondly, what it does mean, and thirdly, what it means for you and for me particularly. First of all, what it does not mean. Well, verse 34, they say, here is a glutton and a drunkard, friend of tax collectors and sinners. So they accuse him of being a glutton and a drunkard. Obviously he was not. What they mean is he didn't fast enough, he wasn't long faced enough, he not only hung around sinners, he seemed to enjoy them He was having too much fun. Obviously, Jesus wasn't compromising his holiness. Obviously, he never got drunk. Obviously, there was at no point where his perfection, his holiness, was compromised. If it was Then he wouldn't have been an eligible sacrifice for your sin and for mine. So that's not even an issue. We would have been lost if Jesus had ever been a glutton or a drunkard. That was a charge that was a a villainous accusation. But the other thing that we need to understand, maybe a little more troublesome to us, and that's the time issue. Because when I talk about our following Jesus, who is a friend to sinners, what many of us begin to translate is I'm already involved in all the things I can do with my family and at work and the things that I'm doing in my ministry, in my cell, and in church. And now they want me to go out and be a friend of sinners too. Where am I going to get the time? What does this mean he was a friend of sinners? He spent all his evenings and weekends hanging around unbelievers? And you want us to begin to do that too? It's unreasonable. I don't think it's saying that If you read the Gospel Records, you see that most of Jesus' time was spent with his disciples, with those who came to hear him. I believe that as you see the blanks under there, it's referring not so much to activity as attitude. It isn't talking about so much how he spent his time, so you can relax a little bit. We're not talking here about rearranging all your schedules. It's talking about an attitude. He was a friend to sinners. And I would suggest that you can break that down into a number of ways, but let me suggest three things, I think, at least that it means It means first of all they had compassion for sinners. The first blank A there is compassion. He loved sinners, he had compassion on them Do you remember that time when the fella young guy drove up in the BMW 735i, stopped, said to Jesus, hey Jesus, how do I get eternal life? And Jesus gave him a brief summary of the Ten Commandments, which reflect God's character, which we are to reflect. And you remember the guy said to him? It's absolutely astounding. Been there, done that. Yeah, I mean what's your response? You hear somebody say that. And whether you say it or not You're probably thinking something like you, pompous, arrogant jerk. You've done all the Ten Commandments. What else is there to do? Have you ever read them? Do you even know what they say? You're off the wall, man. What Mark 10, 21 says is rather startling to me. Because it says how utterly different Jesus was. After he says that, Mark 10, 21 tells us Jesus looked at him and loved him. What I think that means is that Jesus saw this fellow in all the bondage of his things, and his heart went out to him. And so Jesus then goes on to say to him, You really want to find out what eternal life is? Dump your load of stuff and come follow me, and I'll show you. And the man went away sad. But you see what that says to me is Jesus' response to off-the-wall theological statements from secular people. It's very different from the way I often respond. How do you feel and respond to your neighbors' irreligious ways and secular values? Do they irritate you? Do you find yourself sort of disgusted by some of their values and lifestyles? Then you probably will not reach them for Jesus Christ. Until you and I can have compassion that sees people in their bondage and in their burdens, and like Jesus, look at them and love them. So that they can feel that and know that. We won't have very much to say that they'll find worth listening to. Remember last week I talked to you about a teacher who had taught for a year in school system, public school system in Maryland, and then quit out of discouragement and just feeling like uh it was a hopeless situation. I think of a another teacher teaches high school, a fellow by the name of Guy Dowd, works with Young Life He mentioned the fact that he says, I love kids. I just love kids. He says sometimes I'll go into my classes before school starts, before anybody's there. And I'll go and I'll sit in the chairs at the desks of some of my most obnoxious, needy, troublesome students. And I'll sit in their desk and I'll just pray for them. I'll think about him and I'll pray for him. He said one time we were celebrating Christmas, Christmas Eve with my family, and got a phone call. It was a kid, one of my former students, gave me his name and didn't even remember him. He said, Well, he said, Mr. Doubt, I'm I'm calling from the state penitentiary. Oh great. Had a great influence on him He said, you know, I got into some trouble, but he said here I am in prison and he said they allow you one free phone call on Christmas Eve. He said my folks don't want to hear from me. I don't have any friends who want to hear from me. He said I remembered you in high school. You were the one person that seemed to care for me. I just thought I'd call you up and wish you Merry Christmas. We can't tell the effect It just compassion has on people who may be off the wall theologically, but they're still made in God's image and they have a hunger, and they're wondering if anybody cares. Jesus not only had compassion on them, the second thing is he was willing to be inconvenienced by sinners. Willing to be inconvenienced, inconvenienced by sinners. Recall the time when Jesus was working with the disciples, and you remember they were always busy, busy, busy, busy. One time said that they didn't have time to sit down and eat. You know, you think your schedule's tight? Jesus was think what he accomplished in three years. He was moving. And the disciples were exhausted and they were looking forward to some time with him. They said, let's get away. And Jesus says, I know a place over here across the lake. Let's just go over there and be alone together. Oh man, that's great, Lord. So they go on the cross, but somebody found out about it. So there they are trying to settle down, have some time together, and in walk some uninvited guests. About 5,000 of them. Now you say we like to have an open home, you know. We want to practice hospitality. Ever have 5,000 people show up uninvited? Kind of puts a dent in your schedule. Changes your plans a little bit. So Jesus teaches and talks to them and and the disciples who are back at this point are getting a little irritated and they're tired and they're hungry and they're saying, Lord, it's getting late, you know, I think it's time for them to go. Why don't you just tell 'em you need to go somewhere to eat, you know, with Is it in a restaurant? Don't have anything here. And Jesus says, Well, why don't you give them something? And I love that because it's a you know it's the classic Christian I would love to butt. Oh, I'd love to, love to have you over, but you know, we have plans that night or we gotta go out, or I'd love to help you out, but You know, I got something else or I don't have any food. And so what they say is, Oh Lord, that'd be great, love to, but we don't have anything. You know, we came over here, we didn't plan a picnic for five thousand people, you know, just didn't think about that. So I'm sorry, they're just gonna have to go. And then Jesus just begins to provide food from five loaves and two fishes. Mark 6 says they were so irritated, they were so hardened, that afterwards, when they're caught in a storm in the sea, they didn't even understand what he did in that miracle. But Jesus just begins to produce food and he says, now here, go take another basket up to those folks up on the hill. Take another basket. And they're just so irritated because they are inconvenienced. They miss the wonder that Jesus was performing. I wonder sometimes how many things I miss of what Jesus would do in a situation that is frustrating, that inconveniences me, because I'm more focused on my inconvenience than the people whose needs are being represented in that interruption. Jesus was not only willing to be inconvenienced for sinners, by sinners, because he loved sinners. He loves sinners. And thirdly, he was willing to be crucified for sinners. Willing to be crucified for sinners. Far more than a matter of inconvenience or kindness, Jesus sacrificed his life for sinners. You read a couple chapters later in Luke chapter 9, verse 22. Jesus says the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. He didn't stumble into his final week of his suffering and crucifixion. He purposefully moved toward it because he loved sinners. You think of that fella who this week went in and killed in cold blood seven students praying in their church, Fort Worth, Texas. Imagine if that fellow had not killed himself, but rather had been arrested, had a trial and was sentenced to death by either lethal injection or the electric chair, and he's put in prison on death row. And imagine sometime between the sentencing and the execution, the Chuck Coulson from Prison Fellowship walks into his cell. Chuck Colson is a man who, of course, has done many things of great value. He's been a great leader, a Christian leader. person that's helped prisoners out and has contributed uh an amazing amount both in his writings and actions and leadership in our society. Let's suppose that Chuck Colson said, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I am going to take your place. In that death room. And Chuck Coulson places himself in that death row to exchange his life for the guy who killed those seven students. What would your reaction be? Besides the fact of thinking, wow, that's an amazing act of love. I can't believe he'd do that. I don't know about you, but I think I'd also be thinking, what a waste. I mean what what does this guy's life count for? What's he good for? What's he contributing? And look at all that Chuck Colson could be doing. No, Chuck, you can't do that. We need you. We don't need this guy. Did you ever think of the incongruity that the Lord of Glory exchanged his life for yours? That he was willing to be crucified for you who trust him and who receive his sacrifice for no other reason than that he loved you. Jesus loved sinners. Jesus continues to love sinners. Do we follow him in that love? So the third point is what does it mean for you and for me? Will we follow him? What this means for us. I think sometimes that we think of evangelism as simply a reaping process whereby we share the message of the gospel and the person either believes it or doesn't believe it and that's all that there is involved. We pray for them, we hope that they'll trust and believe. But we do not think of evangelism as a sowing and cultivating process Wherein we build relationships before the message is shared. But it's clear That what the Bible is talking about in making disciples involves the sowing and the cultivating as well as the reaping. It involves showing compassion to sinners, being inconvenienced by sinners. And crucifying our agendas so that we can be God's means of representing His grace and good news to sinners. The Apostle Paul was sent as a apostle, as an apostle to the Gentiles, out of his religious Jewish community. He needed to move into another culture. And we need people today that out of Columbia Presbyterian culture will be willing to be apostles to the secular. To the unchurched, to cross the boundaries like Paul did to bring the gospel to those who not only had a biblical background, but those who had no biblical background. You see, it's much easier to live either in the secular world or in the religious church community than it is to cross back and forth between the two. That produces tension, misunderstanding, criticism. But what we're saying is, if we are going to take as a church the Great Commission seriously We need to begin to move beyond some of those boundaries. And you say, what's that mean for me? Can you be more specific? Well, I'm afraid I can Being a friend to sinners involves us in two kinds of people, the people that are already in our lives and the people that we choose to bring into our lives. A, the people that are already in your life, a couple of examples. First of all, your family. Is everyone in your family a believer? If you're like most families, there are some people, some of us, like myself and my wife, were snatched out of unbelieving families. But as I have gone on and thought I alone was like Elijah, the only one who worshipped Jesus in all of my family, I have found God has been working in my family. I found that two of my cousins have some interest in spiritual things. Now one cousin is a very, very positive, wonderful person who has overcome insurmountable odds in her life. And part of the way she has done this is by simply always believing the best and just being positive and good, but there's no room for sin in that. We're a God that judges. And so I found out at a family gathering once that one of her daughters, she has five kids, and one of her daughters has become a Christian. And the daughter said to me, Uncle Alan, I've tried for years to share the gospel with my mom. And there's a wall. She won't receive it. She says, I believe you are the person God's going to use in her life. And I'm praying for you. Oh pressure there, huh? That's nice. I think I was God was telling me you're the person. Well, i what we have done and I have found this to be very helpful is just she emails me. You know, she's one of these people that emails you jokes and funny stories and whatever's on her mind. So I have begun to just raise some questions with her about some of the things she believes. And uh this summer I got real specific about what I thought was really good about the things she believed and what some of my concerns were about her lack of faith in Jesus Christ. And she responded a very lengthy, honest response. It was fascinating. And so now we're in a dialogue, an email dialogue. I don't know if that helps any of you, but maybe for some of your families They can think about it, get back when they want. And then when you get together on some family gathering You've had this ongoing conversation. Now you can kind of reinforce that in some personal discussion. Then you go back to the email. And so I'm waiting to see what God will do in that. Or take your co-workers, people that you just you they're there, you know. You can choose whether when you hear them talk and all the stuff that goes around in the office or wherever you work You can choose whether you want to pick up on that and ask questions that invite them to go deeper into some personal interest, or whether you want to just stay on the superficial. But I find most people are so hungry for somebody to listen to them that if you ask any question that sincerely invites them to go deeper about what they're interested in, they will. And it will, I guarantee you. lead to the gospel. If you just simply share your values and are honest with them at some point about what you believe, you will get into the gospel The question is simply whether or not we avoid it or whether we're willing to be open to ask those kinds of questions. And then there's those that we choose to get in to bring into our lives because we can totally ignore them. Co-workers and family, we can't totally ignore them. We have to have something to do with them. But then there are people like our neighbors. They're there, and unless it's a matter of like a power outage or something that brings us all together for some of you this week or other times, you know, for most of the time you can just see the garage door opener go up and it goes down and you know car disappears in, goes out, and Nobody has anything to do with anybody else. Maybe happen to hit them at the mailbox, but you know, hi. In fact, I always find that interesting. You drive up the street. People always hear this big wave and high in your neighborhood, you know, like they really you know Hi, you know. Of course if you ever stopped and said, Hi, how you doing? I got some time here. Holy cow, this guy you know you know, because it's always we like to appear like we're really friendly, you know, but you know, I'm on my way inside and Well what are you gonna do with the neighbors? You know, one of the things we've learned to try and do is to track what the Holy Spirit's doing. And so giving an example, a neighbor across the street, we have talked with them and saw that they had some You know, some religious backgrounds, some spiritual interests. We began to burst things about the gospel, talk to them. We saw, you know, a wall just went up. It was kind of like, hey, uh, don't want to go down that road. Um And I was getting kind of discouraged in that. But then at one of their family gatherings, we were over there and involved and I met this the wife's sister. Turns out the wife's sister had become a Christian two, three years ago. She says, Oh, I've been praying for God and you know I'm just praying God would bring a Christian into her life. She told me about you You're the one! Why is it always me? Everybody's relatives answered a pair, you know But you know that encouraged me because I thought, well this is great, because if somebody's praying for our times, then the Holy Spirit's involved in this. Then just recently as riding down a in the with a husband in his truck, we were going down the streets or something And as he's talking to me about his latest spin on reality and life and all this kind of stuff, and I'm thinking, that's that's new. I hadn't heard that one before. And uh we're going to he just kind of drops in a comment about, and you know, he says My brother's starting to really get into the Bible. He's a Bible, I understand it, but he's starting to read the Bible a lot. You know, and he's taking courses and study. And I think, ah, does his brother become a Christian? Hey, God's beginning to crab you guys a little bit, isn't he? You know, and so look to see among your neighbors. What is God doing? You see, as you just get involved and talk with him. Any evidence The gods beginning to invade their secure lifestyles. And follow up on that. Or then finally, there's the strangers Not finally the second of the three. There's the strangers that you just, you know, stand in line with. I always find it fun. I just want them in a line I'll pick a person either in front of me or behind me And I know it's gonna be a line more in a couple minutes, I just start a conversation. You can always start convers even if it's boring about standing in the line, you know. Or whatever it is. You know, you observe something that's going on. You know. In fact, you know the best thing, you want a good opener? Stand in a line at a food store and look at the magazine, you know, the inquiry and all the rest. Look at the headlines on it, make a comment on it. Oh man, that is good for all. You didn't go off on those things. I once did that. The cashier leaped over the counter, came over to a magazine, look at this one. I mean we were going we were so long that the you know the crowd couldn't get through because you know the you can get into conversations about anything if you just say I'm willing to just talk to people, see where it goes, see where it heads. His book by Jane Jim Peterson, Evangelism of a Lifestyle, he talks about being on a plane one time, and he was sitting in the aisle seat, and there was this woman, there was a seat in between him, and a woman at the window seat. He sits down, he's not feeling too good, he's not in a very sociable mood, and as he's sitting there trying to read this book, this woman says, Oh, what are you reading? So he gives her the title. Oh, do you study that? Nope Pretty soon he said apparently that she wants to talk, so he finally moves over, closes the book. It became apparent that she wanted to do more than talk. This woman was looking for a companion, and so he finally just said, Hey, let me just tell you something I do a lot of traveling, a lot of times I get lonely, and I can be unfaithful to my wife, but I've decided that life is more than what you acquire or conquest. It's about relationships And there is no relationship in my life more important than my relationship with my wife. And so I'm not about to jeopardize that. And you know, if I did that, I might think that I could hide it from her, but our relationship's built on trust and so she'd eventually find out. And you know who'd suffer the most? Our kids. They'd be devastated by this. Lady, I'm not about to risk that. He said she was absolutely dumbfounded She said, I'm 24 years old, and I'm not married, because she said, I see all my friends who are married when they go out of town, all their husbands come over to my house. They're like little boys. And she said, I feel like I could never get married if I thought my husband would do that. She said, where do you get those strange ideas? He said, you'd laugh if I told you. No, no, tell me. He said, the Bible? Really? And so he began to talk to her about what the Bible said about Jesus Christ. He said he was very frustrated because just at that time they're coming for the landing. And so he's really getting into this and she's very interested, but then she has to take off and he sees her over there talking to her friends, pointing to him. Yeah, I mean and he thinks, well, it's the end of that So the year later, he was back in that same city, went to worship at a church, sat down in a pew. Who walks in sits down in a pew right in front of him, but that woman After the service, he tapped her and he said, Do you remember? She looked at him, she said, do I remember? Said that conversation changed my life. And then he says, observing on that in his book, he says, this story illustrates how having values rooted in scriptures will enable us to turn almost any conversation into a discussion for the gospel. But I must confess I still have apprehensions whenever I meet strangers, whenever I meet new neighbors, wondering how God's going to get me into it. I mean it never gets easy It's compassion. It's being a friend to sinners. Finally, the last thing, gotta close, is Sunday morning. Where do you start? You can start right here. See, it's a it's an attitude that starts right here where we are. We're renewing the name tags. You might have seen they've fallen into some disuse, but you'll notice the tables are out there again, and somebody should be giving you a name tag, helping you to get that thing. Please take it and put it on. If somebody's not there because they're kind of busy, get your name tag, use it. Why? It's not for you. You know? I don't need it. I know who I am. No, it's not for you. It's a means of your serving other people. It's saying I'm a friend to sinners. God brings people here every Sunday that don't know Jesus Christ. There were two couples who came here worshiped with us last Sunday They were both of them, they were totally independent, didn't know each other, hadn't seen each other. Both those couples were here simply because of the building. They wanted to see the inside of this building You believe that? No indication of any relationship with Jesus. So don't think that you go back here, everybody's here worshiping the Lord, and they're all Christians. We wear the name tags because that says to somebody, when you meet me, here's my name, I want you to know me, and so when you come back next week, we hope you'll come back, then there's somebody you'll recognize, not just their face, but you won't be embarrassed. We can get to know some names. See, it's making ourselves available, being a friend to those that God brings. You notice a verse about that? Matthew 5 47 Jesus says, and if you greet only your brothers, what are you doing more than others? Do not even the pagans do that? It was designed for after CPC worship. May think that's a little out of context, but it's true. That's the last point. We challenge you to meet one person each week. Not just to greet your brothers. Any unbeliever can do that. We think we're a loving church. Who are we a loving church to? We're the loving church to the people that are here. We're a loving church to our friends. Question is are we a loving church to those who aren't here? People we didn't love are gone. But are we going to follow Jesus in welcoming people? One person a week. You know, not saying there has to be somebody else to visit. Maybe they've been going here for five years. Who knows? One person a week. That you would simply go up to, hi, my name is, get to know them, get the name tags, makes it easier, you can see the name, registers. All of this is to help us, you see, in simply following what Jesus, we believe, is our example in doing. And as you meet that person, some of the cells share that together. Get into a conversation with them, they have kids, maybe want to talk to them about the upwards basketball, you know, whatever. Wherever God takes it. You don't have an agenda, there's no script. Just caring for people. You know, some years ago Mercedes-Benz had a commercial. In which they showed a Mercedes Benz plowing into a concrete wall. You saw how the car held up and body integrity and all this kind of stuff because they had patented this energy absorbing body design In the commercial, somebody asked a spokesman for Mercedes-Benz, why is it that you don't enforce that patent that other companies are copying for the designs of their cars? And the spokesman simply says, matter-of factly, some things in life are too important not to share. Do you believe that about the gospel? Let's pray. Father, we believe that the gospel is in fact the power of God to salvation. We say that, but Lord, so often in our hearts we belie that. And Lord, we want to be a church that is not just willing to share the gospel with religious people. We want to follow you, Lord Jesus, in bold steps of faith. Learn what it means to build relationships with sinners, with the kind of people who are outside of the religious community. Those who, like us, have a desperate need for the gospel and the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, Lord, we pray that you would change our hearts and give us such a love as we draw close to you that we would be so compelled. By that message that's too good to share, to not share, that we this week would begin to see you make us available And to follow you to see what you will do, both to us individually and through our church in the days, the weeks, and the years ahead. For Jesus' sake. Amen.