On this Pentecost Sunday, we remember that the Holy Spirit has come to make us who have given our lives to Jesus Christ to be the children of God. The Most High God, the Lord of the universe, Judge of our hearts, has acquitted us as judge and adopted us as Father. He has given to us in those two basic actions of acquittal and adoption, all that we need in life. The basis for all that we need, to have peace and joy. Or as Larry Crabbe says, for us to have a sense of significance and security. For God says to us in Romans chapter 8, verses 15 and 16 that we've been looking at. Let me read again those two verses. God's holy word to us. For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. We've looked at those two verses for the past four weeks in order to unfold some of what that means. And this morning, Pentecost Sunday, we finish our meditation on these two verses By considering again verse 16. What does that mean? And how do we understand it? The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. Now we saw last week that this verse is the climax to four steps of assurance of salvation that the Bible gives to us. Remember we looked at those four last week. The first, the foundational one, God's promise to us, where at some point in our lives the Holy Spirit convinces us Assures us that when God promises, that the Lord Jesus promises, He who comes to me I'll in no wise cast out, that there is life and forgiveness in Jesus Christ, that that word can be trusted. And we're assured of its truth. And then we move on from that foundational assurance to the one that relates more to our lives, the second one. The first one is God's promise to us. Remember, the second one is God's work in us. Where we look at the evidence of his work, the fruit of the Spirit, to see that in fact we have laid hold on Christ and we've been changed by him. Do we have an assurance based on the marks of a Christian that we see in our lives or that others maybe from time to time need to remind us? We moved on from that to the third Step of assurance, even more exalted than the first two, which is the Spirit's cry in us. God's promise to us, the Spirit's work in us, the Spirit's cry in us That cry of Abba, Father, that we see here in verse fifteen, whereby we are enabled or given the assurance, the confidence that we can call the eternal judge, the God of heaven and earth, our own daddy. And then verse 16 capped it off with the most exalted, the highest kind of assurance that the Bible speaks of That one in verse 16, which is the Spirit's witness to us, not only his promise to us, his work in us, his cry in us, but his witness to us. Whereby we see and feel the embrace of the Heavenly Father to our own spirits and souls, a deep feeling that He loves us Now it's a wonderful thing for us to be able to say, as we do in verse 15, Father, I love you. It's a wonderful thing for us to be able, unashamedly, to be able to state our love for Jesus. But it's far more wonderful, mysterious To understand that in verse sixteen, the Father says, I love you, my child. It's one thing to be able to say, I love you to the beloved, but how much more wonderful to hear the beloved say to us, I love you. And that's the meaning of verse 16, where the Heavenly Father says to you and to me, I love you. You are mine. And that's what we're looking at now. And want to understand it a little bit better this morning. I think to understand a little bit more, what we need to do is to see That this witness of the Spirit to our spirits, that we're God's children, is closely related to his being two things to us. Those two things you see, the first two blanks, and those are that he is a seal to us. And that he is a down payment to us. He is our seal and our down payment. So you can uh fill in those first two now I want to look at those two matters to see what that means for you this week as you walk with Jesus Christ. First of all, then notice that he is my seal Three times the New Testament says this, all three of them are listed right there in your bulletin. The first one is in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Where we read in verses 20 and 21, now it is God who makes both us and you stand firm in Christ. He anointed us, set his seal of ownership on us. And put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. You might want to turn to that and keep your finger in 2 Corinthians 1, because I'll be referring to that a number of times through the message. Because I think it helps us to understand what is going on in Romans 8:16. We see there that the Spirit is a seal and a guarantee or a deposit, a down payment guaranteeing what's to come. In two of the three passages that speak of the Spirit as a seal, they also closely link that with his being a down payment. Another one is in Ephesians chapter 1. In verses 13 and 14, we read that you also were included in Christ. This is what's in the bulletin now. When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having believed you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit or a down payment, guaranteeing our inheritance. Until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. And then in chapter four, verse thirty, Paul reminds us again that you should not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you are sealed. Until the day of redemption. Now, what does that mean, and how is it related to the Spirit's witness? Well, a seal is an objective thing. A seal is a means of identification to denote ownership and protection of a piece of property. It's a kind of a trademark. It's a sort of a label, a legal mark of the owner. Perhaps you remember seeing in the movies of hundreds of years ago where the king has a seal, you know, for his ring. And when he wants to send a letter, you know, he smashes that thing into some wax, you know, and there it is on the letter. And so everybody knows that this is a letter that's come from the king because it has a seal on it It's that which was very personal, you see. It was only one seal. The owner alone had that unique seal. And it marked whatever was sealed as belonging to him. And so the New Testament uses that image. Beautiful, isn't it? Because what it's saying is the Holy Spirit has sealed you. In fact, it says the Holy Spirit is the seal in your life that you belong to God. The Holy Spirit Himself is the seal of our lives, showing that we are under the Father's two things, his authority and his protection. And those are the A and the B under point one. I am sealed by the Spirit to show that I am under the Father's authority and I am under his protection. First of all, it says that we're under his authority. You remember when Pilate put Jesus in the tomb after he'd been crucified? There was a concern that the disciples were going to try and steal the body. And so you remember how he gave an order that was recorded in Matthew 27, 65 and 66, take a guard, Pilate said. Go make the tomb as secure as you know how. And so they went and they made the tomb secure. How? By putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard Now that idea of putting a seal on the stone doesn't mean that they put superglue on it, you know. It doesn't mean that they caulked it up. It doesn't mean that they tried to make the thing airtight and watertight so nobody could get in What it means is that they put a mark on the stone. It was a seal of the Roman government. And what it was saying is this tomb belongs to Rome. Fool with this tomb, and you're fooling with Rome. You're challenging the authority of Rome. And so in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul uses that image. You see where he says That he anointed us, 2 Corinthians 1 2 1 22. He anointed us, set his seal of ownership on us, and put the Holy Spirit in our hearts. You see, what that's saying is that the Holy Spirit in your life has marked you as belonging to Jesus Christ. You are under his authority. And that Spirit is the Holy Spirit. And therefore you are set aside. The word holy means to be set apart. And that seal upon your life means that you are set apart unto God. You are holy unto Him. And therefore, you are under his authority. Your life is not to do with as you please. You cannot say, as one who is sealed by the Spirit to Jesus Christ, I'll marry whoever I want. I'll get whatever job I please. I'll spend my money the way I want to spend it. I'll spend my time the way I want to spend it. For if you belong to Jesus Christ, you're not under your own authority, you see. You're under the authority of Jesus Christ. And you are sealed. And the seal is then taken in Romans 8:16 And made subjective when the Holy Spirit testifies to the fact that you are sealed by me It's part of what it means. It's part of his work. That the Spirit witnesses to us, testifies to us, that we are God's holy child. And so you feel that glad submission to belong to Him. And do you realize that the Holy Spirit is not the jolly spirit in order to simply make you feel good? But he is the Holy Spirit in order to transform you under the authority of Jesus to become his. As a Scottish Baptist of the early 19th century, John Mackenzie wrote one of his sermons He says that the Christian feels that the blessed spirit has come down and taken possession of his heart. And consecrated it as a sacred place to God and sealed him up as his own property unto the day of redemption. He feels that he is the temple of the Holy Spirit And the Spirit of God dwells in him, and the glory of the Lord has filled the house. He feels that part of heaven is let down into his soul, and oh, the peculiar, inexpressible, sweet feelings of love. Gratitude, contrition, and humility mingled together, which fill his heart. He feels that he belongs to Jesus And that feeling gives him, he says, a meek independence of men and of things. You're sealed. You belong to Jesus. The Spirit witnesses of that seal in your life, and you feel his authority gladly. Now that's the first part. But then there's also the sealing to protection. Not only does that seal say that you are his to obey, but it also says that he's going to protect you. The seal means that you're private property. It means hands off. This is protected by the owner. You'll have an example of that in Revelation chapter 7. Revelation chapter 7 is a remarkable example of this kind of sealing in verses 2 to 4. John says there, I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the seal of the living God. They called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the land and the sea. Do no harm. Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees until we put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God. And then I heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand from all the tribes of Israel, a symbolic number, twelve times twelve times a thousand, symbolizing the completeness of God's people. And they're sealed, you see, because they're protected. The angels can't harm the sea or the land as long as those who have the seal are there. They cannot be harmed along with that. And so Satan wants to take your life and he wants to destroy it. He wants to take you and he wants to discourage you and he wants to turn you away from Jesus Christ and he means great harm for you. And so often you feel those attacks, don't you? But the Spirit comes and He testifies to your heart, subjectively. He whispers to you, Oh no. He cannot touch you. For I have sealed you. You have my mark upon you. You are protected because you are my child. And as my child, you are protected and you are unable to have any harm come to you that does not first pass through the hand of your loving Father You know, I think an illustration of this testimony of the Spirit is when you're going through a very difficult time And perhaps in that difficult time you either read or you heard some well-meaning friend quote to you Romans 8 twenty-eight and say, Well, I know it's a rough time, but you've got to remember that all things work together for good for those who love God. Or the call according to his purpose. And how do you feel when that friend tells you that? Let's trade places and let you experience all these good things that are happening right now, okay? Don't tell me what you don't understand. And sometimes that well-meaning comfort is perhaps even counterproductive because we're not ready to receive it. But then what happens? We get alone and in our tears and our brokenness, the Spirit of God reminds us of that blessed verse. And the Spirit whispers to us. All things really do work together for good to you, because you have been called according to my purpose, to be conformed to the image of my own Son. And the Spirit takes what somebody just quoted and became hollow and ringing in our ears, and he takes it and makes it profound and meaningful because we know it is really true. Have you ever experienced that? That's the testimony of the Spirit to your spirit, that you are his own child, witnessing to you of his sealing protection. So that you would know that you belong to Him. In sixteen twenty-three, a man by the name of Edward Elton wrote these words concerning that sealing function of the Spirit. I take it therefore that the witness and the testimony of the Spirit here spoken of is an inward secret, an unspeakable inspiration of the Spirit. The Holy Spirit of God inwardly, secretly, and in an unspeakable manner, informing our hearts and inwardly persuading us that God is our Father. And he's pouring into our hearts a secret, wonderful, unspeakable sweet sense and feeling of God's love to us. Not of God's ordinary or common love, but of his special fatherly love. That he loves us with such a love that he bears to his only begotten Son, as John 17, 23 tells us. And so he pours into our hearts a sense and a feeling of God's own love to us in Christ. That's the Spirit testifying to our Spirit of His seal upon our lives. Closely related to that is the function of his being a down payment for us. He's a down payment, not only a seal. In verse 16, the Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we're God's children. He then goes on in verse 23, just after that, to say, not only so, but we ourselves Who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly, as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies You remember how we've talked before of that phrase, the first fruits of the Spirit. The first fruits is a deposit. It's the same thing. It's the first payment of the whole harvest which is to come. And so the first fruits of the Spirit in verse 23 is speaking of as being our down payment. A down payment of what? He says, of our adoption as sons. You see, at this point, you have only experienced the merest first installment of your sonship in Jesus Christ. A down payment, you remember, is simply the first installment, a guarantee of the full payment to come. And so uh 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 22 We read that the anointed has set a seal of ownership on us and put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. And that what is to come is heaven, and the full significance and experience of our adoption as God's own children. And so you and I, who have the Spirit as a down payment of heaven, means that we have two things. We're given two things in terms of his witness. First, we're given a pledge of heaven to come. That's point A. We're given his witness as a pledge of heaven to come. You remember lustful Judah back in Genesis 38, who was seduced by his daughter-in-law, masquerading, disguised as a prostitute And uh she came to seduce him and Judasar, and he was fresh out of cash, and he had no checkbooks on him. And so he wasn't going to miss this opportunity to take advantage of this young girl. And in order to make payment, the Bible tells us in Genesis 38, 18 that he used his MasterCard. You see, that's really what it was when it says that he pulled out his seal, his cord, and his staff. And he gave those to her as a pledge, you see, promising that he was going to give her the full payment to come for her services. And that idea of a pledge giving something of value as a down payment which will promise that the full payment is to come Uh that daughter-in-law, by the way, is Tamar, uh the one who my street is named after. Tamar Drive, you know, a very uh illustrious name But that pledge that he gave was the pledge, the deposit, the down payment, the guarantee. That further payment was going to come. And so the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit is a guarantee of the full payment of heaven and adoption. Which is to come to you and to me if we've trusted Jesus Christ. And so that idea of a down payment is witnessed to us By the Spirit. He testifies to our spirits that this town payment is real, that heaven is real. That when you and I come to a place where the hassles of the Christian life are so great and spiritual things so seem so dim and so unreal. And we wonder if it's really worth it, whether we really have salvation, whether there's really any truth to all of this after all. The Spirit comes and he whispers to us, it's real. And I'm your guarantee. The work that you've seen me doing in your life, though it may be small, and though that transformation may seem to you to be so short compared to what you need to be. That's just the first installment. Think some of you who have walked with Jesus Christ for years, and all the things that God has done in your life. And you look at that and you say, yes, I'm a good deal different from what I used to be, but I sure have a long way to go. Well you see The Bible's teaching you that that's just an installment, that's just a down payment of what God's going to do when Jesus comes again. That's a pledge that the full payment is still to come. I pray that you and I will not be content with just those glimmers of assurance that heaven is real, that the promises of the gospel are real. But they will seek by looking into God's Word and meditating on that, making it a priority of our time so that each day we have some portion set aside to do that, to know the pledge, to know the assurance. To be able to, as Spurgeon said, look at the signet ring that's on the Father's hand and know that your name is written on that ring. As Isaac Watts wrote in one of his hymns about this experience, he says, Why should the children of a king go mourning all their days? Great comforter descend and bring some tokens of thy grace. Assure each conscience of its part in the Redeemer's blood. And bear thy witness with each heart that it is born of God. You see, that kind of assurance that the pledge is yours and mine of heaven Is what makes us bold in our witness, and assured in wanting to follow Jesus Christ, even when things are rough, and the following of Him seems to be a lot harder than to simply go our own way. But that pledge is only one part of that down payment. For I believe the other part of that down payment that's spoken of here is to actually have a foretaste. Of heaven to come, and that's the second word there. A foretaste of heaven to come. For when Paul speaks of the Spirit as a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance, As he does in Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 14, he goes on, as Tom reminded us, to then speak of that which is part of the purpose of our church. When he says in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 14, that he is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. He then prays in verse 18 that the eyes of our hearts will be enlightened that you all may know the hope to which is in called you, the riches of that glorious inheritance in the saints. And in Romans chapter 8, after speaking to us of this witness of the Spirit in verse 16 to our hearts He then goes on to talk about the longing that we have to experience something of that glory of heaven. So now if we're children, he says in verse 17, then we're heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory. For I consider that our present sufferings aren't worth comparing with the glory that's going to be revealed in us. The creation waits in eager expectation for the sons of God to be revealed. You see, and that's what we're longing for. We're straining forward to know what's it going to mean when the full significance, the implications of our adoption are revealed to us and in us. As those who are God's own children through Jesus Christ. And that experience, I believe, God intends for us to have some foretastes of right now. In this life. This is well attested in the experience of saints down through the years. Now I'm speaking not of flakes and of imbalanced emotional mystics. But rather of mature men and women of God, not emotional airheads, but intellectuals and those who have followed Jesus Christ from all kinds of walks of life. Those who have said that I can know in a way beyond words, something of the foretaste of heaven. As the Spirit witnesses and testifies to my spirit, remember, Spirit speaking of my emotions, my feelings, that I am in fact God's own child. Let me give to you just a couple of examples of this taken down through history that are quoted in Martin Lloyd-Jones' comments on these verses. Consider, for instance, the words of William Guthrie, who wrote that famous book, The Christian's Great Interest. He was a 17th-century Scottish preacher Guthrie says, I speak with the experience of many saints, and I hope according to the scriptures, if I say that there is a communication of the Spirit of God. Which is sometimes promised to his people that is besides, if not beyond, what he's talking about in verse 15, that witness in us, that crying, Abba Father. This witness which he speaks of talking about verse 16, he says, is a glorious divine manifestation of God unto the soul, shedding abroad God's love in our hearts. It's a thing better felt than spoken of. It is no audible voice, but it is a ray of glory filling the soul with God. He says that this is such a glance of glory that it may, in the highest sense, be called the downpayment or first fruits of our inheritance. Or you take Thomas Goodwin, that I quoted from last week, who gave us the example of the father picking up his child and saying to him, I love you. and the feelings that were communicated in that. Thomas Goodwin, a seventeenth century Puritan, also says There is a light that comes and overpowers a man's soul, and assures him that God is his and he is God's. And that God loves him from everlasting. It is a light beyond the light of ordinary faith. The next thing to heaven. You have no more. You can have no more until you come thither. For it is a faith elevated and raised above its ordinary rate. It is electing love of God brought home to the Have you ever experienced something of that sense of God's love which is beyond your words to express Which assures you beyond anything that any person on earth could ever tell you that you belong to Jesus Christ. And that his love for you is a very personal love. And that your sense of his glory and of his excellencies are so transcendent that you want nothing more than to be caught up in him And to put all the rest of your plans and anything else that you're planning to do or buy this summer or any other time all aside is nothing compared to the love of Christ. It's rather hard for us in our pace in Columbia and Howard County, Baltimore, DC area, to be able to identify with the experiences of these kinds of saints, isn't it? You say that's just out of my realm. But you know, it doesn't have to be. It's again what we talked about in terms of Sabbath, that setting aside of time to be able to focus On Jesus Christ as the center of your being. That taking time to look to Him by faith, from faith in the beginning to faith at the end, according to Romans 1:17. It's that looking to Jesus that causes your soul to pause and enable the Spirit to break in. He's not going to interrupt your schedule. Sometimes he does graciously. But he wants you to be quiet before him that he might speak those words. Where you take again that John Mackenzie that I quoted from earlier. When he speaks of this same idea, he speaks of the ceiling as something which is better felt than even discussed in words. But he says, trying to say something about it, let me say this. The ceiling in the text is the earnest, the downpayment of the heavenly inheritance, which is part and pledge of the immortal glory of God in Christ. Sealed or impressed upon the heart by the Holy Spirit. And when the Spirit seals the heart with this blessed seal, He descends and He softens and He anoints it and He sheds abroad there the love and the rich mercy of God. And the life and the love and the blood and the death of Jesus, so that the heart will be dissolved and overwhelmed, the soul melted in the flames of love, mercy, grace, and glory. And heavenly blessedness and the eyes flowing with tears of love and of joy. Doesn't sound like a Presbyterian, does he, Ned? But he was We'll see. Well Mackenzie was a Scottish Baptist, but he was part of that same fellowship of those that's our inheritance as the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Notice this, I love this sentence. He says, every attribute of God then is endeared to the heart till it bursts with love for him. And this feeling contains a peculiar heavenly and sacred delight and blessedness. It will be so powerfully and sensibly felt on the heart. It will be enjoyed as a downpayment of immortal glory, a part of the glory of the souls of the redeemed to enjoy for all eternity. It is a joy unspeakable. And full of glory. We take the experience of Mrs. Jonathan Edwards. The woman didn't have a lot of time on her hands. She was a very devout and mature Christian, but at the time she wrote these words, she had, I believe, at least five children. And so she was uh running around as a very busy mother. Wife of a pastor in a very busy area. And yet she took time with Jesus. And one night she says she had this experience I was melded and overcome by the sweetness of this assurance of the Spirit of God, and I fell into a great flow of tears that I could not forbear weeping aloud. The presence of God was so near and so real that I seemed scarcely conscious of anything else. All night I continued in a constant, clear, lively sense of the heavenly sweetness of Christ's excellent, transcendent love. And of his nearness to me, and my nearness to him, with an inexpressibly sweet calmness of soul, in an entire rest in him. Well, you take her husband, Jonathan, a man who's been called the greatest intellect that America has ever produced, particularly in the area of philosophy and theology. Uh Jonathan Edwards was not a man who was given to excesses of emotionalism. But he records in his own experience that once he says, as I was riding out in the woods for my health in seventeen thirty seven, Having alighted from my horse in a retired place as my manner commonly has been, to walk for divine contemplation and prayer I had a view for me that was for that was for me extraordinary of the glory of the Son of God as mediator between God and man, and as wonderful, great, full, pure, and sweet grace and love. And meek and gentle condescension. This grace that appeared so calm and sweet appeared also great above the heavens. The person of Christ appeared ineffably excellent, with an excellency great enough to swallow up all thought and conception, which continued as near as I can judge about an hour which kept me the greater part of the time in a flood of tears and weeping aloud. I felt an ardency of soul to be what I know not otherwise how to express, emptied and annihilated. To lie in the dust and be full of Christ alone, to love him with a holy and pure love, to trust him. To live upon him, to serve and follow him, and to be perfectly sanctified and made pure with the divine and heavenly purity. Any wonder that God used a man like that to change the course of New England history because of the love of Jesus Christ. So why do I offer this? Simply that you and I might thirst, as brothers and sisters of Jesus Christ, for more of the sense of that assurance of the Spirit As we look not for the experience, as Paul says in the beginning of Romans, from faith to faith, faith from the beginning to the end, looking to Jesus simply by faith, but looking to Jesus. And with all your heart and life, making yourself a living sacrifice open to him. Do you thirst for that kind of a sense of the love of God? Then begin today to seek him with renewed vigor. Let's begin this moment. Let's pray together.