And as we begin, let's pray. Father, not only are you in heaven now, Jesus our Savior, our shepherd, our Lamb, you're not only in heaven on the throne, you're with us. And so we pray this morning as we come to your word that you will speak. We ask you, Lord, for your spirit, that you might draw us In depth, in greater relationship to yourself. And we pray, Lord, that we would see your glory. Press the Word to our hearts. Touch us and transform us this morning, we pray. In your most precious name. Amen. This is a passage that for much of my life I have wanted to avoid. I don't know if you're like me. I don't know if you struggle with this passage or whether it's of great encouragement to you, but there are some truths in this passage that bear on us that are going to change us as God opens our hearts to his truth. And there are a lot of ways to avoid this passage. And so as we begin, there are going to be a couple of questions I want to look, well, three questions I want us to look at And uh the first question leads us directly right into one of the ways we try to escape, or at least I have tried to escape, the reality of this passage. The first question is, who do we see dwelling in heaven? It says in verse 9, A great multitude no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people, language, standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. And it sounds all inclusive. But we scoot over to verse 14. And the elder answers to John who these people are. And he gives me my first loophole. Because what he says is this, these are they who have come out of the great tribulation. They had washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. There's an attempt to limit this description to those who come at the end of the last days. We look at this and we say, ah, great tribulation, that means the crisis at the end, therefore this is not me. Because I haven't gone through the Great Tribulation. We haven't had that acute crisis, and Christ has not yet returned, so I skate. And I can read about others who worship, and I can read about others who engage in the glory of God, and I can make it them. So, brothers and sisters, I want to press you to the truth that what God is revealing to John is a statement of the Church universal. And brothers and sisters, that multitude from every tribe, every language, every people, and every nation includes us. John is seeing a vision that describes us at the throne of the Lamb Aren't you in tribulation? We look at that word great and we think acute, intense, harsh. Therefore, it must be describing some sort of a an epical event that we see in our understanding that there will be a great intensity in the struggles and the trials. As Jesus prepares to return. So brothers and sisters, great, I think, in this context, means broad. It means massive. It means complete. And so please, please, as you read this passage, recognize it describes you. And you are the ones who will declare with the multitudes, salvation belongs to our God. Who sits upon a throne and to the Lamb There is an uncountable multitude, brothers and sisters, that's us. There are angels, there are four living beings, and there are elders. It's complete. It is the whole body of Christ. Gathered together in the throne room. This is why I want to escape. Because in my heart of hearts, there's a huge tension as I find myself with the saints before the throne. What are the saints doing? What are we doing? Two things. The first of which is that we are experiencing the presence of God. Now, brothers and sisters, I don't know how you feel about this, but when I think and have for years, when I think about coming face to face with God, the creator and sustainer of all things. Two huge thoughts jump out at me. The first of which is he is righteous, holy, pure, and just. Like Isaiah, I think, Woe is me, because now what I have thought about I see face to face. And for a long time When I began to consider the whole idea of God sending Christ back, Christ coming for his people, the thought that I felt was terror. Because now I'm revealed. My lack of faith, my act of sin My rebellion, my hard heart, my callousness, for the world to see. Especially Jesus. And how can one who is so righteous and true and good see me and smile? So, brothers and sisters, I want you to see what this passage says. I want you to see that it says you are in the presence of God, fit, righteous, and holy. They have white robes. They hold palm branches, we see in verse nine. And verse 14, they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Verse 17: He will wipe every tear from their eye. Brothers and sisters, I want you to look at this and I want you to recognize what Satan wants to hide from you. You're at home with Jesus. I want you to think for a minute Of how you can long for heaven because there will be no sin. Do you struggle with sin? Do you have a life-dominating pattern of unbelief or of act of rebellion or of addiction or of idolatry? Brothers and sisters, in heaven, that sin is gone You are finally completely fully free. Not only of the guilt And we taste that now. We recognize that in reality, when God shows us Himself, He has taken the guilt of your sin. It is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. But I continue to sin. And there is a shame that I bear, that you bear As you continue in your patterns of sin, of rebellion, of unbelief. And what I describe about my response to this passage is the sin of unbelief. Because I am one of the multitude. And I still doubt in my heart of hearts. That I will ever find myself feel at home in heaven. Because I believe Satan's lies. And I don't believe my sins are Christ's. He bears them and they're gone. Let me ask you a question. When you get to heaven and Jesus calls you aside, Welcoming you. What's the look he has on his face? Are you a second class citizen of heaven? Are you one he's let skate in, but he's not really excited to see you? Or are you his bride For whom he has waited from the beginning of creation till the day he takes you home Brothers and sisters, whatever sins you battle now will be gone Think about that. They're not yours to bear, and you will no longer sin. And you will be home As we experience that presence, this passage points out what we experience. They are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits upon the throne will spread his tent over them. Never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Brothers and sisters, there is a picture of the intimacy that we experience. In part now and in full then. And I want you to see how blessed that truth is. Remember Jeremiah 2, 13. God says of us now, here, my people have committed two great sins. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters. To cue for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. We reject him and his life and we seek our own. But what does it say here in verse 17? The Lamb will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to fountains of living water. Life flowing from the Lamb to us. It is a picture of love and of intimacy and of fulfillment. Which leads us then to the second thing we find ourselves doing, which is to worship. What is worship? Worship is declaring God's glory and the power that we have experienced. What is it they do? They declare salvation belongs to our God who sits upon the throne. And to the Lamb Salvation that God owns and gives to us and we experience, which brings us to his presence in the very throne room of heaven. It's his, and he gives it to us. Praise and glory, wisdom and thanks, honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen. In our worship, all we're doing is declaring the reality of God's glory, which we see firsthand and experience fully. Which is also why I want to avoid this passage. Because there is a tension for me. Yes, in my head I believe that God is full of glory, that all power is his, all goodness is his, all wisdom is his, all righteousness is his. So why do I sin? So why do I suffer? So why do I hurt myself and others? Why do I not experience heaven now? And how can he be good if I'm in pain? Do you ever ask that question? Do you ever wrestle with that truth? Will you be honest about it? Because, brothers and sisters, if you're breathing, the answer is yes. So what is the solution to that tension? Let's go back to the throne room of heaven. Jesus is welcomed you home. And he calls you over. Do you find yourself thinking that what he's going to say is, listen, kingdom's a big kingdom You know, it it stretched over a millennium. And truth be sold You're sort of on the tail end. You know, done a lot of miracles. Man, that Red Sea. Wasn't that something incredible? And I sort of expended my power. And and I'm really sorry that you came when you came and and that your problems were really as large as they were, because you really had problems. I mean the issues that faced your life they were tough. And so I'm really sorry that I didn't do as well as I could. But I got you through. And now you're home and everything's gonna be okay Doesn't that sound stupid? Doesn't that sound absolutely unbiblical? Well it is. But doesn't it sound familiar? When you look at your life and you recognize the glory that the Bible describes being the Lord's. And you see your pain, you see your suffering, you see your sin, don't you try to bring some resolution to it that God just sort of overlooked you and gave you second best? Brothers and sisters, that's a lie straight out of the pit of hell. I'm going to say it to you clearly, and I want you to hear this clearly. You're receiving God's best. For you, moment by moment, day by day. Now, do I understand the purposes for which the Lord has put these difficulties in our lives? No, I don't But I'm not him. And I don't need to understand. I need to claim. You don't need to understand. You need to claim. You need to stay plugged into that fountain of living waters and you need to drink deeply. Your judgment Isn't the critical judgment for God's care in your life? His is. The thing you need to focus on is his consuming love for you Third question. What does this vision teach us? Why in the world is this the opening message for a missions emphasis month? God's glory deserves more worship than all the world can give. There's a parallel to this passage in Luke nineteen, and I'd like you to turn there for a moment. As we read of the multitude, they're described as dressed in white robes and waving palm branches in their hand. And they declare the glory of God. An earthly parallel to that is the triumphal entry as Jesus rides the colt into Jerusalem. And the multitudes holding palm branches cast them down before him as he rides into the city, and they cry, Hosanna! Blessed is the name of the king. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. It's a picture of heaven. But the Pharisees who are watching this say to Jesus, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Jesus responds, I tell you, if they keep quiet The stones will cry out. God's glory deserves more worship than all the world can give. And in this passage in Revelation, we see the body of Christ gathered together in glory, declaring the praises of God. John Piper says in his book Let the Nations be glad that missions exist because worship doesn't. Brothers and sisters, we're in a period of time where the task is incomplete. And we are called to bring the gospel to the world The gospel is nothing less than the glorious work of God who has called us into relationship with Him to declare His glory and to delight in His presence for eternity. And that's his picture of heaven. They are before the throne of God, verse 15 tells us, and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. Heaven is eternal continuous worship. Eternal continuous presence with the Lord. You can never tire of learning about him. You can never tire of seeing who he is. You can never tire of declaring his glory, declaring his love, declaring his power. His passion for you. And so this passage hits hand in glove with Acts 1-8. Where Jesus says to his disciples, you are to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth. We are to be witnesses. What is the multitude doing in heaven? They are witnessing the glory of God they have come to know. Take a moment. I want you to think about your initial response to the Great Commission. I want you to think about your initial response to the task of being a witness of Christ. Is it delight or oppression? When you think of the opportunity to speak to someone about what God is and has and will do in your life, are you excited? Are you passionate? Are you convinced? What have you witnessed? See, this goes right back to that whole issue, that tension that exists between what I know about God's glory and what I experience. And so, over many years of my Christian life, evangelism has been a task. It's been a chore. It's been a methodology. I share these truths, I say these things, I ask for this commitment, and I move on. And in doing good works I feel good about myself because I've done and checked off what God has called me to do. Brothers and sisters, that's not evangelism. That is not worship. That's works. It's a cistern. It's believing that I can do what will obligate God, earn me credit, and give me a more comfortable life. Now, don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that committing yourself to accountability for sharing the gospel is wrong. I'm not even saying it's unhelpful, but I'm saying this. You can't pour forth what you don't possess. And words do not convert. The Spirit does. And if what you share is dry and cognitive and rhetorical and is not the warp and woof of your life. If it is not the passion that leads you to take your next breath, then you're not sharing Jesus. And the solution isn't to understand better how to do it. The solution isn't to have more people hold you accountable. The solution isn't to work harder. The solution is to acknowledge that you do not possess what God intends for you to possess. The solution is to recognize that you do not believe He is who He is. That he is who he has revealed himself to be. The issue is you need to repent of your unbelief And you need to rest. Isaiah 30:15 says, In repentance and rest is your salvation, in quietness and trust is your strength. Don't work harder. Rest. Don't think that the issue is how many times you share and how often you share and how well you can share it. The issue is, are you sharing your heart and your Lord? What have you witnessed? Who do you know And how can you be silent? Two weeks ago Tim was sharing in his message that wonderful truth that Rocky always wins. Brothers and sisters, you're seeing the end of time. You're seeing the final act. You're seeing yourself and the world that Christ will bring to heaven. He's not rocky, but he wins. So if you take one thing from this message, I want it to be this. The issue for you is to feed upon the glory of God. The issue for you is to recognize you don't see it nearly clearly enough. And to ask him to reveal himself to you, to fill you with himself. If you can take two things, hold on to the first, but the second is this: you can throw yourself wholeheartedly into the job to which you have been called. You don't have to worry about success. You don't have to worry about the outcome. You don't have to worry about the future. You can throw yourself without reservation. Into sharing this Jesus who is so passionate for his people with the lost. Let him fill you. Let him fill you to overflowing. And then overflow. What can you do now to move into this? What is this glimpse of the glory of God in heaven? Showing you that God wants you to commit yourself to doing here and now you can do that. Well Dick mentioned in the middle hour that there are a number of things people can do. He says, not all are called to go. But brothers and sisters, not all are called to stay. And so I want to challenge you with some opportunities. Ann and I hope to be able to go to Rome to work with World Harvest Mission for a week this summer, in June, end of June. I've already written to several of you and I made this announcement in the first service. If you have any sense that God would call you to go on that trip, talk to me. The task of the trip is to evangelize and to pray for a church plant in the suburbs of Rome. World Harvest Ministries is planting the church. Italy for Christ is cooperating with that, and it would be a time of concentrated prayer, interacting with those who are part of the church plant, and evangelism. Going out and sharing the glory of God that you've experienced with the people of Italy. The youth are looking at a trip to West Virginia where they'll work with missions to North America. in a number of different ways. And so Tim is working on that. I encourage you to consider that. Those of you who would go to Rome must be 18 or older So, for those who aren't 18 or older, go to West Virginia. There are other opportunities that have been that have been considered. There's always been in the background for the last couple of years the opportunity for a medical missions trip. Medical professionals in this congregation. Martin Yhiro has talked with several other people in the congregation uh over the last two years about how can we put together a trip to use the gifts. that God has given to us in a cross-cultural setting to minister to body and spirit. If you're interested in that, let us know. The World Missions Task Force would be glad to hear about that. You heard last week about the trip that was to Bulgaria last year and the fact that there is going to be an opportunity possibly to go again this year. Consider that. But if you're one of those who is not called to go, what can you do here? Plenty Do you have neighbors from a different culture? My immediate next door neighbors are from India. They're practicing Hindus. For a time, Dilip, the husband, was afraid of me because I'm a holy man. I am a clergy, and I have access to God and can punish him. So he thinks I haven't changed his mind. But now he makes a point of coming out as he leaves in his car and praying to the sun He prays not to the S-O-N, but to the S-U-N. They have an idol in their home. They have an altar. And they offer worship to false gods. And they have the same needs that you and I have. Do you have neighbors from other cultures? Can you pray that God would open the door for you to talk to them? There's going to be a class on a Christian's response to Islam here, starting in March. If you want to equip yourself for ministry to those who come out of Islam, come to the class. There's opportunities for international student ministries. We're in a very diverse area. It's not an issue of a lack of opportunity. Concerts of prayer Thursday mornings at 6:30 We meet together and a large portion of the time that we pray, we pray for global missions. Come join us. Sunday morning in the back of the main hall, there's a team that's praying for the service that God's word would go forth in power. And that it would change lives and build his kingdom. Join the teams. There are so many opportunities you have not to simply listen and forget. But as James says, to be a doer of the word. So I want you on the bottom of your outline to think now. What is it that this glimpse of heaven is prompting you by the spirit to commit yourself to do. Look in that mirror of the word and act. Let's pray. Jesus, even as I bring this word. Even as you have given me the time, the hours, and the opportunity to focus upon this truth, I realize that my heart is one of unbelief. And my life affirms that. And so I repent of my unbelief, and I lead my brothers and sisters in their repentance for their unbelief. And I ask for your spirit in rich measure that we might see you clearly. That we might honor you by declaring what you reveal to us to the world. And Lord Jesus, I pray that you would use us to build your kingdom so that this picture This picture of the glory of heaven is one we communicate to the world. For you are worthy of more than we can possibly bring And so, Father, Jesus, Spirit, we come to you, recognizing that it is only by your love, and by your power, and by your work that we come. And we long, Lord Jesus, both to see those who are broken and in need of healing whole, so that they with us can bring to you that worship, that glory, that praise. That you deserve. And thank you, Jesus, that we know you win. Amen