Well, um, turkey bones are dry, the wishbone's been split, and Christmas season is here, believe it or not. And so as we enter into the Christmas season this year, one of our traditions at Columbia Presbyterian since the beginning has been for me to spend the week or two on messianic prophecy looking at the coming of Jesus to look at his prophet his um his person and work predicted in the Old Testament In anticipation of awaiting his coming. And uh those of you who have been around for a while know I've been doing this for about 10 years so far. It's a 50-year-long series. So hang on. We're up to number 11 and 12 this year, Psalms 40 and 45. We haven't even started in the prophets yet, but we've been working at it for about 10 years. We're up to Psalm 40 and 45. And the point of all of this is for us each year to once again, whatever we're doing in any other series, to pause and just look at Jesus. And by looking in him to love him more, and in loving him more, to realize that just as his people longed for his first coming, so we long for his return. So that you will be having that that flame of your love for Jesus fanned into a higher, a warmer glow. Too much uh mention of heat around here, maybe that was subconscious, wasn't in my notes. But that we'll long in our ardor for Jesus, for him to come again, and that we'll just be able to focus on him and his greatness. And love him through the looking at his word to see how wonderful is his work and how beautifully it was predicted. Now, Psalm 40 that we're looking at this morning is a rather interesting Psalm because at first it would not appear to be a messianic prophecy. In fact, we'd probably totally miss it If it wasn't for Hebrews chapter ten, which both comments on it and and uh quotes it and then comments on it to interpret it as specifically a prediction of the incarnation. of the Messiah for us. And so it it's fascinating to see the way God takes this psalm. And I want you to notice this. The way God takes David's statement in Psalm 40, which is not particularly in any conscious way a prediction of Messiah coming. And then see how Hebrews takes that and turns that so that you and I can understand that it was speaking of Christ, and that you can then take that same kind of principle and apply that on your own in many other passages in the Old Testament. I pray that you'll see that. And let's pause just for a moment now, each, to ask God to open our eyes that we might see Jesus through this text. Let's pray. Lord, there is so much here, and I'm so aware that I cannot open this up for us to see the riches of this text. Use my feeble efforts, but Holy Spirit, we pray that you will teach us and that you will cause us to feel our sin And to feel the inestimable weight of the glory and the grace of Jesus in dealing with that sin once for all. That we might glory in him and love him more this week. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm forty begins with a personal testimony of David. You see that in verses one to three. David says, I waited patiently for the Lord. He turned to me and he heard my cry. He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and mire. He set my feet on a rock. And gave me a firm place to stand. He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. That's his testimony. I was in a slimy pit, and God took me out and he set me on a rock. And from that he states a general principle in verse 4. You see there Blessed is the man, now not just me, but anyone who makes the Lord his trust, who does not look to the proud, to those who turn aside to false gods That's the principle. And then from that comes the praise. First the personal testimony, then the principle, and then the praise based on that that you see in verse five And the praise, many O Lord my God, are the wonders that you have done, the things that you planned for us. No one can recount to you Were I to speak and tell of them, they would be too many to declare. Your works are too many. They're too glorious for me to even be able to recount them. And then he does a fascinating thing. In verses 6 to 8, he makes a statement. Basically, what he's saying in verses 6 to 8 is that I realize That in my worship of you for all that you've done for me, that external religious exercises, such as the presenting of a sacrifice, is not really ultimately what pleases you. But rather it is the giving of my heart in loving, willing obedience to you as my God. It's easier always, isn't it, to be religious than to be godly. It's always easier to do religious things than to seek to be led of the Spirit to be loving. And so notice how he states it He says in Psalm 40, verses 6 to 8, and this is the part that Hebrews 10 picks up on. This is the prophecy of the coming Messiah. He says, sacrifice and offering you did not desire. But my ears you have pierced. Burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not require. And then I said, Here I am. I have come. It is written about me in the scroll, I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. But David says, that's the desire of my heart. But even after saying that, he's too honest to leave it at that as if he's accomplished it. And so as you read down through the Psalm, you see that he says in verse twelve that he's aware that he's utterly failed. For he says there, for troubles without numbers surround me. My sins have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart fails within me. David says, when I look at how well I desire to do God's will. How well his law is within my heart. I say, my sins overwhelm me. And I look and I say, I looked at just this past week, and they're more than the hairs of my head Now for some of you that's more than others, but the fact is for any of us it's too many to count. And then he says, uh my heart just melts in me, and I look and I'm just utterly discouraged when I see how rotten I really am. You see, it's only when our conscience takes God's word seriously, so that we desire to obey it from the heart and not just to get others' approval That we really begin to see how evil and how hopeless we really are, isn't it? So many of us as Christians, I think, as we go on, begin to fall into the trap Of simply thinking that we can live to a level of righteousness that meets public approval. And then we've attained Then because we're living in a way that nobody else particularly sees anything gross about us, anything that is of uh public ridicule uh that we can say that, well, because I've I've met the kind of community standard here, therefore I'm not such a bad person I've gained at a certain level of maturity that I don't have to feel so bad about myself. And so I come to see that as my standard But it's only when occasionally God gives us a glimpse into this kind of a desire to please him that I say, Lord, I want to desire to do your will from my heart. I begin to see what kind of a heart that is. Just a week ago, Tuesday, remember that day we had the terrible, terrible rain? I was really struck by my sin one that day. My wife was out in that rain. And uh I could have picked her up. And I I didn't take the chance. And so uh she was out there fighting the elements and the wind and the rain. And I was protecting myself. And I thought about that afterwards, and I thought, what a powerful demonstration of how utterly sinful is my heart. I don't know if you've ever done anything like that where you just all of a sudden you realize you are absolutely without excuse. And you look at yourself and you say, I'm utterly ashamed of what I'm like. The guilt overwhelms me. I see myself as a hopeless case. I could have taken the opportunity, even if I hadn't gotten her, to at least show love. But I was protecting myself. And then just uh this past Tuesday, I lost my temper In a way that was utterly inexcusable. Tuesdays aren't a good day for me, I guess. You probably oughta try not to get me on Tuesdays if I but you know there was again Just immature. It's just a series of frustrations. And I could sit here and I could rationalize it and I could talk about how, well, yeah, but if you had been, you know, but then I look back and I'm honest with myself and I say it was immature I was not accepting what God had placed in my way, and I was just childish about it. Now, what do you do? When you come in things in your life where you say, that really makes me ashamed, nobody else may know about it But I realize that before God I am utterly short. My sins overwhelm me. They're more than the hairs of my head, and I am so discouraged I want to give up. Do you ever feel like that? Do you ever feel like your sin is more than you're able to bear? I'm afraid that often for Christians we don't have that feeling so much because we've lost the sense. of being accountable to a holy God who judges sin with a perfect standard. We so accommodate our standard to our culture and look around and say, well, compared to this person or that or these people I'm not so bad. And we forget to look at the standard of the living God, whose standard never varies according to the community compromise. And we look at that and we see, I am utterly short. What do I do? How do I deal with that guilt? Either I can attempt to cope with it and cover it up Or I can acknowledge that I need a deliverer. And that's the first blank there. We come to see how much we need a deliverer to take our place. You see, it's at times when I'm dealing with a kind of guilt that I dealt with in those past two Tuesdays that I realize if it's up to me to change, I might as well give up now. My heart is a rotten heart. Yeah, you look at me and you say, it doesn't seem so bad to me. Some of maybe some of you say, Well, I don't know. I kind of agree with you. But you know, we can put on the kind of behavior with one another that we don't really think we have rotten hearts, do we? But the Bible says, David says, this is the kind of desire heart that you desire. Not religious exercises. You desire A person to say, here I've come, I desire to do your will, your law is in my heart. It's what I do spontaneously. I desire to do it. And David says, I come utterly short. And so we need a sacrifice outside of ourselves in order to take our place. And that sacrifice needs to meet three qualifications. Number one, that sacrifice needs to be a human sacrifice. Now, David, you see, says here, he's talking about animal sacrifices. Now what I want you to do to understand this is I'd like you to turn to Hebrews chapter 10. You have a Bible there with you. And I want you to keep your finger, one finger in Hebrews 10, you know, your right hand in Hebrews 10, and your left hand in Psalm 40. Because we're going to flip back and forth because it's fascinating to see how Hebrews picks up on this idea in Psalm forty and shows how Jesus is the fulfillment and the hope of it. This also, by the way, is a clue to us about how to uh learn how to interpret the Old Testament. Take a Old Testament passage, find a New Testament quote of it And see how the New Testament has interpreted or changed it. You keep doing that after a while, you begin to get a clue as to how, in general, you should interpret the Old Testament. Well, here's just one example In Psalm 40, verses 6 and 7, David says, Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but my ears you have peers. Burnt offerings and sin offerings, you did not require animal offerings. These were not sufficient. You did not require those. On the other hand, then I said, Here I am, I have come. It is written about me in the scroll, I desire to do your will. Not animals, but a human willingness. Hebrews takes that, and look what it does. Beginning in verse 5, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 5. Therefore, when Messiah Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifice an offering you didn't desire. Psalm 40, verse 6. But a body you prepared for me. With burnt offerings and sin offerings you were not pleased. Then I said, here I am. It is written about me in the scroll. Then verse 8, first he said, sacrifices and offerings Burnt offerings and sin offerings you did not desire, nor were you pleased with them, although the law required them to be made. Why? Because he's saying animal sacrifices are never sufficient to take away sin. You notice what he says back there in verse 4, Hebrews 10. It's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. Now these were simply a reminder of sin to the Jews and a picture of the hope that they might have, that God would send a provision that was sufficient. But the animals could never take away sin. Religious exercises can never deliver you and me in our guilty consciences. But God says here in Hebrews 10, Jesus says, A body you prepared for me. You notice he said this in verse 5, when Messiah came into the world. That speaks of his pre-existence. That here's God in all his glory, and he sees you and me in all our hopelessness and our wretchedness. And he says, A body you prepared for me. The second person of the Trinity says, a body my Father gave to me so that I would be able to come in human form to deliver my people. Do you see the beauty of incarnation in that? The Messiah came into the world. He didn't begin his existence at the manger. He came into the world in fulfillment. Of the hopeless situation of Psalm 40, that you and I could never be the kind of person described in Psalm 40, just as David realized that he wasn't either. An innocent man. had to come as a human being, as one who was able to decide whether to obey God or not. A lamb, a bull can never decide whether to obey God or not They can't decide that they will keep God's law and therefore be judged innocent. They don't have that moral consciousness. It took a human being to come into the world sinless. And to be able to say, I come to do your will. And so the second thing that we see about this sacrifice is that it's a willing sacrifice, not only a human sacrifice, but a willing sacrifice. Notice again, Psalm 40. He says, Sacrifice and offering you didn't desire, but my ears you have pierced. Now that's an interesting phrase, isn't it? It's not one you'd sort of uh think was gonna come there. Sacrifice an offering you didn't desire, but you put holes in my ears. You know, well what's the point of that Literally, the Hebrew says, My ears you have dug. You dug out my ears. Now what does that refer to? Well, it's referring to a custom provided by Mosaic law. Uh Christmas time came and you overused your credit cards. So January comes and you are deeply in debt. You say, why in the world did I spend all that money? Now there's no way out. And so the Mosaic Law said you can't just sit around in debt. And so you have to indenture yourself as a servant. And so you sell yourself to hex, you know. And they say you gotta work in the men's department for two months, you know, or a year, whatever. You gotta work your way out of this You see, very clever system. No problems of bankruptcy and all the rest of that. You just worked off your debt. They can only work it off up to seven years. I mean, even if it was a gambling debt or you blew it in a really big time. You could only be a slave in Israel up to seven years. The year of Jubilee, every seventh year, all slaves were freed. But now let's suppose that in that servitude you've come to love your master. And in those months or years, you've come to realize, you know, this really isn't so bad He's a good master. I've got job security. He's given me a good pension. Hey, you know, this is pretty good. Seventh year comes and you say, I really don't want to be free. I love serving my master. Could you do it? Well, yes, according to Exodus chapter 21, verses 5 and 6, there was a provision for that. Fascinating provision. Here's how it goes. If the servant declares, I love my master and my wife and my children, and I do not want to go free, then his master must take him before the judges. He shall take him to the door or the doorpost, and he will pierce his ear with an awl, and then he will be his servant for life. That's also in Deuteronomy 15. What's it saying? Saying, as you go to that doorpost, when there is a hole pierced in your ear, and it is dug by an awl That is saying, I am not a slave by necessity. I'm a slave by my free will. I desire to serve my master from my heart. Now, do you see what David's saying? Sacrifice and offering you didn't desire, but my ears you have pierced. Lord, I want to be a willing servant, not because I have to. But I want to keep your law. Verse 8, I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. And so David realizes that he can't do that. Verse 12. He says, I want to see myself as that kind of person. You and I want to see ourselves as those kind of disciples, don't we? But we're not. So we have to admit with David, my sins have overtaken me. And I can't even see. They block my vision. They're more than the hairs of my head, my heart fails within me. The Bible also spoke of a Messiah who was to come who would fulfill that prophecy. In Isaiah chapter 50, in verse 5, you have the same kind of image and custom referred to. You may remember that Isaiah 50, that's part of the whole suffering servant prophecy. And in Isaiah chapter 50, verse 5, we read: the sovereign Lord has opened my ears. This is the Messiah speaking now. The Messiah to come. You can see that in the context. It's obvious. It's God's servant to come. But he says, the sovereign Lord has opened my ears. Literally, he has dug my ears. He's pierced them. And I have not been rebellious. See, here's one who not only hopes it, he fulfills it. I have not been rebellious. I have not drawn back. I offered my back even to those who beat me and my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. And I did not hide my face from mocking and spitting. Beautiful passage quoted in the Messiah, which you'll probably be listening to sometime this is a bigger one. Christmas season. You see that's a fulfillment of Psalm forty, which is a a pulling out of that passage of Exodus twenty-one. The willing servant Who then comes to have his ear pierced and fulfill what he had said. So now turn to Hebrews 10. Flip back in your finger and look what he says. Look at this. Amazing. Sacrifice and offering he did not desire. But notice it does not say, My ears you have pierced. What's it say? A body you prepared for me. What's that saying? That's Jesus saying, in order to come and demonstrate my willingness to fulfill the law and to suffer to be eligible as that innocent Lamb for my people. I'm the one who came and willingly offered myself, subjecting myself to my father as a willing servant, and to do that I had to have a body. I had to have a body so that I could come as a human being, made under the law, subject to the law, in all its qualifications, in all its commandments. And so Jesus is willing for you and for me. And that's why he says there in verse 9 of Hebrews chapter 10. Then he said, Here I am. I have come to do your will. He sets aside the first to establish the second. What's that talking about? Sets aside the first to establish the second. It's talking about principles Hebrews is saying he set aside the first principle of Psalm 40, in which hope and forgiveness rested in the animal sacrifices. And he establishes the second, namely the hope of forgiveness once for all, in one, a human being who would come innocent to do God's will and therefore suffer once for all. to take away sin. The first principle, salvation under the law and its provisions. The second principle, salvation by grace, one who fulfills the law in our place. But in order to do that, he must be, thirdly, a perfect sacrifice. And that's the third qualification. He must be a perfect sacrifice Again, you notice in Psalm 40, I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. That's the longing. David says, I never fulfilled that. And so he says in verse 17, I am poor and needy. You are my help and my deliverer. I need someone to deliver me, because I have not fulfilled that. Isaiah chapter 50 says there's one coming who will fulfill that. You notice after he says that the sovereign Lord has pierced my ears, he's opened my ears. He goes on to say in verse eight, He who vindicates me is near. Who will then bring charges against me? Let us face each other. Who can say that I have ever sinned, that I have ever gone against the my willing servitude to my Father? Who is my accuser? Let him confront me. And do you remember Jesus, after he lived his life, stood before his accusers at his trial, and no one could accuse him of sin? All they could accuse him of was his messianic claim. None could accuse him of any sin. It is the sovereign Lord he says who helps me. Who is he who will condemn me? They all wear out like a garment. And the maws will eat them up. Your Savior and my Savior has come perfect. And he never thought a sinful thought. And he's not like you. He doesn't fight against sin and lose. But he fought against sin and at every point he defeated it. At every point he was perfect and loving and sinless. And so Jesus comes In verse 10 of Hebrews chapter 10, when he said in verse 7, here I am, it's written about me in the scroll, I have come to do your will, O God. He did it And verse 10 then says, and by that will, submitted perfectly to the Father, we have been made holy. Isn't that amazing? By his will, you and I were made holy. How? Through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all. Because you see, when Jesus came and he fulfilled all the commands of the law, all the moral precepts, he didn't stop there. Being accounted as perfect and righteous and innocent to enter into his father's kingdom and to rule it, Jesus said, Now I take that other part of the law, the sacrifices. The sacrifices and the offerings, the burnt offerings and the sin offerings referred to in verses 5 and 6. And he said, I'm the one who became the sin offerings. I'm the one who came as if I had broken every part of that law. And every time you feel overwhelmed by your sin and your guilt, Jesus says, I came and I took that. And I bore that on myself. I became that sin offering so that you could receive a passive righteousness from Jesus' offering. So that what he did would be accounted to you, given to you, credited to you, so that you could say, by his will, I have been made holy. Amen. Amen. And you have, if you've trusted Jesus this morning, by his will, you were made holy by his sacrifice once for all. And so do you see the beauty of this? David here writes Psalm 40. And he says, Lord, you've delivered me from the miry pit. You're a great God. Lord, I could tell of your wonders. There'd be too many to tell about. And then he describes Unwittingly, the most beautiful wonder of all, when he says, And Lord, I need to give to you not simply the offerings of animals, but a willing heart And I realize I can't even do that. And God takes that and he says, let me show you, David, just how wonderful are the wonders you're speaking of me How brilliant are those wonders that you're speaking of me, because even that helplessness is going to be precisely the point where I will meet you with my son. And my son Jesus will become the sin offering who will come and take all of that sin away. And so Jesus comes and he uses Psalm 40 To say, I come, a body you've prepared for me, so that my ear could be pierced and submit myself to the Father. And in doing that now, I come To keep the law perfect and then die as the cursed one under all the provisions of the sacrificial system. Only Christ could pay the debt that you and I owed. And Christ did pay that debt. Harry Ironside and James Boyce tell a story of a Russian soldier who illustrates this uh as well as anything I've ever heard. It was a Russian soldier who served in the Russian army under Tsar Nicholas I. It turns out that his father was a friend of Tsar Nicholas. And so he got a pretty good position in the army. He was the paymaster. It was his responsibility to see each month that the money that was delivered from the Tsar was paid appropriately and in proper amounts to all the soldiers in his camp. Unfortunately, this soldier took to gambling. You know how it goes when there's money available and you're down, you think one more turn, and I'll have it. And so he began to dip into the till. And more and more he did that until he had nearly exhausted the money that was meant for the soldiers. And then he heard that a representative of the Tsar was coming to check the accounts. And he knew that he was in big trouble. He looked at what he had on the books, what was owed, and what he in fact had in the safe. And the discrepancy was of course overwhelming. There was a debt there that he could never pay. In fact, the debt was so great that he realized that his disgrace would be utter both on himself and his family, and in despair he decided to commit suicide that evening. And so he took his revolver and laid it on his desk, and he wrote out a ledger of all that he had owed. And under at the bottom of that ledger, he simply wrote, A great debt, who can pay? He decided that he would take his life at the stroke of midnight. But as he laid there, he was overwhelmed in his grief, in the cold sweat, and the utter despair of what he felt. And he fell asleep. It was the custom of Tsar Nicholas occasionally to patrol the camps to see how his men were doing. Unknown. And that night he came around, and seeing a light in this man's tent, he stopped in. He saw the soldier asleep on his desk. And as he went over to him, he saw the ledger, saw all that he owed, realized what in fact had been going on. And was about to wake him up and put him under arrest when he happened to note what was written at the bottom of the ledger. A great debt. Who can pay? And in an unusual surge of magnanimity, Tsar Nicholas wrote something at the bottom of that ledger, and then left. A few hours later, the soldier woke up, hours after midnight. He realized the time had come and gone, and so he picked up his revolver just about to pull the trigger and blow his brains out. When he noticed that something had been added to the ledger. And he looked down and he read it. And underneath his words, A great debt, who can pay, was the name Nicholas. He couldn't believe it. It must be a joke. Until he went to the face where there were some papers that had the czar's own signature. He compared the two signatures and convinced himself that in fact this was the Tsar's own signature. While he was sleeping, the Tsar must have come in, must have seen the ledger, must have known everything about him. known the most rotten thing about him, and yet determined to forgive him at his own cost The soldier decided to take the Tsar at his word. And that's all he had. And sure enough The next day, a messenger was sent from the palace with exactly the sum of money that was needed to cover the debt. Jesus Christ comes and he sees the debt that you and I have, and it's a debt of sin that is vaster than the national debt of the United States. You and I are hopeless to think that we could ever pay it. Only Jesus can pay that debt. Only the czar could have paid that man's debt. And he did. And only Jesus could pay your debt and mine. And Jesus has paid that debt. And so Hebrews goes on to say, therefore, let us draw near to God, with a sincere heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. And having our bodies washed with pure water. And let us hold unswervingly to the hope that we profess. For he who promised is faithful. You can do that this morning if you rest in the payment of Jesus and not your own efforts. Amen. Amen