So if you're visiting with us this morning for the first time, you will have likely already seen the title of the sermon and you think, oh great, I visited on a Sunday when they're preaching on hell. And so let me say to you, if you're visiting with us, that unlike much of what the world thinks of Christian preaching. Christians in this room will know that, in fact, very little time in the pulpit across denominations is spent on speaking of eternal Destination, be it heaven or hell. And so we're glad that you are here. This is a part of a summer series on heaven and hell. August was supposed to be hot, so we thought it more appropriate to preach on hell in August, but alas, it feels like September. But we are in hell nonetheless. We are going to be finishing this series next week. Last week I looked at this same passage. But from a biblical theological perspective, asking questions about the nature of God's glory, God's love and suffering. But the intention was to come back this week to this passage to look more in-depth at hell particularly. And so I will read the passage again, Revelation chapter 20. If you have your Bibles, please feel free to turn there. It will be available for you on the screens in front of you. However, I will say I recognize very clearly that for those of you who are familiar with this passage will know that Uh chapter 20 is uh one of the more debated chapters of the Bible because it covers the ground that uh many argue about, and that is regarding the millennium. If you're new to church, that means you should probably have heard about the Left Behind series. Now regardless of what you think about Armageddon, the final days, the final battle between God and Satan, this morning's sermon is not about unsolving and teaching about the millennium particularly. But this chapter also teaches us about the nature of hell as it unpacks the themes of this reality. That the Bible covers throughout. So recognizing that we would someday and we will come back to Revelation and looking at the millennial views. We turn this morning to chapter 20 to look in what it teaches about the hard truth, the reality of hell. Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 to 15. And when the thousand years were ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather and them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp. Of the saints, the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and consumed them, and the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur. Where the beast and the false prophet were. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead and great, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. And they were judged. Each one of them according to what they had done. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death And the lake of fire. And it, if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Come, Lord Jesus, we pray by the power of your Holy Spirit to give us the truth of your word, to draw us to yourself. To make us both sober-minded, but also rejoicing that salvation belongs to our God. And that you, O Lord, do not delight in the death of the wicked, but rather, as we have already prayed, You invite us, come unto me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light Lord, we pray that through this passage may we hear that invitation. We ask you by your Holy Spirit, in Jesus' name, amen. Because of the Lord's Supper, and because my sermons have been a little too lengthy. Let's get to it, shall we? I've given you two points this morning. Should be able to complete that in time. With that in mind, let's look together. You'll see in your outline You'll see that there is the nature of hell in chapter 20, verses 7 to 15, but also the last enemy. So let's look together at this passage, and what I want to do is to unpack it in as much detail as possible. So before we get to the nature of hell, let me deal with a couple of the sides, because I know you will ask me because you've heard me read it now twice. First and foremost, we must realize that of any prophet, and yes, John in Revelation is prophesying about what is to come, there is both a near Fulfillment of what is prophesied and a long-term fulfillment. Said another way. There is both an immediate context and A future context from which and in which we are to understand this passage. We see it in the first verse, verse 7, where he talks about, verse 8 rather, where he says, And the enemies of God led by Satan will seek to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. Well, what does that mean? Gog and Magog are meant to be a metonymy. Two things that are meant to represent much greater things. These were the enemies of God. We learn of them in Daniel. These are the enemies of God, and they are now representing in their names the four corners of the world, of those who stand against the Lord and against those whom He calls his own. That is who is being referenced here, the enemies of God. And they are many, according to verse 8. Then you also hear this uh phrase in verse 10, where it says, And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet Now, who are the beasts and the false prophet? This is biblical theology that John is using To reference not particular individuals, but as he did with Gog and Magog, he's using them to represent groups of people. Now, I will tell you, there are various interpretations. That's a surprise when it comes to the book of Revelation. However, the vast majority Of reliable commentators and looking at the original Greek and understanding what John was doing in the book of Revelation is that the idea of the beast represents Nations themselves, governments, and here in the near term it would have been the government of the Roman Empire Who stood over and sought to pursue those who followed the Lord Jesus Christ. So governments that were against Christ and his kingdom. But the false prophet are any who would go out in the name of these nations, again, representing many people. Who sought to do destruction on the people of God. There was a near-term reality. There was great persecution at the hands of governments represented by the beast, and their armies, and those who sought in the name of those governments to come against Christ and his church. That is the beast and the false prophet. They are meant to represent larger entities. So, the enemies of God, those who do not believe, what does this passage particularly teach regarding the nature of hell? It gives us three pictures first. These three pictures are clearly seen throughout the passage. These three pictures are seen in various ways throughout the New Testament. Sometimes they're seen in isolation, sometimes they're used together, as we see in this passage. But here in this passage, it is one of the New Testament passages that gives us the three pictures. Of what hell is. Those three pictures are first destruction, secondly, death, thirdly, banishment or separation from God. Let's look together at destruction. This idea of destruction we see in verse 10. After we hear of the Satan being thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast And the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. The word being used there, translated forever and ever, is annihilation. But annihilation is seen from this perspective as not meaning. ceasing to exist. For there are some who teach, some churches who teach what is called conditional immortality. That none of us as human beings are born with immortality. But by faith in Jesus Christ, we receive the gift of immortality. But those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ Do not live on eternally. Therefore, at death they are annihilated. And they are quite right to point out that this theme of destruction Is a consistent New Testament theme when it talks about the nature of hell. But what is clear from this passage is. That annihilation, as it is translated here as tormented or destruction, day and night, forever and ever, has within it, built within it, eternal Reality in the future, and not completely cut off. What we see in this verse is indeed something which Jesus in Matthew chapter 25, verse 46. Hebrews, the writer of Hebrews calls the eternal, eternal, on-in-time destruction or punishment of those who do not believe as part of the elementary truths of the faith. Hebrews 6, verse 2. Paul also speaks of the eternal nature of destruction in 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 9. Over and over again, and we see that the New Testament teaches that indeed, because the righteous, those who are called by faith, who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, receive eternal life. So is also the parallels of those who reject the Lord Jesus Christ. They too are immortal, but that immortality will be one under the punishing hand of God the Father. And here we see that for Satan and those who are with him, they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Great preacher Sinclair Ferguson, great theologian, great pastor, great writer. I pause to quote from him for just a moment. He said that such creatures should be destroyed forever and ever To be banished forever into the outer darkness with no escape exit should fill us with a sense of horror. I teach this this morning, as we have over these last few weeks, with great sobriety. If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, this should never Ever bring us joy or delight Which is why you've heard the phrase, when someone says to another, I wish you would just go to hell. Which is why I believe if you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, whether it's used culturally Or tritely, as a faithful follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, I encourage you, do not use that phrase because do we scarcely understand what we are saying? Words mean things. Jesus became the word incarnate. Words mean things. And when it says here, destruction. Tormented day and night. It is a heavy reality. The next picture of hell that John gives us in this passage is one of death. We hear of it in verse 14. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now of course you may be saying, what does that mean? Well, casting back just a few weeks ago, when I was preaching on heaven, we talked about what happens To those who perish who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, but prior to Christ's second coming We looked at the thief on the cross and we looked at the biblical teaching, that it is clear what Jesus says to that criminal who is with him on the cross who believes and calls Jesus to remember him when he comes into a kingdom. He says to this man, Today you will be with me in paradise. That is the New Testament's teaching that those who die in the Lord Jesus Christ, but prior to his second coming. Though their bodies go to the graves, their souls, their spirits go to be with the Lord immediately in what is called the intermediate state. Death in Hades is the parallel to that intermediate state. Death in Hades is the place where those who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ who have rejected him go. If they die prior to Christ's second coming, their bodies go to the grave, but their spirits go to the intermediate state of death and Hades. That is the first death. But here what is being referenced is that in Christ's second coming, what happens to death in Hades is that no longer exists. Just like the paradise now will not exist, but a new heavens and a new earth will be brought forth, as we have learned. But also, death and Hades will be thrown into the lake of fire. And hell will be the second death. It will be itself A spiritual tormenting. For regardless of the believer or unbeliever, it is clear that all bodies will be raised from the graves and will come into judgment. Our spirits will be united again with our bodies, and either we'll go to be with the Lord forever in the new heavens and the new earth, or, as it says here, we'll experience the second death. The third picture of hell and its description is also given to us here. It's in the final verse. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Now that phrase, he was thrown, is a repeated verse throughout this section. We hear it spoken of in regard to the devil, in regard to the beast, false prophet. We also hear of it in regard to those after their deeds have been judged. The books will be opened, and they will be judged, and they will be judged according to what they have done, and they will be thrown out. Here again in verse 15. The idea of thrown is the New Testament speaking of banishment. Separation. They'll be thrown at times the New Testament refers to it into the lake of fire, other times it is thrown into outer darkness. Again, this is the Bible telling us of the nature of being thrown out of the presence of God, very similar to the kind of language used of our first parents, Adam and Eve, in the Garden of Eden, after they were judged for their actions, they were thrown out of the garden, not to be let back in. I want to say again something in regard to Satan specifically, or the devil as he may be known. I want to say that first, he is not wise or creative. He is a thief, first and foremost. No sin that has ever tempted human beings is original. All sin is simply a thief. Stealing from what God has called good and to use it for our own ends. Satan himself is the chief liar. He is the chief of thieves. He is the same Every single day. There is no nuance to Satan. He is the same. Evil, evil, evil every day. It is a horrible sameness. There is nothing beautiful about him. I say that because what Satan wants us to do is to picture him as simply that guy who sits on one side of our shoulders and tempts us to have fun. It's a pitchfork in hand with his tail wrapped around and swinging it around. He's a good old-time guy. The truth is that Revelation depicts him as an enemy of God. But we need to understand something else. He will not, because he is not God He does not and will not reign in hell forever. We see from this passage that he will be thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, as with the beast and the false prophet. I say this to build in the reality of that final picture of hell that John gives us of banishment and separation. I referred to this before in the previous weeks, but it bears repeating. That while Satan will not rule in hell, who will? Christ God, the triune God will. So, how are they banished? Those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. It will not be banished from the presence. In other words, it's not about proximity, it's about the nature of the relationship. That the banishment here, the separation, is separation from an experience and a knowledge. of his pleasure and of his grace and mercy. We hear it in Jesus' parable of Lazarus and the rich man. He knew of God's presence, but he could not even taste a drop of cool water. It is separation from his grace, but only an ongoing forever and ever, residing in the presence of his wrath and of his righteous judgment. These are the three pictures of hell. Destruction, death, and separation. The second thing I would say in regard to the nature of hell is this, and this passage gives it to us very clearly. What is the path then that leads to hell? What is its path? Let me speak first from quoting from C. S. Lewis. He says, in the great divorce, contemplating the reality of hell, he says There are only two kinds of people in the end. Those who say to God, Thy will be done, and those to whom God says in the end, Thy will be done. All that are in hell, choose it. Without that self choice, there could be no hell, no soul. That seriously and constantly desires joy will ever miss it. Those who seek find. To those who knock, it is open. I referred this last week at the conclusion of my sermon as I was inviting you to make a choice It brings up the necessary idea, particularly from those of you who are like me from Presbyterian and Reform backgrounds. Perhaps you've not heard many Presbyterian and Reformed pastors give an invitation. If you have heard the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, regardless of denomination or theological strife, and have not been invited To put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and Christ has not been fully offered to you How do we put that in balance then with human freedom and sovereign will? Some might ask the question. Divine sovereignty and human will. God is sovereign. What will be will be. Who can thwart the sovereignty of God? As if to say, hell then is not a choice. But what is very clear here, and the balance of New Testament theology points out again and again and again. That the foremost reason why people end up in hell, it is because they have chosen sin. It is their own culpability. I do not want you to believe that our Reformed faith teaches that God sends to hell those who don't want to go there. That is not so. For all who desire to come to the Lord, the Lord does not Receive? Who has not called on the name of the Lord by faith, casting their needs upon him, asking for forgiveness? Does he not say, Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest? Jesus himself invites us. Is it not Jesus who said to those who persecuted him, did he not say to them, Repent? Is that not a choice? My New Testament professor, theology professor, said these words in regarding hell and principally preaching and teaching on this passage. He says the majority, the major accent in this passage, as in all of Scripture, is on human culpability. God condemns the unsaved because of their sinful deeds. We hear that in this passage. The dead are judged according to their actions. As those actions were recorded in the God's books of judgment. This passage also speaks of another book opened at the judgment, the book of life. This is a picture of God's sovereignty in salvation, and by implication, judgment. There are at least two reasons, according to this passage, why people perish. Because of their actual sins and because of God's sovereign will. How does he put those two things together? Who is it that judges in this passage? God judges. It is God who keeps the books. It is God who writes in them what we do, whether you are a believer or not. But it is also God who saves through his Son in the Lord Jesus Christ. God is sovereign because He is the one who has first announced judgment, because He's the first one to have announced grace. At the very moment of our first parent's sin, God brings judgment, but right in the middle of it is the diamond in the rough. Where he says, and he, the seed of the woman, will crush the head of the serpent who is the chief of those who deceive and the chief thief, but he will bruise his heel, meaning it is Satan who will seek to destroy Christ, but he will only be successful in bruising his heel, as it were, the cross of Jesus Christ. Do you see that God is sovereign? He's perfectly in control. Nothing in the future catches him off guard. He knows those who are with him. He knows those who are not. And there is nothing we can do to change that. But here's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. And here I want to say this to my beloved reformed brothers and sisters in Christ. We cannot treat one another as if we are God. I have no idea how many of you who are members of this church are believers or not. In fact, numbers tell me, I'll guarantee you, there are those who profess faith in this church who are not believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. But I don't know. I cannot read one human heart. I can't even read your mind other than you want me to finish You know that, right? But I can't read your mind. So therefore it's not up to me to discern whom God is calling or not, my calling as a pro as a preacher in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ is to invite you. Because the path is sure. If you reject Christ, you are saying, I choose sin. And the longer you wait, the biblical truth is: the more we reside in our sins, the more hardened our hearts become. Is it any wonder why so many are converted when they are young? It's not that many who are old are not converted, they are. It's because we become set in our ways, and as Lewis talked about in the Great Divorce. He said if you begin as a grumbler, you think about being a grumbler and you kind of look back on it and you kind of laugh about it. But there will come a day where you will no longer be able to discern the difference between you and your grumbling. You will no longer be able to laugh at it at a distance. Rather, you will become that which you have chosen into all eternity. You will become a grumbler. For others of you who dislike others so much, Lewis writes, Hell for you will be other people. Perhaps, though we cannot cite it in scripture, perhaps those of you who are so afraid of being out of relationship that your your identity as a human being, what other people think of you, Because you cannot stand to think about yourself. Because you condemn yourself. You have so much shame and guilt. You don't know what to do with it, so what you do is you try to surround yourself with others to try to suck out of them life that they might help you to feel better. I will tell you, perhaps hell for you will be outer darkness and separation from everyone but yourself. But I invite you, because this doesn't have to be the path. There's an invitation to life. Let me say again, Sinclair Ferguson. Humans as such were made for fellowship with God and for eternal glory. That such creatures should be banished forever into outer darkness with no escape exit should fill us with a sense of horror. This was not the destiny for which we were created emotionally, therefore it should be an intolerable contradiction. Hell is not the fruit of God's good creation for humanity, but the consequence of humankind's rebellion and perversion. And so I say, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, through the power of His Spirit May the grace and mercy of God fall on you this morning so that you may hear these words. Repent and turn to Christ. Because he has come and he will come to defeat the last enemy that is death. This passage, though it talks about the nature of judgment, also bound up within it is the death of the last enemy, death itself. Just as there are three pictures of hell, destruction, death, and separation, all so is to us the cross screaming out at us. Do you see in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ that we have prominently placed here? Do you see in the cross of Jesus Christ the three pictures of hell? On the cross on which the Savior died, did He not experience destruction? Did he not experience the torment of those who nailed him to the cross Though he was innocent, and though he gave himself to it by choice? Was there not death For they took him down from the cross, none of his bones were broken. And they took him down at the end of the day before the night fell, and they laid him in a grave. Did Jesus not experience separation or banishment? My Father, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Do you see that the cross is the undoing of the three pictures of hell? Christ came to experience destruction, death, and separation from God the Father Why? So that you and I might know salvation. What is the path then to this salvation? Lord, have mercy upon me For I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sin. That I might know you and your Son As my Savior forever. Do you see? Do you remember as we looked at the simple prayer of the criminal on the cross with Christ? Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Remember me. Have mercy upon me, a sinner And then at the praying of that prayer, the daily prayer of a Christian is: Lord, have mercy upon me. Give me grace. And give me faith to believe. And forgive me for my unbelief. Jesus came because of this. Death is the last enemy. There will be many. Even this morning, as I was driving to church, I heard a woman talking about death, and she said, As birth is beautiful and magical, so death also has its own beauty and magic. I have no idea who she is, so I won't quote her name. I have no idea of her intention. I think I understand what she's saying, but I will say to you: nothing can be further from biblical truth. Death is not magical. It is not beautiful. It is the stain on God's glorious creation. And it is the result of sin. But on that day, when Christ comes again, Death and Hades will be thrown into the lake of fire. And there will be death no more. The nature of hell is a hard truth. It is a reality. But the cross is greater still. And the victory over sin and death is offered to you. And so I say, in the great words of a far better preacher, Jonathan Edwards, at the conclusion of his most famous sermon, Sinners in the hands of an angry God. He says these words. Therefore, let everyone that is out of Christ now awake and fly from the wrath to come. The wrath of Almighty God is now undoubtedly hanging over a great part of this congregation. Let everyone fly out of Sodom. Haste and escape your lives. Look not behind you. Escape to the mountain, lest you be consumed. And we will finish after the Lord's Supper in singing that great hymn, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him, his rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One little word shall fell him. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, love does win because that love invites you. Let's prepare our hearts in prayer as we prepare to celebrate the Lord's. Suffer. Father, we thank you for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that tells us both the bad news, the reality of our deserving hell. But the good news of Christ and his victory over sin and death. Lord, I pray that that would weigh heavily on our minds But that a great joy would flood our souls at hearing the invitation to come to Christ. So, Lord, by your Spirit, draw many to yourselves and encourage us to know. That Christ is God, that Jesus is the Savior. In whose name we pray. Amen.