This morning, as we turn to God's Word, I want to let you know a little bit about where we are going. So these next couple of weeks, including today and into the next two weeks, we'll be wrapping up this series on heaven and hell. And this week, and continuing through the next couple of weeks, we will get into greater specificity. Today's sermon and the text from which I will be reading Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 to 15, Is a necessary introduction. Last week we looked at Judgment Day. This passage has similar overtones But today we'll be topical in nature, and not, as we say in seminary, exegetical. Meaning, my goal this morning is not to pull apart this verse, but to look at the biblical theme. Of a hard truth. The reality of hell. The nature of God's wrath. So we're going to be looking at the nature of God's wrath this morning, next week We're going to be looking in greater specificity at the teaching of hell itself. What is the difference between Sheol and Hades and Hell itself? Some of the particulars. And then the week following, we'll wrap the series and look at both heaven and hell together. But I will tell you that this has been a very both enjoyable thing to give myself to and to study. But as my wife will attest, it is also incredibly burdensome. I can't say that the study of hell is any more burdensome than the study of heaven. I mean by burdensome, it is a great deal of weight. But I will be honest in saying that emotionally, this is the most difficult thing to preach on. Regardless of where you stand with the Lord Jesus Christ, regardless of what you believe concerning hell. You can scarcely spend fifteen minutes studying it and not feel at the end of it. Something which is Absolutely on this side of heaven, irrevocable from the life of faith. That is the reality of doubt. You can't look at hell and the wrath of God and ask yourself: is this really true? Can it be? How am I to make sense of this? And so I encourage you, as you hear the word preached, I encourage you to dialogue with it in your own life of faith. To read the scriptures, to look at the Psalms, to read of the words of Jesus, to ask questions, ask me questions. Ask an elder question if you're a member of this church. Ask your elder. Ask Pastor Tim. Ask someone questions. We want to be in dialogue with you in this regard. And so we turn this morning to Revelation 20 as we then seek to look at the three questions which you had before you in this morning's bulletin. So with that said, let's look then at Revelation chapter twenty, verses seven to fifteen. And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations. that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and consumed them. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur. Where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, He was thrown into the lake of fire. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Lord, I stand before you, recognizing that I'm praying in front of a whole congregation. But I would ask, Lord, take my feeble hands and weak mind. And may you, by your Holy Spirit, shine forth through your word. May no word that I utter here ever serve in and of itself as a stumbling block to any who are here. But may you use your word by your spirit to illuminate your glory, to illuminate just how awful and beautiful Is the trying God. And Lord, I pray for all who hear, may you by your Spirit draw us into an everlasting relationship. With the God who has created all things, who has created us for yourself. And Lord, I pray, may you rescue us from the wrath of hell. Through Christ alone, who has died for us. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So, if you don't mind, I would like to jump straight to it. You have three questions there for you. Some of you may wonder why it is that I would begin with these questions and not specifically look at the Bible's specificity regarding the place of hell. The reason for it is because I can do no other, because some may believe, who hear my voice this morning, that I've created these questions merely by the fact that I want to have dialogue with those who do not believe. But I would tell you, every worship service is a conversation, a dialogue with those who do not believe. Every service is an evangelistic worship of the people of God. Making manifest the grace of God that has called us to worship. And those who do not believe, come and see and hear the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ at work in a group of sinners. But I will tell you my first and foremost motivation for beginning this part of the series with a series of questions is not born out of first a dialogue with those who do not believe. This is born out of questions, out of dialogue with those who do. Because the greatest threat to the doctrine of hell and of the nature of God's wrath comes not from the outside of the believing body of Christ, but from the inside. There have been many books written, one most principally by a friend of mine from college, Rob Bell. That has served to be a catalyst for many to discuss how can a loving God truly pour out his wrath on those who he's created? Will not love win at the end? Said in another way. I may not be a universalist, but God may be. There is much about the scriptures that are inscrutable. However, it is clear from Scripture that God is angry. How do we put it within the right context of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Because it is precisely his wrath that brings into existence eternal punishment. So we cannot proceed with the details of hell unless we understand first and foremost the nature of God's wrath. And so you have here three questions: Does God have an active wrath? Presently, today. Does belief in divine punishment increase violence on the earth? And thirdly, if God is love, how can he send someone to hell? Which this passage clearly points to. This passage, while I will not be taking it apart exegetically piece by piece, clearly includes all three of these. It includes the activity of God's wrath against sin. It also includes divine punishment and our needing to wrestle with that reality. But also, thirdly, it also claims that he is a God of love. Right there, it says it. Those whose names are written in the book of life go into eternity with him, and those whose names are not written in the book of life. will be thrown into hell itself. So I did not get the questions from outside this text, but this text provides these questions And I think we need to answer them. So I will do so in the best way that any sermon that I could preach will do so. But I hope that it will be an ongoing dialogue with you as a congregation. So together then, let's begin with the first question. Does God have an active wrath? Shocker? Yes. I say shocker from my perspective. You probably were expecting me to say yes. But what is it then? How can we say that God's wrath is active? First. Let me establish that clearly I believe, because the scriptures teach it, that God's wrath is beautiful. How can I say such a thing? God's wrath is beautiful because, first and foremost, God's wrath is bound up in relationship with those whom He has created. God's wrath is not outside of Left Field somewhere and coming in from nowhere. God's wrath is intimately bound up in a relationship with those whom He has created. We hear it. In perhaps one of the most famous sections of John's Gospel, John chapter 3, when he writes to them, he says, No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the love of so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe stands condemned already because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only Son So when we hear that phrase, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe that is not a good idea. We hear that word believe and we think intellect. That's not the way the Bible understands belief. Belief involves the intellect, absolutely, but first and foremost, it involves the human heart, what we love. So therefore, what Jesus is saying here is that those who believe, those who love me, those who receive my love offer to them Through God's will and desire in sending me will not be condemned. But those who refuse to love me stand condemned already. That very phrasing cannot escape, cannot escape the reality of the present tense. They stand already condemned. This is also language that is picked up in the Roman, the letter to the Romans from Paul, which we read from earlier this morning. That it is the present reality that God's wrath is beautiful because it is an expression of his desire To be in relationship with us. Secondly, God's wrath is active not because it's not only because it's beautiful, it is present because it is specific. Specific. What I mean to say is this. So oftentimes when we hear of God's wrath against sin Against those, and against those who refuse to love him and pursue their own ends, we tend to put before God what must be the pantheon of sins that God is angry about. Surely it must have something to do with sexual immorality, right? Surely it must have something to do with drunkenness and all various forms of scandalous public immorality. I do not mean to suggest that God isn't angry at those things. But first and foremost, what is clear throughout the totality of God's word, God's wrath is being specifically Poured out, first and foremost, not on discrete or particular sins, but one that is behind all sin. And that is this betrayal. You see, if God's love is beautiful, if God's anger is beautiful because it is born out of relationship and a desire for relationship, then his wrath is specific because it is aimed at betrayal. Because those whom he has created for himself, those who he loves, those who he has desired to be in a loving relationship with, have betrayed him and turned their back on him throughout the entirety of the Old Testament. Over and over and over again, we hear the words from God towards the people whom he has called his own, the nation of Israel. I have loved you with an everlasting love, but you have turned your back on me. In Ezekiel, we hear this. That indeed human beings are sinful, but God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked, rather That he should turn from his ways and live. That is Ezekiel saying, to turn from his rejection of the Lord to loving the Lord. God's wrath is being poured out on specific sins, but behind it all, the one thing that is preeminent throughout the scriptures is betrayal. Because, as one writer said, human beings were intended to listen to God's life-giving voice. Therefore, if we refuse that life-giving voice, And turn to a thousand other voices, turn from the worship of God to the worship of ourselves and of our own desires, then first and foremost, we have betrayed our first love. So God's wrath is specific. There is another point in which is this: God's wrath is active because it is beautiful, it is specific, it is also just It has a goodness about it. We've read from Romans chapter 3 this morning, but here from the chapter before, Romans chapter 2, verse 14. Or rather, four, when he says to them. I'll begin reading in verse 3. So when you, a mere man, pass judgment on them and yet do the same things, do you think That you will escape God's judgment. Here he's talking about the hypocrisy of those who look at others and say, You're guilty. I'm judging you, but you're guilty of the same thing. He's saying you will not escape God's judgment. And so he puts it down this way, verse 4, or do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness? Tolerance and patience, not realizing that God's kindness leads you toward repentance. It isn't that God's wrath is capricious. He's just sitting around one day and just suddenly gets angry. No, that's me. Not God. God's love and its beauty and its specificity is also just because he's looking on evil. And he will justly judge that evil As my friend Pastor Scott Saul said, that if God is not beautifully, specifically, and justly angry at evil, That makes God an enabler of our human evil. It just makes God an enabler. If he refuses to get angry At evil and sin, then he's just a party to it Tim Keller wrote this regarding the nature of the justness of the wrath of God when he wrote these words. He says, if a mild acquaintance denounces you and rejects you, that hurts. If a good friend does the same, that hurts far worse. However, if your spouse walks out on you saying, I never want to see you again, that is far more devastating still. The longer, deeper, and more intimate the relationship, the more torturous is any separation. If God is not angry at those who refuse and hold, refuse his love and hold in contempt his patience, mercy, and grace. Then God is not just. And if God is not just, He is not a God of love. Without God's wrath, we cannot have God's love. Said another way. In a very specific situation. Just a few weeks ago now, the downing of the Dutch airline plane by soldiers on the ground, regardless of the intentions, an evil was perpetrated. A horrible evil. If God's wrath at the end of history does not bring into judgment all those who refuse to bow the knee, In humble repentance, and refuses to hold account those who are guilty of sin, then how is that loving towards those who are victims of evil? If I am a judge in a courtroom, and over at this side are the victims, and on this side are the perpetrators. And I hear all the facts and evidence of the case. There's video testimony. It's very clear that they are guilty of hurting you. And I simply turn to the perpetrators and say, that's okay. What kind of love does that say to those who are victims? It makes God impotent It makes God a figment of our own imagination. And if God is a figment of our imagination, If God is a figment of what we desire and simply want Him to be what we desire, then He is a God not worthy of our worship. We might as well stay at home, read the New York Times or the Washington Post, and have a Starbucks and simply give our money to the Red Cross. God's wrath is active And the punishment for sin is already taking place in life now There are many who are experiencing the reality of hell because of the consequences of their sin and their unwillingness to turn to the redemption and mercy and patience of God. Sin is slavery. Hell is the eternal consequence. From an unwillingness to see that the one who frees us from the slavery of sin is a God of glory, love, and wrath. The second question. Does a belief in divine punishment increase violence on the earth? My question is qualified. My answer to that is qualified answer. Because in many ways we have to ask the question, and as we look at human history, is it not true? That people have used the name of God and his wrath towards sin and evildoers not been used as a shield and a motivation for human anger and revenge? Yes. There is no doubt it is true that there have been many within human history, and yes May God have mercy. Those who claimed the name of Christ, who both preached God's wrath and then believed that they were to be handmaidens of that wrath. To bring about vengeance in the name of God on those who did not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. What happens, however, is the mistake, which is understandable but must be corrected. We cannot transfer The faultiness and the heresy and the evil that that argument is, we cannot transfer that on to God and therefore say that because there have been human beings throughout human history, Who views you, God, and your divine anger towards sin as a cover for their own vengeance, we cannot accuse him and then say, well, then you can't be angry anymore. You can't give punishment because that just causes more. That is a wrong transference to make. It does not follow. Because of this. I believe the answer to the question, does divine punishment simply bring about greater violence? On the earth, I believe the biblical answer is no. And it is because actually the opposite is true. Consider for just a moment Luke chapter 6. In Luke chapter 6, as he records for us the teaching of Jesus, In regard to our relationship with enemies. Listen to what the Holy God of the Bible says in regard to how we are to respond to those who hate us. In Luke chapter 6, beginning in verse 28, beginning in verse 27, this is what the Lord Jesus taught his followers, and therefore teaches those of us. Who call on his name to follow him. But I tell you, who hear me, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you. If someone strikes you on one cheek, turn to him the other also. If someone takes your cloak, do not stop him from taking your tunic. Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. Do to others as you would have them do to you. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who are good to you, and what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that. And if you lend to those whom you expect to repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full. But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked. Be merciful just as your Father is merciful. If we say That divine punishment simply brings about more human violence, then what we are saying then How do we then deal with those who hate us? How do we then deal with those who persecute us? The only way That we can be called to this divine gospel ethic of loving our enemies To do good to them, to bless those who persecute us. The only way to do that is a firm and strong understanding and reception of the truth that only God's punishment can be. The ground upon which to build the ethic of loving our enemy. Because you see, when we believe that God will not bring punishment, On evil, we then inevitably will pick up the sword ourselves. If God will not, then I will I will tell you that God does not look on those who use his name as a reason for violence because that is precisely What he's called us not to do. Why? Because he is the one who in the end will set all evil right. He will bring punishment on that which is sin. And he tells us that because of that, we are then free to love. Not respond in revenge. I wrote this down because I want to make sure I am clear in what I'm saying. And I want you to dialogue with it. So forgive me for being so static in what I'm about to say. A desire for justice at wrongdoing and evil is universal. It is not just something that Americans think about. It is something the entire world cannot help but respond to. A desire for justice in the face of evil and wrongdoing. But since the Enlightenment, many have believed that reason would rid us of violence. But I tell you that pushing God out of the center and out of the public square has not ushered in an age of peace. With the leader being reason. Indeed, the opposite is true. Since the Enlightenment, reason has not led us to greater peace, but the proliferation of violence. Since the Enlightenment, more people have been murdered and have been seen as objects of vengeance and revenge. And reason being given as the motivation than in anything that happened before. The truth is, the desire for justice is eternity knocking at the hearts of our at the door of our hearts. A desire for justice is eternity knocking at the door of our hearts. Because a desire for justice is universal. It is transcendent. It is true for every person. Whether someone accidentally dinged your door in the parking lot of your new car or spilled coffee on you because they were careless. Or they said cruel words to you on Twitter or Facebook, or turn their back on you when you meet needed them most Every single act of injustice perpetrated on us and every human being, regardless of culture, regardless of time and space, all want to cry out justice. But the only way real peace, real reconciliation, real gospel love can actually blossom. Is in the belief that God will punish all evil Because I don't know about your heart. But do I want to be in the hands of human beings whose loves are fickle? Or in the hand of a God who is perfect and righteous and just and sees all things perfectly and righteously. Aren't you and I, when confronted with sin, isn't our first response, aren't we first tempted to try to immunize ourselves from guilt? Through defensiveness? Oh, it wasn't like that. It was a bad day, or they did this to me, or it was just, I was just having, I just didn't get enough sleep. You see, we try to immunize ourselves from guilt. Every human being does that. May God have mercy on us if all we have are human judges. Because who can only judge justly? The scriptures say only God can judge justly. And because He does, that frees you and me to follow Jesus in the way of loving even our enemies. Corey Tim Boone, in her book, Tramp for the Lord, retells of how she was confronted with this very ethic. She writes, I stood there with coldness clutching at my heart. Why? Because the man who was a Nazi guard had tormented her and her family. Now he was in attendance at a seminar where she was teaching on God's forgiveness. He walked up to her afterward and he said these words, Will you forgive me? And she says, I stood there with coldness clutching at my heart, but I know I know that the will can function regardless of the temperature of the heart. I pray, Jesus, help me. Woodenly, mechanically, I thrust my hand into the one out and one stretched out to me, and I experienced an incredible thing. The current started in my shoulder, raced down into my arms, and sprang into our clutched hands. Then this warm reconciliation seemed to flood my whole being, bringing tears to my eyes. I forgive you, brother. I cried with my whole heart. For a long moment we grasped each other's hands. The former guard, the former prisoner. I have never known the love of God so intensely as I did at that moment. How could Corey Tim Boom offer forgiveness for an enemy? A persecutor. It is because don't we want one who will judge sin justly, who first gave his son To receive all the wrath that was due to you and me. God does not judge in his wrath as one who is disconnected from it. God's first act of putting a nail in the coffin of sin was the promise in Genesis three, in the face of sin. I will send one who will crush the head of the serpent. That was pointing to Christ on the cross. Jesus Christ received all of God's wrath for you and for me And so he says that because I have done that, I invite everyone into my love and into my grace because my son has died for you. But there will come a day for those who refuse to receive me, who hold in contempt my patience and grace. And I will judge justly. Christian, I say to you, it is not for you and me to judge the other. I say that to you with all sincerity and difficulty Over the years, I've had to come to terms with those, and two in particular sinned against me greatly. And I will tell you, it wasn't until Two years ago, as I was wrestling, could I forgive someone who would never ask me for forgiveness? Someone who, as far as I know, does not love the Lord Jesus. Someone who perpetrated evil upon me. How will I respond? And I remember I was on a bicycle ride, and God flooded my soul with this question: Can I begin to pray for her? How do I pray for her? Can I forgive her? And the only way I have struggled to answer that question. Is first by saying, God, have mercy on me, a sinner. God have mercy Who am I? Who am I? But it is hard. It is hard to forgive. It is hard to look at someone who is stiff-necked and refuse to acknowledge sin. But is that not who I am in before of God who is gracious and loving and merciful? I can only say, God, have mercy upon me, a sinner. And Lord, it did not take the Lord Jesus Christ one second longer to hang on the cross to forgive me of my sins than it does to forgive hers. But she may never turn to him. But I am not her judge, and I am free. Free to, if God so be it, may allow me on this side of heaven to see reconciliation. I don't know. That is up to him But I know this, her blood and her soul are not in my hands But the Lord and his cross, and a belief that he will judge and judge justly Will be the one who will do it and not me. Thanks be to God. I'm running short of time. But I have a third question. That third question is: if God is love, how can He send someone to hell? Again, I quote Ezekiel 8:23. God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked. God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked It is very possible because it is what the Bible teaches in Revelation chapter 20 and in many other places That the Bible holds intention that God is love and He will justly judge. Those whose names are written in the book of life will spend eternity with him, and those whose names are not will go into eternal punishment with him. That being said, if we do not uphold this doctrine, we got the cross of all of its power. If Jesus did not die for sin and take all of God's wrath on himself To save us from God's wrath? What did he save us from? A bad day? Is he just God's divine agent of good advice? No. God is love Because first and foremost, his anger fell on Christ. Secondly, he sends his spirit to convict us of sin. As believers and those who are in the world, the Holy Spirit convicts of sin. That is a picture of God's anger. The Holy Spirit doesn't come alongside us and go, oh, that's okay. No, the Holy Spirit comes and convicts us of our sin, of our disobedience towards the Lord, and in fact shows us what sin actually is. So that we may run to the cross on which all of God's anger fell. Do you see The Spirit's conviction is a picture of God's wrath, just as much as the cross is a picture of God's love, you see. So God is a God of love and of punishment because why? His anger fell on sin first in Christ. But then he sends his spirit to convict us of sin. But thirdly. For those who refuse his love, for those who fail to hear the invitation to his grace Hell is not something that God simply says, well then there you go, because in truth he's simply turning them over to what they've already chosen. Hell is a place of choice. We choose to rebel against God. We choose to love him. God enables you this morning to come to him He does not desire for any to perish. He does not desire for any to simply be turned over to eternity of the sin that they have chosen. Which is rebellion against him, but rather he longs to draw you to himself. And he does so. And his grace is irresistible. And that grace is the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ And until that day when Christ will come again to judge the living and the dead, today stands as a day of grace. God's wrath has been poured out. It has been soaked up. It has been our sins have been paid for through the propitiation, the removal of God's wrath by Christ taking in on himself. And he invites you in to enjoy that, to love him forever. He wishes you and longs for you to be in relationship with him. So discern and hear the Word of God by His Spirit. For the Lord is the one who is the Lord of life. And he's also the Lord of judgment. Receive the Lord of life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, have mercy upon us. Help us to hold the tension as you are a God of love. That you are a God of love who sent his Son on whom you poured out your wrath. And you invite us to know eternal life with you. Lord, may you flood our souls with the glory of Christ. May you flood our lives with our need of Him. Lord, may you flood our very beings with the beauty of your grace. Lord, I pray, help us to believe. Forgive us in our unbelief. And may you make a people for your glory, who trust in your Son, who is just and the justifier. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen