I'm not Steve Huffman. Um my name is P. D. Mayfield. Um but I'm gonna read a few verses and then introduce Steve. Um he has a wonderful presentation prepared. And the time is short. So I'm going to be brief. But I would like to draw our attention to First Corinthians fifteen if you have your Bible or just listen as I read. First Corinthians fifteen, twelve through nineteen. Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no reign? Resurrection of the dead. But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain. And your faith is in vain. We are even found to be mess m misrepresenting God because we testified about God that He raised Christ. Faith is futile and you are still in your sins. Then those who those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope in this Only, we are of people most to be pitied. Um, just drawing our attention to that this morning as we continue the season of celebrating Jesus' resurrection that we celebrated together. last week. Let's pray, and then I would invite Steve to come up and lead us through this wonderful, rich, beautiful material. Heavenly Father, we indeed give you praise that your power and your glory and your wisdom and your providence raised Jesus from the dead. And that is the basis. of our faith. It is your vindication. It is your glory, Lord. And we we hope to understand more and more as we walk following Christ of what it means to share in your sufferings and to live in light of the power of the resurrection. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Steve, please come up. Sorry about that. Uh okay. Everybody can hear? All right. So Today we're so familiar with the Easter story from a Christian perspective that it's hard for us to understand what it was like for the people who were going through these events at At that time. Pontius Pilate, Caiaphas, Annas, the disciples, these were real people who were making difficult decisions in difficulty. Difficult circumstances. They had no idea how this stuff was gonna work out. They had no idea what they were even dealing with. And for readers today, we don't get all the background, the social tensions, the politics, the history, the personality conflicts that were going on at that time, unless we really look into it. And so for the next hour, what I want to do Is try to fill in a lot of that background. For me, anyway, it makes the whole story much richer. I feel like I have a better understanding of What happened and why it happened, and some of the things that the New Testament writers didn't need to put in because everybody then knew that it's nice, at least for me, to be able to understand And I hope it will be for y'all as well. So we're going to start with a little bit of history real quick because we need to understand that to understand why people did what they did at that time. You remember at the end of the Old Testament the Jews had Moved back to Judea. They have left Babylon under the Persian Empire. And the Persian Empire let them uh practice their religion as they wanted to. It was a pretty good time. For them for about two hundred years. But then Alexander the Great attacks the Persian Empire, defeats it, and on his death, which happens when he's very young, his empire splits General who had taken Egypt. And again, they're very tolerant. It's pretty good time for the Jews. They can practice their religion as they want. But after about a hundred years on the Under Ptolemaic rule, one of his other generals' empires moves into Judea and takes over. They're the Seleucids. They have a different vision. For them, their empire should have Jewish scriptures. They try to compel the Jews to follow their Greek religion, and it gets so bad that uh Antiochus Epiphanes, the Seleucid Emperor, comes to Jerusalem. Sets up an idol in the temple and, according to the stories, sacrifices a pig on the altar. This leads to a Jewish revolt. And it starts in a little village up in hills and they spontaneously rise up against this empire and manage to defeat it and create an independent Jewish kingdom. Now, once they've taken Jerusalem, they go in and they cleanse the temple. They rededicate it to Yahweh. This becomes An annual feast for the Jews as they remember the fact that they defeated an empire in a spontaneous revolt when that empire offended their religious sensibilities. We they know this as the feast of dedication. I'm sure you probably know what this is called today, right? Yes, Hanukkah. This is still celebrated. Over 2,000 years later. And again, it's about the rededication of the temple, but the subtext is: you offended Jewish sensibilities and they drove out an empire. Everybody remembers this. This has been a very good idea. Happened less than two hundred years before the time of Jesus' trial. This is closer to Jesus' time than we are to the American Revolution. So everybody Remembers this. Now, Jewish independence only lasts about a hundred years. This is uh one of the Roman, the great Roman generals. He was contemporary with Julius Caesar, and In sixty-three BC, he's asked to settle a dispute over who should be the ruler of the Jewish kingdom. They can't decide. So Pompey brings his army and sacks Jerusalem and installs who he wants to be king. And from this point on, Judea is under Roman rule, either directly or indirectly. Directly. Now, why does Rome care about Judea? Well, okay, they're Rome and it's there. So that's part of it. But Judea is also very strategically important, which is it It's blessing and its curse for all of history. It sits at the crossroads of Asia, Africa, Europe. It controls part of the Mediterranean coast, and the Romans do not want anybody Oh, sorry about that. Is that better? Sorry. Blowing people's ears out. Okay, so the Romans want Judea. They know their history. So they're very careful about Jewish religious sensibilities. They make Judaism a relegio licta, which means it is uh a protected religion. They don't have to sacrifice They don't have to sacrifice to the emperor. They are able to worship as they will. Because the Romans want the Jews to be peaceful. And a part of their kingdom. Now, uh, I'm showing here Roman Parthia. Parthia has taken over from the Seleucids. Judea is right on that frontier. And in fact, the Parthians in 40 BC actually conquered. Jerusalem for a little while before the Romans essentially take it back. Okay, now let's focus in on Judea a little bit. Jerusalem, of course, is the capital of Judea. It's the capital, in a sense, of all the Jewish people. It's one of the larger cities in the Roman Empire at this point. It's got about a hundred thousand people living in it. Uh it's wealthy And as the Romans will discover to their sorrow later on, it is very, very well defended. The heart of Jerusalem is the temple. The temple, you probably know a lot of this, it was started by Herod the Great in about 19 BC, and they continue working on this thing for 80 years. It is not completed until the 60s. A. D. And it's only standing complete for about a decade before it is utterly destroyed by the Romans in the Great Jewish War. But the temple to Jerusalem is kind of like the federal government is to Washington DC. Thousands and thousands of people are in If you don't work directly for the temple, whatever you do, if you make sandals or cloaks or grow vegetables, you're selling it to the either the temple or to the temple. Temple employees. The temple is the economic heart of Judea. Now, Jews from all over the world will come to Jerusalem to be at the temple. Several times a year. And when they do, they will spend a huge amount of money. They will pay for inns and food and they will buy sacrificial animals at the temple. Every Every Jewish adult male has to pay a temple tax, as we see in the New Testament. That means there is a vast amount of money flowing into the temple and then back out again. Control the temple, a huge amount of power, political power, and economic power, and of course, a sort of spiritual power. There is no King of the Jews at that time. So who are the leaders of the Jews? Who controls all this money, all this power? The chief priests. In the Old Testament, high priest. is a lifetime appointment. It hasn't been that way in Jesus' time for probably a couple of hundred years. It's become a political appointment. Under the Hashmone's uh the independent Jewish state, hypo Priests were often changed every single year. The honor was shared out among the noble families, the rich families of Jerusalem. In Jesus' day, It's kind of interesting. One man, Annas, also known as Hananiah, who we see in the New Testament, was appointed high priest in 6 A. D. , and then he is five Five sons and his son-in-law control the high priesthood, that one family, for much of the rest of the first century. That puts a lot of power in their hands. Now it's interesting, again, high priest It's a very specific thing in the Old Testament. In the New Testament, it's a little fuzzy. Annas and Caiaphas are both called high priests at the same time. So it's kind of like we call a former president. What do these guys do? Of course they're in charge of the ceremonial stuff at the temple, but they are also very much politicians. They see them. themselves as the leader of the Jewish people. And that means in this time, in Jesus' time, to create as much freedom as possible for the Jewish people to push back against these pagan Gentile Roman governors that are over them. They want to limit their power as much as possible, both to give the Jews freedom to practice their religion and their life. And also to preserve their own power. They are politicians. They are very cynical politicians in many cases. They need to pr push back the Romans. Just far enough that they don't cross that invisible line that nobody quite knows where it is, which will cause the Romans to react and bring in the legions. Alright. This by the way is the bone box, the ossuary of Caiaphas himself. This was found uh nineteen ninety or so in what they think was his family tomb in Jerusalem. And they're it actually Now it's important to remember the high priests at this time are almost all Sadducees. I know you've heard that term. There were a bunch of different Sadducees In Judea in Jesus' time. The Sadducees were interesting. They only accepted the first five books of Moses as authoritative. There was no belief in the oral law whatsoever. Because Because of their interpretation, they believe there is no afterlife. There's no heaven, there's no hell, there's no eternal punishment, there's no eternal reward, which is a really useful viewpoint. point for a cynical politician. All that matters is what happens in this life and you don't face any consequences for what you do or don't Don't do. In addition to keeping the Romans at in check, keeping their power as far away as possible, they also want to keep tabs on the Jewish people. They're very concerned with what's going on among the people. They don't want anybody disturbing the peace, causing the Romans to react violently against the Jewish people. We see this in the New Testament. When John is John the Baptist is at the Jordan preaching, people are sent down from Jerusalem to ask him very pointedly, Who are you? What are you doing? Why are you doing this? We need to report back to our masters in Jerusalem what's going on here. And you also see that with Jesus. Um, as his ministry is going on in the background Many times the gospels will sort of mention people, Pharisees, scribes sitting there asking questions. These aren't random questions often, they're very specific. They're trying to figure out what Jesus is up to. It's part of their job. They've got to keep the peace so the Romans don't have an excuse to destroy their country. Okay. The concept of Messiah in first century Judea is really complicated. There's um many, many books written about this, and I don't even pretend to understand it all. But to your average Judean peasant, the guy farming his field, the guy taking care of his vineyard, the cobbler, a messiah was someone who Who was going to restore the kingdom of David, create an independent Jewish state with peace and justice? And that's great. But in practical terms What that means is throwing off Roman rule and establishing a powerful state in a very strategic part of the world that the Romans would not be happy to see. And This is not some far-off dream way in the future. People expect this anytime. And in the first century and in the second century, there's a number of people who claim Just a few years later, three A. D. , there was a guy named Athranges who did the same thing. He said, I'm the Messiah, follow me, brought down a revolution. Continue. People are declaring themselves messiahs. This ends in 135 A. D. The last person who proclaimed himself a Jewish Messiah was Simon Barkoch. And if you've ever read about the great uh revolt in the second century, you'll have heard of him. He was actually acclaimed by some of the chief priests and rabbis as the Messiah. The Romans didn't buy it, they brought the legions. In utterly wiped out the state, and that was the end of Jews in Judea for almost two thousand years. So when the chief priests are worried about this. They're not being paranoid. There really are people out there building following building up a following and declaring themselves Messiah and basically revolting against Rome. And that does have utterly devastating consequences in the future. Alright. Let me look at this from the Roman perspective for a minute. The the Emperor of Rome is Tiberius. Tiberius is not To be emperor. He was the adopted son of Augustus Caesar, the first great emperor. He was a brilliant military general, one of the best in Roman history. And I That's all he wanted to be, and frankly, that's all he should have been. But his mother, Livia, was determined that he would be emperor, and she essentially killed everybody between him and that post. And in the end And because you didn't say no to Livia, he accepted the job of emperor. And then Livia, well, he became co-emperor with Augustus, and then Livia killed her own husband, according to to the Roman historians to finalize that. Alright. So you can see why he's gloomy. He's also paranoid, which, given his upbringing, is perfectly reasonable. He hates Rome. And and this is important, in 26 A. D. he leaves Rome. Now he has had a helper, his right-hand man. He calls him, Sejanus. Sejanus is the head of the Praetorian Guard. They're the military unit responsible for security in Rome. They eventually, well not even eventually, they very quickly Realize since they're the only people who have military power in Rome, they can determine who the emperor is. So Janus has been helping Tiberius, and when Tiberius leaves for Capri, he leaves. Sejanus in charge. Now, Tiberius goes to Capri, he doesn't want to have anything to do with Rome. He, depending on which historian, he either takes a large troop of dancing girls or a large group of Greek girls. Greek philosophers to spend his days with. So, he's there in Capri, distracted in whatever manner. So, Janus is ru ruling Rome. Okay, I'll move on. Come back to that. Pontius Pilate. Pontius Pilate is appointed governor in 26 A. D. the year This, by the way, is the the Pilate inscription. It's found in Caesarea in Judea, and it's the only inscription we have that is Contemporary with Pilate that mentions both Pilate and Tiberius. So Pilate comes to Judea. He has fairly basic duties as a governor, though the details of actually implementing these are incredibly difficult. First and foremost, ensure that the Jews acknowledge the Romans are in charge. Secondly, keep them peaceful. No matter what, don't Don't let a revolt break out. Collect Roman taxes and ensure that Roman justice, where appropriate, prevails. In a province like Judea, the Romans let the locals take care of all the little stuff. They didn't care about the laws that affected people most of the time. But when it got to capital cases, the Romans insisted that they be the ones who uh determined Determined whether people would be executed. This is because they didn't want the locals to start killing off Roman sympathizers. They wanted to make sure that the Romans, that someone who was being executed really was A criminal under Roman law and not just some sort of Roman sympathizer. Pilate has about 3,000 soldiers at his command when he's in Judea. Normally he lives at Caesarea, which is a city City on the coast, a very nice new city built by uh Herod the Great. But during times of feasts and festivals, he brings those troops up to Jerusalem to make sure nothing gets out of hand. Now the Jews did not like Pilate one bit. Philo of Alexandria is a contemporary Jewish historian and he says that Pilate had vindictiveness and a furious temper and was naturally Inflexible, a blend of self-will and relentlessness. But Philo might be a little bit biased. They really did not like him. On the other hand, He was the longest uh ruling governor of Judea ever. He ruled until thirty-seven A. D. , so the Romans must not have thought he was doing a bad job. But Pilate has trouble with the Jews almost Almost immediately. There's a number of incidents that are recorded in contemporary historians where Pilate offends Jewish sensibilities. These all happen in Jerusalem, which is also kind of interesting. Each time the Jews react very angrily, and Pilate is forced to back down in a somewhat humiliating manner. One time the Jews even said Send a delegation to Tiberius to complain about Pilate's actions. Tiberius sends back a very angry letter telling Pilate, stop making the Jews angry, which has got a concern. Pilot. When you read about these incidents though, it's hard to avoid it looks like he Was maneuvered into some of these situations. What it looks like, honestly, is that Caiaphas, the Sanhedrin, the high priest were putting Pilate in a position where he would do something that would give Give the Jews an excuse to embarrass him, to humiliate him. And I think this is going on so they're so that they can draw that line in the sand and say, you can come this far and No further. You come any further, we are going to react and you are going to back down, and Tiberius will not be happy with you. And you don't want Tiberius to be grumpy with you. Okay. So there's this conscious constant Pilate's trying to force them to acknowledge Roman authority. They're pushing back, trying to say, no, your authority stops here, or else you're in big trouble. Now, to make this much more complicated, remember Sejanus and Tiberius. Well, in thirty thirty-one AD Sejanus decides he should be emperor. And so he begins to search out the supporters of Tiberius and kill them. Tiberius eventually figures this out around 3132 A. D. and begins a counter-purge against Sejanus and begins a witch hunt for anybody who supports Now, honestly, we don't know whether Jesus was executed in 30 or 33 AD, but either date, there is real tension. There are people People being killed back at Rome, depending on whether you were supporting Sejanus or Tiberius. Pilate was made governor in 26 AD when that transition was happening. We don't know whether Sejanus was the one who said he should be governor or whether Tiberius was the one who said he should be governor. But in either case, both of those men have to be Thinking about Pilate and wondering who are you really loyal to? So in the midst of all this stuff, Pilate's looking over his shoulder, wondering if he's going to get caught up in either the purge or the With a counter purge from the two people who are in charge of Rome at this point. And that that becomes important, that becomes very important at Jesus' trial, I believe. Alright, so into this mess, Jesus. begins his ministry. The leaders in Jerusalem, the Jewish leaders, really want to know what Jesus is doing. Is he just a backwards fundamentalist preacher in Galilee making, you know Trying to do a revival, making people feel better, or is there something worse going on? Is he one of these guys who's trying to create a following so he can declare himself the Messiah? As Jesus' uh ministry expands, as more people have heard him, as more people come to feel good about Jesus, the People in Jerusalem are getting more nervous, and more people are openly wondering if Jesus is in fact going to declare himself the Messiah. In the Gospel of John, there's an interesting passage, uh John 10, Jesus is at the temple for the feast of dedication, which is, as you recall, remembering the fact that the Jews owe Overthrew another empire and created an independent nation. So that's the feast. Jesus is there. And the Jews gathered around him saying, How long will you keep us In suspense. If you're the Messiah, tell us plainly. This is in the temple. This is, according to John's chronology, just about four months before Jesus' arrest and trial. Jesus' response was, I did tell you, but you didn't believe. I and the Father are one. Now, I'm sure most of the people listening to that have no idea what to make of that, but it wasn't exactly a denial, was it And if you're one of the chief priests worried about this following of Jesus, what do you do with that? It's another data point that says, hmm, this is a little scary. And then, as we get toward Easter week, toward the time of Easter, you have Lazarus, Jesus' greatest sign. And this is not happening. Up in Galilee. It's not happening in the Bunis. This is an hour's walk from Caiaphas's front door. This is in his backyard. It happens in front of a large crowd that has gathered. And they immediately go back to the chief priests and say, You won't believe what just happened. And what do the chief priests and leaders think about this? You will see if we go on like this I'm sorry, I don't actually have any. Um everyone will believe in them and then the Romans will Come and take away both our temple and our nation. This might seem to be a little bit of an overreaction, but given the history of people who have declared themselves messiahs. This actually is not a paranoid statement. That truly is what will happen if this large gathering of people who've seen this amazing sign decide to declare Jesus their King and their Messiah. The Romans may welcome and take their kingdom. And then you have the cynical Sadducee politician, high priest, who makes what is for him the perfectly obvious conclusion to this. Kill Jesus before he Does something stupid, or even if he's innocent, before the crowds do something stupid about Jesus. So, this is Lazarus. The area for a little while and stays away until about Passover. There's an interesting little thing in the Talmud which sort of talks about the Jews really nicely into John's chronology. Alright, let's talk about Passover. It's actually two contiguous festivals. Passover one day, the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days, but everybody just called it Passover or the Feast of Unleavened Bread. It was One one thing. And again, Passover is recalling God delivering the Jews from Egypt. There's a theme to Jewish feasts. Empires That offend the Jews get crushed by God. Think of Purim, Hanukkah, Passover, Feast of Unleavened Bread. Everybody recognizes this. The Romans recognize this. This is a theme. At Passover, the population of Jerusalem swells phenomenally. We actually have a first-century census of Jerusalem that is so huge at Passover, nobody believes it. Josephus says that 2. 3 million adult males were there for one year at Passover. And nobody knows what to do with that. That's just so huge. But bottom line is the city is full of people. The villages around Jerusalem are crammed with people, and the poor people who can't afford inns and houses and so forth, they're camped on the hills all around Jerusalem for this great festival. It's also The Romans are nervous, the chief priests are nervous because this is when people do things that cause riots. And riots when you have that many people can turn into something really dangerous. So people are on edge. And that's when Jesus starts doing things that really terrify the chief priests. So let's start looking now at Easter week. Right, the day before the triumphal entry, where is Jesus? He's in Bethany. They're giving a feast for Jesus. Lazarus is there, Mary is there. There's a large crowd of people. They've come to see Lazarus, this man who Jesus raised from the dead, and Jesus. During this feast, Mary comes in and anoints Jesus with very expensive perfume. Okay. You all know what the word Messiah means. It means the anointed one. She has just done that for Jesus. If you are wondering what Jesus' game is, you're wondering about this. Jesus doesn't say to Mary, You're wrong. Stop doing that. He does say, This is for my burial. But again, I'm sure everybody there was thinking, Yeah, whatever. Anointing means you're going to be king. Okay? So that's the night before. And this is an hour's walk from Caiaphas. You know by the end of the The night. People have reported to him. Big feast, Jesus is back, Lazarus was there, large crowd, he was anointed. It's really scary. What happens on Palm Sunday? Jesus starts from Bethany. He sends his disciples to get a colt and a donkey and tells them, this is kind of interesting, if anybody asks, tell them The Lord has need of it. Not Jesus, not a friend, the Lord. Jesus, I mean, that's if you're paranoid about Jesus and he starts talking himself about himself. In that way, that's a little scary. That's a really authoritative title. So Jesus rides toward Jerusalem. This crowd of people who have been out to see Lazarus, who have uh been aware of this dinner. They're gathering around Jesus. Now this is a view of uh the Mount of Olives from the walls of Jerusalem. If you're Caiaphas, you're standing on the walls of Jerusalem. You're looking this way, you see this wave of people coming around this man on a colt, coming toward you. They are singing praises to him. Blessed is the King of Israel, these people are saying. The people might not get the fact that this cult is a reference to the Zechariah uh prophecy about the king King coming on a colt. But the high priest uh on a yeah, on a colt, the high priests get that. They understand that symbolism. And again, uh talking about that crowd, who are these people? The people camped on the These are the poor people who come for this feast. These are people from Galilee and Judea, people whose villages Jesus has visited. He has healed their sick. He has taught them. He has fed them in the wilderness. They don't get Jesus, but they sure like him. And if somebody's going to be king and messiah, he seems like a wonderful person. Candidate. And so they are singing praises, proclaiming him king. You're walking if if you're Caiaphas, you're seeing this whole thing coming straight toward Jerusalem. All right. Leaders in Jerusalem send people out to tell Jesus to tell his people, these people, to shut up. Jesus disobeys. He does he's not going to do that. And he even goes so far as to say, if they shut up. The stones will be crying out. Not exactly an obedient attitude toward the leaders of the Jewish people. It gets worse. As Jesus is coming in, look what he says. Now, we recognize this as a prophecy. This is going to happen a generation after Jesus. But if you are the Jewish leaders and this man Nobody's thinking, oh yeah, you know, in seventy AD the Romans are going to do this to us. No. When G another thing that Jesus says, either during or around the time Time of the triumphal entry is recorded. And he says, Now is the time for judgment on this world. Now the prince of this world will be driven out. Who is the prince of this world? It's Tiberius. It's the emperor. How else are you going to interpret that? Before Jesus' resurrection, what else would you think? So, the chief priests now view Jesus. This is Passover. Crowds are proclaiming him king. He's threatening the city. He's threatening the people. He's threatening to throw out Tiberius as far as they can. Can tell. This is an imminent threat. They are really worried at this point. And given their worldview and their perception, they're not paranoid. Okay. Monday, Jesus comes back. Again, he goes right to the heart of their realm into the temple and he cleanses the temple. This is a direct attack on their authority. He's basically saying these guys have abused their position. They are not following God. as they should. And again, they this is something that makes them very afraid given the crowd's reaction to that. Tuesday, Jesus comes right back into the temple. This time they attack his authority directly. They ask him, by what authority are you doing these things? And Jesus won't give them a straight answer. But Jesus does Start going into parables, he he starts telling stories that relate directly to the chief priests, right? Uh the parable of the vineyard, where the People who are renting it kill the owner's son. They get that. They understand he's talking against them. Then they send very directed questions against him. They're trying to trap him in something that will let them them arrest him or discredit him? Does he pay taxes to Caesar? He won't answer in any way that would let them uh act against him. Uh questions about the afterlife. All these things are trying to put him in a box. They're trying to discredit him. He won't be discredited. And it says the large crowds listen to him with delight. Again. Terrifying. As they're leaving, the disciples are pointing out this magnificent building that Herod has built. And again, Jesus makes What to them seems like a direct threat to destroy it, to destroy the chief priests. How else would they interpret it? So they know they've got to get rid of Jesus. He appears to be setting the groundwork for for his messiahship, for his kingship, at this festival with all these people. They've got to kill him. They can't do it with all the crowds. So they find a way to grab him in the at night. Him, they have to wait till dawn to actually pass sentence for it to be legal. But as soon as it's dawn, they condemn Jesus to death and they haul him off to Pilate. Now Uh they get to Pilate at dawn. That's perfectly normal. Roman trials actually do start at dawn. We know that. So Pilate would have been awake, ready, ready to get to work. What's interesting is that if you're reading the the accounts, when they first take Jesus to Pilate, they don't even bring a charge. And they say, if he were not a criminal, we would not have brought him to you. They want Pilate to just go ahead and execute him. Why would they do that? I think this is a reaction to the fact that they've already humiliated Pilate several times times, forced him to back down, gotten him in trouble with Tiberius, and they're hoping that Pilate just doesn't want uh to be uh forced to back down in front of Tiberius again. So they just try. Okay, just do this and we won't get you in trouble. Pilate doesn't go along. And again, I think there's there's several reasons. One, you've got to assume at this point he detests Caiaphas, Annas, and the whole Sanhedrin, they have made his life miserable. And he's in no hurry to help them out. So he's not just going to roll over. Even though he's been embarrassed. Also, this is a perfect opportunity to force the Sanhedrin, the leaders of the Jewish people, to recognize publicly Roman authority. So he's gonna make them work for it. And and honestly, you've got to think, he can see that Jesus is driving them crazy. He's gotta like that. And he's not going to do anything to make that problem go away if he can help it. So Pilate gets stubborn. This makes Sanhedrin more and more nervous. If word gets out that Jesus is been arrested, this huge crowd of people who have come to the temple who are in the hills around Jerusalem, they're gonna react. They are likely to riot. They need Jesus dead. Fast. Okay. Pilate, of course, finds out that Jesus is Galilean, sends him to Herod for Herod. Take care of, let the Jews work it out among themselves, not his problem. Obviously, it doesn't work out. Herod sends Jesus back. Now the Sanhedrin charges Jesus with an actual crime, claiming He does, he quickly decides that Jesus is if he is A king, as he says, it's not of this world. Roman law, you can be king of any world you want as long as it's not this world. Again, not a crime under Roman law. But to get this off his plate, He has Jesus flogged. Uh have you guys seen Passion of the Christ? Many of you remember the flogging scene? That was a really gentle, mild, cleaned up version of a Roman flogging. So he flogs it. Jesus now has a crown of thorn on his head. He has an absolutely beat Bloody, torn mess. And Pilate brings him out in front of the Sanhedrin. And I think this is just me. I think he does that to shame them. He brings him out and he says, Here he is. Look at him. Seriously. You want me to kill this poor guy? And they do. They still do. So, um, now they charge Jesus with being claiming to be son of God. Again, Pilate has no idea what to do with that. It's not a Roman crime. And even, you know, what do you do with someone who's the son of God? So He kind of ignores that. Uh then the Sanhedrin start shouting, Crucify. The Sanhedrin has got to be getting really scared. It's probably been a couple of hours at this point. Crowds are waking up. Are starting to come into Jerusalem. Word is getting out that the high priests have arrested Jesus. They need to get him on a cross fast. So they just start shouting, Crucify Him. Now remember. When the Sanhedrin goes to Pilate, it says all the Sanhedrin went. There's 71 people in the Sanhedrin, and most of them are rich noble families. They'll have servants, they'll be clerks, they'll be Messengers. So this group, it's got to be well over a hundred people, have come to Pilate. They're the crowd that's filling the courtyard that's shouting, Crucify Him. This crowd has absolutely nothing to do with the crowd. That was proclaiming Jesus King on Sunday. Okay? So it's not that people have changed their mind. It's a totally different crowd. This crowd is screaming, crucify, crucify, crucify. And here's something that's a little debatable, but well, what happens is they say finally, if you don't crucify him You are no friend of Caesar. Friend of Caesar, that term is actually a technical title that is awarded to people whose loyalty is unquestioned. somebody, the emperor can award it to somebody. And some people think that's just a a random phrase that's thrown in here. I tend to think maybe they really mean friend of Caesar. That title. Remember what's going on back in Rome. There is a purge and a counterpurge, either starting or going on furiously, between Sejanus and Tiberius. Pilot has been appointed by one of those two. Pilot has got to be worried whether one of these two is going to call him back to Rome and have his head. What the Sanhedrin may be doing here is saying, one of these guys gave you the title Friend of Caesar, meaning we accept your loyalty. We're going to send a delegation that says we brought it Dangerous criminal, a man who was plotting rebellion to you, and you let him free. You think you'll still be a friend of Caesar? And given the poisonous situation in Rome, Not being a friend of Caesar may be more than losing your job. It may be losing your head. And at this point in the Gospels, you see Pilate collapses. He gives up. It's over. Make that threat, he brings Jesus out and condemns him. Now, he still sticks it to the Sanhedrin. He says, You crucify your king And he forces them to acknowledge Tiberius is their king. They say, We have no king except Caesar. At least Pilate has forced them to acknowledge Roman authority over them. He also sticks them by putting the titular, the the signpost that that uh declares your crime over Jesus. Jesus being King of the Jews. So I think he got a little bit back from that. But what I'm seeing, what what I think is going on here is this is one of the most uh Ferocious arguments over the limits of Roman authority and Jewish authority, and the Sanhedrin wins by taking it to the point where they're essentially threatening Pilate. life if he doesn't go along with this. Other people, as I say, just think it's a fortuitous phrase, but because of how things happen. I'm not sure about that. All right. So, the burial. There was a scholar a few years ago who made a bit of a splash by saying that Jesus wasn't buried. He was just taken off the cross and, you know Eaten by dogs. Nonsense. Absolute nonsense. We know from first century sources that in Judea there were a number of laws concerning executive criminals. Number one, the Sanhedrin was responsible for disposal of the bodies of executed criminals, which by the way makes it perfectly natural for Joseph to have gone to Pilate and saying, okay, I'm Sanhedrin, this one's mine, I'll Take care of it. Perfectly within the laws that we know about. Secondly, we know there was a law that said executed criminals could not be buried in their family tomb for one year. They had to be buried somewhere else. Again, interestingly, fits in beautifully with that story. Joseph of Arimathea is taking Jesus and putting him in his own tomb for a year, probably, is what he's thinking. And then they'll gather his Bones and he'll be put in the family tomb. So that all makes perfect sense. We actually have an example. This is the heel bone of a man. It was excavated in 1968 in Israel. He was crucified. That's what that nail is doing through his heel. He was killed in the middle of the first century, probably twelve. twenty within twenty years of Jesus' crucifixion. The only reason they really knew he was crucified is they couldn't get the nail out. After he had died and they were taking him off the cross, they the end of the The nail has a little hook in it, it must have hit some sort of knot in the wood, and they couldn't pull it out. So he was buried with it. Looking at his skeleton more closely, his legs were broken exactly as it says in the So, bottom line though, this shows that in fact that law not only existed, but it was followed. He was buried somewhere else probably for a year and then put in his family too. Alright. I want to end on on this note. Uh have you seen the movie Risen, by the way? A lot of you? Some of you? Okay. There there's some neat things in there. There's some things that aren't terribly accurate. But um one of the things that's not terribly accurate is they have Jesus being crucified with the criminals in this little ravine with a few dozen, a couple dozen spectators. Absolutely Okay, that's harsh. But that's not what happened. Crucifixion was meant to be a deterrent. It was a horrific death. It was supposed to be seen by as many people as possible. So you You would never do whatever it was that that poor person up on that cross did. Jesus was crucified someplace very public. Probably on a little promontory, we don't know for sure, but probably almost Certainly by a main road because it talks about passers-by. You want this to be close enough to the road that people passing by will see it and will be able to read what it is that this person did. It means think about this is Passover. A vast number of people from all over the Jewish Diaspora are back here for this festival. Jesus is crucified in a public place, this man who everybody had been talking about because of Lazarus and the triumphal entry. By a main road, probably by a main gate. He's up there for six hours on that cross as people are going in and out of the city preparing for the feasts, doing all that they need to be doing. If you think about it, a significant percentage of the Jewish population of the world at that time could well have seen Jesus with their own eyes on the cross. At Easter, we're still in festival time in Jerusalem. To us, Easter's seems like sort of a nice, quiet, peaceful thing. It would have been the middle of a festival in Jerusalem. Huge crowds still there. People had been talking about Jesus' crucifixion. Now they will start hearing uh people talking about Jesus' tomb being empty and Jesus having risen. These people will go back throughout the world, not just the Roman Empire, but all throughout the world. I suspect Part of the reason that Christianity was so swift to spread throughout much of the world in those first years, there probably was not a synagogue in the Jewish World where there was not at least one person who had with their own eyes seen Jesus on that cross and then heard the stories, whether they believed them or not, that the tomb was empty. And that people had seen him again. There are two dates that scholars believe that Jesus was crucified on. One was seventh april AD thirty. The other, I found this interesting, is today, april third, AD thirty three. So this This is likely the actual anniversary of the crucifixion of Jesus. And I think I'll leave it there. The time