The son of Joseph, the son of Jodah, the son of Joannon, the son of Risa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, The son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Qasim, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er, the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Joram The son of Mathet, the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonah, the son of Eliakim The son of Meliah, the son of Menah, the son of Mataphah, the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed And yet, Lord, we confess that when we come to parts of your word, we don't quite know what to make of it. the son of Mathet, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janai, the son of Joseph, the son of Matathias, the son of Amos The son of Nahum, the son of Eslie, the son of Nagi, the son of Math, the son of Matathias, the son of Simeon The son of Boaz, the son of Salah, the son of Nashon, the son of Aminadab, the son of Admon, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Peres, the son of Judah The son of Canaan, the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. This is part of your word. So-and-so begat so-and-so. In the Jewish tradition of his day, you simply did not do that. And the Apostle Paul, both in Romans 5 and in 1 Corinthians 15, goes to great lengths to demonstrate that in one sense the human story can be told than the Matthew genealogy, not just in direction, but in some of the names. within a generation of the death of John, the disciple. Now, just because I don't have the exact answer to solve exactly why it is that this genealogy is different, does nothing to suggest that it is not factual and accurately communicating precisely what it was intended to communicate. through lines of descent in terms of regnal priority, it is presented as a real person living in real time. uh Moses to David and then three groups of seven from uh the David to the captivity and then you can do the math out. Your genealogy was one of three factors that were most essential in placing you in the world around you in the first century A. And the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven. The son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, the son of Sareg, the son of Rub, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son And one of my favorite is written by an Anglican pastor and theologian named Michael Wilcock, and he's held posts of homiletic cest preaching. parentheses, the terror of lesson readers if this passage ever is read in a church. I want to highlight the fact that this is an unusual genealogy, and so it should capture our attention, at least for that reason. And they move downwards. of Jesus, people like Tamar and Judah and Ruth. It says, Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about 30 years of age, being the son as was supposed. And I was thinking to myself, wait a minute, is that right? And I come down here and I'm looking in John chapter 2, and it says here, When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from. What Jesus began to do and teach, and what he continued to do and teach in the book of Acts from heaven through his people by his Spirit. is what Luke is writing about. Josiah gave an amazing counsel ring, and he brought something up I had never in all my years, in all my study of the gospels, ever noticed. highlighted by the fact that indeed Jesus does have a human lineage. Carpentry, really house building, not furniture building, if you look at the Greek. And I'd be remiss as a preacher if I didn't draw that to your attention and offer you explanation. And the explanation I'd offer you is that there have been two different major, well three different major solutions. Gresham G. Look at verse 31. There's a sense in which all of these solutions, quote unquote, are possible. There are questions I have of the text that I simply don't have answers for yet. Chronicles of the Old Testament history books or in the Pentateuch where we have the genealogies of people like Adam and Noah. We have three groups of seven from Adam to Abram, and then we have two groups of seven from Abraham to Moses, three groups of seven from When he talked about houses divided that would fall down, he is drawing on that rich heritage of 30 years of simply swinging a hammer. To live a life just like you and me. The God who came in the flesh to be worshipped and served and loved, Lord, what a training in righteousness knowing that is. But Lord, for all of them, we need your grace, we need your spirit to hear, to read, to understand and apply rightly. That tells us that all scripture is breathed out by God, or God breathed, and it's profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. And it's a question that should perhaps exercise us whenever we read any part of Scripture. academically, and pastoral studies at various institutions, both in America and in the UK. returns from the Jordan and is led into the wilderness. It starts with Jesus and goes back. The answer to the promise in Genesis chapter 3. Now, as often as I've read the Bible, I'm constantly surprised by things I didn't notice about it. And uh our our drummer this morning, Josiah, and Josiah, I'm not paying you five dollars for using you as an example. He brought up the fact that in John chapter 2 at the wedding in Cana, only the servants knew that Jesus had turned the water into wine. Though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom, those statements are like keys that unlock the text in new ways. And man, I was so excited. in ways that are only suggested similarly when you look at Adam himself Now, what do we know about Luke and what was he getting at by putting this all the way to Adam and then noting that Adam is the son of God? which Luke wrote, you'll know that Luke was a very constant travel companion of the Apostle Paul. It would be my duty as the younger brother to marry his widow, and the first child would carry on his name, my brother Doug's name, and my second kids would carry on my name, second, third, fourth, however many I had. And so there's an early tradition that there was a Leverite marriage which caused the line of Joseph through his father to, in one case, be biologically recorded, in the other case If at some point a second son of a king was the king, as could well have happened after the time of the captivity. And Luke carefully studied all of the available manuscripts. What I need to know is that Jesus Christ has a verifiable genealogy and it can be looked at different ways, legally, through his mother, through his father. And the way genealogies worked, even if you look at the genealogies found in in the uh And when we find Matthew's genealogy, he gives us 14 generations from Abram to David, 14 generations from David to the captivity, 14 generations from the captivity to Jesus. One was gender, one was ethnicity, one was family. That's why we read in the first chapter of the book of Ezekiel that when Ezekiel was in the spirit on his 30th birthday at the banks of the Kabar, the canal, and Babylon. The Lord appears to him and calls him to his ministry. The glorious language of Philippians chapter 2. And Father, in the preaching that follows, as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've done for us in Christ, Lord, make it a blessing. And the genealogy, as I sit down and I look at this text like any other text, and I start writing down a long list of everything I notice about the text. If you're following along. shapes and forms, not just the people of Israel. That Jesus is the Son of God. And Jesus, in rising victorious over the tempter, demonstrates that indeed he is. suggests that what we have in Luke is a genealogy that is the actual biological genealogy of Joseph, the adoptive father of Jesus. And I'm a big believer in what John Calvin once said. And one of these or another way of harmonizing them is absolutely and utterly reliable. The Genealogy of Jesus Christ. And hearts that are flesh and not stone, you give them. And that question is one that gets interesting answers. Basically skipping all the names and saying Joseph is the son of that Jesus is the son of Joseph, dot, dot, dot, the son of Adam, the son of God. tirelessly committed to trying to preach everything and not skip anything, least of all those things that are difficult to preach. But there's also a very unique editorial found in this genealogy. to really wrestle with the heart of the text, delete all of the clauses that are non-essential to the argument of the text. Why does the Word of God say that? That he is the son of Joseph. Theophilus, a name that means lover of God. And the second Adam, who came to do what the first one failed to do. And successfully execute that critical mission of perfect obedience and willing sacrifice It has a lineage. And the way Levereite marriages work is if I am, let's suppose I never got married, and my older brother Doug got married, but died without having any kids. Not the legal lineage of David, who is the rightful king next. And as much as I have studied this and looked at it and prepared to give you an answer, because I know many of you will have questions about this, I have to agree with those Bible scholars that have two conclusions. But there are many places in the scripture where although what God says cannot be disproven, it can be wondered at. At which time you became a man. And working a saw. And Lord, we pray that you would use even a text like this genealogy to impress upon our heads and our hearts the fact that knowing Jesus as the Son of God, Son of Man, The perfect fulfillment of all that our race was intended to be before sin, and the perfect solution to all that has happened to it since. How does that equip us to live as husbands, as wives, as parents, as children, as employers or employees, as neighbors? Of all those around us. memorized in our youth Sunday school classes if we grew up in the church or have come across since in our adult walks with Christ, that famous verse from Second Timothy But I was really amused when I read this. We see that this section, like the previous one, is showing us Jesus, the Son of God, in the course of a long list of unpronounceable names. Maybe we don't need to read this. And when I look at this text, I say, well, here's the text before me. This genealogy starts with Jesus and goes up all the way to Adam. A human. Following the voice from heaven, preceding the voice from hell. God was his father uniquely. By describing two atoms. Through whom comes life, forgiveness, peace, rest, love. adoptive grandfather. There's one other fact that we dare not miss. No doubt, mourning the fact that here was the day he had looked forward to his whole life. Father, won't you help us because of this glorious truth that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, took on our flesh and lived a life for us? All God's people said, I should have added a prayer asking for God to help me pronounce some of these names The son of Canaan, the son of Arphaxhad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalil. You know, in the Anglican tradition, they have a reader who comes up and reads the text and then the priest or pastor comes up and preaches. That genealogy begins with Abraham and goes down to Jesus. I think there is. This one shows us that not only is Jesus the fulfillment of all the hopes of the Old Testament people of God, this genealogy shows us that Jesus is indeed So you can just get the direction and the flow and the big point. It's all about Jesus is the focal point and the theme, the gospel and what Jesus does and teaches. The baptism of Christ. We realize that we're confronted with two polar opposites. The one who brought a curse and the one who gives a blessing. You would have a different genealogy. And incredibly detailed about what's happening here. He is the descendant of men named after prophets, priests, and kings alike. Jesus never played his divinity card to go to the head of the line or to be the first in the class. Sinlessly committed himself to being the son of a carpenter. And how rock is better than sand. He perfectly fills the role of a regular human being. But die for yours, and die for mine. And who can speak of his descendants? The one sacrifice Jesus made in that he never, ever knew the joy of marriage, of holding a baby named after him. And no one else can. Lord, use that truth to help us to adorn your gospel with good works, that we might be salty and bright in this bland and dark world, to your glory and the eternal blessedness. Or if you were actually the king of Israel of the line of David, of which Herod certainly was not. plays a very significant role in the theology of the Apostle Paul. And Maitzin observed that we find something interesting in the Gospel of Luke, and that after David Wait until his 30th birthday to begin his public ministry. I simply want to point out to you, dear friends, Jesus Christ did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing. Born of the Virgin Mary, raised by Joseph the Carpenter, a descendant of kings, priests, prophets, a descendant of Adam himself, Son of God. But yet didn't he know so much more? Or are you merely a son of Adam, a daughter of Adam, on your way from glory to dust? Just so that they're guaranteed to be able to improve in their next sermon. This genealogy is. That means that for the first 30 years of his life, Jesus Christ willingly, joyfully, Jesus Christ was the Son of God. Who was raised by Joseph. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph, the son of Heli. Now we come to a text like the genealogy of Jesus Christ, and I think it's an inbounds question. What does this text tell us about the divinity of the Messiah? Jesus Christ again and again claimed to be the Son of God, indirectly but undeniably. And he was aware of the difference. Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about 30 years of age, being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph. Exercised his power, been worshipped, been acclaimed, but instead he's a carpenter. He fulfilled Isaiah's promise. Do you hear your preacher read this long list of names and think, I wish he had stayed in another retreat this week? I didn't come here to read a long list of names and or do you find yourself thinking, I suppose he really was the Son of God? We are those who are in him every bit as much as David was in Abram, and Jacob was in Isaac, and Noah was in Adam. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. What do you know about that year 30? And so, in bringing that up, he invites you to either side with the suspicious or agree with the faithful. That's why he was baptized on the banks of the Jordan River, he who knew no sin and needed no baptism of repentance. The statement of the Bible, whether it's the claim of Jesus himself when he calls God his Father in a way that is utterly unique. That would be outstanding. How does it reprove us? When I have over the years discipled and mentored people, especially interns, I've invited them to as an exercise when they're looking at a text. As was supposed, Luke is letting his gospel readers know. This text is showcased or set apart by two statements in which it is demonstrated in biblical terms definitively. The divinity of the Messiah is seen in his utter faithfulness to take all that he represented as God's planned redeemer from all eternity. The Gospel of Luke goes out of way, and it's by no means certain that he is including every single link in the genealogical chain. Very, very specific. There's a factual and a representative element to Jesus' humanity. And it would be a great mistake to miss the contrast. After King David in this genealogy, we don't find Solomon, instead, we find Nathan. And does Jesus, the Messiah, represent you? In Isaiah 52 and 53, we read one of the most sobering, from a Hebrew perspective, sobering statements about the promised Messiah. What about the humanity of Jesus? uh Gresham Machin. As a preacher of the gospel, I would invite you this morning to suppose that Jesus Christ is not simply the Son of Joseph, but he's the Son of God. Jesus perfectly lived the life of a regular human being, being tempted even as we are in every way. It is the inspired text of Holy Scripture. He writes this. Luke chapter 3, beginning with verse 21, the word of God. So-and-so begat so-and-so. Some of you are very aware of the fact that Matthew has a genealogy in chapter one. And here at the very beginning, he invites you as the reader to consider the fact that yes, many people suppose I uh I told Josiah he's got to preach for me one Sunday, but he wasn't too keen on that. Does he represent you? I'm going to begin reading uh with verse twenty-one Maybe if we're preaching through the Gospel of Luke, we can say, well, Jesus is the Son of God. Many people suppose that he was not incarnate by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary. Then the genealogy, and then it's followed not with the affirmation of heaven, but with the challenge of hell itself. He actually grew up in a town in Palestine in the area of Nazareth to an actual family where he learned an actual trade. We'll get a running start. That's why the name Heli is different from the equivalent name in the Methean genealogy. We pray in Christ's name. A third option is that one of these genealogies is the genealogy of Mary, and the other is the genealogy of Joseph. Well, what exactly do you do with that? This genealogy moves upwards. How does it teach us? Because this Luke, this Gospel of Luke's, is focused on Jesus in his earthly ministry as representative of humanity in all of its And I'm turning in my Bible thinking, what is Josiah doing? First, we have the testimony of heaven itself. In fact, that's one of the things we see in the fact that Matthew's genealogy only goes back to Abram. 15 that Adam and Eve would have a son, a seed, who would crush the head of the serpent. There's another theory proposed by a great uh New Testament scholar, one of my personal heroes of the 20th century. And we find in Luke's genealogy that there are 77 generations, and they're divided up in groups of seven. You see, the year 30 was so significant. So if you have your Bibles, I'd invite you to turn with me to that text. In the Pentateuch, we read that no priest was to begin his service in synagogue or temple until his 30th birthday. He says, uh we may quite legitimately short circuit the whole genealogy by joining 323 with 338. The first Adam through whom came sin, and death, and condemnation, separation from God, guilt, nakedness, shame. Be a great gift to the church. Is that just trivia? Lord, we again thank you for its truth and beauty. Only do it perfectly. That was considered blasphemy, which is what he was accused of by the teachers of the law and the Pharisees. The son of Meleah, the son of Menah, the son of Matatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, the son of Jesse, the son of Obed. And for those of you young men, where did Ben Olt go? When he comes to this text in his commentary, and if you're visiting, I don't often read from commentary, so do come back. For those of you who are young, the word begat means you produced. When he talked about the beams and the splinters that could be in our eyes, using construction terms. You know, I have a stack of about 15 or 20 commentaries and uh homeletics text dealing with the Gospel of Luke that I am carefully studying as I prepare my messages. And in this genealogy, we see the line of Jesus being traced not back to human agency alone, but to God Himself. It's unusual. How does it correct us? There was a Christian minister in Egypt who reportedly knew that there was a Levereite marriage early on in the genealogy. He said, where God has put an end to teaching, let us stop trying to be wise. It's given to us by your Spirit. But then go back and look at all of the unnecessary clauses that were in the text and ask yourself this question. And he's writing similarly, in the manner that we know this text was dispersed, both in the book of Luke and the sequel, the book of Acts, he's writing so that we can know. And Jesus never ever used his divine prerogatives or abilities to grease his own skids. He came to relieve us from the burden of the curse. And so we come to you with humble gratitude and ask that you bless the reading of your word to us. Uh he is uh one of the real pioneers in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, which was so much a part of this our church's history. Almighty God, we pray that you would bless us. And that he was the groom of the entire church's bride, and we indeed are his descendants. And are you in him? Amen. I am, some would say, pedantically You might think, well, what do we make of that? First of all, we see here that it is factual. And it didn't trouble him at all This one has a different one. Many people suppose that he is merely And if someone knew those three things about you, they had you pegged and knew exactly where you fit. Surely if there was ever a wonder child who had an exception granted, it would be him. He could have, at the age of twelve, been like a young pharaoh I think not. How does it train us? Keep in mind, most of the genealogies you read in the Bible have the verb begat. But it is representative in many respects as genealogies where they served as a passport to the ancient world. So that's one. And as your pastor, I will not pretend that I do. Some parts are easier to understand than others. And as such, he offers you a life that goes from dust to glory. It starts with Jesus and it goes back up the family tree. And he lived that human life flawlessly. What is he teaching these people? The one who brought death and the one who is life. The one who failed in the garden and the one who succeeded on a cross. How does this text help me in my pilgrimage, living this life for the glory of God as a blessing to others? This is my Son. He makes that clear in the first verses of the Gospel of Luke. Luke spent a lot of time writing this. Technically it begins with verse 23 and goes through the end. He is the Son of God. The second Adam The Messiah's humanity is embraced. That could be asked another way He represents all of us as the son of Adam. And it keeps our feet grounded on who is Jesus. Because I'm broke. And if any of you have ever done a deep dive in the book of Acts In skipping through these 77 generations, So that he might take our place and die not for his own sins. Those genealogies skip generations, they move around, they're they're selective, they all make a point, right? What good work does this enable me to perform for you? Michael Wilcock is perhaps better known for his wonderful commentary on Revelation, I saw heaven opened. Are you part of that glorious genealogy? Who indeed And in Matthew's genealogy, there are also editorials that highlight three women, the grandmothers. Is it factual? But why in the world would Jesus, the Son of God, who has a 12-year-old boy, was teaching the chief teachers in the temple itself? But the second is this. And that question, if indeed this is ever even read in a church. And this is a very unusual genealogy in the ancient world in the direction that it moves us. It says in parentheses at the top I've got to answer to the Lord. First, we are reminded that he is uniquely the Son of God. And you can see how that would be different over time. In fact, he begins his gospel with the genealogy of Jesus Christ. Hey, study project as an intern, solve that riddle You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. Many of us have You had that, that was your son, that was your daughter. But uh With him I am well pleased. And he doesn't begin his public ministry until he's 30. It's a fair question to say, well, God. And sometimes it's stuff I read in the book, sometimes it's stuff that this past Wednesday night I was at Christian Service Brigade. And in the middle of that is human suspicion. Some of you may know that this genealogy is different The day he'd turn 30 and be able to minister in the temple, and he's in exile in Babylon. Father, we pray that you would help us to think rightly about who Jesus is. And he is the perfect Son of God. Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened. Although that is only a small part of the story. Luke is deeply informed in his theology and understanding of the gospel by the Apostle Paul. I'll go over the first one that most of us aren't aware of that was proposed actually In the Hebrew world, in the Jewish world, you were considered a na'ar. I've often thought that I should assign interns to preach from that text. And he was indeed the Son of Man, who came cheerfully and willingly. So what do you think of this long list of names We got that at the baptism. It's demonstrable And he is the Son of God And when he talked about the foundations of houses, Why does the Word of God say as was supposed? Maybe we'll send you to Michigan to land sing and you can come back after. He was counted with the iniquitous. Some parts are just more accessible, seem more relevant. He represents the people of God as the son of Abram. But this I know, both of these genealogies are the inspired Word of God. And as was appropriate in his day And remember, he's writing to his dear friend Theophilus. And think about what that means. This one goes all the way back to Adam. I've got to figure this business out here Luke is almost certainly the last gospel written. This ends the reading of God's word. And first, because it moves in a rare direction. Adam D. It is the genealogy There's something very specific Let's just skip to chapter 4, Jesus full of the Holy Spirit. And the emphasis is on him, not his genealogy. If you are the Son of God, says Satan. It's also representative. Now, is there any significance to that? We ask these things in Christ's name and for his glory. Because eyes that see and ears that hear, you make them. Uh It's as if But that genealogy We see that by its context. That's a fair question. He represents the true king as the son of David. He embraced his humanity for you, friend. One And Machin. That means a young man until you were thirty. If you go back to Jesus's Other parts are tougher. That day.