When he comes to that place together, He has an answer because he has a strategy. And I believe that that's vital for us as a church, for every single church of the Lord Jesus to be effective for him. And so we as a church have a purpose, have a mission statement, and have a strategy. Our purpose, of course, is to know You're right. And to know our? And to know his? You know it. See? There you go. You got a purpose. Your life, our life together. Isn't that great? You know why you're here. You're here to know him and to know your hope in Jesus Christ and to know his power. Now that drives us. Everything we do as a church has to fit within that purpose. Our mission statement, of course, is the Great Commission from Matthew 28. That we have the Great Commission to go into all the world and make disciples. Now that's our mission. That's how. That's what we're involved in doing, we're knowing Him, knowing our hope, and knowing His power. Our strategy is what we've been looking at over the last months from Ephesians chapter 4. That we're preparing saints being equipped for ministry. You are involved, you see, in fulfilling that purpose. In fulfilling that mission statement by being equipped for God to use you by His Spirit in the lives of other people. In your weakness, in your inability, we're all weak people, we're all inadequate. But we're all learning more about the power and the adequacy of our God as we make ourselves available to Him. And that's what our mission, that's what we as a church, Columbia Presbyterian, are about. Now wherever you are politically, you need to be on the right in the alternatives that you see at the bottom of your sheet there. Because the two alternatives, the left side is what I'm saying we have to guard against. The left is on the top, events, we just talked about events versus strategy Most churches think in terms of events. Most parachurch ministries think in terms of strategy. And that's why, in the last half of the 20th century, it's been the parachurch ministries that have been seeing the conversions. It's the parachurch ministries that have been largely reaching people for the Lord Jesus rather than the local churches. In fact, Frank Zillipaw, the author of the book The Church Unleashed, says that in general the parachurches ministries have been the fishers of men, while the churches have been the keepers of the aquarium. And that's been largely true, hasn't it? You know? Uh they bring the people into the kingdom and we try to scarf them up so that we can somehow disciple them and get 'em into some sort of a balance and you know, and we keep the aquarium to be able to fund the ministries of the parachurch to go reach more people. for Christ, and you know, there ought to be a better kind of working relationship. And so what we're saying here is that we as churches Columbia Presbyterian needs to think in terms of strategy just as much as any campus ministry, as much as navigators, as much as Bible societies, anything else. We need to think in terms of strategies, not events. And when we think in terms of strategies, we find that there's a tremendous freedom in the New Testament. I mean, did you ever stop to think: did Philippi have a youth group? You know, I don't know. You know, I mean, did uh Ephesus have an evening service? Uh beats me, you know. I mean, uh, how was Colosseus evangelism outreach structured You know, any data on that? You know, I mean, how are their prayer meetings organized? I mean, you know, they prayed, but you know, in other words, as you begin to look at the New Testament, you find there are principles Principles that are inviolable about the gospel and about what it means to become holy within a culture. But when it comes to strategy, there's tremendous freedom. Do you know that our church a few years ago seriously discussed, as I had to say few years ago before somebody had a heart attack, a few years ago we discussed seriously canning Sunday school Yeah, I mean did you ever stop to think? Where is the verse in the Bible that says thou shalt have Sunday school, Sunday morning? Read any. So we sat down and we said, maybe we shouldn't have Sunday school. I mean, what is the strategy? Our strategy is that we're seeking to equip saints for the ministry of the Great Commission so that we can know Jesus, know our hope, and know his power. Hey, where does Sunday school fit into that? Well, I'm glad to report to you that we finally found a rationale for Sunday school. We looked at the thing and we, you know, and we really realized there is a strategic place for Sunday school. Sunday school. That fits into a conversation I had with a fellow pastor here in the coalition just recently. Said, you know, our church has been trying all kinds of things in our strategy And he said a lot of it depended on stuff we were doing on Sunday evenings and on Wednesdays and various other times. And he said, found that it didn't work. He said the reality of the fact is if you're going to reach people, you got them one time, and that's Sunday morning. And he said, that better be prime time. He said, Yeah, that sure is true. And so that's why we at Columbia Presbyterian had this package. Where there's worship, there's teaching here, and then you move into, from this one afterwards, into the middle hour, where there's discipleship and fellowship, and you get more teaching. And so you have that, you see, because we believe that this is the foundation of our strategy for preparing you and helping you to be bonded together as the saints of God. So that you're prepared to fight the battle that God's calling you into and that Satan wants to defeat you in this coming week. You need to be prepared. You need to see Jesus again. Just as we just sang. We need to see him in his power and his glory and be able to understand that he's the victorious Christ that we go out to serve. You need to be prepared in that. That's why we have a strategy for that. Now we need to think about that and have everything up for grasp, other than the things that we see are scriptural principles about what the church is and what it does. In terms of outreach, we need to see that you see the uh alternatives in the bottom. There are two Ways of thinking about strategy. There's the Old Testament way and the New Testament way. The Old Testament way was the temple strategy. The New Testament way was the penetration strategy. Now the temple strategy was the come to us strategy. You erect the temple, that becomes the rallying point for the nations to come and see the presence of God with his people. And that's where the people come to know God. Now, the problem is we've got churches all over this country that are still operating on a perfectly valid strategy that's 2,000 years outdated. You see, because when we came into the new age of the Spirit, God said, here's a new strategy. Now no longer call the nations to come to you and your meeting You're now to go and to be thrust out into the nations to penetrate them. And so we need to just kind of catch up with God's program. You know, some people are about 2,000 years or 3,000 years out of date on We need to be thinking in terms of penetration. That's why when we talk about the Ministry Center, we're talking about five areas that we see that we can touch this culture. Youth, adult recreation, education and training, support groups, and recovery groups. Those things are five things that the unbelieving, unchurched people of Howard County and Central Maryland understand. Kids want to have something that they can do with other kids, and the parents want that too. Adults are looking for ways to be able to get some exercise and to have some fun. We're looking for ways for getting some training of parenting or other areas, managing finances, things like this People that are in support situations and need support of other people who understand their situation, but can bring Christian biblical principles to bear on it, or in recovery from something that They've been in bondage to and they need help in this. That's a strategy. The events are up for grass. And so you see as we look at Nehemiah that he thought in terms of strategy He wasn't simply committed to events. Now, when you look at that, we need to then look at what Nehemiah's strategy was. So let's take a look at point B there on the back side of Bolton. Three basic needs. Nehemiah's strategy to be able to get to Jerusalem and to rebuild the wall and bring renewal to the lives of people. Had formulated in his mind for these four months. And so he basically probably said something like this if After I violate the happy face rule, my head is still on my shoulders. Just in case it is, I got a list in my room. When the king says, What is it you need? I got an answer. I know what I need to get this job done. And so when he comes and God does bless and provides that, Arta Xerxes says, what is it you want? Chapter 2 verse 4 That then Nehemiah says, I breathe a quick prayer to the God of heaven. Lord, help me to put this together now, to speak this. Verse 5, I answered the king. If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in his sight, let him send me to the city in Judah where my fathers are buried, so that I can rebuild it. And then the king with the queen sitting beside him asked, How long will your journey take when we get back? It pleased the king to send me, so I set a time. I also said to him, If it pleases the king, may I have letters to the governors of Trans Euphrates, so that they will provide me safe conduct until I arrive at Judah. And may I have a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, so that he will give me timber to make beams for the gates of the citadel by the temple, and for the city wall, and for the residence I will occupy? And because the gracious hand of my God was upon me, the king granted my request. So I went to the governors of Trans Euphrates and I gave them the king's letters. The king had also sent army officers and cavalry with me. Three things that Nehemiah says he needs. Number one is time. He needs time He's realistic, you see, there in verse chapter 2, verse 6. The king said with the queen, how long is your journey going to take when we get back? Nehemai says, Oh well, you know, I'm just trusting the Lord here, so you know, give me a little time off and I'll keep in touch. Or maybe you could have thought, well, you know, maybe I can pull this one off, just squeeze it into my schedule, commute to Jerusalem, you know. They come back on weekends, you know, or something like this. Well Jerusalem was 800 miles away, so what much chance of doing that? You see, my point is that Nehemiah was realistic He said, this thing's gonna take so long, I've got to build a house over there. I mean I can't even stay at the Holiday Inn. It's gonna cost you much. I gotta build a house. So you see in verse 8 that he says I need timber to build a place while I'm doing this. And it doesn't say how much time he said, but he set a time. And he was realistic. He said, this is the amount of time it's going to take me. You know, a lot of us want to do ministry, but we feel like we don't have time We're not being realistic with time, are we, for many of us? They just sort of squeeze it in, you know? You know, I'd say, well, you know, I can do this and I can do this, all these obligations. Maybe I can kind of squeeze a little ministry in on the side of this thing. But it doesn't work. Now, let me give you a real shocker. God has given you enough time to do 100% of his will. And no more. You believe that? God has given you enough time to do a hundred percent of his will. And no more. Nehemiah needed time. He asked for time. God gave him time. But he didn't get that time by trying to crush it into the rest of his schedule. Nehemiah took the time that was needed and he asked God to provide it and God provided it. I believe for some of us we don't have time because we haven't put it before God. God Help me to reorder my priorities, to do what is necessary to be able to get some time. I was really excited last week. One of those risk papers on the gray slips that came in Was a person who wrote down on their gray slip, I'll give you the quote, that I might find a job with less pressure and demand so that I can invest more time in ministry. Now there's a request with eternal significance. There's a person who's thinking strategically. They're saying, I want to be involved in the Great Commission, but if I'm going to do it, I need some time. And I don't see the time where it's going to come from. From now. So I need to find a place where God's going to give me some time. And so that's an exciting thing to pray for. Do you know Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 to 17 say, if you want to know God's will in your life, A basic principle is that you seize the opportunities for the kingdom. That's what it says. Take a look. Ephesians 5, 15, and 17. It's written down there, so you can't forget it. Make the most of the opportunities because the days are evil. So then, be wise, knowing the Lord's will. And for some of us, it's a matter of time. We've got to face this question of priorities, honestly. God has given to us enough time to do 100% of his will. So if we're frazzled and we're saying, I don't have enough time! We blame God, don't we? You didn't create enough of the stuff. You're asking me to squeeze in eight days of living in a seven-day week. It's not fair. And God just quietly looks back and he says, My child, I've given you enough time to do everything I've asked you to do. I'm giving you enough time to do everything I've asked you to do, plus a few other things projects you want to squeeze in too. And so it becomes a matter of discernment, and usually that involves talking to other people in a small group or elder or someone to say, help me to get a handle on my time. Second thing that Nehemiah needed was authority. He needed authority. You see in chapter 2, verse 7 there, it resets the time. I also said to him, if it pleases the king, may I have letters to the governors of the Trans Euphrates says they'll provide me safe conduct till I arrive in Judah. And then verse 9, he takes the goes to the governors of Trans Euphrates and gives them the king's letters. He also then has an has army officers and a cavalry. And apparently, if you go on to the book, those army officers and cavalry wind up building the wall. Yeah, it's just a way of getting a few extra hands here, you know. That worked out very nice. But what he needed basically was authority. And do you see there was no question that Nehemiah had authority to build the wall. Anybody says, what are you doing here building this wall? Who do you think you are? He says, hey, King Artaxerxes has authorized me to come here to build this. Do you realize that you have authority from the King of Kings to build the walls of Central Maryland and the lives of people that are in rubble? Because when Jesus died, he died for your sin to forgive you that you might have a cleansed conscience. And if you've come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness, You now can stand to Satan and look him in the eye when he accuses you and say that you can't be used in ministry for Jesus Your life is shabby and you've got a rotten past and you've blown it here and there and every other place, and you say, But Jesus has forgiven me. I have the authority to stand against Satan in that. And when the King of Kings rose from the dead, He said, All authority is given unto me. Therefore, you, my child, go and make disciples. You have the letters of the King of Kings Jesus who has said, go in my name and in my authority. And when you say to a person this week, I want to tell you, when you're telling me all these problems in your life, let me share with you something about Jesus, you do that with the authority. Do you have that idea when you talk about Jesus in weak, stammering, halting ways? You know, I saw just um this week I was reading an example of a person who was a grad student. In a course, and the professor said, Christians neither think nor are able to reason. And he was an agnostic, pretty hostile to Christianity. The grad student in his class, in fear and trembling, I went up and talked to him about why he believed that and he started dripping into Christianity. And so the next class, the students Came back. In the works of G. K. Chesterton, a brilliant Christian of last century, kind of the 19th century C. S. Lewis in some ways. He gave him his works, and the professor was impressed enough that this guy would give him this book, just uh out of concern, that he went home and he read it. Now that professor is now a professor at Wheaton College in their graduate school, training people for ministry. Because this person wasn't intimidated. They say, I have the authority of Jesus and I'm going to take a risk. And I'm going to speak for it. And so you and I have the authority. But you know, churches often give a mixed message. We'll say, you have the authority, go get involved in ministry. But now check with us as elders about everything that you do. I know a church that you have to ask the elders permission before you can start a Bible study. We don't work like that. Jesus has given to you authority. And if he gives you a mission, some sort of ministry he places on your mind to reach people. Let us know. We'd like to know about it. To be praying for you, supporting. But start that thing. Call a meeting. Get others together who have it in mind. I'll tell you, there will be no elders there. Because if there's elders there, we'll tend to give the answers and seize control. You take it, your initiative, your ownership, we'll give you opportunity through putting notices in the bulletin board, perhaps do a body life, maybe circulate through the middle hour groups. You're able to let your ministry be known. But it is yours. You have the authority. As long as you're walking with Jesus in an upright life, we want to support you in that. The third thing that Nehemiah needed was timber or resources. Timber, or the parenthesis down below it, is resources. You see, again, there's a principle here. If God's calling you to be involved in a ministry, then it's up to Him to provide the resources for you to do it. Trust him to do that. That's what we've been doing concerning the ministry center. We've been saying, God, if you want to do this, just like you provided the timber for Nehemiah, look at what he says in verse 8. May I have a letter also to Asaph, keeper of the king's forest, so that he will give me timber to make beams for the gates of the citadel. By the temple and for the city wall and for the residence that I will occupy. And because the gracious hand of my God was upon me, the king granted my request. Three timber. All that he could use for a gate from a whole city. Imagine all the people it took just to carry that stuff. I mean that's an incredible request. Here's the guy who had put a cessation to the project and burned the gates just about twelve years before that. And now he's given a hunk of his forest to go rebuild it. Who but God? To turn his mind to do that. Remember the example that I gave just last week of the Bible study that prayed that God would start a street ministry and committed $600 a month to them And then God provided $50,000 through one of the investors in the congregation, getting it from a group of people that owned a building. Just free and clear for them to start that. If God is calling you to do a ministry, don't say, well, I'd like to do it, but you know, I don't see where I'm going to need this and this and that. I can't do it. That's the exciting thing to lay it before the Lord and see what He'll provide. If He's provided the ministry center as a base of operation, He's provided the bricks and the cinder blocks and the cement Boy, do we have cement. There's cement all over that place now. It's on the ground, it's on the walls, it's all over the place. They've been pouring it this week. God's provided all these things We're looking to still provide the furnishings, sound system, things like this. We're trusting that God's going to provide that. But he'll provide for each one of us. Philippians 4:19, he'll provide according to his riches in Christ. All the things that we need that He's called us to do. And so we look to Him to provide for us. I was just talking to somebody this week who said that they had quit their job in part so they could be available for ministry Now I'm not suggesting you all go quit your jobs to be available for ministry. All right? You know, this is what God led a particular person to do in their situation, and there was another income in that family, of course. But now for each of us, we need to say, Lord, what is it that you want me to do? You provide the resources Time, authority, money, materials, whatever it is. And I'm available to you to do it. Have you caught our vision and our strategy? Have you bought into it? Not just caught it, you understand, oh yeah, I know where you're going. Sounds kind of exciting. Hope God uses it. But have you bought into it personally? He said, I'm part of this. I want to see God use me as part of this congregation. So when I come to the end of my life, you know nobody has ever come to their deathbed and said, Boy, I sure wish I'd spent more time at the office. Well, I sure wish I'd put in more overtime. Sure wish I'd been on more committees. I'm sure there's a lot of people. And go to the Lord and say, I sure wish I'd invested more in the lives of people, my family, those that I've known. Have you bought into personal the kingdom vision of the Lord Jesus? In terms of your own time, the time that He's already given you, as well as the time that's needed, the authority that He has given you, plus a deepening sense of that authority that you need for the challenges ahead. And for the resources that he's already given to you, the steward, as well as the resources that you're going to need for the exciting things he's calling you into. Let's come before him together now. Lord, we want to be a people who think strategically about our lives. We don't want to fritter them away. We don't want to fool ourselves and say that we're trusting you as we just kind of react day by day, as ping-pong hauls and bounced off the circumstances that hit us. We want to have a purpose. And we want to see ourselves as fitting into the larger purpose of the body that you've called us to be in. Because we believe, Lord Jesus, and I genuinely believe with all my heart that you have raised up this congregation to do a great work To do a work to be part of the body of Christ in central Maryland, to change the history of this part of your being. That the Lord Jesus would be at the head of a transforming movement where people who are rubble as a result of the secular values that they bought into will be transformed in the years ahead. And we want to be part of your strategy. Lord, speak to us now as we think of our time, of our authority, sense of authority, or lack of it. And of our own resources, what is given and what is needed. We might lay that before you in this moment.