That's one of the great ironies of history, but we're talking about mysteries this morning, not ironies. And Richard Baxter, uh not particularly noted for any great uh Christmas discourses that he wrote. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter two. of all the babes being slaughtered, and he came ultimately to be a comforter, a comforter for Rachel weeping. But when he heard that Archalaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. uh wedding anniversary. I want to give you some advice that I first read in a book by Richard Baxter, an English Puritan. And the difficulty is this. And yet here we have an explicit verse in the New Testament that says, And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what it was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. In each of these cases, the prophet is singular, and it is what was spoken that is deliberately being recited. for a season they abstained from three things in particular. Now keep in mind these crowds are the crowds from those towns, not the crowds that have followed him from Galilee. as Hosea chapter 11, verses 1 and following show us. Lord, help it to resonate with the deepest parts of our soul. There are a lot of mysteries in the Bible. Because on this side of heaven, we've got these small finite brains that are infected by sin. And by the end of his tenure, there was a uh nearly every single household in that entire town was attending churches on Sunday mornings. He's one of the Puritans that had developed for us this robust New Testament vision of a pastor who knows his people and visits with them. I'm going to go after it tooth and nail, hammer and tongs, and I'm going to see where it takes me. Of secular atheistic scholars who determined to prove the Bible wrong on archaeological and historical bases, who, as a result of their studies, became Christians. However, we will have a easy resolution. despite that apparent paradox, that that mystery of how we reconcile it with Genesis through Malachi is of so much importance uh uh toddler years, what what that would fulfill, what it meant theologically, prophetically. Dedicated, consecrated to the Lord. But shoot like if you have a tree stump and you well you have a tree stump only after you've cut the tree down. They're just randomly associated as homophone type words that sort of sound alike but bear no relation to one another. And he was that, and he was even referred to as son of David, but nowhere is he called a shoot. And said to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. It was an area of uh cultic contamination, of uncertain lineage. These are the crowds that will turn on him when given an option to either forgive and receive back Jesus or Barabbas. in Matthew chapter 2 is a difficult one. And he comes not in denial of or merely despite the great suffering and injustices of the world, but Jesus Christ took on our flesh and was born as a babe to address it. Pulled out by Matthew, speaking by the Spirit, and giving us the significance of Christ's birth. Lord, it is beautiful because it is true, and it is truth that is beautiful. Take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. Great wisdom given us mysteries in the Bible. And he pastored in a little town called Kidderminster in in uh England in the sixteen hundreds He was so faithful at loving and pastoring his congregation that this Puritan town with a Puritan church put up a statue of him in the town square. that despite the difficulties of reconciling that fact with its absolute fulfillment of the truth and tenor of the Old Testament, When we come to this morning's text, we read this. of all of the prophecies concerning how the Messiah would be received by his people, tied up in one word. Because it's worded very differently than all of his other prophetic fulfillment statements. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, singular, out of Egypt I called my son. might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. That word is a word that implies a clause that is merely descriptive. He's basically saying that the prophet's plural described a Messiah who would come and would be a Nazarene. To be called a Nazarene, given what we know about the days of Jesus Christ, the first century A. Now we know all about Nazarites, all the way back from the Pentateuch, Numbers chapter 6. Even if your father or mother died. Now the difficulty with thinking that Jesus was a Nazarite is that he was never called a Nazarite. That's a shoot, for example, the shoot from the stump of Jesse, to use the biblical phrase. He drank wine. It just doesn't happen. Is an option that is proposed to us throughout church history, beginning with Origen. Somebody who's utterly unsophisticated, someone who's not really fit for polite society, someone who is uncouth, undeveloped in the capacities of what it means to be man or woman. From a mystery-solving perspective that I haven't found developed in all of the commentaries that I have in my shelves. The prophecy is that he would be called a Nazarene. First, he is called the Nazarene, or the man from Nazareth, by a demon-possessed man who says, I know who you are, Jesus of Nazareth. as he is entering into Passover week, where he will be crucified and a crowd in Jerusalem in the triumphal entry. An angelic being says, you are looking for Jesus of Nazareth. He says the fact that Jesus of Nazareth, the Nazarene, was killed. As if he were a Nazarene. I'll share with you at the risk of deeply offending some of you that something very, very funny happened in this church property a couple of weeks ago. amazing gift of God from God to this church. Yeah, he can hear you wherever you are. It's as if Jesus came from Ohio. Oh Lord, this Christmas give us rest for our souls as we find our rest in you. Can he hear you under your blankets? But my deep, deep uh repentance for those of you from Ohio or have associations there, I don't believe that's true. He carries that same willingness to bear the scorn and derision of sinner to sinner all the way to the cross, where he will endure as a sinless sacrifice And shows us what hope is in dying and being raised for us. And to resolve it, and to offer us hope in the face of great suffering. Where we all had parts to play and it was it was quite a bit of fun. The school of higher criticism in the 19th century to England, to America today, where the Bible is considered really just another book that is of limited value as a source for the histories that it reflects upon. Neither is the word Nazarene. And so in order to understand something of this Christmas mystery, let's look first at the fact that Matthew is very deliberate in how he words this statement. And look at what we have here in the second instance, chapter two, verse fifteen Uh no, they just don't like haircuts. To whom he said, Taletha Kum, little girl, I say to you, rise up or Lazarus, whom he called out of the grave. And all of that, all of that grows from an identification with the Nazarene, the Nazarene, who was called those things for you. By the birth of Christ and his coming for us. The second is that he would be that perfect embodiment of all that Israel was intended to have been. That there are instances of theology and doctrine in the Bible that God has so designed to be there under the surface, but by good and clear consequence, doctrines like the Trinity. And mid to late 1600s. Because they realize there's no way that a mere book like this can be proven correct over and over and over again. that it is included as the capstone, the final great prophecy fulfilled in the coming of Christ, according to Matthew. To be called a shoot in the theological sense, to be called a shoot from the stump of Jesse would be an acknowledgement that you were part of the Davidic monarchic line through David. Nathanael said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Nazareth was on the very northern edge of Galilee, and it was a place that was associated with this complete confusion and utter mingling of Gentile and Jewish tradition. And let me read for you an inclusive list of all the places where Jesus is called a Nazarene in the Gospel of Matthew. I have a church, a Christian dictionary and encyclopedia that was published in 1884 in my office. In the late 1800s, their word for Christian was Nazarene. the vilest, basest, most disrespected reputation conceivable amongst all the people that quote unquote matter. Lord, that we would be mindful not only of the drops of blood that our Savior shed, but of the words about him and from him that are to us words of life. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. He wrote The Reformed Pastor, still in print today. for like the last 35-40 years of his life. But Richard Baxter said something to babies like you and me. And as a young man, you know, I've always had my doubts. This is the main point of this text. I want you to notice in looking at this that we are going to understand very clearly that being called a Nazarene is in a sense the fulfillment begins with a particular word. We're going to say Matthew, notice he's being very deliberate in how he presents this prophecy about how Jesus would come, why he would come, what his early childhood, the time from his nativity to his uh But three explicit and foundational prophecies about the Messiah who would come to save his people from their sins. As if I were from Nazareth. Think about the place that comes to your mind that is of the least redeeming value that you can imagine. Vicki Vandenhuebel, who I can cite with impunity because she's not here, was uh SR Children's Ministry Director who is absolutely brilliant. And I want you to think about what that means for you and for me. How does he introduce himself? That say, come, repent, turn, live, eat, drink. Christians, who were mostly Jews who followed the Messiah at that time, were called two different things. The punishments of a holy God on a sinful people, even people who scorned him, that by repentance and faith, any to the fact that we are created in your image, yet have rebelled against you and gone our own way, and yet you are so faithful to us. In coming and urging and pleading your case through the creation that bespeaks of your glory and your power, your goodness and beauty, to the words of Scripture shared from one soul to another. He focuses our attention on the fact that Jesus would be called a Nazarene. Almighty God, we thank you for the gift of your word. We bow down at the altar of the sacred nature of truth that is from you. Lord, inspire our sacred imaginations to see ourselves in Christ more clearly than we have before. I have taken that to heart, and I have said to myself, whenever I encounter an apparent paradox, as Van Till would put it, And that has been the case certainly in our culture, in the West, from Germany and Central Europe. So very clearly there, Matthew understands the use of sources in a very modern way. A voice was heard in Rama, weeping in loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children. And then we have even more specific in the third case, verse 17. So we're clearly talking about what we might term an anachronistic summary of what the prophets taught. It's just not a satisfying resolution to the mystery. And he says that it meant he was despised. You have an interesting statement that tells us what it meant in the first century to be associated with Nazareth. Origen, that early church father who looks back on this says that see how Jesus would be called in some translations of Origen a hick. We would think of a hayseed, a backwoodsman. To be called a Nazarene, this is what it probably meant. He is called Jesus of Nazareth by both the crowd near Jericho And Jesus asks them what they're talking about. We see a very strong suggestion that what Origen and the early church believed was true. That's where our Jesus was raised. In order to be your friend, to love you, to call you into the fullness of your being's potential, the renovation of the image of God in you. The forgiveness of all of your sins. Jesus forsakes courts of glory and a throne to dwell in a manger and to be called a Nazarene. Any one of us, whoever you are, whatever has been done to you, whatever you have done, you are eligible to follow the Nazarene. Almighty God, we thank you for the gift of your word. Christ is to be born in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. And in reading that, I I've learned a lot over the years referencing it as I reference much that is far more modern. Gifts beyond anything we could hope for, wrapped under a tree. When Jesus is crucified, according to John 19, 19, the sign says Jesus of Nazareth. Zechariah 11, 4, the Messiah says, they detested me. All for you. Dear friend, respond to the love that the Nazarene has shown you. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Rise! Doctrines like how it is that Jesus Christ is one person since Christmas existing in two natures, fully God and fully man. I reflect on those wise words of Baxter and I said, I'm not going to give this doubt half the victory over me by ignoring it. But yet, when we come to this text, we have a verse here that troubles some. The reason I think it's important to bring this mystery up, it's not my general practice for those of you who are visiting to afflict you with difficulties in the text. Nazirite at its root has a verb nazir with IR in the transliteration at the end. This prophetic stream of thought, river of thought, ocean of thought, that Jesus would be despised and rejected in his lifetime. Neutral at best. Not at all. I haven't really left much behind. Jesus goes from the heights of holiness and splendor to the depths of rejection and hatred. You are eligible to be warned, whether it be in a dream or through a sermon, to flee the realm governed by foolish humans. That is not the case. Nazareth has as its root a noun Nezer, which means shoot. Philip from Bethsaida, who has just been invited to follow Jesus. Looked over, unappreciated. When Peter is in the temple courtyards and the high priest's servant sees Peter and says, weren't you with that Nazarene? He is the one of the two men walking along the road to Emmaus. was born in Nazareth because that would in its first century context beautifully fulfill and capture Foolish. But their love is not the same as the love of Jesus. And Heavenly Father, in the preaching that follows the reading of your word. The word Nazarene would have had no meaning to anyone living in the days of Solomon. You wouldn't cut your hair, you wouldn't drink any alcohol, no wine or strong drink, and you would not go anywhere near a dead body. I've been called those things. It involves sometimes having the culture or the people around you think that you are a backwards-thinking, stupid, naive. and enroll under the banner of Christ, the Nazarene, who shows us what love is in coming for us. There is a mystery in this text that I just read for us. This fact that Jesus would be called a Nazarene is of such great importance to the Holy Spirit And we know that he went near to dead bodies, even touching them and lifting them up and raising them and being in the same room as the little girl. Where is this prophecy fulfilled now, beginning in Matthew chapter four? The mob who arrests Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane calls him a Nazarene twice. The young man at the tomb. The presence of the Holy Spirit Himself. But not so Jesus. Many of you have been in educational institutions where you have been taught that the Bible is not entirely true. It was just this past Thanksgiving. He made wine, his first great miracle in Cana. The Jews in the early church who thought very, very little of, even despised, You see, in following Jesus, sometimes it is the case that we have to embrace what Christ embraced to love us. Does anybody that you know of love you that much? Who loves a good mystery? And the rabbinic tradition was that if you needed a complete and total break from the past, you would have this period of Nazarite consecration. If you have a Bible concordance, or you do a Google search, on Nazareth in the Old Testament, you'll find that that town is never mentioned a single time. Is there any place that God can't hear you? Can anything good come from there? Jesus came from heaven to become a Nazarene And it only begins with the reaction of people towards Him Following Jesus involves becoming something of a Nazarene yourself Brainwashed. What's the answer? But she was talking to a bunch of toddlers about is there anywhere you can go that God can't hear you? There are people who will go and live anywhere to be close to you and love you. So in that sense, he was not called a Nazarene. He came from that place where you would never expect anything good to come. And when he first took that church, it was the kind of church nobody would want to take. You see, being from Nazareth was significant in the sense that it represented an association with all of these things that in the culture of Jesus' day were awful. There is no instance in the Old Testament where there is a single prophecy that says the Messiah will be called a Nazarene. And he says, how can you not know what we're talking about? Isaiah 53, verse 3. They are not paradoxes. I thought I'd try to include Charlie in the sermon this morning. We said, Well, Dad and Mom, what would you like to do? For that period of time that you were dedicated to the Lord, you would pursue absolute purity and holiness. Amen. The word is Hati, spelled O-T-I or Amicron Tau Y Being called a Nazarene was in none of those contexts clearly a compliment. And it concerns what we looked at last week, the fact that he comes in a context of great injustice. He was a very sickly man. The main point of this text is how this prophecy that he would be called a Nazarene is fulfilled We laughed so hard in the church office when she told us that story And so the question I asked myself sitting in my office this week on Tuesday was: well, who calls him a Nazarene? The first is that he will be a ruler whose shepherds, a ruler born in Bethlehem, a small and significant city of David. And Lord, we thank you again and again and again for its truth and its beauty. I am Jesus of Nazareth. And those are some of the nicer things I've been called. That's not the case at all. They abstained for from from cutting their hair at all. But in those days, it was very apropos if you were going to be And we see this use in the Gospel of John. We read that, and he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene. We don't think beauty is true. I've always been confronted by some of the mysteries of reality in my life as a Christian man. Neither is to look at it simply as if Jesus was called a shoot, because he wasn't. The acceptance with God the Father Lord, that we would recognize the words of our Maker. And now this says something for a Puritan. Can he hear you if the lights are out? This is the first positive use, the first clearly positive use of the word Jesus of Nazareth. Mysteries are something that we enjoy, and we rarely think about the fact that God has in his And he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets When Jesus appears to Saul on the road to Damascus. And we read three places in particular. Because if you knew me really well, you'd know that I come by my Nazarene reputation quite honestly. They are what Cornelius Van Till, one of my favorite theologians, would call apparent paradoxes. He said, if you ever have doubts, never let them go unanswered lest you give them half the victory over you. A Nazarite was somebody who made a special vow to be dedicated to the Lord. And as often as you encounter a doubt or a mystery in your faith or in your reading of or study of the Bible, One little girl raises her hand. Because even if I were to love you perfectly and sacrificially, such that I embraced the name Nazarene to be your friend. Jesus comes from heaven to earth We have no indication that he wore his hair long or short. He would be despised and rejected by men. Does anybody love you that much? Are you the only one that doesn't know? I know I do. And my mom, some of you know her, Jude Judy Bjerkus, she said, I'd like to do one of those uh mysteries. And in this last prophecy that is Have you ever thought about that? And I want to invite you to consider a question that I think is probably the most important question to ask Because a Nazarene in the day of Jesus was somebody who was simply not valued at all. And as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, Lord, multiply its effectiveness in our lives. Richard Baxter thought he was dying. Nothing good can come from you. Theologians call it the noetic effect of sin. And that is where the best thing we could ever, ever hope for originated. We thank you for how it points us again and again, with depth and clarity. She refused to be comforted because they are no more. The third prophecy that is highlighted as a fulfilled promise So let's look at God's word together and bow your heads with me before it is read. Many beautiful things are, as our proverb says, skin deep. And I recognize that some of you will have never noticed this, and I may be causing you trouble, for which I'm sorry. And he's quoting from the Greek translation, in nearly every case in the Gospel of Matthew, the words of the Old Testament. Origen is from the earliest chapter of church history Somebody without education. I was probably 21 or 22 when I read this book. It was a Kitterminster was not by no means a big town, and the church was barely hanging on. Matthew chapter 2, beginning with verse 19. That phrase, that he would be called a Nazarene, These are all words that have been used to describe how the early church, following Origen's lead, understood being a Nazarene. But imagine if it was And much like me, he was a big baby. So you have a tree, cut it down, you have a stump, and if next year what in New England we call the sucker grows up out of it The two words are utterly unrelated The third option D. It was an area that was not associated with any wealth or power or artistic or beautiful resources or potential. I was shocked and surprised, I can even say stunned when my brothers and I had determined we were going to celebrate my parents' 60th. Notice, for example, what we read in chapter 2, verse 1. It's the first reference to Nazareth. Lord, may we receive the gift of your word being read with all of your blessings. He says, what are you talking about? Bless us, we ask in Jesus' name. And being warned, in a dream he withdrew to the district of Galilee. Respond. And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. But Richard Baxter was a a fellow who had first been ordained a deacon and he went on to become a pastor. So if you uh see my sons they're visiting today from California, you might think two of them are Nazirites. Does anybody love you so much that he or she would embrace If you look in the Gospel of John, chapter 1. Cleopas after the resurrection. He would be the true son called from Egypt. In the first case, many people have said over the years that it meant that he was a Nazarite. And the question suggests itself to me very naturally. When we look at this Can he hear you if daddy and mommy aren't in the house? Philip finds Nathaniel I don't want to look at all of them. I have books full of testimonies Second question we're going to ask is what could it mean? And not shoot like bang bang. To be utterly rejected, disrespected. They were called Ebionites, and they were called Nazarenes. And Lord, we pray that you would bless your word to us. So we're going to ask a second question now. I'm not going to let this mystery remain unsettled. Psalm 22, that he would be scorned by mankind and despised by the people. Jesus was not a Nazarite. In John chapter 1, verse 45 and 46, we read this. That there are things in the scriptures that angels long to look into Ohio? That is not the case. He was despised, and we esteemed him not, as if he came from Nazareth. Notice the prophet, it is written, and you, O Bethlehem, and then there's a quotation. He's not giving us a specific quotation here That's the effect of sin on the mind that make it difficult for us to learn things like calculus. So Nazarite is not a We might truly become like Him in every way. Superstitious. Nazarite and Nazarene are very different words. Matthew chapter two, we have four prophecies that are fulfilled. Sarcastic, ironic, vicious. Doesn't know what Lord, that we would heed the counsels of our heavenly friend. And let's be Nazarenes this Christmas. Again, a direct quotation from Hosea 11, verse 1. And they note that in the Arabic-speaking world It was a book called Dying Thoughts. And indeed, to be called a Nazarene was no compliment. This one's worthy of mentioning. And that means to be dedicated. Demonstrably so. That Jesus We could look at 50 places. Amen. This ends the reading of God's Word. You would do nothing that would cause ceremonial uncleanness. Jesus is called a Nazarene. But we worship the beauty of holiness. The word actually shows up. What have you come to do? Amen. Address them. Ridiculous.