I expect we will settle with eight principles, but we are at least up to eight principles, and we've looked so far. At uh, well, kind of three and a half, we look first of all the principle of passion, secondly the principle of prayer. Thirdly, the principle of risk. And then fourthly, we began last week the principle of strategy. And you see the line up there. The fourth principle is the strategy which simply says the church needs to think. In terms of strategy rather than events. And last week we looked at the first part of that, which was marshalling the plan. We saw that Nehemiah was thinking strategically as he prayed for what was on God's heart, the broken walls and the broken lives in Jerusalem. And that then he risked his life by breaking the smiley-faced rule at the table before Artaxerxes and uh r realistically then asked for what he needed to get into ministry. He needed time, he needed authority, and he needed timber or resources. That's which I got the most response from last week in that. So we got six sheets back. That's six. uh sheets back last week that we're asking for prayer uh concerning time, um decisions about time, priorities of time And of course, um that's no great surprise, is it, that that would be the thing that would hit many of us. Uh and yet remember we should be encouraged with Nehemiah because he needed time and God gave him time. Now It was a danger in something I said last week in being misunderstood, so I want to hit that again just so I'm not misunderstood. I used as an example A person in the congregation who quit her job in order to be more available for ministry. And you could conclude from a statement like that that I was pitting work with the idea of ministry. You know, you quit your job so you can minister. And of course that would be a very wrong kind of dichotomy to make We minister in our work. Our work is part of our ministry. And so we never should think in terms of work or ministry. And you see that in Nehemiah. Nehemiah ministered as a cupbearer to the king. And he did that with integrity, and he did that in a way that uh was so conscientious that he gained the respect of Arta Xerxes. And that's clear the way Arta Xerxes responds to him that he holds Nehemiah in high regard, because his ministry as cupbearer, even though it was for a secular, unbelieving king in a secular government, was a ministry he took very seriously. But the point I was trying to make is that in order to be able to minister to Jerusalem He had to take time from that ministry for the other ministry. And so it is today that you and I have positions and your position maybe with a secular agency. You minister within that agency conscientiously and with integrity. And as you do that, there's also the balance of saying, but the Lord has given me gifts, Ephesians 4, to build up the body of Christ. Building up that body, I need to balance the ministry in my work with the ministry of building up the body here. So that those things have a balance in my life. And sometimes you need to cut one back in order to give more attention to the other. And so those are the things that we all wrestle with. And a number of you indicated that, but I wanted to make sure that we were clear on exactly what the relationship between those two is. Now, having said that, We move on now to the second principle, which is, or the second part of this fourth principle of strategy, thinking in terms of strategy rather than events to see the second part of mobilizing the people. Nehemiah not only was marshalling a plan during the four months of his praying and then uh being able to know exactly what he needed in order to minister the way he saw God calling him to, But the second part was the mobilized people. Now remember, it was probably December of 446 BC when Nehemiah first heard about the rubble in Jerusalem First began to pray about that situation. He prayed for about four months, so it was around April of 445 BC when he took the big risk before Arta Xerxes and then outlined what he needed in order to do the task. So it was probably May, possibly June of 445 BC, when Nehemiah took off, left Susa with his retinue and all of his letters and authority. uh to head 800 miles west to Jerusalem. Now along the way he's picking up Uh all this timber, you know, he's got all these supplies that he's gotta have. People and timber and various other things, I'm sure. And so it's at least three or four weeks that it takes them to get to Jerusalem. So it's probably sometime around July, 445 BC, that Nehemiah hits Jerusalem. Now what's significant as you read God's word in this is to notice that he does not hit Jerusalem with all this timber and all these people and say, here I am, guys, we're going to build the wall Let's quit our jobs, everybody. Hit the deck on the wall. Out we go. Very interesting. I don't know how he did it with half of a forest behind him, but we read that in chapter two. In verse 11 and 12, Nehemiah talks about going, and he says, I went to Jerusalem, and after staying there three days, I set out during the night with a few men I had not told anyone what my God had put in my heart to do for Jerusalem. There were no mounts with me except the one I was riding on. Now It may be that he had the requisitions and he hadn't yet assembled all the timber, or maybe it was back still being cut and was going to come along in a week or two. We don't know exactly the details of that But I think what's significant is to see that when Nehemiah came to the rubble, the first thing he did was to listen. He didn't go to proclaim, first of all. Three days he just listens to what's happening in Jerusalem. And so you get the picture that he kind of moves into town. People say to him, No, Nehemiah, what are you doing here? You know, you're a big shot over there in the government in Susa, right? You know? And so Nehemiah says, Yeah, well, you know, I'm here because I have a concern for Jerusalem and I I care about you guys. What's happening here? And so he listens and they tell him about how miserable things are and what it's like to live there with all this rubble and the discouragement and the rest of that. And you get this idea that for three days he's not saying anything. About what God's put on his heart. Specifically the text tells us that. But that he's probably not sharing much of anything of exactly what's on his mind. He's just there to listen And then after those three days, then he goes out to survey the walls. And it's important to see what's involved there. Nehemiah has got to see the damage for himself. He's got to feel it. He's got to be able to perceive what's going on. And so Nehemiah chapter 2, verse 12 says, I went out with a few men, because out at nighttime, must be a full moon, so we can see And he's heading out. No big deal. Hasn't told anybody what God had put on his heart to do for Jerusalem. No mounts with with me except my own eyes riding one. Everyone else is on foot. And he's on a horse. By night then I went through the valley gate toward the jackal well and the dungate, examining the walls of Jerusalem. You love those names, right? Very poetic. Examining the walls of Jerusalem which had been broken down and its gates which had been destroyed by fire. And then I moved on toward the fountain gate, the king's pool, the pool of Siloam. But there was not enough room for my mouth to get through. And so I went up by the valley, up the valley by night, examining the wall. Finally I turned back and I re-entered through the valley gate. The officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, because I had yet as yet said nothing to the Jews, or the priests, or the nobles, or officials, or any others who would be doing the work. Now, Nehemiah has taken a kind of a, it's a uh, he's describing from your perspective, a clockwise rotation around Jerusalem to see the ruins. To see the ruins for himself. I think one of the things we need to understand here for us is that one of the big problems in the church in America today is that the church does not see the ruins around us. Our ruins are not the rubble of walls, but the ruins of human lives. And that was uh involved here in Nehemiah But we see in our own culture that we're dealing with broken lives, not broken stones. And our society is producing human ruins on an unprecedented scale. One of the big problems that we have is that we know about that vaguely. But because God has delivered us in many ways out of bondage, it's very hard for us to force ourselves actually sees those ruins, isn't it? That the latest uh book uh on generational trends by Howe and Strauss called 13th Gen I've referred to that before, the 13th generation of people who are now late teens and in their twenties, describes what is what life is like for this generation. And in that, part of the book tells about what happens every single day in America. Listen to this. Every single day More than 2,500 children witness the divorce or separation of their parents. Every day, about 90 are taken from their parents' custody and committed to foster homes. In this country, every day, some 1,000 unwed teenage girls become mothers. Every day in this country Of 15 to 24 year olds, 13 commit suicide and 16 are murdered. Every day in this country Some 500 adolescents begin using illegal drugs, and 1,000 of them begin drinking alcohol. Every day in this country, at least 3,610 teenagers are assaulted. 630 are robbed, 80 are raped. More than 100,000 high school students bring guns to school every day. At least 2,200 teenagers drop out of high school every day. The typical 14-year-old kid in this country watches three hours of TV and does one hour of homework. Now you decide whether how uh how bad that last statement fits into the rest of them, but it's a pretty tragic picture. The ruins and the rubble that is being generated in our society. This week's Time magazine had on the cover a uh the fellow from Pearl Jam talking about the rage of current rock music. The rage and the frustration that's being expressed by kids today about the world that they live in. Get you an eye as Nehemiah. Are convinced that God wants to do something. Nehemiah was absolutely convinced that God purposed to rebuild Jerusalem. That's why I was there. He was convinced. He didn't have some extra special revelation. He was not a prophet. God didn't reveal to him, Nehemiah, I am going to rebuild this through you. But he was convinced through his time in prayer and looking at the word and claiming the promises that God would, in fact, if a people of his generation believed God and mobilize together, that God would in fact. Rebuild that wall and bring renewal and revival to Jerusalem. And so you and I have the same promises of Scripture. We have a risen Lord Jesus who is alive from the dead, and as we look at the rubble of our culture, why can we not believe to the same degree as Nehemiah that God intends to hear our prayers? that he will mobilize his people in this day, and that he will rebuild out of the rubble of Howard County and Central Maryland people whose lives are being transformed by the risen Christ People who are obviously needy, as we see the brokenness described in the book 13th Gen, and everything else that we read, that this is an opportunity for Jesus to show his power through us and transform lives. Amen? I hope we believe that because, see, that's what's going to mobilize us. It's not simply the fact that we ought to do it. It's not simply the fact that, well, you know, the Great Commission's still there. We ought to get out there and start obeying it. It's not a hope. That God is at work and that he intends to mobilize his people in order to get the job done. That God intends to begin to use his people and that he will grant success in that. We need something of that hope. We don't know the degree of that. He may be snatching people here and there out of the burning. He may bring a great onslaught of people coming to repentance and faith in Jesus. That's up to him. But we believe that God wants to use us. And in order to do that, you and I need to see the ruins in order for us to feel the passion. As Nehemiah felt it, and the conviction that God wants to do something. There's two parts to that. I would suggest that the first thing, by the way, that A then is seeing the ruins, in case you hadn't got that yet. And the first part of that Is knowing the demographics. Knowing the demographics. In other words, it's not all just ruins. You see, part of what Nehemiah had to do is simply tour The periphery of Jerusalem to see where the walls were, where they should be. He had to get a geographical location. He had to understand. He had to get a purview And so that's why you see him going through, back and forth there. And you see that uh he's uh, you know, as I said, it's a clockwise rotation that's being described here, going out from the east and then coming around and coming back to the same place. And we need to understand kind of the profile of Howard County and this area. We need to understand that this area is, of course, an unusually affluent area. And so there are interests in things that other cultures, other parts and inner city areas do not have the luxury to pursue. A great interest in sports among kids in this county. tremendous interest in continuing education or quality of education among the kids. A lot of the things that more affluent people are interested in and have the luxuries to pursue and hobbies and interests and diversions. Those are the people God's called us to minister to. We also need to understand that it's been said that by the year 2000 The single population of Howard County will be approaching 50% of the total population. And so this is part of the profile of the walls God's calling us to rebuild in. We need to understand that this is the nature, the makeup of the people that we live among. We need to see that therefore, as you see in the outline there, we've designed our strategy accordingly We therefore realize that among youth there's a tremendous interest in activities for youth, particularly in sports. Among the adults, that there are a lot of recreational opportunities that we can seize upon in order to bring a contact so that people see that that facility that we have there is not a church in a traditional sense. It's a ministry center. It's a place where Christians and unbelievers can meet and begin to build relationships. And that particularly then needs to emphasize an opportunity to attract singles within the Howard County population. who find often a lack of places that they can just go and um be able to have some fun, some wholesome fun without uh suspecting that somebody's just gonna come on to them or it's just going to be some situation that they'll wish they could escape from. A safe place to be able to meet people and have fun Or the education and training in parenting and various other things, managing money, opportunities like this, support groups that we've talked about. uh support groups for grief recovery or for various other kinds of things like that and recovery groups from various kinds of abuse These are the things that we see characterize our culture, and therefore we're designing our strategy to meet that. Now, besides that, there is also, flip on the other side, the need to see the ruins. This is not simply what the culture is like in general. But you notice that when Nehemiah was looking just to find out where the walls were, verse 14 says, Then I moved toward the fountain gate and the king's pool. Which, as I say, that's later on the pool of Silo that Jesus uh heals at. And then there but there was not enough room for my mouth to get through. The rubble is so great It's so piled up that this one place where you should be able to just go right on through can't even get through the thing, so it has to go up around Verse 15, so I went up the valley by night on the outside, examining the wall. Finally I turned back and re-entered through the valley gate, a lot further north And so Nehemiah's feeling here as he's going around at night, this place is a mess. I mean, things are even worse than I thought they were. But he's feeling it. He's touching the broken stones. He's seeing that these stones that have been burned with fire and are probably limestone that makes them brittle and crumble. And so he's seeing all this, and he's getting a first-hand feel of how overwhelming this task is going to be. And you and I need to see that in our own situation. We need to be able to see and look at the broken lines. There is such a temptation to turn away, isn't it? There's such a temptation to avoid Section 8 housing. To avoid the gaze of any homeless person, to avoid the people who are needy and desperate Even in our own neighborhoods. I mean you look at our neighborhood, and there is overwhelming need right on our block One night Kathy and I went out for a walk and while we were out we saw these police cars going down the street and it turned out the guy right over on the next block had just as we were doing our walk just beaten his mother to death with a baseball bat And it was fleeing right up the street where we were. On another occasion, I remember going outside and uh heard crying and weeping and went outside to uh to the street, and uh there was a neighbor. The mother and the daughter were trying to pull the father and the husband out of the car. He was stoned drunk. And he was trying to drive away and they were afraid that if he were able to get out onto the street and drive that he would surely have an accident. And they were crying and trying to get him to get out of the car. And And I went over and of course they were very embarrassed and they finally got him out and got the car back into the driveway Another neighbor came over one night to talk to Kathy drunk about her fear of going to hell. And of course what happens is after this happens, the next day you see these people, I want to pretend it never happened. And so it's hard to speak because they want to, you know, they're so embarrassed and how do you build the relationships? One day we came back from going out to some event and there were two gangs squared off in front of our lawn with chains and bats and everything. They were gonna beat each other to death and just before the thing all broke out the police finally came down. I thought, you know, there were our car was right in the middle. That was no man's land, you know. I thought this thing was going to be used as the turf that they were going to try and capture, you know. And uh, you know, we don't have to go very far, do we? I know our daughter Julie when she graduated from Oaklands High School, said she knew a girl who had had three abortions before she had gotten out of high school. And uh you know, talk to Gary Ahrens about uh what kind of rubble there is over there. Uh so we don't have to go very far. But what we do have to do is be willing to see it. To see that ruin and then to be able to say, no, I can't deal with everything. But who, as we pray together, who is God calling us to get involved with in this neighborhood? Who is it that God's going to call us to try and see if there's an interest that we can maybe touch their life in some way particular? I remember hearing a story of Pastor Uh Frank Tillipal was telling about in his uh area that there was a family who one day they walked outside and they saw this girl just weeping on the front lawn of a neighboring uh house. And she just just sitting out there sobbing her eyes out. It was a Christian family. They went over to her and they said uh is there a problem that we can help with or what, you know, do you want to talk about what's what's happened it turned out that this girl had run away from her home uh hundreds of miles away and that she had met the guy that uh lived in that house and he owned the house and she started living with him. He was gonna protect her and he was gonna take care of her and she had gotten pregnant by him And as soon as he found out that she was pregnant, he literally beat her up and threw her out the front door with all her belongings, just threw him out the front door. And there she was, just utterly abandoned. Pregnant. What's she going to do? And so this Christian family saying, you know, we just can't ignore this situation. So they invited her over to their home, and they were not able to keep her. So they found another Christian family It turned out it was in another church, and that was Frank Tillipaw's church, and they then took that girl in and had her live with them for the duration of her pregnancy. And she during that period of time then not only found some stability within a Christian home and what that could be like, she found the Lord Jesus with reconciled. To the Lord Jesus, and during that time, then they began to work on reconciliation with her parents so that when the baby was born, she was able to take the baby out. The parents came those hundreds of miles to meet her. And they had a family reconciliation. She went back home to be with her folks and with the baby. Now, uh, excuse me, and then the baby was uh put up for adoption and she went back to uh the home with her folks. This is the kind of thing that can happen as we see the ruins, and it's scary, isn't it? I mean, it's disruptive. And we can't all be doing everything. The Lord isn't calling us to all meet every need. But there is the willingness to say, Will I see the ruins, even if it means being involved in some way, it seems beyond me at this point. That's with the neighbors. The second thing is, we need to see the kind of ruins of those who are in the same kind of bondage that you're being delivered from. And that just is simply a matter of looking at your background. What bondage has God been delivering you from? What experience has He given you that He has been showing His grace in your life? And again, I've mentioned to you that from Kathy and I having gone to the Cancer Caregivers Support Group, this is an area we need to continue to pray about. When there are people in that kind of a situation, we need to see: is there something God wants us to do about ministering to such a group, using the experiences God gave us in that? And the deliverance, the uh way he showed his work in our lives in that time, it's an experience that he's now built into our life. Uh or you take with the records. Uh Uh, the experiences that they've had in losing four sons uh and a chronically ill child having taken so much time with uh the two sons over the last years. Donna now is praying about initiating a ministry called Hope for those who are parents of chronically ill children or parents who have lost children in death. And this is what God's done in their lives. And so this is something that they're able to say, well, you know, we can't do everything, but God clearly has built into us a unique experience that becomes a basis for ministry. We all have certain unique experiences that God can use. Not everything, not with everybody, but something that enables us to take one part of that wall and to be involved. Then there's thirdly just seeing Howard County needs. Just being able to understand what's going on in this county. I've been tempted To invite Manis O'Donnell, who's uh the head of citizen services of Howard County, or someone else in that department, to come and to just be at the Potter's house one night. And say, anybody that's interested in finding out what are the needs and the opportunities in Howard County, in the social service system, that they're saying You want to be involved in rebuilding the walls of the rubble of this place? Let's tell you, here's what is needed, here's what the resources are, here's how a church like you could take on one or two of these kinds of areas. Frankly, I have been reluctant to do it because I didn't know if anybody show up. You know, you might be all saying, hey, the last thing I need to know is another need in my life, right? So, what I've decided to do is if there are some of you who say, you know, I'd be interested in a meeting like that. I'd like to find out what that guy has to say. I'm not committing myself to anything, but I would just be interested in meeting with such a person To find out somebody who has a bigger overview of the needs in Howard County, then I would say either just put that on your little gray slip, because the offering will be taken up afterward. Just say something like citizen services. Yes, you know. Something like that that lets me know, yeah, I'm interested in that kind of a meeting. Or tell me afterwards. And if there is some interest in that, then we'll pull together such a meeting. But beyond seeing all the need, there needs to be also seeing God. Now that shouldn't be serving God, it should be seeing God. So cross out the R V and put an E there. Seeing God. Nehemiah presents the task after he has seen the ruin himself. Look at verse 17. After he's seen all this, he says, Then I said to them, You see the trouble that we are in. Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates have been burned with fire. That's very evident. They all knew that. Come then, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem. And we will no longer be in disgrace. And I also told them about the gracious hand of my God upon me, and what the king had said to me. Now notice what Nehemiah does here. He presents the task and he's realistic. This is an overwhelming task. You see the trouble we're in. Jerusalem's in ruins. The gates are burned with fire. Things are pretty bad here, guys. Been sitting like this for 70 years. Then you notice how he identifies with them the trouble that we are in. Doesn't say the trouble you guys are in. And here I am to give some supervision and I'm out of here. He says the trouble we are in, he's now part of Jerusalem. And he identifies with them in that. Then he presents his vision for ministry, and then he gives them a call. Now once notice what he does between the problem and when he calls them to be mobilized to the wall. Verse 18, I also told them about the gracious hand of my God upon me and what the king had said to me. This is the first time Nehemiah has now revealed this amazing thing that's happened over in Susa. He's presenting evidence that God is in this endeavor. And we all need that, don't we? Don't we need evidence? If we're going to undertake something, this is going to be a very risky situation. We're stepping out on faith in some area of ministry in need. We need some evidence that God is involved in it. We need to take that initial step, that certain risk, and say, Well, Lord, you've seen the lay this on my heart. I'm going to take one step. And then I want to see, are you Are you in this? Do you want me to move ahead with this matter? Maybe it's calling a meeting to find out if there's anybody else that's interested in the same thing that you're interested. And that's a confirmation. You get three or four others and they say God's placed the same burden on our heart. Great. That's some evidence. God's calling us together. It provides some need that you have to get started in this thing. I experienced just this week something in my own life that was very encouraging to me. Back in the summer, I had prayed about my continuation with the coalition. I think God was reshaping and moving the coalition. And there are certain things that I think we need to really be asking some hard questions about how it's structured and where we're going. And so I said I wrote a memo to the rest of the steering committee and said I would not continue to serve as president next year. I've been serving for two years now. They need to find someone else who's going to lead that so I can be freed up to do certain other things within the coalition. And I mentioned the thing that was particularly on my heart was seeking to mobilize pastors for prayer, possibly toward the end of a prayer summit. That's where you get Four pastors from all over the area together for four days of nothing but praying, confessing, and working together. No agenda except prayer for four days. And that's happened in various other places in this country with amazing results. God begins to move in ways that have not been seen, like in Portland, Oregon, Philadelphia. uh and other places that have not been seen with all the events and strategies before that. But I didn't know how to get started on it, because I didn't know what to do and I didn't really, you know, I'd never been to one. I just it sounded like an intriguing sort of an idea. So I was sharing this with the coalition on Thursday morning saying again, two more meetings guys, and then somebody else needs to be leading this thing, be ready for it, what are we going to do? And uh, you know, we talked about that. Some two people that were at the meeting at that point said, you know, one thing I'd really like to do, these were pastors that I'd really like to find some other pastors to pray with. That's what's really on my heart. I said, Well, I understand, that's what's on my heart too, let's see what God does. Went back to have lunch with one of those pastors in my office. And while we were meeting, the phone rang And uh Martha put someone through from Portland, Oregon, who she didn't even know, and I didn't know. It was this guy, Dick Palmer, you know, with Northwest Renewal Ministries. Would you like to talk to him? So I put him on. It turns out this guy is the guy who's heading up in the nation working with a team of a couple others. These pastor prayer summits. I don't even know how he knew me. I don't know how he got my in fact he wasn't even looking for me. He only called me to get the number for somebody else. And I said, oh, that's the thing that I've been praying about getting involved in doing Oh really? So we talked a little bit about and Steve got in on this thing and put him on speakerphone. We started talking about his vision for this and some of our concerns and the history. He said, that's great. Within fifteen minutes, you know, we got plans. I got somebody to meet with in Philadelphia. He wants to come here and begins to talk about what God could do in this area. Well, the reason I share that, you see, to me, that was an example of like Nehemiah, I told them what God had done, verse 18. I uh began, I shared with him, excuse me, verse 18, yeah. I also told them about the gracious hand of my God upon me and what the king had said to me. All that does to me is it says, maybe I really ought to pursue this area a little more. Maybe God's hand is in this. Maybe he is impelling us as a central Maryland, Howard County area, in this direction. I mean, isn't exciting when you try to do something and you don't know where to go next, and then God opens the door to it. That begins to show you he's at work. You're not having to generate this thing We talk about mobilizing our congregation. That doesn't mean that you've got to think everything up and you've got to get it all done. You just wait upon the Lord as you use the experiences, see the ruins, and God opens up the opportunities. And that's what we need to be following him. So you notice what he does is after he says that, then third thing, you get everybody on the wall Everybody on the wall. And so he calls them to this. He uh challenges them. Let us then rebuild. And the people's response at the end of verse 18, they replied, Let us start rebuilding. And so they began this good work. Then you see in chapter 3 a whole list of names, all these hopeless Hebrew names. You know, Eliashab and uh you know Mirma and Hananel and all these people, they're all building on these walls. And you say, Boy, that's one of the boring chapters of the Bible that uh just all these names. But What you see from chapter 3 is that everyone is on the wall. Well, almost everyone. If you look at verse 5, you see the next section was repaired by the men of Tokoa, but their nobles would not put their shoulders to the work. under their supervisors. You're always going to have some nobles of Tokoa in the church. Always going to have. Now it's interesting, we have a clue why that's the case, because in he in the Hebrew of that, what it literally says is The nobles of Tokoa brought not their neck to the service of their master. See, they wouldn't be subject to someone else. If it was their vision, they'd probably do it. But because it was somebody else that was calling them to the test, they say, ah, no way, we're not interested. We have to be careful. There's only certain of us that are going to initiate ministries. Many of us are going to join in with those like Pioneer Girls, Christian Service Brigade. And as we do that, we need to be aware that we're going to be largely with one another, submitting to the leadership of others in the body in that particular ministry. And we need to be willing to do that. And so as God calls you this morning, is your response verse 18? Yeah, let's start rebuilding. Count me in on the wall. Or is it like the nobles of Tokoa, uh, this is your idea, it's not mine, so I'm not going to be involved in it for now. If you're interested in this, I would suggest that if we take up the offering now, that you put on that gray slip, count me in on the wall of Howard County, and that's the area, not just Howard County, but the region. I will pray about my part. If you are serious about this, we want to see. Just put that. You're committing yourself simply to that, saying, I want to be involved in this. And I'm going to pray about my part in it. Think about that now. As we come to take up the offering, let's pray. Lord, help us each to see what it is you are doing. In mobilizing your people today, as we've seen in the past from Ephesians 4, you have gifted your people To be joined together under the risen Christ, to see you transforming lives. Lord, speak to each of us of our place and part in that. Give us faith, Lord, to be obedient, to see you use us together in exciting ways for Jesus' sake. Amen