Book of Nehemiah here, and uh I think this worship was a challenge. I found really uh Nehemiah quite a challenge as I've been trying to prepare for preaching that. Uh Nehemiah is a disturbing practical and challenging book for our own situation. You remember, as you see the bulletin outline there, that we are looking at Nehemiah as a case study for Rebuilding a Broken Culture, Seven Principles for Our Church, Columbia Presbyterian, in 1993-94. Remember the situation in Nehemiah's day was that Jerusalem, its walls and its people, were in ruins. And Jerusalem was God's place and God's people. And yet the walls were broken down. and the people's lives were in ruins. And as Nehemiah saw that, that deeply disturbed him because Nehemiah had a heart that beat with God's heart. Because he knew that God was disturbed, that his place where his Messiah was to come, and his people were in disrepair and despair, Nehemiah couldn't simply go on with his life. He just simply couldn't continue as a government worker, business as usual. And so Nehemiah, we've seen, uh, had a heart that broke over this situation. And when he heard the news about the great trouble and the disgrace of Nehemiah, chapter 1, verse 3. We read in chapter one verse four when I heard these things I sat down and I wept. For some days I mourned and I fasted and I prayed before the God of heaven. And so we've seen that Nehemiah was moved to prayer because he uh uh because he cared about the situation. And you and I as disciples of the Lord Jesus today need to learn how to feel what Jesus feels when he looks at our culture When he looks at the brokenness and the the rubble, the human rubble that we're dealing with, not rubble of simply broken walls. But the rubble that we see all about us, we need to learn how to feel. When Lord Jesus, how do you see that? And not distance ourselves. But as Nehemiah, to be able to look at that and say, those are my people. And that affects me. You know, and just after uh the message last week, I went home and I saw the Washington Post, and I'll tell you, there on the Outlook section were three heartbreakers out of the first four articles on the front page. I don't know how many of you saw them, but the first article was about kids and guns and the increasing senseless violence in the cities and the fact that nobody knows what to do to stop this and it's just totally out of hand. Do you know that every uh Day one hundred thousand kids in this country carry guns to school. A hundred thousand kids are armed every day. Pray for Charlie and some of the others, you know. I mean this isn't it's not funny. We're we're living in senseless kind of violence. The second article talked about drugs and guns. And of uh you know similar kind of concern in simply making the point that nobody has come up with any kind of a solution for this matter. I mean nobody knows how to deal with this thing. And then the third article, that was the real choice one. That was about Beavis and Butthead Now, I don't know how many of you have ever seen Beavis and Butthead. I gotta confess, I have not seen Beavis and Butthead. We don't have cable. I have not seen it. But after reading that article, I'm not sure I want to see it. Now for those of you who are unenlightened and behind the times. Beavis and Butthead is a cartoon on MTV of a couple of airhead uh guys who are, you know, it's it's just it's a raging uh comic for those who are, they say, about like twelve to fifteen years old. And these kids think this is really funny. But these guys are guys who are cynical, uh they're guys who are crude. In fact the uh the jokes according to this article basically revolve around their cynicism, their crudity and their cruelty. They have utter disregard for other living things. They play baseball using frogs as balls and you know and the uh sexist jokes and the rest of it. It's just utterly crude. But the thing that this writer said he was really disturbed at Was that it seemed like this generation of kids who are watching it were watching a kind of a cynicism concerning the country in which they could only snicker at the fact, as he says, that the country's going down the toilet. Now, the really fascinating thing about this. This article was this guy saying, I can't understand this younger generation. The writer of the article was twenty years old. And he was despairing of the younger generation. You know? He said, I can't relate to my brother. I'm I can't get into his world. He is so utterly cynical and has lost any sense of ideals. Well, you know, I mean, you know, and then you turn to page two and you go on and all you know And so you and I need to to be able to look at this world and see. Now, you know, I'm sure I'm going to get some response of Beavis and Butthead fans here, but you know, tell me, enlighten me. What am I missing? But but when we look at this stuff, we've got to be able to see As Christians, we're in trouble. And as Nehemiah that needs to move us to prayer. And so we begin to pray. And we we saw last week how Nehemiah lived his life in the context of prayer. And we looked at five lessons that Nehemiah learned, or that Nehemiah, five lessons for us that we can learn from Nehemiah's prayer. prayer in chapter one verses four to eleven. I hope you applied one of those this week. Uh you know, I'm not gonna ask, you know, to see how honest or what, but you know, I mean, did you apply? Well I'm just just for you to answer between you and the Lord again. Did you apply? One of those lessons that you found you most related to or saw a need for in your own prayer life next last week? I I hope you did. And if you didn't, it's not too late, you know. The Lord's merciful and long suffering. Try it again this week. You know, or continue on that to help for you in your own prayer life before the Lord. But then when you look at the next thing in Nehemiah, This question of risk, this matter of this third principle. We see Even more of a challenge, I believe, to our lives than this matter of prayer. You remember last Sunday evening, as we took the Lord's Supper, I mentioned how the only way we can live the Christian life, the only The only way is by our feeding upon Jesus as he fed upon the Father for his life. And that's good news for you and for me. It's the realization that you and I can't develop Nehemiah's kind of prayer life. We can't take risks. The way Nehemiah did. Apart from the fact that we are feeding upon Jesus Christ and his life ris And so I'm not asking you to do something. I'm not saying, here's what God says to do. Now just go out and do it. I'm saying, here's what God says to do. You and I realize we are helpless to do this, but we cast ourselves upon Jesus for his strength. to beat us and to enable us by his life-giving power to do what he said to do. Now what is this matter of risk that we're talking about? This third principle that you see in your bulletin outline. that God has for us in the book of Nehemiah. The third principle is that taking risks must be a normal part of our church life if we are going to rebuild this culture. You read anything the of people who are talking about churches that are effectively reaching the culture and again and again you see this element of risk that is being mentioned. Omer Towns writes a book, The Ten Most Innovative Churches in the United States. States, those that are creating new ministries to reach people, particularly the young church for Jesus Christ. And you see again and again this idea of trying things that people hadn't tried, of taking risks to do something a little different than it had been done before, trying to get into the world. And the framework and the mindset and the lives of people who are not going to come to a service in order to hear the gospel. Where you read uh Barna and a number of his books, The Frog in the Kettle and some of the others in which he talks about the fact that the only churches, he says, he says in this next ten years we're going to see thousands and tens of thousands of churches closed. Because our culture is increasingly seeing the church as irrelevant to its needs. But Barnes says those churches which are going to be effective, which are going to grow and are going to reach people, are those that are willing to take risks Those that are willing to do things different than they have been done, because that's the only way that we're going to be able to posture ourselves to reach a culture that is increasingly seeing a widening chasm between what creates Christians believe and the way they live and what they believe and don't even relate to in the things that you believe. Alright, so what about Nehemiah? What can we learn from him? Let's look at this in terms of two points. That he took, and then secondly, the subsequent risks. Take a look at chapter two. In chapter two of Nehemiah, we read that in the month of Nisan, this is after he's prayed now for four months, he's been praying from December right on the first time. through to April about this situation in Jerusalem, with his heart breaking over the rubble that's there. And so after that we read that in the month of Nisan in April in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was brought for him, I took the wine and I gave it. I gave it to the king. I had not been sad in his presence before. So the king asked me, Why does your face look so sad when you're not ill? This can be nothing but sadness of heart. And you need to understand this is a very dramatic scene. And in order to understand how dramatic those words are that we just read, you need to have a little bit of historical background. See what he says there in the end of verse 1. I had not been sad in his presence before. There's a very good reason for that. The reason is that it was a capital offense to be sad in the king's presence. You see, the reasoning of Eastern kings at that time went something like this. Whatever your problems, whatever your struggles in your marriage, financially, or anything else, whatever problems you may have To be in my presence is so wonderful. It should make you forget all about those problems and make you happy. And if you're not happy, I'll give you something to be sad about. I'll take your head. Because an Eastern king was offended. If anyone was sad in his presence, that meant that he wasn't good enough to bring joy into their life. lives just by being in his presence, you see. Now besides that, King Artaxerxes had read Diet Today, subscribed, and he saw that, you know, people said that it's good for your digestion to have pleasant things going on while you're eating. And so part Part of Nehemiah's job description as the cupbearer was that he was always to wear a McDonald's happy face. Every meal was to be a happy meal in the palace at Susa. Alright? That was part of his basic job. And so when Nehemiah says, I had not been satisfied. In his presence before. He wasn't just thinking, you know, yeah, it's always been pleasant around here, and just that's the way it was. He's saying, nope, that was part of my job. I dared not be sad in the king's presence. But there's a tension that's building in Nehemiah. He's heard back in December about all the rubble and all the despair and all the disgrace of God's people in Jerusalem. And he says that ought not to be. That's God's place. Those are God's people. There ought to be revival there. God's power ought to be displayed. And in and contrary to that, things are they're unraveling. They're coming apart at the scenes. Jerusalem. People are living like animals. This is Jer so Nehemiah comes to pray And you see him going into his prayer chamber and there he is, weeping and mourning and crying out to God. And he says, Oh, time to go to work. So, you know, he washes his face and puts on his best robe and walks in, you know, okay, you know, here's your wine and He just whatever he can read readers digest, I guess, gets up come up with a few, you know, and banters with the king and everything's nice and pleasant. He finishes his job, goes back and starts weeping again, and here he is mourning and he's praying, God, what are we gonna do in this situation? It's terrible. I just can't Go on. And you know, and this plan is forming in his mind. So finally, you see, I believe that what we see in verses four to eleven is an evolving prayer. It's a summary of what he's been praying in those four months as it evolves to the climate. Climax that you see in verse eleven. Verse eleven he says, O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer that this your servant cli And to the prayer your servants who delight in revealing your name. Give your servants success today by granting him favour in the presence of this man. And I believe what has happened in Nehemiah's heart is very important for you and I to learn. It is that Nehemiah has now come to the place where he is saying, I can no longer live in the tension. Of not being involved in the renewal and the revival that needs to come within this culture. And if it cost me my life That's better to die than to go on living as if it doesn't matter. To kind of pretend That I don't have to be involved in what is on God's heart to bring renewal to this broken people. So Nehemiah has come to the place now where he's willing to take any risk. The ultimate risk. He says, if I die, I die. But I can't live like this any longer. You ever come to that kind of a place in your life when something God's laid on your heart? Where you've prayed about it, and you've prayed about it, and you've finally come to the place where you say, I've got to do something. I can't just simply pray about this anymore. God is moving me. compelling me to do something. And so it's with that kind of a mindset that Nehemiah goes in and he purposefully now has decided to look sad. He's letting his heart show. He's coming out, and you know you think Tom was vulnerable today, talking about how he felt in leading the worship. Here's Nehemiah, and all of four months of tension. Well up in him. And he can't even speak. And there he is during the meal. Utterly different than the king's ever seen him before. And the king says, Well, what you know, he obviously notices Why is your face look so sad when you're not ill? This can be nothing but sadness of heart. Now do you see the tension of this moment? Nehemiah says, now my life is at stake in what happens in these next couple of minutes. And so Nehemiah then You see, uh says in verse uh the end of verse 2, I was very much afraid. Now you understand why. But I said to the king May the king live forever. That was kind of a standard phrase. May the king live forever. Why should my face not look sad when the city where my fathers are buried lies in ruins and its gates have been destroyed by fire? I believe Nehemiah had rehearsed every syllable of that answer because there's a lot of wisdom there. You notice he doesn't mention Jerusalem? Jerusalem was a political hot button in Persia at that time. And so he doesn't say, well, it's because Jerusalem is a in ruins. Just the sound of Jerusalem is like saying to Yasar Arafat, you know, things aren't going too good in Jerusalem. Oh, that's really concerned to me, you know. I just shut things down. I just burned down those walls. What do I care about that? But the Persians had deep respect for their ancestors. And so Nehemiah takes something that he thought would appeal to Artiserxes and he said, This is the place where my fathers are buried. And it's been burned, it's destroyed. That's Heavy on my heart. Now what's the king going to do? And so at this tense moment now, he wakes Maybe there's a pause, and then the king says to me, What is it you want? Clearly you got something on your mind, Nehemiah. Now before I decide what to do, what do you want from this? Ah, my head's still on my shoulders. Okay, plan B, move in to action. Mia has been thinking now for months about what it is that he's going to say And so then he says, verse four. He says, Then I prayed to the God of heaven. Well, I mean, you know that this doesn't mean, oh, well, that kind of caught me off guard. What he's saying is after four months of praying, he takes four seconds to say, Now Lord, bring this all together in my mind. You ever been in that kind of situation? You thought of something for weeks and weeks and weeks. You know, I had somebody that uh met with me this week and they said I've driven hours and I've been thinking about how I'm going to say this to you. They were really nervous. It wasn't really that bad, but it was just something that was just difficult for them. And so, you know, you and I get to those situations where you've been going and been thinking about something maybe for weeks, and then the moment to say it comes, it doesn't come easily, does it? He's thinking there, Lord, help me now. My mind's gonna go blank. And so there he is. Lord, help me. Help me to answer him. Verse 5. Then I answered the king. If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in his sight, let him send me to the city in Judah where my fathers Now he's mentioned Judah, get a little closer. You say, Where my fathers are buried. So that I can rebuild it. Let me go there to help. I want a leave of absence. Now it's out. It's on the table. It's done. What's gonna happen? And so you see verse 6. And then the king, with the queen sitting beside him. I believe that's significant because what it means is that Nehemiah picked the time of an informal gathering. Queen wasn't generally there if there was any business going on. And so what he w what he means is I picked the night because it was kind of And so he the king says to him, with the queen beside him, he asked me, How long will your journey take? When will you get back? It pleased the king to send me. So I set a time. What a thrill You ever been in that kind of situation? You prayed for weeks, you've asked God, Lord, everything in my future depends on what you do with this. Then you come to that moment and the the tension has built and finally it explodes and out comes your request or whatever it is and God has answered your prayer just as you prayed it. What a thrill and a tremendous You've seen God has heard me, He's answered. And then it goes on where he describes what he needs and Art of Xerxes send him, and the rest of the story unfolds, because Nehemiah is still alive. God answered. But that was an answer to prayer. find out more about what it was next week that he asked for and the rest of that. I just want to pause at this point though to observe something that you and I need to learn from this. I believe one of the greatest problems in the church in America is we know so little about taking risks for the Lord Jesus. We live in a culture that has said to us in every way it possibly can, risk taking is bad. We have insurance policies to keep us from having risk on that. We even have service contracts on anything we buy, so in case it breaks, we're not at risk that the thing broke unexpectedly. You know, everything that we have in our life is designed to minimize risk. The whole concept of our increasing socialism is that let the government take the risk. We don't have to take the risk. Everything is designed to say to you and to me, you don't need to take risk. Risk taking is something to avoid. And so as Christians we live what I call the vicarious Christian life. Instead of the victorious Christian life, we live the vicarious Christian life. The vicarious Christian life is that we read Christian biographies and autobiographies and news articles about other people who've taken risks and God has shown himself faithful. And we, you know, we kind of get our faith increased and buoyed up by that. And we say, yes, see, look what God did in the life of this person, George Mueller or whoever it is we read. God was faithful. But you know, we're kind of like the crowd that gathered around the tightrope walker at the top of Niagara Falls one time. And this guy was so good that I read that he was able not only to be able to walk across a tightrope walk across the American Falls of Niagara Falls. If you've ever been there, it's an awesome thing to watch that water sweeping across. But he was able to take a wheelbarrow across the tight route. And so he took a wheelbarrow across and back. And then he said to the crowd, You guys believe that I am able to do this securely, safely? Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can do it. He says, Fine, who's going to be the first to get in? And everybody ran the other way. Head to the parking lot. And that's like us as Christians, isn't it? Jesus looks to us and he says, here you You are in your situation, in your job, in your neighborhood, with your family, in your relationships. And you've read what I have done in the lives of other people. In this century, in our time, I've shown myself faithful. Are you ready to step out and to take a risk for me? We say, Lord, I believe you do it with them, but I'm not so sure about me. Why? Well, you know, Lord, I'm just not that kind of person. But it really comes down to saying, you You are not sufficient, doesn't it? It really is questioning whether He is able to take care of us in that situation No uh Malcolm Forbes, who's the editor of Forbes magazine, has said that All of America in its progress was built on the concept of risk. Entrepreneurs taking risk. And we say, when you look at today's situation, you see that IBM is in trouble because it refused to take risks. It got too consumed. It got very large. And some of the competitors that had less to lose because they had to bite their way into the market were able to take risks. They were willing to take risks. And so they did. And because of that, IBM's very existence is in jeopardy now. Or you take the Japanese automakers, you know, and people said you'll never break into the American market and back in the fifties and um Middle, late fifties, they tried and they failed. But they risked it again, spent a lot to try it, because they believed, well, you know, take the risk. Maybe we can move in. And look what's happened now. Now it's the American products that have been on the defensive for the last few years, beginning now to recover has been taking some more risks themselves. Do you know that Thomas Edison invented the light bulb on approximately his ten thousandth attempt to put that sucker together? 10,000 failures before he finally got that thing going. Plant burned down, all kinds of things happened. And so for us as Christians, we need to understand the Christian life is lived. as a life of risk. That's the way it's intended. You see this whole idea of Ephesians one nineteen to twenty three, to know his power that we talk about. It's not up here today, right? But it's on your bulletin. To know his power, our purpose as a church. How do you know his power? Taking risks. Stepping out to see what Jesus Christ will do in a situation where you and I are inadequate. And we look to see his power. We look at the uh situation that we're coming to now. We're putting together a ministry center, two million dollars. What a risk. We could have continued to rent, but we said God is thrusting us out. In order to have ministries, we've got to take a risk and we've got to try something that we cannot do. Randy Pope, pastor at Perimeter Church in Atlanta, says Attempt something so great for God that it is doomed to failure unless God is in it. I love that quote that he's used as a hallmark of his ministry from the time he began. And that's what we've been trying to do on a smaller scale. We're trying to take a risk saying, God, we're going to put ourselves out on a limb. This thing's going to fail if you're not in it. Now God has blessed the ministry center, is moving toward completion, probably won't be finished now what we thought the middle of November, maybe by the end of the year, but we're still getting there, things are chugging along, and so we're moving toward that, but now there's the risk of what are we going to do with it God's got to raise up the people. He's got to raise up the resources for us to be able to think creatively in reaching this culture. The risk of the use of it. We've put a lot into that place. What happens when we have strangers come in and they abuse it and mess up the Whose things are they? Hey, we paid good money for that. That's our building. Don't mess it up. Or do we take the risk and we say, Lord, this is your facility? to abuse it. But we realize it's a risk to let it be open to the public. You know that Francis and Edith Schaefer who established LeBris Ministries, Fran Edith Schaefer writing her memoirs on that said, in the first few years of that ministry, we lost every single wedding present that we had received, either by being stolen or destroyed. Everything. And those were precious to us. But she said she didn't regret it. Because they saw God do a work in the lives of people who had come to know Jesus, people whose lives were messed up when they came. Of course, people don't come as unbelievers and expect them to act like believers. And you and I need to understand that every time you believe Believe that God has called you to either pick up a hitchhiker, that's a risk. And you've got to judge whether that risk is one that you ought to take or not. Every time we're involved in the life of someone who is an unbeliever and we get close to it, there's a risk. involved in that. And the other thing that you have to see about this is that every initial risk leads to subsequent risk. That's a point two, the subsequent risk Principle one an initial risk chosen leads to subsequent risks inevitably. You get that? An initial risk that's chosen leads to subsequent risks inevitably. Taking our own situation here. Bob Jerkis looked at his gifts and we talked about what his ministry should be. And it became clear that God had gifted Bob working with youth, and that as part of his pastoral internship that would be the focus. And so as he decided to go for that, he decided that He would take a risk, step out on faith, and say, We can't put this into the budget now to pay me part-time to do this. So I will take the risk and I will offer myself to do this part-time, twenty hours a week. week and we'll establish a fund and if there's anything in the fund, I get it. Up to eight hundred dollars per month. If there's not, I don't. That w that was back in June that we put Bob on staff to do that. And I wondered where would the money come from? I mean people have been giving to the facility and all the other things that we have going. Everything is stretched as far as it can be stretched. Do you know that June, July August, September, four months now, Bob has drawn eight hundred dollars out of that fund. There has always been the maximum there for him to have. I don't know where it's coming from. I don't know where it's gonna come from in October or November. And be aware that the fund exists. But there's an example of somebody in our congregation willing to take a risk for the Lord Jesus. And then there's all the subsequent risks that follow. Living out that. You see, Nehemiah probably thought, Well, okay, there's this problem in Jerusalem, and I'm going to risk my life here now to see what God will do. And then I'll take this time, get this thing built, and get back to my work. But he didn't count on the fact that the first risk was just the initial risk. There were many other risks that followed from that, and we'll look at some of those in the weeks to come. But you notice in chapter four, there's the ridicule, there's attacks, there's the burnout. Chapter five, divisions and conflict within the body, chapter six, personal attack, slander. intimidation, all the rest of these things. And so there's a principle here that we need to be prepared for to anticipate. Whenever you take or I take an initial risk, To step out into some area that we believe God's calling us to in kingdom activity, then likely we are moving into Satan's territory in a new way. And he will never tolerate that passively. So what's going to happen is as soon as we begin to move into that territory, he is going to mobilize his resistance, and we are going to find ourselves in a hotter and hotter battle. Encouragement, slander, division, whatever it is, there will be things that will come to us as a congregation, you can count on it in the next year. There will be tests of whether or not we are cleaving to Jesus. Because as we move into this battle to try to reclaim this area of Maryland for the Lord Jesus in the broken lives of the rubble that we see about us, Satan is not going to allow us to do that and just watch people come to Christ, you know, by tens and by scores and lives be transformed. Transformed and remade without our paying some price of faith and trust in Jesus in situations we will not be able to handle. You know, right now the session and I are contemplating, praying about, entering into a particular particular risk that involves me initially, but all of us eventually. It really has me scared. Probably has you scared now. Said, what is it? I'm not going to tell you. We're still praying about it. Uh but you know it's Exciting. You know, if God works in this, there will be things that will happen here that will be unprecedented. But and and I'm just I'm just not ready to talk about it yet. It's too scary. But we believe God is leading us in a direction to do Do some things it seems that his word are commanding us to do in our kind of a situation. And so when we begin to take an initial risk, God's always going to move us down into those subsequent risks. But you know there's a second principle that comes from that. And that is, with subsequent risks comes greater confidence in the God who is faithful in every previous crisis. When George Mueller Believed that God was calling him to establish an orphanage that would exist by prayer alone for God to supply the needs. It was a great step of faith and risk to trust God to provide for 50 orphans every day, all their needs. But after he had lived, that way for a number of years. He established a second orphanage, and a third, and a fourth. And his reasoning was, is it any harder for the God of heaven to supply for five hundred orphans than for fifty? No. Why? He's got a track record. When you and I begin to take risks and God leads us into subsequent risks, they get greater. They would be things that we wouldn't dare to look at when we took the initial risk. But with the greater risk, there's also come greater confidence in God. We've now said, but God brought us through this. God supplied the two million dollars for the ministry center. God has supplied for us to be able to do this And he supplied the people. He supplied Bob to work with the youth. And we had you know last yesterday, uh just this weekend, uh there was a rally that uh was all over from you know, I don't know where, but it's centered in Philadelphia, so you know, New York to Maryland area. The largest youth delegation to that rally was from Columbia Presbyterian. God's beginning to build a ministry to kids that we have here. There's things that are going to happen that will unfold from this that right now we maybe not be able to guess at. And with this there comes greater confidence, as the tests grow greater. So our strength, our our faith in The fact that we serve a God who dwells in heaven and he does whatever pleases him grows greater also. And isn't that the exciting thing about living the Christian life? Not just learning more facts about the Bible, it's growing in your trust, your confidence, and your love for Jesus. Jesus, amen. That's what we want to see as a congregation, right? At least a few of you do. Right? I mean this is what God's calling us to. He's not calling us to sit here and just serve ourselves and say we got this facility, isn't that nice? Now we've arrived. He's calling us to risk. So the third point, the final principle there, is that we are free. We are free to take risks because God Himself takes no risks. We are free to take risks because God Himself takes no risk. He's the God who dwells in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. His kingdom is established. Jesus has come. Jesus has died for our sins. Jesus has risen. All his elect will come to faith. His truth will be vindicated. His kingdom will never fall. The gates of hell will not prevail against him. Jesus will come again. You and I may fail, or we may fail. succeed. Hebrews eleven talks about the heroes of the faith, and some of them saw God's work in great and dramatic ways. Others lost their lives as martyrs. What's the greatest thing we can lose? Our lives. That's what it's saying, right? I mean what is it that you're so afraid of to lose in this risk? Reputation? Your image? What is it? My time, my money, what? You and I have things before us that God is calling us to step out and take risks. And so the question this morning is who here is willing to take a risk? risk to the Lord Jesus. What does that mean for you? It may mean this week. Speaking the name of Jesus. That doesn't mean saying something vaguely spiritual at work. It means naming Jesus. He is the one who can meet your needs. I hear your needs. And my heart breaks for you. But Jesus is a living Lord, and He's able to transform lives. He changed my life. That's a risk, isn't it? Say that to somebody? Or perhaps for you it's going to be a matter of doing the right thing when it would be so much easier to compromise and do the safe thing. That's a risk. May cost you promotion, your job, your security, whatever. It's a risk that you take as Nehemiah for God. Or maybe for you it's a matter of some ministry God's put on your heart or some people. And And you begun to think about that and you begun to dream about it. I challenge you this week, take the first step of risk toward the fulfillment of that dream. And if you want us to be praying for that, I would say take the Bible. of that bulletin Allen, because in this service we already took up the offering. Take the bottom of your bullet uh the uh that green slip and on the bottom of the bulletin You know, the order of worship. See there's a little bit of white sp uh green space there? Uh just write on it. Your name and a prayer request. Put it on the table on the back. Pray for me as I take this risk. And we will pray for you and see what God will do. Let's pray. Lord, we ask that in the name of Jesus this morning, you would enable us to believe that we are free to take risks because you are the risks. God who is sovereign. And that you, just as you worked in Arta Xerxes to take care of Nehemiah and provided for everything to be fulfilled that he risked for, so we believe that you are leading our congregation and us individually into new areas of faith. Pray Lord that you would grant grace to believe you and to have confidence in you. And this week For each one of us to take a step of risk in that area that you are calling us to. Lord, have your way in us, we pray, for Jesus' sake. Amen.