Well, this is Fourth of July weekend. And it's a week, uh Fourth of July weekend in an election year. Just after the Supreme Court has handed down a number of decisions this week of significance to us as believers So I figure that today is probably as good a time as any to try and bring some biblical perspective to our elections and to our situation as a nation. In fact, I would like to bring not only some biblical perspective to it, I'd like to bring some historical perspective. I'd like to even suggest that sometime before you vote this November That you take a trip down to Washington, D. C. , and that you go visit the Lincoln Memorial. And if you visit the Lincoln Memorial, you will see there, to Lincoln's right, there is carved in the marble The famous Gettysburg Address. And that's the address that kids, of course, for generations have had to memorize and presumably to think about for a little bit. You look to his left and on the left wall. Now everybody anybody except John Platt, who was here before and he went down there and he did this. Anybody else tell me what is on the left wall Uh of the Lincoln Memorial. Very good. Pete, uh boy, got a historian here. One person in the first service too, so we got it. His second inaugural address is on the left wall. Now, the second inaugural address is much less known than the Gettysburg Address, except perhaps for uh a couple of famous lines that we have from that where Lincoln said with malice toward none With charity for all, let us bind up the nation's wounds. You remember that part. But um that's just an excerpt. From this whole thing. Now the second inaugural address was very much a healing speech. It came right toward the end of the Civil War in hope of the end of the Civil War coming. In fact, it turned out that the Civil War was only the end of the Civil War was only 36 days away at the time Lincoln took office. And in that address, Lincoln makes a number of concessions to the South in order to bring healing. He even acknowledges that both the North and the South at least thought that they were fighting for the right. And then it's in that context that he says this famous exhortation with malice toward none and charity toward all, let's bind up the nation's wounds. But that excerpt leaves out thirteen important lines that are on that wall, which, if you think about them, are absolutely staggering lines. Particularly when you realize that they were uttered by a President of the United States, and not only that, but were considered so memorable That of all the things that he said or wrote, it was one of the two things chosen to be inscribed on the walls of the Lincoln Monument, Lincoln Memorial. Now what was it that he said that was so m so so memorable and so staggering, so surprising? Let me quote it to you. It comes after he has referred to a hope in the end of the Civil War, and after that, he brings up the issue again about hoping that this war will soon come to a conclusion. But he brings it up in a much bleaker key. This is what he says. Fondly do we hope and fervently do we pray that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. But then notice yet, if God wills that it continue Until all the wealth piled by the bondsmen or the slaves, two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk. And until every drop of blood drawn with a lash shall be paid by another drawn with a sword As was said three thousand years ago, still, so still it must be said The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether Now what's he saying? What's the point of that? Well, boil it all down, there's at least two things that are very noteworthy for us to understand of what Lincoln was saying in that The first thing that he's saying is that we are not in control of our destiny. We are not the ones who, by our own achievements, can determine what's going to happen in history. The second thing that he says is that we are accountable for our moral actions. Now, if that's true, who is it that Lincoln is saying is the one that's in really ultimately in control, and who is it to whom we're accountable? And the answer is crystal clear from what he says. Because he quotes from Psalm 199 to give his answer. It's the God of the Bible. What Lincoln does is to quote from Psalm 19, verse 9, and not in a contemporary civil religion soundbite to make everybody feel good and know that God's on our side, it's all going to work out, you know, it's God's an American. And so God's going to take care of us and we're all linked up together. On the contrary, what he does is that he calls America to humility and to repentance. He says we need to humble ourselves because of our sin before this mighty God Before whom we are accountable and who is the one who will determine when this war ends, as well as the rest of history Now, it's amazing to me the insight that Lincoln had, whether conscious or unconscious, I really can't say But the theological insight he had to the meaning of Psalm 19 and particularly to the Hebrew of verse 9. Psalm 19, and if you haven't turned to it yet, you have your Bible with you, I'd encourage you please to turn to Psalm 19. But Psalm nineteen celebrates the eloquent the eloquence of God's revelation, both in nature, in verses one to six. As well as in the Bible scriptures in verses seven to fourteen. Verses seven to eleven give a number of descriptions of the law, God's law, his commands. And those descriptions he gives not only to tell what the what the law is, but what its effect is on us. So let's hear God's word. From Psalm 19, I'm going to read simply verses 7 to 11. This is God Himself addressing us. So let's hear him with deepest attention and reverence. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the Lord are radiant, giving light to the eyes. The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever. The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous. They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold. They are sweeter than honey, than honey from the comb. By them is your servant warned. In keeping them, there is great reward. Now Lincoln quoted from that verse 9 you see there, the second half of that verse. That's what's included in his address. The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous. Or as the King James had it, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. Simply a different translation. Now, as I said, I think he showed amazing insight into Hebrew and theology and his use of that because that word ordinances that's used there has a dual meaning. Which is captured brilliantly in his address and is extremely instructive for us on election year, 1992. Because the first meaning of that word ordinances, as you see there, is that it refers to God's law. That's the first blank. It refers to God's law, that is, his absolute commands of right and wrong The word ordin uh the word uh there the sure the ordinances of the Lord are sure. Uh the ordinances refer to his laws, his commands. The word sure there is a word which means true. Something which is trustworthy, something which is firm. Do you remember back when God spoke to David, the covenant that he established with David when David wanted to build the temple? And God said, You're not going to build this, but I'm going to establish a house for you, referring to a household. And so God spoke to David about how he was going to establish his household forever. And in response to that, David prayed a prayer. And in that prayer, David responded, O Lord Almighty, God of Israel, you have revealed this to your servant, saying, I will build a house for you. And so your servant has found courage to offer you this prayer. Oh sovereign Lord, you are God. Your words are trustworthy. And that word trustworthy there is the same word you have in Psalm 19:9. The ordinances of the Lord are trustworthy. They're firm, they're sure, you can depend on them. It's the same word used in 1 Kings 17. Do you remember when Elijah went to live with the widow of Zarephath? And he needed food. There was no food. She didn't have any food. All she had a little bit of oil, a little bit of flour. And so God miraculously remember caused the oil and the flour to not run out, and they continued to make cakes, so that the widow, her son, and Elijah lived for some time on that. But then you remember the son died And the widow comes upset to Elijah and says, You man of God, what have you come to condemn me for my sin and cause my son to die? What is with you? I wish you'd never been here. You know, and she's going on and on. Elijah is sort of taking off with this and He goes to the sun, he says, uh give me some time with your son, goes into the sun, prays, and God miraculously raises the sun from death to life. As a result, the woman comes back to Elijah and she says, Oh man of God, now I know you are a man of Jehovah, Yahweh. And that your words are sure. They're trustworthy. They're firm. It's the same word. What she's saying is, because you are able to raise my son from death to life, I know I can depend on your word. And that's what this verse is telling us. God's law is dependable. You can stake your life on the commands of the Bible You can build your life on the way that it says to live. And you can know that if you live the way the Bible says to live, that you will have joy and peace and success in your life. Maybe not success as our world counts success, but you will be a person of contentment and peace. You can stake your life on God's word. These are not the ten suggestions. They're the ten commands of a holy, omniscient God. They're not the ten preferences of a Eurocentric civilization that was all hung up. They're not even the ten traditions of a particular segment of society that needs to be acknowledged to have a right to exist. and to be at least tolerated within a pluralistic society where there are no absolutes. The law of God is sure. It's altogether righteous. And the amazing thing is that a president of the United States, 130 some years ago, a little less than 130 years ago, Publicly acknowledge to this nation, the law of God is sure and altogether righteous. We are accountable to God for how we respond to that law. And he was talking about sin in that context, the sin of racism in slavery. Who would dare publicly stand as an official in this nation? Not even the president, but a congressman. Who would dare to stand and to say the God of the Bible has given his law and we are accountable to him to keep that? I mean, isn't the big debate over the whole matter of homosexuality not the matter of whether it's a worse sin or anything like that? I'm not picking on that as the sin that stands out as the worst of all sin, but simply the question of whether it is sin or not. Christians try to write on that, and immediately we are seen as imposing our views on other people. Or you take Paul Farragut criticizing Gail Bates recently. For the goal of taking her religious views and applying them to the Human Rights Commission. Now, I can't find our flyer for this week, but I understand that Karen Mitchner wrote about that, and I'm sure looking forward to reading that. We need people to respond to that. And we give thanks to people who will respond to that. But how the scene has changed, do you see how we are in such a utterly different world that it is hard for us to believe that a president would have the right to be able to say to our nation, the God of the Bible is the one to whom we're accountable. I understand after the last service somebody was telling me that along with the uh ruling of the Supreme Court, I hadn't seen these other rulings. I never find out anything until I get my news magazines the next week, you know, so I'm always a couple days out of date But uh there were uh I understand some other rulings, one of which talked about a teacher who uh kept the Bible on his desk that he would read privately, not even publicly out loud. I understand that the Supreme Court ruled that he is not allowed to have the Bible on his desk. That is against the law of this land. The Catholic Church held religious services in a public park that is ruled by the Supreme Court as out of bounds in the United States today. And we wonder why we're in trouble. Abraham Lincoln said, We're accountable to God. He didn't only say that this word ordinances means we are accountable to God. He acknowledged something else in that He acknowledged that the ordinances of the Lord refer not only to his law, but secondly, the second thing you see there, to his rule of history. It refers to his rule. His sovereign governing of history, which is captured by that King James word judgments See, the idea of judgments is the idea of the decrees of a sovereign ruler being executed. This is the way things are going to be. And what the ruler does is that out of his nature, what he believes is right, he makes edicts, and those edicts must be followed. And that's the idea captured in this. The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous. Not only what he commands, but how he rules in history. For instance, in Psalm 119. Verse 84. Notice this way the word is translated. How long must your servant wait? When will you punish my persecutors? Now the word punish there in Psalm 119, verse 84, is the same word as the word ordinances in Psalm 199. I believe the King James translates it, when will you execute judgment? On my persecutors. You see, that's the idea of it. Executing judgment. God by his sovereign ruling determining the course of events. And do you see how Lincoln captured that? Let me read again the quote of what he said and the use of it now with that kind of background. He says, We're praying fervently that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God Not some vague ethereal God, but a God who he quotes from the Bible. So that God, if God rules Rules you see in his control of history if he determines that it continue, that war continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsmen, the slaves, two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with a lash shall be paid by another drawn with a sword. Then, what do we say? Our response is that as it was said 3,000 years ago, so still it must be said today, the judgments of the Lord are true and altogether righteous. Isn't that amazing? Do you see, you know, I I first was aware of this by a fellow who wrote about that in the Washington Post. And he made a point in his article that he was not a religious person. And then he didn't really believe that God controlled history. He also said that other commentators writing on the second inaugural address probably think that most people weren't listening very carefully. Because if they really heard what he was saying, he said they would have been horrified to think that we have now come right to the conclusion of just about winning this war, and this guy's telling us that it's up to God when it ends. And that he may in fact prolong it because of our sin. And that we need to humble ourselves before him. And the person writing the article said, I'm not a particularly religious person. But in a day of such arrogance of public officials, he says, I find it so appealing that at one time in our history a president was humble. Now, what am I saying to you from all this? I'm saying three things that you see there as a result and application of this. I'm saying, first of all, in this election year, judge the candidates. Judge them not only the presidential candidates, the congressional candidates, local candidates. Judge the candidates not simply by the issues. Not simply by the fact of where does he stand on this issue or that issue, where she stands on this particular thing. We have an unprecedented number of seats in Congress that are vacated and are open. The whole shift and direction, the whole direction of this country could shift with the ideology of people who may be wanting to get into office because of more power being locally determined concerning the abortion and pro-choice, pro-life kind of issue. Determine where you vote, not simply by the issues, but by where the heart of the candidate is concerning arrogance or humility. Concerning this matter of the leadership that will acknowledge absolutes and that there is a God who determines our affairs. You see, I would suggest to you that what Lincoln did in that address was not simply good religious or pastoral leadership. Lincoln wasn't a pastor. Our society says, hey, maybe a pastor could get away with saying that publicly. But no way would a president have the right to say that. And we as Christians have been so intimidated by pluralism to think that we don't have a right to expect that kind of leadership. But the Bible would indicate to us that this wasn't simply good spiritual leadership, it was good political leadership for Lincoln to make that statement. And we need to look for candidates who, at least, we discern in their hearts want to give that kind of leadership. You contrast, for instance, that statement. That Lincoln made with a statement that is inscribed on John F. Kennedy's memorial in Arlington Cemetery. On his memorial, there is this carved: Let us go forth to lead the land that we love. Asking his blessing and his help. Alright, it was an acknowledgement, you know. God's, you know, need to ask his blessing and his hope. But knowing That here on earth God's works must truly be our own. So it seems to me what he gives with one hand, he immediately takes back. It's sort of a nod to God, you know. We've got to ask you. But really, you know, God helps those who help themselves. That's the bottom line. We are a nation of achievers. We are a nation who wants action, who wants a strategy, who wants a plan. And what I'm seeking for us to do is to say we need to come back to realize that our problems are ultimately spiritual problems. Not strategy problems. So the first thing is to judge the candidates based on heart attitudes, based on humility and acknowledgement of absolutes and a God who rules in history. And to register and vote for that person. Now I understand after the service there's still going to be opportunity, whether it raised for registration. Please, if you're not registered, Take that opportunity, not telling you who to vote for. Just want to give you a principle from Scripture and our history. But make sure you register and that you vote. But the second thing beyond that is that you and I pray. Pray for revival that will give to America such an understanding of God's law and his rule. as was held during the administration of Abraham Lincoln. And it will go far beyond that. Let me absolutely clear. I am not for forcing Christianity on our nation. I am not for establishing a theocratic government. That will in fact legislate biblical morality when that is not the will of the people. That will work. But what will work is that when God's Spirit brings renewal and revival so that there is a movement, a spiritual movement, to in fact then reflect What is in the hearts of the majority of the people through the laws of the land, then God will bring peace, prosperity, and contentment. And so what I am saying is that you and I need to realize personally, as families, as a congregation, as a nation. The read issues are spiritual issues, aren't they? The read issue in your life and my life Why you fear, why you're not able to sleep, why you're not able to enjoy your food, why you're not at peace with those people who are in your life. Those are ultimately spiritual issues. And Jesus Christ is here speaking to you through his word this morning, and he's saying, My ordinances are sure, and they are altogether righteous. And because you and I could not keep those laws. The Lord Jesus went to the cross for us on our behalf. He kept them altogether righteously And he was altogether judged and condemned in your place and in my place if we trust him, so that you can have new life and forgiveness, that I could have that. And that Jesus Christ could meet you in your deepest need. But that's not just personal That's not just that he needs us individually on our deepest need. Jesus Christ is needed by us as a nation at our deepest need. And so you and I need to pray. We need to join in prayer. And let me tell you, I'm saying this, pleading for us, but there's tremendous good news. You know, even as we see our backs to the wall and we see that a school teacher can't even have his Bible on the desk, and that we are in the situation now of saying, if you want religious freedom, go to Russia. I mean there you can not only have your Bible on your desk, you can preach it in class. And you'll be welcome to do it. Go to Albania, where it was outlawed to even mention God. You can teach from a Christian curriculum there. In the United States, you can't even have a Bible on your desk. But God is moving within our nation a groundswell of prayer. A groundswell of a realization. You know, of the two two major denominations in just the past month in their national assemblies, the Evangelical Free Church. In their National Assembly, Paul Cedar addressed them and he said, When have we last wept for America in prayer? And there was a time of repentance and prayer, particularly focusing on the sin of racism. And there was a sense of a need for renewal, gripping the evangelical free church. Christian and Missionary Alliance had their largest meeting. They had a concert of prayer led by David Bryant, who led the one here in Howard County. And as a denomination, they've committed themselves. They've said to one of the leaders said, we've been raised to think that strategy is going to produce church growth. God is humbling us to realize we need the touch of His Spirit. God is moving. And we're on the swell of what's happening. But I'm calling on us, please join together. Let's pray. Let's continue to seek God. That he will change the course of history, that he will give us better than we deserve this November. And that he will meet our needs. The last thing, finally, is that we will work. Working your little corner, me and my little corner of the public arena toward that end to which we're praying If you see a candidate, can you say that candidate is a person who has some sense of moral absolutes, who seems to be a person of conviction, rather than simply a person who is a pragmatist. A person who is seeking to be concerned for public welfare, not just their own kingdom. And a person who, even beyond that, might even have a sense that there is a God to whom we are accountable who rules our affairs Don't just vote for that person. Work for them. Get involved in their campaign. No candidates perfect. Can't say, well, but I don't agree with them on this issue. Don't agree with her on that stamp. Look at the alternative. This next election may bring a lot of changes in our national and local leadership. People are restless. There's an opportunity for more change now than we have seen. Work for the person that you want to have expanded influence, and it may make the difference. Or beyond that, when I say work, just where you are and where I am on a daily basis. When conversation talks about morals and it talks about right and wrong, are we intimidated to The kind of language that says, well it's right for her, and you know, that's if that's okay, if that floats her boat, fine, you know. But you know, everything's just individual. Or are we willing to say, no, there's a right and there's a wrong? And the Bible says that the ordinances of God are sure, and they're altogether righteous. And we can live our lives by them. And I believe that. Yeah, people look at you kind of strange, but then you can talk to them about what it means that there is a right and a wrong, and from that if God leads into Jesus, then fine. But you and I need to be willing to take that stand because people don't believe that. And a lot of them don't even know it. They may be open to understanding that there are absolutes if somebody's at least willing to stand up for it. And then finally I'd say just wherever you see a particular need that God's put on your heart, a particular burden, a hurt, a brokenness, an injustice, locally or whatever level, get involved in that ministry. Be part of the solution for that. The Lord Jesus has done so much for you and for me, hasn't He? He's forgiven us, He's given us new life, He's changed us. He's the one who shows us the kingdom that he's establishing and that we're going to be there and there's not going to be any sin, any tension. There's going to simply be his perfect rule by his ordinances that are true and altogether righteous. God's doing some great things today. And in these next weeks and months, we may see some history-changing currents coming to fore in this next election. Let's pray that God will be at work in that, in His mercy, in our lives. Let's pray together. Lord our God. We tremble to think that what we deserve as a nation. We pray, Lord our God, that you will give us better than we deserve. Humble us, Lord, as a nation. Deliver us from our arrogance. Lord, we pray that you would raise up leaders who would not be arrogant people, but would be people who are humble. Do realize that they are accountable in their lives and that we as a nation are accountable to a God who has given his holy law. And a God who rules in the affairs of this nation, to bring prosperity or judgment. Lord, help us as a people to join. With those who are committed to praying and that we will continue daily, weekly, joining together, praying for you to bring renewal and revival. And that you will be working even locally, in our county, in our city, to be lifting up Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that there's anyone here who is not aware of the changed life that you Lord Jesus can give, that you would show yourself to them, that you would change them, that you would give them forgiveness in that new life in yourself. Lord help us as we seek in these next weeks to be involved in what's going on in the national and local level. Give us courage, Lord, to stand for you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen