Thursday is the fourth of July, our Chief National Holiday. Well the Bible speaks on every area of life. But so this morning, from God's word, I'd like to raise a political question. The political question I'd like to raise is how much should Christians push for Christian morality and values from the absolute scripture in a pluralistic society? That's a very important question for Christians today. How much should Christians push for Christian morality, for Christian standards, for Christian values, for the absolute scripture, in a paralytic society that says that it's absolutely arrogant for anybody to think that their values are superior to other people's values. What should be our position on that? Should we in fact say that it's only consistent, forest, and a pluralistic society to allow everyone to have an equal voice and not to push anything on society that wouldn't have the total consensus Of that society. I believe that a very definitive text in answering this is found in Scripture, Proverbs chapter 8, and verses 15 and 16. Proverbs chapter 8, verses 15 and 16. Interesting to me. I have rarely ever heard this text appeal to in the discussion of that question. Give you an example of that, there's a fellow by the name of Rusash J. Rashtini. Now, if you've ever heard of him, I'm sure you'll never forget it. And anybody with the name Rusash J. Rashtini must have written something very profound, right? Well, Rusash J. Rashtini wrote two volumes One of them is called the Institutes of Biblical Law and the other one is called Law and Society, which deals with these kinds of questions over sixteen hundred pages Hundreds of scripture references. This reference is never appealed to in the entire 1600 pages. That's just one example. I find that it's amazing that this text is not used in this discussion. And yet I tell you that if I had the opportunity to preach at the present as a prayer breakfast before Congress or even the Supreme Court, although you probably couldn't even pray with them. I would probably choose this text to preach from if I had the opportunity. I don't plan to have the opportunity. No one has invited me to do it yet. But in case I ever do get that invitation, I will probably choose this text, Proverbs eight, fifteen and sixteen. Let's pick up the thread of thought, beginning with verse twelve. Our wisdom dwells together with prudence. I possess knowledge and discretion. To fear the Lord is to hate evil. I hate pride and arrogance, evil behavior and perverse speech. Counsel and sound judgment are mine. I have understanding and power. By me kings reign and rulers make laws that are just. By me princes govern and all nobles who rule on earth. I want for us to notice two things, and you can follow along in your bulletin outline from this text these two versions. Number one, I want for us to notice the close of the text. And then secondly, I want for us to notice our response to the text. First of all, then what are the claims of the text in these two verses, Proverbs eight, fifteen and sixteen? First of all, there's a question. The question is who establishes the presidency of the United States, our Congress and our Supreme Court. These are the authorities of the three branches of our government. Anybody who has not yet graduated from high school, what are the three branches of our government? What's one branch? The legend movies, what's another one? Judicial, what's the third one? The what? Oh, we're opening up the over high school now. What's the third one? Executive badge. Okay, the first The President is the executive, Congress is the legislative, the Supreme Court is the judicial. These are the three final authorities in our form of government, supposedly to be held in checks in the balance of their power. Now who establishes these three authorities? If you ask someone who is in office today, they probably say the people of the United States have established me. It's the people of the United States who have established my authority to be here. But that is not ultimately the answer. Because if that ultimately was the answer, if ultimately it were the people, then that would mean that ultimately authority rests in man. And if authority ultimately rested in man, then authority When there is no authority over men. But Proverbs 8, 15 and 16 absolutely contradict that. Notice what it says. By me, kings reign. By me, rulers make laws that are just by me, princes govern, and all the nobles who rule on earth. Now who is the me the speaking there? You go back to verse one of that chapter, and you see does not wisdom call out, does not understand brings her voice. Verse 12, even closer that we read, I wisdom dwell together with prudence and possess knowledge. So wisdom is the one speaking. And wisdom says that it's by me. The king's reign, that anyone has authority in government. Now, what kings is wisdom talking about here? Is this talking about the kings of Israel, those who are in the theocracy of the people of God? Well, that's not. And that's absolutely clear because you notice what it says, verse 15, by the kings in general. It doesn't say the kings of my people. It simply says, by me kings, a general principle reigns. And then verse sixteen being clearer and all the nobles who rule on earth. Any nobles. who rules, rules by me, says wisdom. By me comes their authority. By me comes their power. That gives us a number of examples of this in the Old Testament. He says that he raised up Pharaoh, a heathen to place him in power. God says I raised up Nebuchadnezzar and placed him in power. I raised up Cyrus and put him in power. But the scripture is absolutely clear that God is the God of history and he does not simply establish the rules over his own people, but over all nations. By me, all things reign, including pluralistic, secularistic nations. And so you could paraphrase for our own situation verses fifteen and sixteen by reading By me, President Reagan administrates. And by me, Congress makes laws that are just. By me, the Supreme Court interprets laws. And by me, We all who rule have their authority. You see that? I really want to see. You see that in the text, that that really is what that's talking about. That is the absolute code of God's word. He is the one. To has established the presidency, the Congress, and the Supreme Court in the United States, 1985. It's the same kind of thing that Journal 13 speaks about. But it says three times that the authorities that are established are established. By God. And twice it says in those first six verses that the rulers are servants of God. And so the point is absolutely incontrovertible if you believe the Bible is the Word of God. God is the one who is established by readers. And therefore our leaders are accountable to their own. Now, who is this wisdom that they're accountable to? Who is this wisdom that's established that? It's very important that we understand the identification of this wisdom. If you get a clue to that, it's a over in verse 23. After he had said that I am the one who establishes kings and rulers and authority. Verse 23 says, I was a project from eternity, from the beginning, before the world began. Always the craftsman at his side, always filled with delight, day after day, rejoicing always in his presence. Well, rejoicing there at verse 31 in his whole world and delighting in mankind. Now who is this? Colossians one verse fifteen to seventeen tells us that the person who is the firstborn of all creation, God's person at the very beginning, is Jesus Christ Himself. He is the one who is in supremacy over the creation. Colossians chapter two, the verse two and three. We read that Jesus Christ is the one in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Who is wisdom? Colossians 2, very clear. Christ is the one in whom are all the treasures. treasures of wisdom and knowledge. 1 Corinthians 1 30 is even clearer. It says, Christ has become to us wisdom, as well as righteousness and sanctification. And so Jesus Christ is wisdom. He's the Ultimate personal fulfillment of what is being claimed in this chapter by wisdom. Jesus Christ is the ultimate authority in the universe. And that was declared once and all finally when he rose from the dead and ascended into heaven. And so Colossians 1 17 says his resurrection was so that he might have the supremacy, first place in everything. In Ephesians 1, 19 to 23, we're told that he is the one who rules above every ruler, above all Every name that can be named, every governor, every prince, every authority in this life, and in also the life to come. Jesus Christ is the ultimate authority, and therefore by him all other authority is delegated. the none who is in charge of all authorities throughout history. He sovereignly appoints leaders. Now nations tend to get the kind of leaders that they deserve. And so God is not saying here that every leader that rules in the is the one that I had chosen because he was the best one. Not saying that at all. Saul was not the best leader available to the nation of Israel, but he was the leader that they deserved. And so God gave them Saul. We tend to get the leaders that we deserve. But the thing for us to remember and to take great comfort in now is that Jesus Christ is the one who sets up those leaders. They're not there by chance. So that's absolutely vital for us to remember because we need into a new era of warfare, the era of terrorism. The era where we begin to uh concentrate the unexpected at every turn, undeclared wars on every side. And if we think it's an event that were You will right now scarce. If you wonder what it's like now to travel abroad in some of these uh airports where the uh security maybe isn't so hot, then you say, Well, you know the answer to that's just to stay home. Uh the leaders today who are knowledgeable. saying the next terrorist acts are going to be in America, and beyond that they're saying we haven't seen anything yet. Where do the terrorists begin to get nuclear warheads? Where do they begin to be able to blackmail the world because of their potential For destruction. It's enough to send chillings into your heart. And it's when we begin to contemplate such realities that a verse like this takes on grave meaning. By me, Kings reign. And really. Make laws that are just. By me, princes govern, and all movers who rule over. Anyone who has power has that power on a leash from Jesus Christ. Now, what is his claim on them. What is his claim upon those that he allows and establishes in these points of power? In order to appreciate that and understand that you have to see the context. And you need to see really that the context the whole book of Proverbs, and we all have parts of that this morning, but let's just look at the immediate context in chapter eight. In chapter eight, you see there in the bullets and outline so that we can move through this and we can follow it a little more easily, are sort of outline chapter eight there in The four major sections of it. Verses 1 to 11 is wisdom's invitation. And wisdom calls out. Wisdom invites people to come to herself. Wisdom is always placed in the feminine in the book of Proverbs. She calls it to the Prophet. out versus nine, one she built her house, she seen seven pillars. Wisdom is a person. And she calls people to come to her. She calls them practically. She's not like Eastern wisdom. That is up on some faraway mountain. But you notice that in those first verses, she's in the market square, she's in the highways and the byways, the everyday course of life. Wisdom is practical and it's universal. God's wisdom is for all of us. Whether we can Read or not. It's for all of us. And it's very practical in our daily living. And wisdom invites everyone to come to it. And then in verses twelve to twenty one, she describes the benefits that she has to give to those who come to her. For instance, in verse nineteen. She says that she's absolutely better than gold. Uh the kids in Bible school this week have the Ten Commandments and in our family we have each one of our kids have the opportunity to lead devotions, family devotions one time a week. And on Julie's turn this week She made a little chart and she had this uh chart of a number of different things that would be very desirable, you know, V C Rs and all this kind of stuff. All kind of things we all had yet. You know all these things and then she talked about these kind of things that she could desire And what friends have and things that we don't have. And then she put over those things and she says, The one thing that I do have that's more important than any of this is the Lord. And that may sound almost right, almost like sour grapes, and say, Well maybe you've got to be But I got the Lord, you know. But the fact is that whatever anyone else does have, to have wisdom is more precious than gold. To have wisdom is better than to have that summer house or that far away place that you did. and say, oh, if I can only have this. Wisdom is better than anything to have the person of Jesus Christ. We need to take the comfort in that to meditate on wisdom and scripture enough so that you don't believe that. Particularly as they go on vacation. See some of these cases that we might sort of drool answer and remind ourselves that to have Jesus is more precious and more important in the long run. And so Lusan describes the benefits of having her. And then she goes on third. To describe her credentials. Well, who am I that I make such claims and that everyone should come to me? And so she describes what she did with God from the very beginning of creation, but involved in creating all things. We see those credentials laid out. The eternity. Of wisdom and the divinity, the deity of wisdom. And then finally she finishes with her offer. The offer of wisdom, of life. See verse 35 and 36. Whoever finds me finds life and receives favor from the Lord. But whoever fails to find me harms himself, and all who hate me love death. That's true for every single one of the Savior. says I have come to give life. Who finds me alone finds life. Every one of us had the problem of sin and rebelling against God, the one with the full authority, Jesus Christ, the only one who rules. And we have said, we don't want you to rule our lives. I want to live my own life. I want to rule my own life. I can do it better. And Jesus Christ has said, because of that rebellion, that that one act of rebellion cannot go unpunished in the universe. So I will be dethroned and there will be utter chaos and ruin. And so Jesus Christ must punish all the dying. But he has come, sent by the Father, that he might take upon himself the curse, the punishment, the all you're going in. And he has taken that upon himself. So that if you come to Jesus Christ this morning, today, even here in this room, while the heat and course, you can come to him right now. And find life. But Listen goes on to say, whoever fails to find it, who rejects that offer, harms himself. In fact, if you hate me, that'll hate Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ said that he bowed the knee to me, and he Given your life to me? Have you come given up yourself and your life and all of those claims that you have upon yourself and said, Lord, here it is, you've got to take it. Jesus says, If you haven't done that, you hate me. You've rejected me. You've quit out of your life, no matter how pious it may sound. And if you hate me, he says you love that. Because that's all there is. That's all that you can face apart from Jesus Christ. That's the only alternative. But now not only is there offered that personal salvation to each and every one of you, for which I plead that you will accept in Jesus Christ as offer of eternal life. But wisdom offered offers you national benefits. You see that's the whole point of verse 15 and 16. Not only for individuals do I offer life, but also for nations. Because by me alone anyone who ruled justly really ruled. Only it's by me that a nation have stability when it follows the things that I have set down. And so this is saying if you want any kind of nationalizing You must follow me. Now, what are the three particular claims of wisdom? Just want to focus on three that she makes. Number one is justice. You see that in verse 16. By meet extra verse 16. By the king's praise, and will you just make laws that are just. How's the will to make laws that are just? By wisdom. The only way you can do it is through wisdom, the wisdom of God's words. Just laws. rulers, the Presidents, Congress, our Supreme Court is responsible to God as possible to him to make just laws and to enforce them. Proverbs 29, verse 4, tells us that by justice, a king gives the country stability. But one who is greedy for bribes tears it down. It may be subtle, it may not be as open as a clear open bribe, but if in fact you're not governed by justice, God says you're going to tear it down. down in your country, in your administration. Womers are accountable to God to rule by justice. And yet she's not speaking about a sociological justice. She's speaking about an absolute justice in terms By God's own word. Second more vincant was this: nothing is more certain in modern society than the principle that there are no absolutes. Now, who is Frederick Moore Vinson? Are these the words of some philosopher or some professor at NYU? Frederick Moore Vinson, for those of us who are uh in the second part of the Caleb message from last week. Was a Chief Justice of the Supreme Court over 30 years ago. Over 30 years ago, a Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States wrote, nothing is more certain in modern society than the principle of the United States. That there are no absolutes. And if in fact there are no absolutes, then there can be no absolute to judge society. And if there is no absolute to judge society, then society itself becomes absolute. And if society itself becomes absolute, then its absolutes are arbitrary. You follow that? If there is no absolute above society to judge that society, society itself becomes absolute, and all of its absolutes are arbitrary, whether they're the absolutes by vote or by dictator. There are absolutes that are not accountable to anyone except those in palace. But wisdom says, those who make just law did it by me. I have set them in authority. And so God says there is an absolute. And that absolute is an absolute to which every one of our rulers, Congress, and the Supreme Court are accountable. The second claim is the claim Of the law of God applied to all of life. The whole book of Proverbs speaks of this. Wisdom is God's law applied to the everyday life and our relationships. But this then wisdom is saying that to rule by me is to understand. understand all of what God here speaks to us about and how to live. And that that becomes the rule for our legislation. And that becomes as we understand those principles applied to the new age in Jesus Christ. Interpret that carefully, understanding how Old Testament principles translate into our society becomes the rule for us and the basis for just laws. And then finally, the third thing. that uh wisdom claims here is that this must begin by the rulers having a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And why do I say that? Look over in chapter nine and verse ten. How do you have wisdom. Chapter 9, verse 10, we read that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. The fear of the Lord and the knowledge of the Holy One is Old Testament language. For saving knowledge of God. It's referring in our day to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. To fear the Lord means to follow Him as our covenant God. And so this is referring to a personal relationship to Jesus Christ. So why would I mention that? I think because as Christians we can be very easily duped with our time. On the 4th of July, Thursday, you'll probably hear a lot of rhetoric about civil religious. A lot of God words used by politicians that sound as if they understand Proverbs 8:15 and 16. They'll call on us to pray for them, they'll call on us to unite together under God, to rule, to protect us. nation, particularly in these times of great danger, and for God to help us to do the things right so that the uh hostages could be brought home safely and all the rest of that. But so much of this can be simply God talk. What is described as civil religion to mobilize a nation together, but without any personal understanding of the meaning of that. As soon as we hear the religious rhetoric uh this Thursday or at any other time, we need to ask ourselves, Does that man who says that or that woman who says that understand that justice is derived from absolutes that are above society? Or is there view simply that absolutes only derived from the people themselves? Does that person who is calling upon us in terms of religious language, a person who understands that wisdom is derived from the Word of God and that their will must be taken from that? Or do they simply see that wisdom is the best shot that they can make after they've read all the experts? Does that person understand that wisdom must begin by their personally acknowledging Jesus Christ as Lord over their lives? Were they a person who says that my private life and my public life are absolutely separate? matter what I believe personally. A person cannot understand wisdom thoroughly without a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Now, happening or unhappening are all inconsistent. So there are a lot of people who are in Jesus Christ who don't rule with a lot of wisdom. Because there will be those principles brought to bear, particularly with the pressure of Christians to force them to see it. There will, on the other hand, may be a number of Christians who rule without wisdom because they're not following through consistently the profession that they're not. So what then is the response to this text? Briefly to sum it up. From the part of the leaders, first of all, I believe it's humility and accountability. It's humility to realize that they're in the position that they're in by divine account. It's accountability for them to realize that they therefore are accountable to God for what they do, not to themselves, not even ultimately to their constituents. They're accountable to wisdom who put them there? To Jesus Christ, who is the one who is the final authority in the universe. That there is an absolute above society, and that they can never be neutral with regard to that absolute. What is the response there for it for us? As those of us who hear this, I believe it's twofold, and you see it there. Number one, that we would pray for godly needs. That we would pray for godly needs, that we would celebrate this Thursday our heritage. Our heritage that even makes such a prayer makes sense. The fact that there is that memory of Christian heritage of the principles of the Mayflower Compact and the charters for most of our states and the Supreme Court and everything else that mentions uh many times, Jesus Christ specifically. And they said we would celebrate the heritage that we have. And we would pray for leaders and pray specifically. I think oftentimes we don't pray for leaders 'cause we yeah, God bless the leaders and help them and that Pray specifically, excuse me, claiming Proverbs 8, 15, and 16. Pray for leaders who will be humble and be accountable. Leaders who will understand that they are there not because simply People who put them there, who will have a better understanding of authority, and leaders who will understand that they are therefore accountable, and ultimately accountable, even to Jesus Christ. That God who put such people in position conditions of power in this country by grace, because it's not really what we deserve. And then the second final thing would be not that we just pray for godly leaders, but that we would press for godly legislation. That we would oppress the guideline legislation even in a secular society. That we would be people who have inside information from Proverbs 8, 15 and 16, it says by me. Even in secularistic, pluralistic society, it's by me that kings reign. And the rulers make laws that are just. If they're ever going to make laws that are just, it's by me, God says. By me, princes govern, Abraham, all. But we will pick our banners. We can't all Be involved in all of them. But it will be involved in something. And it will be active in that. And it will be helping one another to know what those battles are. So as you read the newsletter, that you see the articles there, there's one in the July newsletter, and you see other When you decide on your priorities, this one I'm going to be active in. Because God gives me the mandate for that in Proverbs 8, 15 and 16. But let me give you one last point as we do this. Government legislation, apart from evangelism and revivalism, can never work. It will never ultimately be effective. It will never ultimately be effective because a that produces legislation foisted on the majority who are not in sympathy with those values will have no more effect than prohibition did in the twenties. Let me give you an example. that many of us are not aware of of the parallel of our own situation. It is in 17th century Aden. You know that in 17th century Aden, the Puritans, who were the evangelicals of their day, wanted to follow God in all Actually gained control of the English government? They gained control of Parliament and the king was executed. Oliver Cromwell, who was an evangelical, Bible-believing Christian, was made word protector. Of England. And they were able to pass whatever legislation they would want to. They would make Christian as Christian as they possibly could. It could be the very nation of God on earth. And you know what happened? Because they were a minority, and because the majority of England was in fact hostile to their concerns, within a few years the entire thing crumbled, and by the end of the century they were a hunted, persecuted people. Who were totally disenfranchised. They couldn't even preach the gospel within 30 years. Because they had laid the basis only of legislation, but they had not laid the basis of evangelism. Conversion and the Bible. And so this 4th of July, let's pray that God would have mercy on us and bring up godly leaders. But that in doing that we will also be a people who realize that we need to serve. Seize the opportunity for evangelism, for prayer for revival in this country, while we still have a chance. Let's pray.