And the vision of heaven is very clear to us as God revealed it to us in the book of Revelation that people from every tribe, tongue, and nation will gather to worship him. And that Jesus Christ has sacrificed himself to die on the cross, bearing their punishments of their sins as their substitute. There were 5,233 international students at Johns Hopkins from 48 different countries. uh for Labor Day weekend um and then in October we have pumpkin carving at the Dimer Presbyterian Church, Thanksgiving luncheon in November. And then Friday morning as well. So we are so thankful. And then in the spring semester, we have started a class about relationship and marriage for our students, also meeting on Monday night for seven weeks. to look at this passage closely for Thessalonians. Uh we went there last weekend and the weekend before. And it's not only to the nearby churches, but also to other churches in the whole province, we call it state, of Macedonia, and to the neighboring province, Akaya They are faithful in their daily prayer and Bible reading, spending time with God, talking to God, confessing their sins and weaknesses, and asking God to help them grow in those areas. so that they can worship you alone, the true and living God. pastoral transition and we're putting together a vision for our work as uh fulfilling the Great Commission here in Columbia. And thank you for having me this morning. To the end of the earth. You need to learn the culture. to the gospel while living in the United States. And RBF International at Johns Hutkins, we belong to the Chesapeake Presbytery, just like this church CPC belongs to the Chesapeake Presbytery. So in in summary, this 2021-2022 academic year, Christians representing 12 Presbyteric churches. hosted by uh one of our team members, a member of Covenant of Grace Presbyterian Church. In the spring semester we have uh welcome dinner in January and then we have the lunar new year in February. I have brochures, I have a printed newsletter that you can pick up after the worship service. But your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. Now when we do things together with the person we love, like our spouses, it brings excitement and happiness to our hearts. Jesus is the only way. And their life demonstrate this new life they have in Jesus. Or every other man and every member of CPC is exercising Christian hospitality. But it's hard to labor our love to those who may not appreciate it. of this world rather than to obey God's word. Which is to trust and obey Christ. Missional Christians become examples to other believers. Nor sits in the seats of scuffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law, the word of God. That the false god of the Greek mythology, like Zeus, the leader of the gods, Athena, the god of love, Poseidon, the god of the ocean, and maybe Wonder Woman or even persecuted them either verbally, emotionally, or physically, or combinations of these, they will choose to be faithful to Christ and suffer much affliction. If we depend on these things rather than God, if we seek ultimate happiness from these things rather than God, if they become more important to us than God. The Thessalonian Christians endure suffering and afflictions, and they were steadfast in their hope in Christ. In 1 Peter chapter 1, he says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Through the resurrections of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is that is imperisable, undefault, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. I went there a few years ago and then I hiked many miles until I reached a lake with a beautiful view of the Grand Teton and the beauty of it captured my heart. And I will take you to myself that where I am, you may be also. for the uh international students at Johns Hopkins University. to um to reach out to the nations with them being right here at home. The first way or the first model is what we call traditional foreign missions. To go to Japan and other places in the world. Now what are some of the things that you need to prepare here before you leave? Most of us are not called to live in another country as a missionary. For all of us, all Christians. Now, this academic year 2021-2022, there were over 6,000 international students at Hopkins. are involved in with our ministry in different areas. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. So that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivered us from the wrath. to come. In Matthew chapter 28, verse 19 to 20, we see the heart of Jesus. With you and me. With us doing mission works together, reaching the nations together with him. And what does living a lifestyle of evangelism and discipleship look like in our daily life, individually and corporately as a church? It means that their faith is active. To have faith in Jesus means to trust in him alone, simply and fully, without reservation. So faith in Jesus is a saving faith. Non-believers see their life and they see the difference. It is missional and it is impactful. To practice Christian hospitality by inviting a non-believer friend to have dinner, to have a meal at your house. Have a vision that the sanctuary of this church will be filled with many people and then you will need a bigger church, a bigger sanctuary. Hope for that and do the work of your faith and labor your agape love. In laboring your agar love to the people around you, to this to this community. So they love Jesus Christ more than anything, and they would rather receive persecution and afflictions and lose the comfort or the convenience of this world than to disobey their Lord and Savior. You together as a church become an example to all believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. But your faith in God has gone forth everywhere so that we need not say anything. So isn't that cool if CPC is known in all Maryland and even beyond Maryland? He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its seasons, and its leaf does not wither. To prosper in your work of faith and labor of your agape love. But in the word of God alone. Turn away from idols and serve the true and living God alone. Now most of you probably shouldn't try this singing competition, you know, except the price team here. Idols. And oftentimes Christians who suffer persecutions are more faithful than other Christians who never receive any sort of persecution. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. The visions of the beauty and majesty of heaven, God's dwelling place, was what the Thessalonian Christians had. Thank you for asking us to be on mission with you to tell and show the love of Christ. is uh here with us with his wife Pei. We have studied a women ministry in this academic year that meets once a month on a Saturday. We adore. Global and local missions. In April, we text students to do zip lining at River Valley Ranch with Cornerstone Presbyterian Church. Now let's turn your Bible to First Thessalonians chapter one. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake? Faith in Jesus, we trust our life in Him. If we put our faith in Jesus, we cannot trust in anything else, including in ourself, but in Him alone. Safe. Storge, which is familiar love between parents and their children, file, brotherly love, eros, sexual love, and agape, self-sacrificial and unconditional love. Sharing the gospel, teaching the word of God, and laboring the love of Christ. His older brother verbally persecuted him, speaking so harsh against him. Their prayers are intentional, their daily Bible reading is consistent, and their lives are rooted in God's Word. And verse 3 tell us what a faithful Christian looks like. Meaning all that he does for the Lord in all his labor of Agabila for the glory of God, he prospers. So, don't you want to be a follower of Jesus Christ who blossoms with the beauty of Christ, who produces much of the fruit of the Holy Spirit? Everything on earth will wither and fade. An idol is an image or representations of a god used as an object of worship. A spiritual idol is anything more important to us than God? So Christ will reward us with much heavenly blessings. And when Christ returns, he will end all our sufferings and struggle. And being part of other people's journey to eternity with Christ is the most significant agape love that you can demonstrate as followers of Jesus Christ. Remember what he has said to all his people, to you and me in John 14. My wife Pay and I, we serve with RDF International, Reaching International students and scholars at Johns Hopkins, and we are so thankful for your prayers, for the church prayers and support for our ministry And he also says in Acts chapter 1 verse 8, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. And it brings the greatest joy that you can ever have. Missional Christians labor their love. It's agape. Their community is blessed, their co-workers are blessed, and their friends are blessed too because of their agape love for them. So perhaps there are some projects that these church can do to help the community. But it's hard to be nice to those who are not nice. Christ died for us. That's why he persistently works to draw us to himself until we surrender our hearts to him. And as followers of Jesus Christ, we can learn to be like Him. They had vision for the future. But they chose to follow Jesus and to imitate him in their life. And the mark of a faithful and missional Christian is that he or she become an example to other Christians. The devil and his demons can use these things to take away our time and energy from giving it to God to giving it to these things. So what consumes most of our thoughts, most of our time and energy, if it is not God, it can be a spiritual adult to us. So we must be careful. Let the true and living God alone, the triune God, be the only God we worship. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercy of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Have you been in Mount Rainier National Park? So maybe you have been in these places. So come quickly, Lord. And REF International focuses on reaching international students and scholars at university campuses. Go and make disciples of all nations is Jesus' great commissions for all of us. And today we will look at this passage from the Thessalonian Christians, how we can be a missional church and a joyful congregation. We will learn seven characteristics of missional Christians. In Acts chapter 4, verse 12, it says, And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, what is a good example of this? And even beyond, wherever they are, wherever they go, either in the neighborhood or at work, they labor their agape loves to the people around them. But Romans chapter 5, verse 8 reminds us, but God demonstrates his own love, his own agape love for us in this while we were still sinners. Hope is faith and love, working with endurance and seeing the future. He demonstrates his agape love for us. And like Jesus, we can demonstrate our agape love to those who are not kind or nice, even to strangers, to those who are not our friends yet. Trust and obey, for there is no other way to be happy in Jesus. But they left their former religion and they turned to follow Jesus. So prevent presenting our bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God is missional living. It is our spiritual worship to God, presenting our bodies as a living sacrifice to God. Number seven, missional Christians live their life in the light of eternity and faithfully wait for the return of Christ. He will say to each of you, well done, my faithful servant, come to my kingdom. You have not been heaven. They knew what they had on earth was temporary. But their future home and joy in heaven are eternal. In the book of John, Jesus has said that he will gather all his sheep, people from all nations, and they will listen to his voice in their hearts, calling them to come to him. And this 2021-2022 academic year has been has been great for us because before campus was closed because of COVID, students came back to campus uh full semester last year. This academic year, our free lunches are sponsored by local Christians representing 12 Presbytery churches. Came up about 20 years ago. And many Christians do not blossom with the beauty of Christ because they are not rooted in the Word of God. Like the Thessalonian Christians, they work their faith, they labor their agape love, and they are steadfast in their hope in Christ, regardless of persecution. Did you know there are over 1. Once a month we have special events for them in the fall semester, our kickoff event. Why? Jesus had a vision that we, you and I, would one day understand his agabila for us. But for the Thessalonian Christians, nothing is more important than being faithful to God. However, they will also receive a special grace and strength from the Lord so that they can persevere, endure in their faith. Who by God's power are being guided through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Like like students from the Middle East countries. 70% of them have never been invited to an American home. So if we win the hearts of international students to Christ today, world missions will take care of itself tomorrow. Now what is REF and REF International? When I moved here four years ago and studied RDFI at Johns Hopkins, there were over 5,000 international students at Hopkins. In in a nutshell, a missional church is about telling and showing the love of Christ. This means that they receive the Word of God and they obey it. And he is now a pastor preaching and teaching the word of God. This means that other churches hear about the Thessalonian church, about their work of faith, their labor of Agape love, their faithfulness in Christ. A biblical definition of an idol is very different than the definitions of an American idol. True happiness and joy come from God alone and not from idols. Apostle Peter describes so well about what we will get when Christ returns. They were mission of Christians. So there are two ways for us as Christians to bring the gospel from our own Jerusalem And you can make a difference by getting involved with REF International. Now what does laboring our Agatha Love look like as a church? Hope in Christ is faith and love, working with endurance and seeing the future. Paul said to the members of the Thessalonian church, You became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. The Thessalonian Christians became imitators, following the example of the apostles and of the Lord. American Idol is a singing competition TV program. For some people to be a Christian and to follow Christ requires a great price. There is another kind of idol that we need to address, which is a spiritual idol. For Christians who live in persecution, their faith is strengthened when they put all their hope and wait for the return of Christ. Characteristic number one, missional Christians work their faith. Apostle Paul, in his prayer to God, he thanked God for the Thessalonian church because the church members work out their faith, labor their agape love, and they were steadfast in their hope in Christ When I was in Birmingham, Alabama, one of my students from India, who was from a Hindu background, became a Christian. Psalm chapter 1, verse 1 and 2 tell us about what a faithful Christian does. This is what it means when they receive the word of God with much affliction in verse 6. So have we labored our agape love together as a church? Faithful Christians are those who always want to grow in their faith and spiritual maturity. Being on missions together with Christ to bring his gospel to the nations is the greatest calling and the greatest joy that you and I can ever have. Our God is a missionary God. Number three, missional Christians are steadfast in their hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. How do we do that? Because when our hearts are together with his heart, it brings the most intimate relationship with the God of the universe. Number four, missionary Christians imitate Christ in their life. So let us live our life in the light of eternity. And many of my students who come from different religious backgrounds, they suffer verbal and emotional persecution from their family members when they choose to follow Jesus Christ. So I like to see mountains. Being statized means being committed and persistent. So joining Christ in his missions to bring to bring the world to himself, people from all nations to himself, is the most privilege that you can ever have. He said in John 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. So those who have put their faith in Jesus, trusting and surrendering their life to Him, they are safe. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. Here, Paul said to the Thessalonian Christians that they turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Can you guess which one is just here in verse 3? Friday night we have dinner in Bible study for our students. You need to raise money when you are here and then you need to get a passport. 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 1 to 10. We cannot blossom with the beauty of Christ if any of these things have become our idols. Missional Christians leave their life in the light of eternity and faithfully wait for the return of Christ. How do we bring the gospel from our own Jerusalem, our local city here, in our case it's Baltimore, to the end of the earth So it's labor of agape love. The Thessalonian Christians receive persecution from the Roman authority and from the people in the community who believe in false gods. None of us have. In your name we pray. And to be on missions with Jesus Christ brings the greatest joy in our hearts. Reverend J. 2 million international students in this country? On Friday we have free lunch for our students. Their faith in Jesus is shown in their lives. They had hope in Christ. And this brings us to characteristic number two. Heavenly Father, we are thankful for your grace in our life. This is reaching international students in our own city, in your own doorstep, in your own backyard in Baltimore, and this is world missions. If you cannot find it, it's just right before 2nd Thessalonians in the Bible. Persecution can be verbal, emotional, or physical. And in the movie a group of Catholic nuns help their community by doing community service. S. And you can be a missionary without leaving your home right here by getting involved with REF International with us. They know English and they often desire to make American friends. But once a year we like to go to a national park and and to see the beauty of mountains. Only the word of God will stand forever. They are living and working in Baltimore where Jason is an ordained teaching elder in the PCA working with RUF. While we were God's enemies and being rebellious against him, Jesus died for us. Samus is a Presbyterian minister who composed the famous hymn Trust and Obey in 1887. And Paul reminds the Roman Christians in Romans twelve, verse one and two And we trust in Him and His redeeming work on the cross for us. So verse 1 and 2 tell us what a faithful Christian does. It's we went there it was so beautiful. All these beautiful places on earth, these national parks, they are nothing in comparison to heaven. So praise the Lord. My wife and I we like to go hiking and and uh in Baltimore City there is Lake Roland Park which is our one of our favorite hiking places. So while teaching international students, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has given us the great commissions, he says in Matthew chapter twenty-eight, to go and make disciples of all the nations. It is clearly seen by others, by the people around them. Their homes in the city were temporary. Have you been in heaven? Help us to live our life in the light of eternity, being faithful and missional. Amen. It fills your hearts and your souls. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord. Have you been in Yellowstone and the Grand Teton National Park And we must be like them. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. His heart beats for people from all nations So imagine that you are the church member who is going to be a missionary and live in another country The Christian life brings the joy and the love of Christ to others, and it brings significant impacts to the life of others around them. He has an inheritance that is kept and reserved for us. And if we remember this, if this gospel deeply saturates our hearts, we can do the same to others. And these students represent the top five percent of their nation's brightest people, their future global leaders REF is the campus ministry of the PCA, the Presidential Church of America, our denomination. I looked it up on the website. This is what truly matters the most. There are four Greek words that are translated love in our English Bible. Number five, missional Christians become examples to other believers. They chose to trust and obey Christ. Paul said to the Thessalonian church, so that you, y'all, to use the Sovereign language, It's easy to be kind to those who are kind to us They are not faithful to Christ less being missional Uh we also take students to grocery stores, international grocery stores in this area actually. And these seven characteristics are woven to one another. Missional Christians labor their self-sacrificial and unconditional love to the people around them. Now some some of my students are nice, but some are a little difficult to handle This is in verse 9. And we want to continue to mobilize our members of Presbytery Churches in global and local missions by getting involved with our ministry. And they became a missional church and a joyful congregation. And therefore they live their lives in the light of eternity. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Anything that absorbs our hearts and imaginations more than God. And 80% of them have never been invited to a local church here. Good morning. So think about the kind of reaction they will receive from their family members, their friends, and their neighbor who still worship. Have a vision that many people around us will one day understand our agape love for them. You may have stats that you want to share for us, uh Jason, but that's what I saw. So there are a few things you need to learn to speak the language. This is in verse three. But but what is an idol according to the Bible? Labor of love. People will know that we are Christians by what? This is in verse 6. That's why you're you're still here. And these free lunches are sponsored by local Christians. And if you would like to receive our electronic newsletter, you can give me your name and email as well. He will bring us to glory and to live with him in heaven for eternity. Um the the Hopkins website said that in two twenty nineteen, which was the year before COVID really hit, And uh uh so we we look forward to what you have for us, Jason. First Thessalonians chapter one verse one to ten. We take students to a welcome picnic in Queenstown, hosted by members of Safe Harbor Presbyterian Church. Uh in March we take students to DC for the Cherry Blossom Festival. But to what? Live our life in the light of eternity. We have Christmas party in December Romans 10, verse 13 tells us, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be what? The Christian life is joyful, is full of hope and attractive. Number two, missional Christians labor their love. And let Christ alone, not idols, be the only master of our life, and let Christ alone be the only one. In the fall semester, we have studied classes about American culture on Monday nights for seven weeks. This is also in verse 3. They live their faith according to the Word of God, even though it leads to persecution, suffering, and much affliction. If you have, you won't be here this morning. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope Perhaps you can open your house And many come from countries that restrict or completely forbid Christian ministries. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, And no one comes to the Father except through me. Father, please use us to reach the lost in our community and to bring them to this sanctuary His heart is for people from all nations to come to him. It is his missions that he wants to accomplish together. Now, how should we respond to his calling for us? So this is a local church send their church members to go to another country and to be a missionary there. There are so many people in this community who will be rejudged by this church. Be steadfast, be committed, and persistent. What is hope in Christ? But he decided to be baptized and to follow Jesus faithfully, even though he received much affliction from his family. Now if you win, then you become an idol. To Christ be all the glory, let us pray. Thank you for saving us from our sins. You know, it's easy to labor our Agape love to nice and friendly people. Be rooted in the Word of God, not in any other things. So we look forward to what the Lord has to say. Verse 3 tell us what a faithful Christian looks like. In his letter to the Christians, scattered in several Roman provinces due to persecutions. Their sufferings and struggles were temporary. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you. Bless is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners. International students are far more open and have more access. REF campus ministers are ordained ministers and are called by and report to local presbytery. Is our love seen in our community? Money, social media, movies, TV, all of these can be potential spiritual idols for us Have you been in Rocky Mountains National Park? That's why he died for you. They understand that they have received the grace of God and that God has saved them from their sin. So it's very easy to find. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, And let us faithfully wait for the return of our King, our Lord and Savior. Which one? And many Christians today choose the comfort and the happiness For you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit What does it mean to have faith in Jesus? They are what we call spiritually born again. Have you seen a musical movie called Sister Act? Even though their family members, their friends, and their neighbors hated them for following Jesus. Missional Christians work their faith. Missional Christians imitate Christ in their life. And these Pastalonian Christians, they used to worship idols Right? And this brings us to characteristic number six. Trust and obey. I will come again. And then our weekly program is we have English conversation groups on Thursday night So Jesus wants to be on mission Um we have the second model. Each one is connected to the others. And if you do this once a month, In all that he does, he prospers. So there will be verbal, emotional, or physical persecution they receive. What is an idol, spiritually speaking? So but what about ordinary Christians Missional Christians, turn away from idols and serve the true and living God alone. Salvation is exclusive. They will receive persecution They waited faithfully, with much patience for Christ to return. A mark of a mission of church is that the church becomes an example to other churches. Missional Christians are steadfast in their hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the result is people coming to the church. What is hope in Christ? He meditates day and night. You'll be worshiping God up there 20% of the student body. Speaking about when Jesus returned. And we reject all other ways of salvation. Anything that we seek to give us, what only God can give. He wanted to be baptized, but his family members who are Hindus did not like it. This is a mark of a true born-again Christian. And Lord Jesus, we look forward to your return and to live with you in heaven forever and ever. As I said, this is a time when we're in a Don't you want to be a faithful and a missional church? They received God's word with much afflictions and the joy of the Holy Spirit. Our love, and to be precise, it's agape love. So if we want to be a joyful congregation, there is only one way. And it's so excited when we plan our hiking trip. This is in verse 10. Thank you for making us your people. One or two people like you can bring lunch and mingle with the students. How does a Christian's mission of life look like? This is in verse 7 and 8. I also hike many miles to reach a lake with a beautiful view of the mountain. This is the secret to be a joyful Christian. So this is a tremendous opportunity. It is a great mission field for the gospel. Twice a month on a Saturday, bring them uh to this area. This is in verse 3. The second way is what we call global missions. Number six, missional Christians. They have a new life in Jesus It captivated my mind What is an idol? So thank you again for your prayers, for your support for our ministry. And then the church choirs also attract the people. We're going to look Grace to you and peace. It is contagious. This is our vision.