What stanzas 1 to 3 reveal about the great king of the city? say but just in case there might be somebody new on the live stream or perhaps we have some visitors that might not know it. and more specifically in ministry to high school teenagers and in a ministry that we call Next Generation. And keep it open while we talk about it. And Paul says this, you then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And I was in and out of his home a few times. Consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels, that you may tell the next generation that this is God. From knowledge about God to a desire to really experience Him, to really make this faith their own. or even that 70-year-old neighbor next to you, they are part of the next generation. And I had a phenomenal time doing it. had been as an adult volunteer getting training and ministering with the navigators in a college context. But that spring, I was asked to consider to move here to Columbia to start a ministry with high school students. kid and yeah I probably felt much like a kid back then. On the pages of my Bible. They were astounded. The psalmist expresses his reaction to the God who is revealed in the city of the great king. Now maybe obsession is too strong a word. Boomers, that's me. Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children, that the next generation might know them. And not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments, and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation From Psalm 78, he says this. If you remember a few weeks back, Craig Garriott brought us an excellent message on the first part of 2 Timothy 2. From our peers, our siblings, our families, our co-workers, and perhaps even our neighbors You see, towers were built to see over the horizon. The battle we're in, both defensively as we fight for our holiness against our own sin and Satan's exploitation of that sin And this psalm lifts our sights to the future. But this is a bit different. Not focused on being religious, but focused on a growing vibrant life of freedom and purpose in Christ. By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish. wrote this psalm about the city of Jerusalem, about the city of David. And open our hearts to your Holy Spirit to see, to believe, and to act. His joy and his power. Those who came against it ran in panicked terror. Three are descriptive, and the fourth, the last one, is imperative. It's 2023. A generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God. It rested on Mount Zion between the Kidron and Hinnum valleys. And perhaps when we talk about generations, they're the first generation that we think of. embraces the gospel and truly experiences experiences Jesus, whether that's a child, a teen, a young adult. And a certificate to teach high school. That may or may not be a psalm you're familiar with. In the city of our God, which God will establish forever. Your right hand is filled with righteousness. And with it, it declares the Lord's permanence. Gen Alpha is the next generation. Is it your desire? especially those whose students are beginning to understand, value, and even desire. Our children, and those of you who work with youth, know that uh we always call the students we work with our kids, right? That's what we do. The year was 1975, and it was in the spring. Now I was excited about that because of my experience in teaching and also because I really value that age group. I was looking for assurance that this was really a good idea. His holy mountain, beautiful in elevation, and the joy of all the earth. I knew that I had heard from God. Well, if I were to title this psalm, Psalm 48, I would title it the city of the Great King. These verses were marching orders. Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress. We have fought on your steadfast love of God in the midst of your temple. That you may tell the next generation that this is God. This is the word of the Lord. Help me, O Lord, to clearly convey truth, empower understanding to our minds, and soften our hearts to live differently as a result. Use us, Lord, to raise up another generation of believers, of disciples, of leaders in your church. We long to see you raise up a generation to reach a lost and dying world with truth and freedom. So here we have a holy, beautiful, joyous, and all-powerful King who is permanent, who is eternal. Only when we get to the fourth stanza, the last three verses of the entire psalm, do we find a hidden gem. Is the city's vision, its purpose. Gen Zers or even now Gen Alpha. with the literal physical next generation of God's children. We parents, youth workers, try as we might, we can't make faith happen. With Paul's exhortation to his own spiritual son, Timothy. And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. Sorry, there's no retirement plan. O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds. So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me until I proclaim your might to another generation. His name was Jim Downing. He was known as Navigator No. The important thing to me right now is that three months before he passed into eternity, he was still meeting with men, discipling people. Our God, forever and ever, He will guide us forever. but also offensively. Student Fellowship at Franklin and Marshall, actually at Millersville University, but that's a whole nother story. In fact, it's more about the great king whose city it is than it is about the city. To see the world, to see people really, whether they believed in Jesus or not, as desperately needing a living relationship with a real God. So at that point in my life in 1975, virtually all my experience after college A fortress, says verse 3. In God's call to us to respond. And we could go on and talk about Gen Alpha or any of the generations. Parents and those who work with youth, listen to me for a second. But in the end, it's up to God to work, not us. In February of 1918, at the age of 104, I don't hope to reach that age, but There comes a time in the life of many students. That's the psalm. Because it will never be in the past. singles? It says, consider well her ramparts. Being up here in this capacity is uh kind of a new experience for me. A life of faith in a sovereign, loving, and gracious Father God, who wanted truly close relationship with the God of the universe. But I was also scared to death. Was this his will or just my idea? Well, I didn't get a promise, actually. I really didn't understand then all their implications, and I've done a bit more study about them since, but The first stanza, verses 1 to 3, is the city's proclamation. Why? Your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. But the hidden gem inside those walls of that city is the next generation. Now we will unpack stanzas 4, but before I do that, we have to address God's obsession with generations. Now that may be obvious, but what comes with that is that it's also always relevant. Now, stop and think about that. But the intent of most of that talk is to define and distinguish the generations. We pray, we trust, we teach, and hopefully we have serious life-on-life discussions about the wise and about the hard things. That word from Paul is for all the rest of us. your power to all those to come. Jim lived through World War II, was at Pearl Harbor. He was all about next generations. I just want to take a few minutes to introduce it to you and to invite you to spend, oh, if it's me, decades digging into what this really means. And the next generation is what I want to talk about this morning from God's Word. And um also any youth workers, any volunteers in youth ministry? They're part of that next generation of faith. The question to ask is, am I? Isn't that what we need? My intent this morning in sharing this word is to encourage parents among us. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God. But this psalm is so much more than a lyric poem about a great city. So, when do we get to retire from this generation thinking stuff? Well, I chuckle at an unnamed author of Psalm 71 who has the answer for that one. The last stanza of this psalm is the only true imperative in the psalm. Well, the psalmist says, Count her towers. The ramparts are the walls. Walk about Zion. And the king who's the subject of it. Stanza three is a response to that. And it should matter to all of us, whether we're parents, youth workers, and volunteers, whether we're young adults, families. But before it gets too heavy, let me remind you that only the Lord changes hearts. This is part one of a vision for the next generation, and God says, number them. There is much to glean from this short psalm, so please remain with us. The next, as soon as you put that word there, generation is always in the future. Now we talk about generations a lot. It begins, if you remember, and even if you don't, I'll tell you. Father, you are the ruler of all that is, all that was, and all that ever will be. If you have it open on your Bibles and want to follow along, let me walk you down through it. But that's not God's intent. The children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children, so that they should set their hope in God Why? Now, in this first section, I don't intend to spend a whole lot of time here, but I do want to give you a 30,000-foot view of this song by the Sons of Korah. Let the weightiness of that responsible responsibility sink in for a moment. Lord, you have already met us in worship this morning. We need to all be challenged by it. So I want to invite you to read this entire psalm with me. Psalm 48, 12 to 14, he says, walk about Zion. This is a rendition of what the original city of David may have looked like as it was originally established God calls us to the next generation. But with the next spiritual generation, that of new believers In Jesus' name, Amen. So what are they? Or even shall I call us the more seasoned generation? They were in panic. As a matter of fact, I had spent the very first year out of college teaching high school in Lidditz, Pennsylvania. The psalms about Zion, the city of God, verse 1 says. Because the king of the great city is eternal. I couldn't get them out of my mind. Or will it be when you reach that time of life? You see, the ramparts protected the base of operations from which the king's armies would go out to expand the kingdom. It was not for me at that time. Got to know him. So that you can go back to it. 6. Our children are the next generation Well, maybe not a lot, but often you'll hear generations mentioned in society's uh conversations. Can God be obsessed with anything? Go around her. Do you realize that the oldest of Gen Alpha this year become teenagers? To tell the next generation that this is a picture of who God is. These are all those who were born from 2010 to the present. These towers, ramparts, and citadels. Gen Xers Millennials A perspective on life? Yep, those are the ramparts. So this is really for all of us. A holy mountain, verse one says. Jim was a navigator. Got to love him. They are the only generation born entirely in the third millennium. Not the next generation. He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel. I think uh virtually everybody here probably already knows what I'm about to say. I see it mostly in teenagers, but I'm sure it could be much earlier or much later. Um to my mind then this wasn't a promise Let Mount Zion be glad. That's not God's heart. Because when you see the next generation, you see the future. Verses nine to eleven They took to flight. When anyone in your circle of influence But one day, I was reading Psalm 48. You see, the context really matters. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts. Stanza 4, verses 12 to 14, where I concentrate most of the time today. And if you've caught everything so far, you know that it's God's vision, God's purpose. Pray with me, please. Psalm seventy-one says this. His character, his permanence, and the comfort that all of that brings for us. Um but you know Um I had been discipled and trained in a very vibrant Would God bless the smooth? Days later, I'm still thinking about them. We have felt your presence. Stanza 2 moves on to talk about the city's permanence, verses 4 to 8. Number her towers. The walls of the city like this speak of battle. I don't know, and I'm not up here to debate that this morning. So let's go back to Psalm 48 and stanza 4. About three years before that, I had graduated from Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, with a degree in pure mathematics. So I prayed. And please let me encourage you to open up in your own Bible or on your own phone application or however. After all, that's what we kind of like to do in society. Jim actually lived here in Columbia with his wife Maureen for a few years. One of the first sailors that led to Christ by Dawson Trotman, who founded the Navigators. As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Please be encouraged that you have been chosen. Now I commend that you go back and you ponder and absorb That this was really God's idea. And they have remained the same for the last 48 years. See the towers? So read it with me, Psalm 48. The city of the Great King He established it forever. Go around her, number her towers. Our God forever and ever. Jim died I have given many talks to teenagers and to um even younger. Timothy was about 30 and was uh leading this church in Ephesus at the time. Is that your prayer? For behold, the kings assembled. It calls for action Let me tell you about a friend of mine who lived this way. Looks pretty impregnable, doesn't it? But the last three verses of that psalm lit up like they were inlaid in gold. They weren't um It's all about towers, ramparts, and citadels. Vision for what God has in the future? We may not be entrusted right now with the next physical generation. There are four stanzas in this psalm. Have you heard much about Gen Alpha? God's city proclaims God's holiness as well as his beauty. Good morning. I asked God, I said, God, give me a promise To my mind then, this not quite twenty-five year old As Pete said, I am involved in ministry with the navigators. Trembling took hold of them their anguish as of a woman in labor. These three stanzas present an awesome, loving God. God saves, and he establishes his city forever. He is established forever. Let me share a few of what he says his heart is. Go through her citadels. I didn't think about this at the time, but over the years I've given this a whole lot of thought. That's why they're higher than everything else Count them up. Now, and that's not the ministry, but it's about generations. Mount Zion in the far north, the city of the great king But to be thinking about generations is for all of us. Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments. Consider well her ramparts. It always has been, it always will be. Just think about that. In short, God cares about generations. His answer? And God clobbered me with it in 1975. The city of the great king, verse 2 says. Beautiful and a joy, says verse two. And it's also always important. Weeks later, I'm still thinking about them God is all about generations. Your steadfast love, O God, he says. Because the sons of Korah They came on together. We focus on what makes them different. He will guide us forever. Some of you may know where that is. When their interest moves. This is God. View her citadels. But I do know that he talks a lot about it. Let me state the obvious. And there's the citadel. You know You have been entrusted. As soon as they saw it, It's right outside of Lancaster. Here's a picture.