On December the second, nineteen seventy-nine, I began my longest series ever Messianic prophecies of the Old Testament going from Genesis 3 to Malachi. And I I have the outlines. I was going to bring them up here, but I forgot. It's a stack of outlines I think in case you're interested in what we've covered over those years. Of course it's only during Advent from Thanksgiving to a week or two before Christmas that we deal with this Uh almost half of that time, the last thirteen years, have been on the book of Isaiah. Well, everything says on. But the power button power the lights flickering. Now I'm on. Okay. And the lights on now. All right. Go as long as we can there. Okay, so um we finished Isaiah last year after thirteen years in that, just of course during December. And um next book is Jeremiah. And I've decided that I'm gonna spend three weeks, just one year, on Jeremiah, partly because Jeremiah has far a few messianic prophecies in it. Um Germa is a harder book. I um mentioned to you last week that you may want to read through Jeremiah in uh during this advent while we're going through this series. And my wife, who of course always listens to what I say, uh read Jeremiah this week, at least she got through part of it. And she came to me and she said, what in the world were you thinking? That is not exactly a book of Christmas chair. That's pretty grim And that's very true. Um but I'll tell you, last year I read through Jeremiah during Advent and began to think about the series for this year, and I was fascinated With both the person and the message of Jeremiah. In fact, as I read through it, I was amazed that no movie has ever been made about Jeremiah I mean, it would be an ideal movie. It's exciting, it's dramatic, a lot of action, full of deep emotion. I mean it's got everything, so if any of you are interested in the arts and think, there you go, that is my life's calling. I'm gonna make a movie on Jeremiah, I think it would be powerful. I want to spend just three weeks on this book focusing on three themes about the hope of the coming of Messiah. That will help us, I believe, to celebrate Christmas more fully, more joyfully, if we understand it. So I hope to do that because Christmas is about hope So much of our Christmas carols have to do with the idea of hope. From darkness to light, the weary world waits for the fullness. But you really can't appreciate the hope until you understand the darkness. It's only when you really feel the darkness that the dawn becomes precious. And Jeremiah helps us to do that. Jeremiah is primarily about the end of an old era. And the coming of a new, dramatically different era. So we're going to be looking at three points this morning about that. First of all, the old era coming to an end. And secondly, the man Jeremiah and his ministry of transition. And thirdly, how radical this new era will be. And then I want to make some comments of application and hope to do better being able to actually spend some time on application this time through it. Then next week we will look at the coming king, and then the third week we'll look at the new covenant that he speaks of. So first of all, the old era that is coming to an end Look back on the screen in your Bible. Hope you don't just depend on the screen, but bring your Bible so you can mark them, go through them. Um and there are things that I refer to that sometimes aren't on the screen, but the first three verses of the book of Jeremiah, obviously we're not going to cover this book. Verse by verse, but uh do want to refer to a few things. First three verses of Jeremiah, the words of Jeremiah, son of Hilkiah, one of the priests. He was a priest at Anatoth. In the territory of Benjamin, the word of the Lord came to him in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah, son of Ammon, king of Judah. And through the reign of Jehoiakim, son of Josiah, King of Judah, down to the fifth month of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, son of Josiah, King of Judah, when the people of Jerusalem went into exile Now, why don't we read the book of Jeremiah? I think there's a number of reasons. Let me suggest to you just a few of them. The first thing is that uh Jeremiah is the longest of the Old Testament prophetic books. Despite the fact that Isaiah has more chapters, Jeremiah has more words. It's a long book. Secondly, it's mostly about warnings and judgments. You pick randomly any page to start reading, and uh it's pretty grim. And uh you may feel, like some people, that he's made his point after two chapters, especially in our succinct communication email age. After the two chapters, like I got the point. Why do you need 52 chapters to drill that point into the ground? So people read it and say, uh, you know, I got the drift. I don't need to Go through 52 chapters of this. Another reason, another difficulty that we have is that Jeremiah is not written in chronological order. So it can be confusing, and this is where a study Bible that has an introduction can really help, because for instance, if you read through it, chapter 26 follows right after chapters 1 to 7 Chapters 46 to 51 actually take place early in his ministry before chapters 21 to 24. So it skips all around and and it's helpful to have a guide because if you do it on your own, it takes a while to figure out what's going on when Also, it's it's about a different world. And so the things that he's addressing are things that are hard for us to relate to sometimes. You know, you read about him condemning Shemiah than the Hellothe. the ha Nehalamite, and you think, why was Shemiah the Nehalamite condemned? And what do I care? So there are things about it that you just find that it's difficult. It has to be really motivated. Well, I want to motivate you to look at Jeremiah because I think it's a treasure. Why should you read it? Besides the fact simply that it's the Word of God, and therefore it's just as much the Word of God as the book of John or the Book of Ephesians. Believe it or not, and therefore we can be edified as we read it and hear God addressing us. But let me also say a couple things that It meant a lot to me. I found in reading through this that Jeremiah is really one of the unsung heroes of the faith. Man He was quite a character. We don't often think of Jeremiah as a hero of the faith. But he was He was a person who probably was rather timid by nature, personality, but yet he was called to speak very unpopular truths to a people who were enraged by what he said. And they not only rejected him, they called him a traitor, they tried on a number of occasions to have him killed. There were some narrow escapes. He suffered for his obedience to the Lord, and he cried out to God in agony. He's very honest in his struggles. He becomes a model for us as we have burdens, as we struggle through things, and we wonder where is God in that. And Jeremiah is a person who expressed that very vividly. I'll give you a couple of examples in a few minutes. He was forbidden to marry and have children because the days coming would be so oppressive, so full of misery. And that was acting that out. Things are coming, they're going to be so tough, you wouldn't even want to get married and have kids and bring them into this world. On the other hand He was called, commanded by God to go purchase a piece of real estate just at the point of the destruction of Judah and Jerusalem. And so don't get married and have kids, but go buy a piece of worthless property. And that was also a sign to show that God wasn't finished with Judah, but that in fact there would be a day of hope when that property would be of value. and be a good investment. So he was called to live and act out certain very difficult things and that were a test of his faith. And are difficult for uh as we look at his struggles helps us to see in our own struggles how do we relate to the Lord. He actually began his ministry in great hopes of revival and that God would use him as a powerful preacher to be successful in turning Israel back to the Lord. It was during the days of Josiah's reforms when it seemed like the tide was turning. But after Josiah was gone, his successors turned against Jeremiah and his preaching. And so it seemed after years of preaching, he was an utter failure. Have you ever invested yourself in something that you thought God had called you to do and tried to do it for years? The best you knew how, and felt that after years there was simply nothing to show for it. That's what Jeremiah had to deal with And so he is for us a model for faithfulness in times when it seems very difficult to trust God. Now you look at those three verses and you see that there are just three kings mentioned, Josiah, Jehoiakim, and Zedekiah. I took some time to put together a chart here for you that you can at least look at for the next couple of weeks as we go through Jeremiah, but uh I took a lot of time to try and put together just some basic stuff. to see what's going on. You look at that, you see the history of it, that when you look down on the the kings Uh two things I want you to notice is first of all that when you see the kings, Josiah, Jehoihahaz, Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, and Zedekiah, You notice that only the first, Josiah, was a godly king. After that, it's all downhill. The others are wicked, wicked, wicked, and more wicked. You can also notice that uh the reason he only mentions those three kings is because after Josiah, who reigned for 29 years, Jehoiahaz is just a blip on the screen, three months. Then you have Jehoiakim for eleven years, then you have another blip, Jehoiakim, for three months, then you have Zedekiah for eleven years. So those are the basic three during his ministry. Now, Josiah, as you see, reigned from 640 to 609 B. C. Jeremiah began his ministry around the middle of Josiah's reign. Josiah was a godly king who conducted a number of reforms. He was a man who wanted to turn Israel back, Judah particularly at that point, back to God, and Josiah and Jeremiah were friends. When Jeremiah preached, he had the support of the administration. They said, listen to him. But during that time The very same year that Jeremiah was called to ministry, there was a new leader of the Chaldean or Babylonian Empire, a military leader called Nebopelasser. who rose to power. And Nabo Pilasar was a very ambitious man who wanted to take over the world. And so he attacked Nineveh in 612 BC and he conquered it. Nineveh, of course, was the capital of the ruling world empire at that time, Assyria. Now uh Egypt was an ally of Assyria. So when Nebuchalasar took Egypt marched north through Judah to come to Assyria's rescue. Godly King Josiah says, Israel Egypt is the enemy of God's people. I will in faith go out. at a battlefield called Megiddo, and I will stop him. And you know what happened? The good guy lost. Josiah was killed in that battle. Now, that has to be a test of faith when you say, God, you're, you know, obviously you're going to be on the side of Josiah, but Josiah is killed. And Egypt continues to march on victoriously toward Nineveh. Jehoihaz was put into Josiah's place just for three months, as he say he was a blip and he was gone. And then uh Egypt uh engaged Babylon at one of the historic battles of all time, one of the turning points in world history. If you've ever studied world history, you've probably studied the Battle of Carkimish. Because the Battle of Carkimish turned world events. That was in 605 BC. In the Battle of Carkimish, um Babylon crushed Egypt. With Egypt crushed, Assyria was a crumbling empire. They had nothing to withstand it, and Babylon now became the world ruler. He was able to conquer all of Western Asia. So Babylon now becomes the world ruler. And because Israel has been an ally of its enemy, Egypt Nabotalasser dies, and his son, even more aggressive, more ambitious, with more military prowess, rises to the scene, a man by the name of Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar comes after Judah. He lays siege to Jerusalem in 605 B. C. And he conquers Jerusalem, it reduces it, doesn't invade, it doesn't uh destroy it, but he subjects Judah. And he carries off a number of the inhabitants, among whom were Daniel and his friends, to Babylon. And then he comes back again. Now you have another fellow, Jehoya Kin, who's a three-month blip on the scene. He's gone. Then Zedekiah is put in his place. Now, Jehoiakim, we mentioned back in the genealogies of Matthew, because he was the last legal ruler in the line of David. And he was the one who, when he ended, God said, there's not going to be any more. So why Zedekiah? Zedekiah was his uncle. Another son of Josiah that we saw back there in verse 3. You still with me? Look at the chart. So now Zedekiah is on the throne. Zedekiah is not so much evil as he is weak. He just follows whoever he thinks is going to help him out, so he has no backbone. And he wa waffles back and forth. And so he irritates Nebuchadnezzar when he thinks he can get away with it, so Nebuchadnezzar comes back to Jerusalem. And there is a second deportation, 597, where he attacks, lays siege, carries off some more people, among whom at that point is Ezekiel, and you'll hear about him next year. Then he comes back a third time in 587 and lays siege to Jerusalem. This time he's really mad. And there is an 18-month siege. It was a siege of unimaginable suffering. No water. Water is reduced to a trickle, no food. Indescribable suffering. In fact, the Bible describes, spells out cannibalism that took place, desperate situation. They were so desperate they even asked Jeremiah to pray for them. They hated them. And he asked and I said, If you can pray and intercede, God can't abandon Jerusalem God's identity is is linked with Jerusalem, with the covenant, with the ark, with the temple. So Jeremiah, go ahead, you pray for us. You know what his answer was? No way. I'm not praying for you. In fact, you want some advice? I'll tell you, here's what the Lord says. Surrender to the Babylonians, because God's on their side. That was the last thing they wanted to hear. They called him a traitor and they tried to kill him on a number of occasions, but God protected them. Finally, uh in July of 587 BC, Zedekiah and a few of the last remnants of his ragtag army escape by night out of Jerusalem, break through the lines. and try to get out of there. The Babylonians discover it. They, of course, can catch them easily. They catch them near Jericho. They take Zedekiah and his sons. They butcher his sons before his eyes and then put his eyes out, so that the last thing he ever saw was his sons being slaughtered in cold blood before him. They then drag him off to Babylon. As a broken, brutalized man. They come back and they lay waste to Jerusalem. They burn it to the ground They destroy the temple. They take everything of any kind of value and all the last remnants of the people. Well, not quite. There's a few people left And so they put a puppet governor, Gedaliah, over them. Get Aliah's opponents assassinate him. And because they assassinate him and he was put in place by Nebuchadnezzar, they know Nebuchadnezzar is going to come back again, and so they get out of town and they take Jeremiah, who is at this point over seventy years old with him, and they flee to Egypt. And that's the last that you ever hear of Jeremiah. So his story is a story full of tragedy, bravery, suspense. Began his ministry in 626 BC. Began in Hopes, and then after Josiah. Things get worse and worse and worse. His message was simply repent. God sees your evil. Do not trust in the temple. Do not trust in the fact that God has made his covenant with you. God is in fact on the side of the Babylonians. Don't resist them. Give in to them. It's futile. It's hopeless. He is seen as a traitor. He says that Jerusalem's going to be destroyed and his life is miserable. It's in those times, some of those most difficult times, that he cries out to God, as I mentioned before. Let me give you an example or two. Do you ever pray something? like this. Remember, God had said to Israel, to Judah, you have two sins. One, you have rejected me, the fountain of living waters. And you have dug out for yourself broken cisterns of stagnant water to drink. And Jeremiah says, Oh yeah? CHAPTER fifteen, verse eighteen. Why it's talking to God now. Why is my pain unending, and my wound grievous and incurable? Will you be to me like a deceptive brook? Like a spring that fails. God, you've said you're the fountain of living waters. You're like a brook that you go to that's a wadi in the desert, and you say, I'll get a drink, I'll be refreshed, and it's dried up. It's a deceptive brook. There's no water there. You ever pray something like that to God? That is one desperate Bold, intimate man with God. Chapter twenty, he says Oh Lord, you deceived me. And I was deceived. You overpowered me and prevailed. I'm ridiculed all day long. Everyone mocks me. Whenever I speak, I cry out, proclaiming violence and destruction, so the word of the Lord has brought me insult and reproach all day long. This is not a guy that stands and says, Hey, here's the word of the Lord, and they throw things at him. He says, That's okay, you can do it again. I can take it. I'm a prophet. This guy was hurt If I say I will not mention him or I will not speak anymore in his name, I've had it. I'm out of here. His word is in my heart like a fire. A fire shut up in my bones, and I'm weary of holding it in. Indeed, I cannot. I can't speak and I can't not speak. Entrapped. But he he hangs in there, he goes back, he speaks. Now what did God say to him? Keeps him going. Now you want some principles of Christian counseling. Look what God does in chapter 15 and verse 19. You say, Jeremiah, I know it's really rough. I told you it's going to be rough. It's really rough, Jeremiah. Jeremiah, come on, let's take a vacation, get out of town for a while. You don't need all this. Verse 19, this is what the Lord says to me. If you repent, I'll restore you. Jeremiah, get yourself off of the ground. You're sinning. I told you what it was going to be like. If you repent, I will restore you that you may serve me. If you utter worthy, not worthless words, don't whimp out, Jeremiah. You will be my spokesman. Let this people turn to you, but you must not turn to them. In other words, let you words influence them to come to you, but don't let them influence you, so you go to them, become like them. I will make you a wall to this people. A fortified wall of bronze, they will fight against you, but they will not overcome you Remember, he did not die from the being thrown in pits in prison. They tried to kill him on a number of occasions, assassinate him. They will not overcome you, for I am with you. To rescue and to save you. I will save you from their hands and redeem you from the grasp of the cruel God says there's only one thing you need to know, Jeremiah. I sent you and I'm with you. And that's enough. There may be something you've been doing and you're saying I I think it's it seems like it's worthless. You know, I'm about ready to throw in the towel. You don't need somebody to tell you how tough it is. No, no, nothing wrong with empathizing and sympathizing. But what you really need to know is, I am with you. The Lord says that he is with you to sustain you, to take you through. That's what he said to Jeremiah, and that was enough. He kept on going. They go back to chapter 1, and you see he was described as having a fourfold ministry. And it's the four words, there are six words that are used there in verse 10. Four of them are negative and two of them are positive, and they sum up his ministry. So I want to look at those for just a couple minutes. You look in verse 10, and God says to Jeremiah, See, today I appoint you over nations and kingdoms to uproot and to tear down, to destroy and to overthrow, and to build and to plant. Four negative, two positive. And they're related. Think about them. First one is to uproot. The picture there is a gardener who after the fall's done and the mums have all died off, you just pull them out or any of the other Annuals that you don't want in the garden anymore. You uproot them, you pull them out because they're worthless. That's the first word. Second word, pull down or tear down. is uh a word that uh you have a good image for. Think New Orleans. Uh the surge has come in the breach of the dikes and so the buildings have been flooded, but they're still standing, but they're they're worthless. They're not inhabitable anymore. So what happens to the Crews come in with the backos and the bulldozers and they bulldoze them down. That's the idea of that word. It's to push down, to tear down a worthless wall or building. Jeremiah you're gonna tear down. Third word is demolish. Again, New Orleans. Okay, now you've got a pile, a huge pile of all this rubble. What are you gonna do? You've got to carry it away and destroy it. That's the third word. The fourth word is to throw down. It's a climactic word, which means you take all that stuff and you just dump it. It's all gone. Now, what is he referring to? He's referring to the monarchy of Israel. He's referring to the fact that God had said, I am establishing this land, this is the promised land, this is where my name is set. My name is associated with the Ark of the Temple in Jerusalem, Zion. And that is my place. That's where I rule. That is the kingdom. And Jeremiah says, that is coming to an end. The monarchy will be no more. There will never again be an independent king under God to rule in the nation of Israel. Even today, of course, it's not ruled under God. It's a secular nation, basically. So Jeremiah is saying that's coming to an end. But that's not the end of the story. There's also hope. There's two things else he's going to do. He says, You're going to build and you're going to plant. What's that referred to? Building is to build an edifice. You're going to build another building in the place, New Orleans, you know Building other new buildings where the old buildings were cleared out. The second word to plant is what you don't see. You're going to do something under the surface, but it's and it's going to be living. So it won't be apparent right away. But that's going to grow and it's going to develop. God's kingdom is going to take on new form and new shape Now, that is going to be a radical change in this new era. So the third point is how radical this new era will be. Let's go to Capter 3 verses 14 to 17 to see one example in the most one of the clearest messianic prophecies that you have in the book of Jeremiah that is how radical this new era that God is going to raise up out of the ashes of the old empire He describes himself as Israel's husband. You've been faithless, you deserve to have everything taken and to be destroyed, to have your homes destroyed, and to be under my judgment. But then he says to the faithless Israel, Verse 12, proclaim a message toward the north and the rest that I am merciful. Verse 12 Verse 14: Return, faithless people, declares the Lord, for I am your husband. I will choose you. One from a town, two from a clan, and bring it to Zion. Then he says he's going to do three things. Now notice what these three things are. This is the building and the planning, and it is mind staggering. First of all, he says, I'm going to give you shepherds after my own heart who will lead you with knowledge and understanding. Now that's of course in contrast to the four kings who were arrogant, stubborn fools. Jeremiah tried to tell them Kings in Israel were called shepherds because they were the shepherd and the lead the people. And God says, Instead of these people, I am going to raise up in this day, this day to come. Verse 16 tells you when that is. It's not immediate, but in this day to come, in that day, the day of Messiah, I am going to raise up shepherds. That are going to lead, they're going to be shepherds after my own heart who will lead you with knowledge and with understanding. Now let me tell you something. This week I was out praying. And as I was praying, I was thinking about my ministry, and I was coming before the Lord, and I was thinking of some of the Old Testament leaders, and I was having a pretty bad time. Because all I could see was contrast between their lives and mine. I thought of David, a man of faith-filled optimism, and I thought of how I lack faith-filled optimism. I don't serve you adequately in being able to present to you, here's what God is going to do. I believe that this is what He has for Columbia Presbyterian and To be filled with that faith and optimism of what God is going to do in the days to come in a way that grabs our hearts. I was confessing to him, Lord, I need more faith-filled optimism of your kingdom here in Howard County. And I was looking at Jonathan and I was thinking, Lord, and I don't love like Jonathan, who was able to say to David who was going to take what was his inheritance and say, but that's okay, David. God's kingdom's being served, and so I love you, brother. I'll do whatever will extend your ministry. How can I help you? And I thought, I don't have that kind of heart And I thought of Esther and her courage and saying, I'm gonna go to the king. If I perish, I perish, but I'm gonna do what needs to be done. Then I thought, how many times do I say, I'm not sure what needs to be done, because I'm afraid if I look. I'm not sure I'm up to it. As I was confessing those things before the Lord, it was as if he said to me, By the way, Al, you might want to look at what you're preaching this Sunday So I went back to this verse, which I hadn't been looking at in that moment, and I saw this promise, I will give you shepherds after my own heart who will lead you with knowledge and understanding. And it's one of those times in my life I can't explain. It was there was nothing that was like a cognitive, okay, so that's that's pretty neat. It was just God opened my heart, and there was this rush of God. I want your heart. You've made me a shepherd to be after your heart. Lord, there is nothing more that I want than your heart. I can't do it. But God work in my heart to be a man after your heart in order to lead with knowledge. That's knowing God's word and understanding, knowing how to apply it. And then I thought, you know what? It's not about me. I'm his gift to you. The other staff pastors here are his gift to you The elders of this session are his gift to you because his promise is in that day, I will give you my people, shepherds after my own heart. I believe that Ezra and Nehemiah were a picture of those kinds of shepherds. The apostles, the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, were the first fruits of those kinds of shepherds. Faithful pastors through the years who have served Christ and preached Christ are those shepherds that are his gift to his church to lead. With knowledge and understanding. Isn't that wonderful? That's what he gives to you. Pray for us to be the gift that he intends for you. And then he goes on, the second gift, he says, is that there will come a day The day when Messiah comes, that the ark will be removed, and nobody will miss it. Look what he says. In those days when your numbers have increased greatly in the land, you've been brought back, it's a period long after this, men will no longer say the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, it will never enter their minds or be remembered, it will not be missed, nor will another one be made. Now that's not referring to the days of Ezra and Nehemiah. The temple was built, and then you had Herod building the temple with all the furnishings, presumably including the ark. But what happened? Jesus Christ came, God in the flesh, God's presence. Now it's not the ark that symbolizes his presence, it is the presence of God who comes. In the incarnation that we celebrate. And when he comes, God destroys the temple in a destruction more thorough than Nebuchadnezzar's in 70 A. D. , and it is never built again. But you know what? The church has never said, Oh, the Ark. If we only had the Ark, maybe we ought to rebuild the Ark. When my wife and I were engaged, we were separated, living in different states. I had a picture of her. It's one of my favorite pictures. I pulled it out just recently, was looking at it, and I was showing her, Well, you want that thing? I said, I love this picture. That's what I was looking at when when you we were apart. Looked at it all the time. You know what? When we got married, I put that picture in a drawer and I almost forgot about it Why am I going to look at the picture? I've got the real woman. God is saying there's going to come a time, and it's not going to be the ark that symbolizes my presence. You're going to have my presence with you. And in that day, you're not even going to remember the ark. You're not going to miss it. You're going to say, Jesus is here. We can converse with him, we can come to him. He has given us his spirit as the first fruits of the fullness of his glory, and we can come to him. And in that day, the third gift, look what he says, this is the climax. Verse 17, at that time they will call Jerusalem the throne of the Lord. And all nations will gather in Jerusalem to honor the name of the Lord. No longer will they follow the stubbornness of their evil hearts. They're going to have me. And that is referring to the new Jerusalem. I believe when all the nations come and they worship and they say, Jesus is here. And they worship him in fullness. Now I'm about out of time. I'm out of time, but I want to apply this for a couple things. Tim said I could. A couple things we gotta apply to our own lives here. First of all, you and I are also watching a culture self-destruct. We are watching a culture that is going through intense times of change, cultural change. I want you to see this quote up here from Peter Drucker, one of the gurus of American Business. Every few hundred years in Western history there occurs a sharp transformation. Within a few short decades, society rearranges itself. Fifty years later, there is a new world. And the people born then cannot even imagine the world in which their grandparents lived and into which their parents were born. We are currently living through just such a transition. It's hard for you kids to imagine the world that we grew up in. I go back to pre-television, let alone pre-computers. A totally different world. Didn't even have scotch tape. But it's not the cultural change that is so significant. It is that this culture has explicitly, self-consciously trashed the Christian foundations of culture This culture is a culture that sees itself as very spiritual and will freely use the name of Jesus, but has lost the ability to weep for sin. That is identically the culture that Jeremiah went to. Now let me give you a couple of examples. You have in this last year the greatest fraud case in American history. Bernard Evers was sentenced in that fraud. Bernard Evers calls himself a Christian who goes to church and ministers in the name of God. But when it comes to his work was a total severing of Christian values. Greatest fraud case in American history. Kenneth Leigh, Enron, professing Christian. Who ministers in church but leads his business in a way totally dissociated? One of the raunchier groups that makes records, Destiny's Child. Talks openly about sex in raunchy ways. The producer said when they made their latest C D, before every session they prayed. That's deep. That's presumptuous. You take Snoop Dogg. Now I don't listen to these things. I'm just reading stuff written about them. He refers to women as playthings to be used casually and discarded. He sings of casual violence, and then he says, quote, I'm going to keep walking like Jesus. That's not misguided. That's scary arrogance. And we live in a day When Muslims look at what Christians who call themselves Christians say they do and profess. We look at people that say those kinds of things and there is no discipline. People say that. And we go back to the book of Jeremiah. Because that's what was happening then. Ron Sider, in his recent book, Scandal of the Evangelical Conscience, says this: quote, People calling themselves Christians regularly commit treason. With mouths they claim Jesus is Lord, but with actions demonstrate allegiance to money, sex, and self-fulfillment. And to me, the scariest thing of all is what I'm hearing in the public message that I see of the evangelical church. It is a message which does not talk more and more. Certainly not saying that this is by and large, but I'm seeing a trend. The message is less about sin and a savior. As it is about problems and faith and about God coming through for you. Power of positive thinking. I've seen this on a Christian radio station that has a person who preaches as an evangelical pastor in the area and there is nothing about Christ. It's just simply take God at His Word. This is not WRBS. Take God at His Word and trust Him and your problems will be carried away. It's scary. If our culture won't weep, brothers and sisters, we need to weep for them. We're in that time with Jeremiah during Josiah when things could go either way. And so you and I have got to cry out to God. It would bring revival before things go to where it got to be during the reigns of Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, Zedekiah, that the administration no longer tolerated the Christian message. Secondly, for us, be aware of the compromises in your life and my life, because the standards around you are becoming so low among Christians. that it's so easy for us to rationalize and say, yeah, but everybody, even the Christians and on and on and on and on. You know, things have gotten so bad We can justify so much of what we do that is compromised holiness that just this week the staff got together and said, you know, we're going to have to start holding each other accountable about what we look at, what we read. Because we can't even trust ourselves. You can't trust yourself. If you don't, if you are not in close accountability with brothers and sisters who say How are you spending your time? What are you looking at? What are you feeding your mind with? When you go into the office, what are the temptations you're facing? Where are you going to be compromising? Where are you going to be tempted to say? But this is what everybody that I know does. And they're Christians Jeremiah was a man of courage, supernatural courage. It's going to take courage more and more in our culture to live for Jesus Christ. We pray for you, teenagers, those in the generation coming up, that God raises up a generation of those with the courage to say, we will not let even the evangelical culture determine what is the level of holiness. But we will follow Jesus Christ, even though that takes a courage that we don't have to see what God would do. And then thirdly, be willing to speak the truth fearlessly when you're called to as Jeremiah by that same Spirit. We have an opportunity coming up where we'll see many of us, the Narnia film, faithfully portrayed, the best I've been able to read. And that gives you an opportunity. Because your friends will see it. And the temptation will be, you see the film? Yeah, it was kind of neat. Yeah, it was really nice. And talk about the special effects and all the rest of that. Yeah, you'll have the scene about where the lion, you know, and for Edmund. But you gotta talk and get a little further to probe and find out, you know, why why did that happen? What does that say about you and about me? But we just want to stay on the level where people can still smile and say, yeah, it's kind of neat. We're willing to be uncomfortable. We're willing to go just a little further to see what God would do. We're going to try and give you some questions in the next couple of weeks that will be useful for that. And then finally, we too wait on a new era. At Christmas time, we not only celebrate what Jesus has done in his coming, the first coming, but in the new coming, the second coming, the new era. The fulfillment when Jesus returns, and there is the celebration of what was begun in this era that Jeremiah is talking about, to see the fulfillment when Jesus returns and all things are set right. And we celebrate on that day. Jesus has come. Jesus has brought the kingdom into its fulfillment. And that's why at Christmas we celebrate. Because we have a hope. Let's pray. Oh God, give to us that hope, that hope that is so precious in days of darkness. The days when, Lord, you want to raise up people of courage. People that are young and old from Columbia Presbyterian to stand for Jesus Christ and say we will not be sucked down in the in the standards of our own culture, even the evangelical culture around us. But that we want to follow Jesus. We want to follow you, Lord Jesus, because we love you and because we can't do anything else like Jeremiah And so come into our lives, into our hearts, in those areas where we're compromising, those areas where we're saying, yeah, but everybody does this. I don't want to be a freak. I don't want to be an extremist. Lord, that you would give to us that heart that is after your heart to serve you and to love you. In Jesus' name. Amen.