Now last week's message was the first of three on the book of Jeremiah, our messianic prophecies for this advent. Which was a uh long and ambitious message. Hey, you think it's easy? You try preaching through Jeremiah and three messages. This is very difficult. I um I hope that some of you are reading the book because it means much more if you get a fuller input than what I'm just able to cover. But I do really strive to help you to see both what it is saying and how it is, I believe, extremely relevant to our lives in 21st century America. Jeremiah was preaching to a culture that, like our culture, was in many ways unraveling. It was a culture of people who had a memory of truth. They had an understanding of who God is, but they wanted spiritual experiences and had forgotten how to weep for sin. It was a culture in many ways like ours, with a superficial veneer of true Biblical religion, but where the actual lifestyles of the people were far from that After godly Josiah died in 609 BC, there were only 23 years left For the nation's history before Jerusalem would be demolished and destroyed, and there would be no more monarchy. Those were very, very dark days, days that seemed hopeless. After Josiah, there were four evil politicians that simply ruled for their own good They were unscrupulous political leaders, and they brought Judah into ruin. In Jeremiah chapter 21 and 22, you have the last warnings to these kings, particularly to the last three kings that were on the throne. The last three kings were Jehoiakim, and as John read that, if we look in Jeremiah 22, 11, he's called Shalom. That's the same person, just another name. Verse 18 says Jehoiakim, it's the same person as Shalom. His son is Jehoiakim, which is in verse 28 and following. description warnings to him and then the one that actually precedes that chapter twenty-one is the last king of all, Zedekiah, chapter twenty-one, verse one, when Zedekiah was king. Now, Jeremiah gives these warnings, but there is still, even in these last days, some hope In chapter 22, he says in verse 3, this is what the Lord says, do what is just and right. Rescue from the hand his oppressor, the one who has been robbed. Do no wrong or violence to the alien, the fatherless, or the widow Do not shed innocent blood in his place, for if you are careful to carry out these commands, then kings who sit on David's throne will come through the gates of his palace Riding in chariots and on horses, accompanied by their officials and people. In other words, do what's just and right. There's still chance that I will preserve the nation David's descendants will continue on the throne, riding in chariots, and uh reigning and ruling as I have intended. But, verse five, if you do not obey these commands, declares the Lord, I swear by myself. That this place will become this palace will become a ruin. That's The background today I want to deal with the hopelessness of that and then show more specifically the messianic prophecies this week and next week that come from that. Now how did the kings respond to that warning? Well, the next verse is going to tell you that Jehoiakim wanted the best palace around. He wanted people to look at his house and say, My, do you have a wonderful home? And it even smells good. It's made of cedar. Imagine a whole palace made of cedar. So we signed a contract to laborers to build this and you know people went home to their wives and said, Man, I got the got the contract for building the palace. This is great. The thing he didn't tell them was he wasn't going to pay them. The verses tell you later on that he brought the laborers in and he simply didn't pay them. He reduced them to forced slave labor for his own opulence. And God says as a result of that, Jehoiakim, you're going to have the funeral of a donkey. They're going to take your carcass and they're going to throw it out because you are despised. Then Jehoiakim, his son, comes after him. And he's even worse. In fact, God says, write this guy off as childless. He is the end of the line. There is not going to be anyone after his in his line to sit on the throne of David. Done with it. And so there's one other king, and it's not his son, it's his uncle, Zedekiah, also a king of a son of godly Josiah. And Zedekiah is the worst of all of them. During Zedekiah's reign, Ezekiel tells us that the temple worship was reduced to where he would go into the temple and he would see women in the holy place. Weeping for Tamos. What's that mean? Tamos was the Babylonian god of fertility. And when it would be fall, and leaves would drop from the trees and Their crops and plants and annuals would die. Uh the mythology of that time said that that was the death of the god Tamus. And so the women would ceremonially weep for Tamos, and then they would involve themselves in uh vile immoral idolatry to ensure fertility for the next year. That was going on in the temple. And Zedekiah officially condoned that kind of worship. He officially condoned the worship of Moloch Moloch was a god that was carved in iron and there was a pit and Moloch's arms were over the pit. And parents were invited to come to seek Moloch's favor by offering their children over the fire pit. The coals were heated to where the arms were red hot, and they would lay their children in the arms of this vile God, screaming and crying, and turn their ears from that to seek for the favor of this demonic God. That was what the king of Israel was condoning. And God says that is the end. And you remember Zedekiah was carried away after a a a siege that was so desperate that the people reduced to cannibalism and they captured him and they killed his sons before his eyes, put his eyes out, and took him to Babylon. Those are the days the people are living in. Now understand that if you see this in the scope of biblical history, there is a stark dilemma here. And you and I need to feel that dilemma in order to understand the message that Jeremiah gives. And here's the dilemma. God has said, and John quoted it from chapter 33 The Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel 7 said, I will keep a king on David's throne forever. He will never lack a man upon the throne. And then he says here in chapter 22, if you don't obey, I am going to write you as childless. There is going to be no one to succeed you. This palace is going to become a ruin. That's the end of the line. And which is it? Either God relents and doesn't punish Zedekiah and the rest of them in order to keep his promise of a man on the throne of David, or He punishes them and turns away from his promise, breaks his promise to David to have a man on the throne. What's God going to do? Now it's you see, that's what the people were counting on. That's why they said, you know, I don't care if Nebuchadnezzar comes right up to the gate, you're never going to take Jerusalem because God is committed to Jerusalem. God's committed to this promise. David will always have a man on the throne, so he's got to do it. Now, it's in that context that you come to chapter 23. And y you have to feel that dilemma. It works out because we know what went on and Feel the dilemma because as you feel the hopelessness of that, as you apply that to situations in your own life, A situation that you may have experienced this week or in the last month where you say, here is something going on in my life now, and I have prayed for this, and God seems to have deaf ears to my cries. It seems like God tells me his promises for my good, and then I look at this in my life and I say, God, you seem like you've turned from your promise. I can't square my circumstance, what I'm going through, what our family is going through, with what your word says about the blessing for a Christian. Because you see, the solution to the dilemma of Jeremiah 21 and 22 is the exact same solution to your life and to my life. It's a bigger view of God than we've had before. Whenever God places you and me in that kind of situation, I've been in that situation many times. I have learned that what he's going to do in order to keep me looking to him and trusting him is he's going to change my view of him. He's going to do something that's going to reveal to me something about him that I hadn't hadn't understood before. And so in Jeremiah 23, God begins by saying once again, I'm going to punish you for these sins. And then in verse five, you have a turn. In verse five, Jeremiah says, the days are coming. declares the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous branch. What he's saying, you see, is there is this royal line coming through David, but that's not all of David's ancestors. There are branches of his ancestors. He has other ancestors through other sons and daughters. And I'm going to raise up from a branch of his ancestry, a righteous branch. contrast to these unrighteous kings, a king who will reign wisely, in contrast to the foolishness, Who will do what is just and right, you see, back in chapter 22? Do what is just and right, and I will rescue you. You didn't, but I'm going to raise up a king who will do just and right. And then he goes on. Now, what I want to do is I'm going to take from three chapters, Jeremiah 23, 30, and 33, and I want to show you this picture of this righteous branch that Jeremiah has promised. This one who Isaiah called the shoot out of the dry ground, out of the stump of Jesse, the one that Ezekiel called the sprig from the top of the cedar. who would be placed on the highest mountain and become a mighty cedar, that Jeremiah calls a righteous branch, who obviously in these cases is referring to Messiah, the long-for Messiah. And to see five ways he's contrasted with the four kings, the evil kings, to show that as he enlarges the people's view in a hopeless situation For how He will save. So the same kind of thinking for you and me as we look for the Messiah born on Christmas to be our hope, your hope, my hope in hopeless situations. First way we contrast him is that you see he is going to be wise. He will be wise, verse 5. He will reign wisely. Now, um I'm sure that there's going to be two or three of you who will remember, because I'm always amazed at this, that you'll say, well, you know, you preach back in Isaiah 52 and 53 about the one who is going to come behold my servant who does wisely. And that's the same word. And that, remember, was a very uh complex word. You can't translate it in English, not just wise. What it means is somebody who is artful, who's skillful, somebody who has the right goals and the ability to accomplish them Or the Harris paraphrase of it is, he is able to pull off exactly what is needed. That's the idea. He knows what's needed to be done, and he's able to do that Now that's of course in stark contrast to Zedekiah. Zedekiah was weak, he was foolish, he was self-seeking, he listened to his advisors. I think he can get away with this. Okay, let's do it you know, and there was no sense of scruples, no principles by which he ruled. In fact, he was not only self-seeking and and foolish, he was stupid Because Nebuchadnezzar had come twice against Jerusalem, 605-597, laid siege, conquered Jerusalem, and took off the exiles, took off people to Babylon as prisoners. Zedekiah, after the second deportation, signs an oath with Nebuchadnezzar, saying, I will be a faithful, loyal subject, I will not rebel. And he promised in the name of the Lord, the name of Yahweh. Then when he thought he had an opportunity, he tried to get an alliance with Egypt and see if he could throw off the Oak of Babylon. And God very interestingly says, I condemn you for breaking your word to Nebuchadnezzar because you made an oath in my name. That was stupid, Zedekiah, and it dishonored me. Now, in contrast to this, you look at Jesus, the Messiah, this king, this righteous branch, who will reign wisely, he will know just what to do. Jesus is able to pull off everything exactly as it's needed to be done. He was never undone. Jesus never walked around in a situation that said Man, I just don't know what to do here. I think I know what to do, but I'm just not able to do it. Jesus always knew what to do, and he was always able to do it. Now, I have a great deal of sympathy for President Bush. I think President Bush in many ways tries to do the right thing But I think President Bush is a good example of a contrast between the promise that Jeremiah gives him. Now, I'm not going to debate his judgment, his politics, and the rest of that, but currently six fifty-three percent of people in the poll last week disapprove of how he's handling his job. So they're saying he's not pulling off what needs to be done. Sixty percent disapprove of how he's handling the situation in Iraq. He's got problems. His proposals for Social Security went down in flames. He would like to propose a tax reform. And some of his spokesmen are saying, I'm not sure we're going to be able to put this out because we're not sure that's going to pass. In other words, whether or not he has the right goals, he's not able to accomplish the things that he wants to do. In contrast, Jeremiah says there's going to be a king out of David's line who knows exactly what needs to be done. He will address the root problems, and he will be able to do it. He will get a hundred percent approval ratings at all times. In fact, not only will he be able to know just what to do and be able to accomplish it, not only on a global scale. But in your particular life. There are times when you wonder if Jesus knows what he's doing. You know, I mean you can be honest and you say, Lord, I I don't know what you know what you're doing in our family or my life or what's going on here. It I just it's not the way I would design to have it go Can you trust that Jesus rules wisely, that when the end of your life comes and you stand before Him, you will be able to honestly say with every fiber in your being, Jesus, you knew exactly what you were doing. And you were able to accomplish it perfectly. Nothing I would have changed in retrospect. It's hard to believe, isn't it? But that's the Jesus it's promised He goes on to say that he's not just going to rule wisely, but the second contrast is he'll do what's just and right. Again, in contrast to Zedekiah, Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, he'll do what's just and right so that God's people will be safe and secure. Look uh up here and you see a parallel because there's he says this twice. Let's get the next one In 23, 5, and 6, he talks about the days are coming when I'll raise up to David a righteous branch. King will raise, bring wisely, do what's just and right in the land. In his days, Judah will be saved. And Israel will live in safety. 33, it's almost the exact same thing. Make a righteous branch from the sprout of David's line, it'll do what's just and right in the land. Those days Judah will be saved. Jerusalem. will live in safety. Now, the idea of saved there, of course, their thinking, be safe from invasion What Jeremiah means, what he is intending, whether how much even Jeremiah understood it, is something much greater than that. The saved is is a deliverance, it's a salvation in which God's people live in complete safety, no more threat of invasion. This one is going to end the war on terror. He's going to rid the world of the terrorists. And he's going to do that because he will do what is he will judge he will do what's just and right as judge of all the nations. The nations will stand before him, before his throne, beyond which there is no further court of appeal. And as the nations stand before him, he will judge all evil, and he will eradicate the evil. There will be no crime, there will be no bloodshed, because this one will do what is just and right and his kingdom will will contain only those who do what is just and what is right. And of course, if you and I take that seriously, it should make us tremble. Because you realize that as you stand before that throne and I stand before that throne, what hope do we have? And Jeremiah goes on to say something that is Staggering. This is written, remember, about 600 years before the birth of Jesus. Look what Jeremiah says. Let's go to the next one. In his days, Judah will be saved, Israel will live in safety. This is the name by which he will be called, the Lord, our righteousness. Now, Zedekiah means the righteousness of the Lord. And everything about Zedekiah's life belied his name. It was thoroughly unrighteous. This one in contrast, Jeremiah says, is going to be the Lord, our righteousness. Not only is that saying that his character will be righteous, but his name is the Lord, our righteousness, implying that he is divine. That this one is God, our righteousness. Then in chapter 33, he says the same thing. In those days, Judah will be saved. Now instead of Israel, it's Jerusalem. Jerusalem, remember. In Old Testament language, is the picture of God's people. It's God's people assembled before Him. Jerusalem will live in safety. This is the name by which it That is Jerusalem, God's people, will be called the Lord, our righteousness. So not only is this now his name But he places that name upon you and me. And so Jesus is born in Bethlehem, and he grows up and he lives and he In everything he does is wise, and he does what is just and he does what is right. And as he lives in perfect conformity to all of God's ways, he then Paul says, became sin, who knew no sin, so that you and I would become the righteousness of God in him. The Lord our righteousness. 1 Corinthians 1:30. Jesus is made to us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification. See, his righteousness is transferred. He gives that righteousness by taking your unrighteousness so that as you and I receive Jesus Christ, he becomes the Lord, my righteousness. Let me ask you this morning, is he the Lord your righteousness? Can you say this morning with confidence He is the Lord, my righteousness. My righteousness is not in that I do right or how well I do. My only hope is That the Messiah that He sent, Jesus, is the Lord. My righteousness. I have Him. That righteousness is firm and steady and can never increase or decrease. It is mine once for all. When I come to pray to him this week about the hopeless situations of my life, it is not based on, yo me, one God. I've tried my best, and so because I've done all this, Lord, you've got to rescue me, is simply the plea, the Lord, my righteousness. That's why you hear me. That's why he hears you. That's why you'll dwell in safety. That's why he comes to meet you And then he goes on to describe beyond that, he says, that his yoke will be easy for you and your burden will be light. Look at this, the fourth thing that he says. In chapter 30. In chapter 30, Isaiah begins, is a transition. Some people call 30 to 33 Jeremiah's book of consolation. Because after this strong language, look what he says in uh verses um in verse six. Ask and see. Can a man bear children? Well, that's a silly question. Well then why do I see every strong man with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor? Every face turned deathly pale. Here's a guy that can press 200 pounds and you look at him and he's got his hands on his stomach and he's looking with eyes glazed and his pallor deathly pale. He says, why is that? Because, verse 7, that's how awful that day is going to be. None will be like it. It will be a time of trouble for Jacob, but he will be saved out of it. This is going to be a day of destruction to end all days of destruction. But it is not the end. Verse 8, in that day declares the Lord Almighty, I will break the yoke off their neck. I will tear off their bonds. No longer will foreigners enslave them. Instead, they will serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I raise up for them. His people are going to be freed from a bondage. And Zechariah, remember in Luke chapter 1, when John the Baptist was born. Months before Jesus. And John names him, and his mouth is open to declare God's praise before Jesus is born. This is what he says about John the Baptist. He picks up that idea and he says He has come to rescue us. This one the Messiah is going to come to rescue us from the hand of our enemies and to enable us to serve Him without fear in holiness and righteousness before Him all of our days. And Jesus comes to the people and he says, Come unto me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. Know that my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Do you find the yoke of Jesus to be easy and his burden to be light in your life? It's only as Your view of him and my view of him grows beyond, you see, the things that seem to threaten and enclose and engulf us. And we see in those days of hopelessness that God is bigger. He's doing something beyond what we understand. God is raising up a branch out of David that we could never have guessed at. God is bringing about a salvation greater than the wildest dreams of the prophets. Beyond the wildest dreams that you and I could have to make our burden light, because he frees us Not only from oppressors, from human oppressors. He frees us from demonic oppressors. He frees us from generational bondage. He frees you and me to serve him. With a heart that rejoices to please him. And then the fifth thing, and this just staggers me. The fifth thing is that he will forever be the king and the priest for us. He will forever be the king and the priest for us. Back to chapter 30, verses 21 and 22. Now it could be that when John read those verses, you thought, what? They're kind of sleeper verses, you know. But before I read them, let me tell you that the Old Testament commentator, one of the most renowned Old Testament commentators of our generation, Derek Kidner. Said, quote, This is one of the boldest and least known prophecies, messianic prophecies, in the entire Old Testament. These two verses. Why? What do they say? He says, their leader will be one of their own. Their ruler will arise from among them. The word their leader is not just simply a leader. The word is glorious one, majestic one The one that Jeremiah is talking about here is one who is beyond simple human leadership. This is a king who is majestic and glorious, so much so that He remarks that he will come from common origins. He will come from the midst of them. He will be one of them. He will come from David's line. But his glory will so far surpass that there's a contrast. And then he goes on, I will bring him near, and he will come close to me. For he is who is he who will devote himself to be close to me? It's very hard to translate that last part. Notice the uh ESV that John read is significantly different. What's it saying? Well The term will come close to me is a technical term. It referred to the priesthood. That was their job. The priest were to represent God's people in the service of ministry, offering the sacrifices and the prayers. And when they would come into the temple, this was the term they would use. They would come close to me. They would approach to me. But of course, no king could do that. A king could not function as a priest. Do you remember the story of Uzziah back in 2 Chronicles 26? In 2 Chronicles 26, you're told that Uzziah, who was such a good king, he reigned for 52 years. It was the one that uh uh Isaiah mourned in the year the king Uzziah died. He reigned from uh 792 to 740. Basically, a good king who loved the Lord did many good things. But verse 16 of 2 Chronicles 26 tells us he had one downfall. And it's a downfall that can affect people like me and you right here, Columbia Presbyterian, says his pride was his downfall. Basically a good person. But he thought too much of himself. One day he went into the temple, and he determined that he was going to offer incense to come before the Lord. The priests stopped them. They prevented him. They said, No, no, no, King. You're a good king, but you're not a priest. No king can come near to the Lord. That's the same term that's used. No king can come near to the Lord. To offer sacrifice. It says, raged against the priests and basically said, Who do you think you are? I'm the king around here. I want to offer incense, I offer incense. Get out of my way. And he bulled his way through. He came to the altar of incense and began to offer incense. God did not say a word. He simply touched him. And leprosy broke out on his forehead. The priests saw it and they panicked. They rushed him out of the temple, and as he knew the leprosy was upon him, he offered no resistance. They swept him out of the temple, and he was glad to go, until the day he died, Uzziah had leprosy. It afflicted him so bad that his son Jotham had to finally take over administrative duties and reign in his stead before he died. Because no king can function as priest. No one who is not specially set apart Sanctified and cleansed can come to the presence of God. You and I cannot come into the presence of a holy God. God says there must be a sacred office to do this. Jeremiah says, this glorious one. This righteous branch of David, who's going to rule wisely, do what is just and right, whose yoke's going to be easy and his burden light, this one who is going to be the Lord our righteousness, who's going to put his name upon us, how's he going to do it? Because he's going to function not only as king, but as priest. This is the king who will come to offer himself as a sacrifice. It was a year ago that I was putting together these messages and reading through Jeremiah and thinking, oh Lord, how am I ever going to preach through this thing in three weeks? And I had no idea that the Sunday I would preach it would be two days after the Narnia film had been released. But I declare to you, if you've seen the film or read the books, what better example of what I'm talking about is there than Aslan in The Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe? The king who comes to rule and reign wisely. The king who comes against the white witch whose kingdom is always winter, never Christmas, and never spring. Who comes to take back that dread frozen kingdom of evil? And the way that the king does it, in his wisdom, in his majesty. The way the king who does it in all of his strength, not safe, but good, is to lay himself on the stone table, not just in general. But particularly for Edmund, for a particular person, for each person who looks to him and trusts him. And by his sacrifice he restores the kingdom. This is what Jeremiah is holding up to you and to me. And Jeremiah is saying, in the darkest of days when all seems hopeless and God's very honor seems like it will be Sacrificed and compromised, if he doesn't bring about judgment, God finds a way to bring about salvation. God finds a way in your life and in my life, in our hopelessness, in our despair, to bring a perfect Messiah, Jesus. To address the root issues of this world, of history, of your life, and of my life So that his yoke is easy, his burden is light. Our view of him grows as we see him display his majesty in meeting us. In our deepest, deepest need. What a Savior. Let's pray. So our Lord our God, open our eyes. Open our eyes when we complain And we say, God, what are you doing? I don't understand. Lord, what would it have been like for a believer in 587 or 88 or 590 when these words were being written and preached? God, we are trapped. God, it's hopeless. God, what can you do? How can there be life after Jerusalem is destroyed? And you are all the while wanting to reveal that you are greater, more majestic, more powerful, more wise You are able to deal with not just the superficial problems of rescuing from Babylon, but in establishing a whole new kingdom, a worldwide kingdom for you, Lord Jesus. Rule skillfully, wisely, addressing the root issues of each of our lives. Lord, build our faith. We would look to you, take those those areas of our lives that we seem hopeless and bring them before you and see what you will do. See what you will do to magnify your life through us, your glory, your honor, to show that your salvation is so much greater than we understand. Lord, would you do that for a broken, helpless people like us? Because we trust you, because we believe that you are this kind of a God who delights to show yourself strong and sufficient to a broken, helpless people. We thank you for that hope. We thank you that, as the angel said to Mary, this one, David, will come and he will establish his kingdom and his rule will never end. And we are part of that kingdom who trust you. May everyone here, we pray, be part of that kingdom. In Jesus' name.