If you've been taking Amos seriously as we've been looking at it, and reading your newspaper, and been at all involved in people's lives, particularly where there's brokenness, have been working to bring about reformation. And revival in Columbia, Howard County, Maryland, the United States, you're apt at times to become rather discouraged. You're prone to what is currently called burnout. From time to time we find That we get discouraged because it seems like we're overwhelmed in our task. I think of a person who told me I just can't seem to relax. It's hard to enjoy anything because I want to just stand up and chat. Don't you realize we're in a desperate situation? We've got to do something. The forces of humanism are closing all about us. And how can we sit and enjoy things? And it seems like there's such a pressure on us. Another person. Trying to help someone in their need, becoming discouraged with the social services from their humanistic perspective, seeing one act of violence after another in close succession, and wondering what our society is coming to. to. If in fact we're not seeing the judgments of aim is coming to pass. I remember in our own situation on um last February, one night uh Kathy and I were taking a walk, our evening walk, we take as often as we can. And just at the time we were walking up the street, there was a fella, 17-year-old, across the way, who was beating his mother to death with a baseball bat and stabbing her, repeated them until she died, screaming for mercy. Because he thought that she might deny him going to Atlantic City, which he was going to ask her for permission. And I saw just this week in the flyer that that seventeen-year-old boy was declared not responsible. For his actions. And so he's committed to a psychiatric ward and will pay no further penalty. On Memorial Day, we saw two rival gangs square off on our front lawn to do battle. until the police came and broke it up. And one thing after another can seem to overwhelm us till we wonder what is our culture and world coming to? And you may be facing personal battles in your own life. Struggles that discourage you. Problems that you can't seem to shake off. And you read scripture and you say, I know that God's got the victory, but I don't feel that in my life right now. I'm discouraged and I'm burdened and I'm oppressed. What we need around here is a little good news, isn't it? We need to be able to see the gospel. And that's exactly what Amos does for us at the end of this book. End of nine chapters of all of his warnings and pleadings and judgment and bad news, Amos gives to us five golden verses of gospel and hope to read. redirect our attention from ourselves to the Lord. And so I'm delighted that we can look at this. In fact, uh I don't mind telling you that I've been looking forward to giving you this message since January nineteenth when we began our series on Amos. I've been really waiting for this, you know, because I've known it's coming. And we've been hanging in there together, and you've been uh hanging in with me, and I appreciate that, for nine chapters of woes. Nine chapters of nothing but bad news. One thing after another. Remember, he started off back in January. In chapter one, by the Lord saying that he roars from Zion and thunders from Jerusalem. In chapter two, he had said, I will not return back. My wrath from my people. Chapter 3, he had said, You only have I chosen of all the families of the earth. Good news. But then what's he say? Therefore I will punish you for all your sins. In chapter 4, we had seen a succession of judgments that the Lord Had brought upon the land grasshoppers, plagues, and droughts, in order to get their attention. And he says again and again, you ignored it. So prepare to meet your God. In chapter 5, he had said, Turn to me and live, or I'm going to send you into exile. And I'll destroy you. In chapter 6, he had told us that he abhores their pride. And he says, I'll destroy you of your pride. I'm going to devastate your land. In chapter 7, he had given us three pictures of Judgment. Remember more grasshoppers. A supernatural fire that even licked up the sea. And then the plumb line that divided error from truth, righteousness from unrighteousness. And he said, What's going on to escape? In chapter 8, he Described Israel as a basket of ripe fruit, ripe for judgment to come upon them. And then a chapter and army had told us nobody's going to escape. Not one is going to get away. And after all this, we come to those. last five verses that hit us like a dash of ice water in the face in their contrast. And it's startling when you come on these five verses after all that you've seen in all those chapters before. So let's look at them again and see the gospel that Amos has to present in order to encourage us in what we're doing. He says, In that day I will restore David's fallen tent. I will re Repair its work it places, restore its ruins, and build it as it used to be, so that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations that bear my name, declares the Lord, who will do these things. The days are coming, declares the Lord. Lord, for the reaper will be overtaken by the ploughmen, and the planter by the one treading grapes. New wine will drip from the mountains and flow from all the hills. I will bring back my exiled people in the world. Israel, and they will rebuild the ruined cities and live in them. They will plant vineyards and drink of their wine. They will make gardens and eat their fruit. I will plant Israel in their own land, never again to be a fruit. From the land that I have given them, says the Lord, your God. So we want to look at these five characteristics of a newer That Amos says is coming. A time of great restoration. And in these five verses, each verse has one characteristic, one distinguishable characteristic of that new world that Amos is speaking. About, so let's take a look at it. First of all, he speaks of the king, for which there will be no more ruin. Secondly, he speaks of the nations who will be no more strangers. Thirdly, he speaks of The earth where there will be no more curse. Fourthly, he speaks of a people for whom there will be no more sorrow. And then fifthly, he speaks of a land where there will be no more fear. First of all, he speaks of a King, who will never again know ruin. In verse eleven, in that day I will restore David's fallen tent. I will repair its broken places, restore its ruins, and build it as it used to be. You notice that he began Begins with a person, the person, the new king, the new David who is going to come and restore the Davidic kingdom to its former glory, the glory of the days of Solomon, the glory of those days when great And glory ruled Israel rather than the current corruption and injustice and oppression that Amos has described. He speaks of restoring his tent. Rather interesting. Why would he speak of his tent? I believe. The tent is referred to the foods that were used during the Feast of Tabernacles. It's interesting that it was at the Feast of Tabernacles that Jeroboam instituted the false worship that lured Israel from Jerusalem to Bethan. And remember we saw in verse 1 that it's the Lord now, not Jeroboam as in 1 Kings 12, who's standing by the altar, not the counterfeit, but the truth. It's the Lord who comes now to accomplish judgment. And these booths. That the people lived in were booths that were used for shelters. They were a picture of the shelter of the Lord during their pilgrimage when they were a wandering people and had no permanent place to stay. Now, it's interesting to notice that the tent, in uh passing on this, uh he speaks of the tent as the tent of David. Very interesting because that's a that should be a real encouragement to us too, because you see that Amos is prophesying. Very specifically that this Messiah, the salvation that God's going to bring, is going to come through the line of David, through Judah. Now he's speaking to Israel, but he doesn't encourage Israel by saying it's coming through these ten northern tribes. He says salvation is coming. coming from the tribe of Judah, from the line of David. And that of course is precisely what the Lord did when he sent the Lord Jesus, the Son of David. But he speaks of this one, this David in his glory, as having a restored Because the tent is the shelter of the people. You see that picture in Isaiah chapter 32, for instance, in verses 1 and 2, where uh Isaiah says, See a king will reign in righteousness, and will in Will rule with justice. Each man will be like a shelter, say a word, a word of booth or a tent, will be like a shelter from the wind and a refuge from the storm. Like streams of water in the desert, and the shadow of a great rock and a thirsty. See, Isaiah is saying that the administration of this king who's going to rule righteousness is going to be so permeated with justice and righteousness that whenever you have a problem and you go to one of those that rule under him, one of his administrators, you're going to find shame. Shelter. You're not going to find somebody that's going to crush you, that's disinterested in your problem, who could care less to administer justice. But he says you're going to find their encouragement in a shelter, in a tent, in someone who's going to be like a Spring of a parched land, or like a big rock under which you can find shade when it's hot and sunny. And so this king is going to rule in righteousness for the protection of his people. Never again will they lack For fighting justice and care. Jesus came and he said, A greater than Solomon is here. And this one who's greater than Solomon to rule in his glory and his justice, Ephesians tells us, has established not simply a kingdom in which his tent is responsible. story. But it has gone far beyond anything that David or Solomon ever could conceive of. For Ephesians tells us that this one is seated above all rule and authority, in every name that is named, both in this world and the one to come. Every power and dominion is under this king who has established his throne of righteousness. And then he goes on to talk more about this kingdom in verse 12, and he speaks of the nations. There will be no more strangers in this kingdom. Notice, he says, that he will build this tent, he will restore it, so that they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations that bear my name, declares the Lord, who will do these things. Notice that language, possess. Yes, bear my name. It's language that reminds you of marriage when someone is possessed of another, when they bear their name. And so the Lord here is speaking about the nations being married to him, brought into a covenant relationship with him. those outside of Israel. He said they're going to belong to me. And notice who he specifies, who he singles out. Edom. They're going to possess the remnant of Edom. Now why Edom? Because you may recall that there was no more sworn enemy of Israel than Edom was. Edom had a hostility that went right back to the hostility between Jacob and Esau. And of all of Israel's enemies, none was more sworn against Israel to destroy it than Edom. And so he's not simply speaking of the extent of the gospel going forth here, of those who are going to be brought to Jesus Christ. that we see in Isaiah 49, 6, where he says, it's not a it's too small a thing for you to simply restore Jacob. You're going to bring a salvation to all the Gentiles and establish salvation through the ends of the earth, not simply extensively, but also Also he speaks of the power of the gospel to turn people's lives around who seem utterly impartened to the gospel, the most unlikely candidates for the kingdom. Aims to say, even those are going to be brought in, because the power of the gospel Is so great that there is none you can you can look at and you can say, that person's obviously one of the non-elect. That person obviously will never have an interest in the gospel of Christ. There's no sense even bothering to share the gospel with them. Because you said there's none It's in that condition. Even Eden will come. And so last Sunday night we came here and we saw about the ministry of Charles Colson and prison fellowship. And we've heard about a prostitute who had come to Jesus. Jesus Christ and had her life transformed in one of the local prisons here and is now on the streets of Baltimore witnessing for Jesus Christ, her Savior, who's changed her life. And we've heard about prisoners who have come hardened and broken into prison. And then have found Jesus Christ and have their lives transformed within those prisons to come to the most hard men with the gospel and watch them come to Jesus Christ. And we saw a Thursday night. As we came and had the meeting on homosexuals anonymous. And we saw another group, the coalition of gay and lesbian Christians, undercover, rent another room under a private name. And seek to come over and proselytize our meeting, to hand out literature, to lure people away from our meeting, to put up posters in order to deceive people so that they wouldn't think that the meeting was over here, but it was over where theirs was. And we saw those people gather around outside. And I talked to a man who said that I have Jesus as my Savior and Lord, and I'm gay, and I'm proud that God has made me that way. He said, I'm a Calvinist, and I believe that God has determined me exactly where He wants me to be. And I submit to the Bible, I'm an evangelist. And he was the most militant of all of them in seeking to hand out literature to show that homosexuality was God's intention. And we see such hardness and we wonder, can God ever do anything? And then we hear the testimony. in the meeting. Valor Beninger, who said for 17 years I was a homosexual. And God got a hold of my life and he transformed it by the power of Jesus Christ. And for ten years I've been out of that culture. And for ten years I've loved my wife and I've seen the power of Jesus Christ. And we've heard a lesbian talk about her broken life from her background and her home and all of the brokenness of her seeking to find some satisfaction with the life with her lover. upon whom she was so emotionally dependent, and then describe how Jesus Christ came in and changed her life and brought her from that brokenness to restoration and healing, to where she could stand before us radiant in the power of the Holy Spirit. Spirit and talk to some of them afterwards, four or five of them who were there, who were able to testify to the power of Jesus Christ in their lives when we say, Praise God, this verse is true. He's going to possess the remnant of Eden. He's going to show his power to the world. to the nations, and they're going to be brought in. Because the Ten of David has been restored, and the king is on the throne, and men can withstand the irresistible work of his Holy Spirit when he comes into a person's life. And then he goes on to describe the earth. And notice this, verse 13. I love this verse. He says, The days are coming, declares the Lord, when the reaper will be overtaken by the plowing, and the planter by the one-treading grapes. New wine is going to drip from the mountains and From all the hills. You see, this new David, who's over this new kingdom, is also a new Adam over a new creation. And this earth is going to be once and for all delivered from the curse. That's why what Adam was in Edom, where God's blessings flowed to him so richly. But then fell. And Adam and Eve disobeyed God and were cast out of the garden. Those blessings were reduced to a trickle from the earth. And God said you're going to have to sweat to even get those Blessings, and you'll be filled with discouragement and disappointment because of the curse upon the earth. Now, this new David, who's this new Adam or a new creation, says that he's going to bring about an earth in which there's the restoration of these. glories not from a triple, but again from a flood of what God's going to do. And the way he describes it is really rather interesting. Notice what he says. He says the harvest are going to be so great in that day. If here's a guy who's coming along to plow for this next season, And as he comes along to plow, he meets these guys that are on the way. He says, What are you guys doing? He said, We're still picking up the harvest from last season. He said, Well, you guys gotta work a little fast. I said, Man, the harvest is too great. It took us weeks to just try to gather in all the crops. There's so much. and we keep hauling them away and there's more of the haul away. I don't know if you ever saw back in the early part of this century when photography was just really becoming a big thing. There there were trick photos that they used to produce and there would be this wagon load, you know, and then you'd have this huge cluster of grapes that look like you know they were about uh fifty feet long, you know, and there'd be uh one l wagon and there'd be uh one potato on the whole wagon, you know, that the horses were straining to pull. And there would be these little cute sayings, you know, about, you know, the crop was mediocre this year and this kind of thing. You've got to think a while about Anus is out here. He says, Man, that's the way it's going to be. The potatoes are going to have to shoe the reapers out of the way for next season because they're still gathering in the crops. He said, That's not bad enough. He says, This guy's going to come along, he's got a little plant. vineyard. And he's going to come along and he's going to lay things out and he's going to plant his vines and he's going to watch them grow. And he says, before he even gets finished planting the vineyard, here comes all these people jogging along to tread on the grapes. He says, what are you guys doing? He says, well the vineyards have all grown up and the grapes have just exploded right out of the the vines. And the guy hasn't even finished planning, Eden says, before they're all on there to tread the grapes and make the wine. He has so fast, you see it's just an explosion of abundance. It's like the earth which is laying under the curse for all these years now under the reign of this new David, this new Adam, just can't wait to show the potential that God has built into creation when it's not under a curse. But so he says there's a veritable explosion of abundance. Even the mountains are going to drip with wine, he says. And you look at the hills, and he says you see these little streams and rivulets, brooks of wine flowing down them, because the wine just flowing all over the place. And everybody just going all over having a screen. time, what a feast, you know, he says. And you just go anywhere, and it's just all kinds of stuff to pick and to enjoy, because the earth is no longer under a curse. Do you see what a contrast that is to chapter 4, where he describes the grasshopper. doctors who come and the plagues and the droughts and the fire and all these things that we experience now he says all that's going to be done away because the king has come and there's never going to be anything like that in this kingdom. And then he says, not only that, but look at verse 14. which is just as important to link with it. He speaks about the people who will know no more sorrow. He says, I'm going to bring back my exiled people, Israel, and they're going to rebuild the ruined cities and they're going to live in them and they'll plant vineyards and drink their wine. And they'll make gardens and eat their fruit. Well, what's so special about that? Well, do you remember what he had said in chapter 5 and verse 11? Take a look at that again. Remember in chapter 5, verse 11, he said, You are the people who trample on the pool. And you force them to give you grain. Therefore, though you have built stone mantanies, you will not live in them. Though you have planted lush vineyards, you will not drink their wine. You see what Amos was saying there is, you have it all. You're not going to enjoy it. But it's the same here now: when the king comes and he transforms you, and he transforms his people into this new kingdom. Not only are you going to have it all, you're going to enjoy it all. You see, there's a big difference between having it and enjoying. You can plan the perfect vacation. And you got it all laid out. Everything is per terrific. You've got the reservations and you got everything all lined up and the weather even cooperates and everything's perfect. And all you do is fight the whole time. Because everybody wants to do their thing. And they're so concerned to have a good time that nobody can get it off. And so you fight. And you don't enjoy all the things that you have. And Amos is saying, there's going to come a time when you're not going to only have all this. But the picture that you see here of this exiled people are going to rebuild and they're going to plant and they're going to drink this wine, they're going to make these guards, they're going to eat this fruit, is a picture of pure enjoyment. Of all that God has given to them. And enjoyment with praise for all that they've received from their new Navy, the Son of David, who's reigning over this kingdom. Then finally he speaks of the land. And in which there will be no more fear or dread or insecurity. I will plant Israel in their own land. See, can't move them anymore. They're planted like trees, but I plant Israel in their land, never again to be uprooted. From the land that I have given to them. You see the connection? He's contrasting this with Gilgal. You remember he had talked about Gilgal back in chapter 5. Gilgal, you may remember from when we looked at it then, was a place. near Jordan that Joshua had led the people to, when he had crossed over Jordan for the conquest. And Gilgal is to the people of Israel the promise of the fact that God was giving to them the land. And Amos had said to them back at that time, he said, You've made Gilgal a a kind of superstition. And you go there to remind yourself that, oh, you've got the land because you're Israel. But Amos had said in Amos chapter five and verse five Do not seek Bethel, do not go to Gilgal, do not journey to Beersheba. Gilgal will surely go into exile. It's going to deny its name. It's going to deny its meaning. See, because you're resting on Gilgal and not the Lord. And so he says, Gilgal's going to become to you a sign of the fact that you'll go into exile. Rather than the fact that you'll stay in the land. In fact, he elaborated that in verse 27 of chapter 5. Remember where he said, Therefore I will send you into exile beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is God Almighty. I'm going to send you away. Now he says, Gilgal's going to find its true meaning in this kingdom. Because I'm going to plant you in that land, and never again will you be uprooted. You will truly be planted in this kingdom. Because I have done it. You see, this is the land that I have given to them. This is what the Lord has done, says the Lord your God. Notice who it is who's doing all of these things. Did you notice those references? We wrote through. Look in verse eleven. I will restore David's fallen tent. I will repair its broken places. Verse twelve declares the Lord who will do these things. It's the Lord who's going to bring the nations to a himself. Verse 14, I will bring back my exiled people. I am going to restore them. Verse 15, I am going to plant Israel in their land, the land that I have given to them. That's what he's saying. saying it's all by grace. It's all what the Lord does. And if there's anything that you should see from the book of Amos is the absolute hopelessness of you or mine being able to earn God's favor. and find any kind of security in the things that we do for him. God is saying to us, I am the one that's going to do it, because I have sent my son of David, and that son is going to raise up this kingdom And he is the one who's going to accomplish the salvation. It's by grace. For it's this son who's going to take the curses that were due to all of my people, the curses that were pictured in 721 in the exile and the destruction by Astyria. And he says, all those curses and far more, and yes, hell itself, I'm going to bring upon my own son. I'm going to bring upon this name, so that he himself will bear all the curses that could ever be given forevermore. And there will be none left for my people. For all the punishment has already been born by Jesus. If you sit here this morning as one who knows Jesus as your own Savior and Lord, then You are in the most secure of all possible positions because God has planted you in his kingdom. The kingdom that He Himself has given you. Because his own son, the king of that kingdom, has borne all the curses that were due to you that would prevent you from ever getting in that kingdom or possibly being exiled from it. And you can never again be expelled because the curses have been born. And Jesus has died. And Jesus has risen. Jesus has paid it all. What a message to rejoice in. What a message to remind ourselves of when we feel discouraged and wonder if in fact God is able to turn things around in Columbia. As we see things that seem to overwhelm us. Because you need to notice when it is that he's going to do this. On the one hand It's clear that when he is going to do this is in that great day, the day of the Lord, the end of the world, the end times, that day when he's going to establish his kingdom. And some of this picture is clearly picture of heaven. And that abundance of the earth without any curse that we talked about. The kind of prosperity and peace and fullness of enjoyment that we see this described here. This is a picture of heaven. It's a picture that ought to light your fire and mine with a And we seem to clutch on the things so dearly here. And here look, here's what you're telling us is before us. We're not going to lose anything. All we can do is gain when you come and receive us to yourself. But you see, it's not only then, but it's also now. Because I remind you again, it's these verses. Verses 11 and 12, that James quoted, when he said, These days we have seen this begin. It's this that God is doing now in bringing the Gentiles in unto this Son, Jesus, whose tent has been restored. And so James explicitly applies these verses to our day. But so you see, you and I are now living at the first fruits of this. You know, the mountains may not be dripping with wine yet. is saying, I've given you the wine of the Lord's Supper to take with the first fruits of that feast, of that harvest that's going to come. And he says, when you come together and feast and and you enjoy the shelter of your fellowship together, that's that's a foretaste. Of the society in which there will be no more discouragement, no more oppression, no more fighting or arguing or tension, no more divorce, no more broken families, no more arguments, no more churning of the Stomach as you go to see someone that you dread meeting. And he says, I've given to you now as a community, my people, the first fruits of that harvest. I'm doing it right now. I'm doing it to show. show you my power. And so what God wants you and me to do is to see with the eyes of faith that God has already begun to do in us. And realize that when we get discouraged, that these things are just Just a taste of the fact that the Lord really is in control. And He really is going to bring about all that He has described here. And so, what do I want you to do to apply this? We've talked about a lot of heavy applications in AS. We talked about a lot of the things that God wants to do to transform our society and our culture and the ways that He wants to use us. And so as I end this whole series and conclude this whole thing and then take off for vacation, I just want to leave you with one last thing. No more applications. All I want you to see is the glory of Jesus Christ and his power, so that whatever else you apply from the book of Amos, you do it with the encouragement. Of these last verses. Did you do it with a realization that the Lord is at work in you? That the Lord is at work in us as his people. And the Lord has established this kingdom. He's established this new Adam over this old. that he's going to bring them out. And he wants us to see the glory and the victory of it. So that whatever we do this week and this summer, we do with hope, and we do with confidence, and we do with the eyes of faith. Jesus at work. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. We do so tend to become burdened with those things that we see that we need to do. And find it so easy to forget what you have already done. What you have accomplished in Jesus, in establishing that shelter, which is a shelter not only of Him, but by Him. Give for us that shelter which is for us, the shelter of even protection from your wrath, which he established by his death on the cross and in his resurrection. Ah, Lord God. Give to us eyes of faith, that we might see this kingdom, that we might not simply see the struggles, but that we might see the victory. That we might see Jesus reigning. That we might see him. Possessing Edom, transforming lives that are beyond our power to even conceive sometimes of what they would be transformed. Father, we pray that you would enable us. to be obedient to you with encouraged hearts. I pray, Lord, for any who discouraged you this morning. Discouraged and wondering what your power really is So great, wondering really how rich is your salvation. And yet, Lord, we we see Amos stretching language to the breaking point to describe to us, in almost humorous terms, How abundant is that salvation which you've accomplished for us in Jesus. Oh Lord, may our hearts rejoice. May we sing, may we just find such delight in the fact that we belong to you, that you possess us. And we're called by your name. And if we're planted in this kingdom, nothing can ever remove us. If we've taken Jesus as our Savior and our Lord, and we've seen the evidence of that in the transformation you're bringing about, Lord, that nothing can ever upward us. See it because you yourself have guaranteed it. Lord, give us this joy. Open our eyes and see it. In Jesus' name. Amen.