I was talking to a woman recently who had a friend who had just seen the movie The Passion of the Christ. She said, This friend Asked her after he'd seen the movie, yeah, you know, it was really quite impressive. It gave me a lot to think about, but why'd they have them looking real good at the end And uh she suddenly realized he had no idea that was talking about the resurrection. We know why he looked good at the end, don't we? He's risen. Amen. Okay. Hey, that's a start. Come on. Jesus has conquered the death, all the brutal beatings and the torment. He died and he's alive. Christians generally celebrate on Easter morning the fact that Jesus rose from the dead, and sometimes we also celebrate the fact that We too will look to that day when he who is the first fruits of the resurrection will bring us with him, and we shall also rise physically from the dead. But all the years I've celebrated Easter, I don't think I've ever heard a message that deals with what you see as point two in your bulletin outline. And that is that we have been raised with him. Not that we will be raised, but that we have been raised. Now, has anybody ever here heard a message on Easter or you know associated with Easter about the fact that we have been raised with Christ? Anybody? In the first service it was one person. And they were very proud of that. I had heard that message Well, uh I realize this is quite a challenge, bit of an uphill battle here, but I would like To proclaim to you the gospel that you have been raised with Christ And I would hope that after this message, when you think about Easter, and you think of celebrating Easter, You will celebrate not only that Jesus has been raised, but that you'll also think to celebrate that you have been raised with him. Now, there are a number of places in the New Testament that we could go to see that, because this idea that you and I have been raised with Christ at the point when he was raised is central in New Testament teaching to the doctrine of the resurrection. The place I've chosen to go is Colossians chapter 3 And that's what Tom read to you. So that's what I'm going to look at under two points. First of all, I want to talk about the meaning of that And then secondly, I want to talk about what difference does it make to you? Because you may say, you can tell me all about what it means, but if I don't see any difference it makes, I'm not going to be that interested. I want to suggest to you that it makes a profound difference every day of your life to believe that you have been raised with Christ. Very practical. What difference does it make? Well, first of all, let's talk about the meaning. the meaning of what Paul says here of your co-resurrection with Christ. Look in this place how Paul puts it. He says, since then You have been, now there's three parts to this. Notice in the text. Since then you have been, first of all, raised with Christ Then set your hearts on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. For, now here's the second thing, you died with him. And your life is now hidden as a result of that with Christ in God. Verse 4, when Christ then, who is your life, appears, then thirdly. you also will appear with him in glory. Just look at that to this point so far There are those three points, there are four chronological events that the Bible says If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, were your experience. First of all, it says you died with Jesus when he died on the cross. You co-died with him. Secondly, when he rose and walked out of the tomb on Easter morning, you rose with him. You co-rose with Christ. Thirdly, because he died, you died with him, and he rose, and you rose with him, your life is now hidden with him in the heavenlies. Your real life, your real life. Is with Christ. And therefore, fourthly, in the future, when he comes back You will appear with him in glory. You will be co-glorified. The key to all of this is to understand your union with Jesus Christ. Some deep waters here for an Easter morning when everybody wants to hear, you know, I just want to hear you tell me about Jesus walked out of the tomb, you know, getting in And I know that this is stretching you, but it's worth it. Hang in with me to understand this. This is what Romans 6 says. You died with Christ, you rose with Christ. Um you know, uh basically the Bible is saying what happened to Jesus happened to you. Now that's hard for you and for me to grasp because you say, Well I didn't have nails in my hands, I wasn't put on a cross. In what way did I die with Christ? When God saw Jesus, his son on the cross, he saw you with him. Your death occurred at that point. Death to sin. And even though you do not experience physically now That you have died and have been risen. You in fact have in your life. You have died with Christ and you have risen. Now You know you say, man, it's this is you're going too far here. The only way you can try to get your mind around this at all is to try some analogies So let me try two analogies to help us to try to grasp this. First of all, think of the analogy of the Olympics. Okay, now this is the year of the Summer Olympics. A lot of us are going to be glued to our TVs this summer as we watch the Olympics in Athens, Greece as we think about those who come from America to represent us there. And if if an American wins a gold medal, And that person, he or she stands on the pedestal, they play the Star-Spangled Banner. We sense at that point not just that that person won, but that we won, right? We say, we took that meet. We got the gold medal because that person represented America. But now, suppose for a minute That for some reason your life depended on whether that person got the gold medal. Your life hung in the balance on the outcome of whether that person accomplished that gold medal. Think back for a moment to Old Testament history. Do you remember that time when the Philistines were at war with the Israelites? And do you remember that the um Philistines had a hero, Goliath. And they said, guys, why should we all go out to battle and beat each other all up and all these people get killed? You know, we got a better idea. This is a modern way to fight war. We'll have one man, Goliath. He'll represent us. Now you pick whoever you want to come against Goliath, and whoever wins, that's the nation that wins, and the other, the loser nations, in servitude to the winners. And so you wait to see. Is Saul going to do it? Who's going to do it? Saul doesn't do it. And you finally see this 16-year-old kid, a shepherd boy, comes. He's too small to even get into Saul's armor. And what do you think? Pack your bags, honey. We're moving to Philistine. This is hopeless because we have lost. And so imagine your feelings as you see David out on the field And he sinks a stone right through the skull of that ten foot, nine, ten-foot giant Goliath, and watch him hit the ground. And you think We won. You see? Not just David won. We won. Because he represented us. We're joined to David in that. Now that's one way to try and grasp it a bit. When Jesus walked out of the tomb, we won. We rose with him. He conquered death for us who are united to him. Another example way of thinking about it is to think in terms of a piece of paper. Here's just a piece of paper, a very flimsy little piece of paper. I haven't crumbled it up in one hand. You know, it's not even like an aluminum can, it's even easier, you know. To whatever I want, I can I can burn it, can tear it. It's very vulnerable. But now let's suppose that I take this paper and I put it inside my Bible And so now the paper is in the book and it's united to the book. It's joined to the book. Now I can beat the book, you know, but done do much to the paper. Can't crumple it. I can scorch the book Doesn't touch the paper. I can do whatever I want. Whatever is going to happen to the book is what's going to happen to the paper, but the paper's safe in the book. I could dig a a hole in the ground, I could bury this and you know the the paper would still be clean inside, protected by the book. In fact That happened once. Somebody buried a Bible somewhere around the 9th century. It was a Bible that had been written in the 8th century. And uh somebody dug it up a few centuries later and they realized this was a priceless Bible And they cleaned it up, they put it into Trinity College in Dublin, into a special room that's special atmosphere, it's darkened and You can walk past, crowds of people do it. I, Kathy and I had the privilege of seeing the Book of Kells, the beautiful artwork, the fantastic, vivid color. Of something that had been written in the eighth century. Now let's suppose that my little piece of paper was in the Book of Tells. It'd be there all protected in Trinity College and everybody would be moving past all the honor that was given to that book. My paper would share in, because it was in the book You see, that's the way it is with you and me in Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ walked out of the tomb, conquered death, you and I were seated with him in the heavenlies. Your life, in fact, Paul says, is hidden. It's it's there. It's it's hidden in Christ like this paper in a book. It's hidden in the uh uh your life is now hidden with Christ in God. So you are joined with Him. Now You know, I still may not grab you yet because I gotta show you what difference does that make What difference does that make this cloudy Easter morning when you want your mind to enter into the resurrection and not just the fact you wish it was sunny outside What does it mean? Well, it means a great deal. It makes a radical difference in your life in two ways. The first you see in your bulletin outline gives you a new hope. A new hope. You see what Paul's saying here. Look again at these verses. He talks about the hope that you have. Since then you have been raised with Christ. See, not just since Christ was raised, but since you've been raised with Christ. Set your hearts on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. In other words, looking ahead, you're looking at that life that you had, that's your true life, because you died and your life is now hidden with Christ and God. So when Christ, who is your life Appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Do you remember when we were going through Ephesians Chapter 2, verse 4 to 7, we talked about how God says he has raised us up and seated us in the heavenlies with Christ, so that In the ages to come, he would show us the riches of his kindness in Christ. See, you've been raised with Christ. So that in the future, your hope is he's going to show you the riches of his kindness. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Tom read those precious verses, for as an Adam. All die because you're united to Adam. He represented you when he disobeyed. So in Christ, all who are in Christ will be made alive. If you're joined to Christ by faith this morning, if you're saying He's my Savior, He's my Lord, untrusting Him, then your hope is you will be made alive Each in his own turn. Christ, the first fruits, then when he comes, those who belong to him. So Adam died Physically, spiritually, you're joined with him. You have are under the penalty of the law You will die unless Jesus comes first. But already, already, if Jesus is in your life, your inner mind, your being, has been raised to new life. And is seated with Christ. Therefore, Jesus Christ has guaranteed That you will one day be restored to a perfect resurrected body That will be raised when he comes. Death has already been conquered for you in Jesus Christ, and you are as good this morning as in heaven There is nothing more certain if you belong to Jesus Christ than your hope that you will be raised with him because Jesus rose on Easter morning. Isn't that a wonderful thought? Now, the amazing thing is that Paul draws one other radical conclusion from this that I think is often missed in our understanding of the gospel. And that is what he says in verse 5. Not only do you have a new hope, but you have a new heart. You see, after he talks about the hope that you have in verses one to four, then he says, put to death, therefore Whatever belongs to your earthly nature. And he goes on about what that is. You know, he talks about sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, greed, which is idolatry Because of these, the wrath of God is coming. You used to walk in these things, but talks about ridding yourself of anger, rage, you know, violent temper, malice, gossip, slander, filthy language. On and on and on he goes for several more verses saying, these things can no longer control you. When you died in Christ and he rose and you rose with him, you rose with a new heart. What does that mean? It means that the gospel says to you, not only have you died, therefore the law can no longer condemn you. But also when Christ rose, you rose with him, and the law can no longer control you. You are no longer under the power of sin. The gospel is, because Christ died, not only are you forgiven, but because Christ rose, you are also empowered. And that makes a great deal of difference. If any of you have been reading that book that we've been giving out in the back there, The Passion of Jesus Christ by John Piper. One of his little meditations, he uses the example. He says, You are now like a person who is faced with an old prostitute. She used to be a young, alluring, irresistible prostitute that you could not stay away from. Now you see her old, you see her true nature. And while you may still be drawn at times against your better judgment, she no longer controls you. You see what it's like. You see Sin works in us to control us by deception. We think it's better to please myself and live my own life independent from Jesus Christ. The gospel says, no, your real joy comes in submitting to Jesus Christ. Do you believe that this morning? You know, you may say, well, I'm here because it's Easter, but you know, I want to live my life. Under my control, power. The gospel is that your real joy comes when you see the illusion of that. And you understand that your only real freedom comes through Jesus Christ. Now when you see that, that when that that um d illusion has been broken, Then Paul says, because you rose with Christ, because you have this new life, it's out of that. That you now put to death the things that belong to your earthly nature. You want to do that. You you no longer love to live in disobedience to Jesus. You realize For his glory and for your good that you want to do what he says to do. Therefore, Ephesians puts it in the way of chapter one to three You are a new creature in Christ. Chapter 4, 5, and 6. Therefore, act as a new creature. Act out of that new life. Now I struggled with how can I illustrate this? Because you know our minds are such we've got to try and see something. How do you illustrate that? And I went to one of the master illustrators in the church, C. S. Lewis. And I believe he illustrates this in one of his stories. Uh anybody think about what that story would be? Give you a clue? It's in the Narnia tales. Not in the first one, but it's in the volume, Voyage of the Dawn Treader. Do you remember that little guy Eustace? Anybody you know remember Eustace? Eustace, when you think of Eustace, what do you think of? You think of somebody obnoxious, don't you? I mean, this kid was king of the brats. He was so selfish, self-absorbed, self-centered, that you kind of love to hate him. I mean you read and you think, that kid is disgusting. Well, you know, one occasion he uh got lost on an island, didn't care about inconveniencing the rest of them, and he was just going off, having a good time by himself, and he's wandering off through this island. And he comes upon an old dragon. And he sees this old dragon in its death throes. It's in the last fiery breaths of a miserable existence, watches it die, and then he sees that it has some treasure, and he follows and goes to the lair, the cave where this dragon lived. And there is piles of treasure that the dragon had. And of course Eustace being Eustace helps himself, doesn't think about anybody else, just look at all I've got. I'm rich. This is wonderful. And he goes to sleep. Wakes up the next morning, and what happened? Eustace turned into a dragon. Now can you imagine going to sleep and waking up the next morning and you look in the mirror to brush your teeth and you're a dragon? Kind of put a dent in your day, wouldn't it? Now, Lewis says that actually Eustace turning into a dragon was rather appropriate because it fitted his nature and personality a little better. But Eustace didn't see much humor in that, and he began to weep hot, dragony tears long and hard. The other thing that bothered him was that he had put on a bracelet as part of the treasure and put on his wrist and that was fine, but when he became a dragon, his dragon leg was a lot thicker than little boys. and the bracelet was now digging into his flesh and it was starting to hurt him terribly. And so he was crying not just because he was a dragon, he was crying because his bracelet was hurting so hard in his leg, which used to be his arm, but now it's his leg. As he's pondering what he's going to do and getting out of this, he sees in front of him a huge lion. And it's irresistible. He follows the lion. The lion leads him to a beautiful bubbling pool of the purest, freshest water, and he so longs to get into that. But he has to undress, and so he takes off his dragon skin. But immediately it grows back again. So he takes it off again, immediately grows back again. He takes it off again, and it grows back again. Finally, the lion says, You must let me undress you And Lewis then describes how the lion took his claws and deeply dug into the knobby, ugly dragon skin. And that it hurt terribly. He felt he was being ripped into his very core, everything about him being ripped out And finally there lays the skin, and Eustace is fresh as a newborn baby, and he jumps into the water, and the water hurts terribly for just a moment. And then it becomes refreshing and clean and fresh, and he gets out of this bath, and the lion dresses him in new clothes. Here is what Lewis says just after that. It would be nice and fairly nearly true to say that from that time forth Eustace was a different boy. To be strictly accurate, he began to be a different boy. He had relapses. There were still many days when he could be very tiresome. But most of those I shall not notice. The cure had begun. Now that, brothers and sisters in Christ is what Paul is talking about in Colossians 3. This morning, we celebrate not only the fact that Jesus has risen, but if you understand the gospel, it is that you have risen with him. And when you rose with him, God sent his Spirit to give to you the first fruits of that new life that you had experienced this morning, not waiting Until Jesus comes, but experiencing right now the power of that risen life in your life. So that sin can no longer control you. It seduces you. You drift into it. You and I struggle with it. But you can claim the new resurrection life of Jesus Christ in a power not your own to deliver you even from lifelong habits. And those things that have held you into bondage that you hate. So, if you don't know what I'm talking about. But you long to have something of that new life that only Jesus Christ can offer you, not only by his death forgiveness but also by his life, new empowerment, new freedom, then I invite you To come over the next four weeks, middle hour, 10 o'clock to 10. 45, four weeks. We're going to have a group that's just going to do a discussion of the four gospels Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And so all you do is if you're interested, you say, I want to know this Jesus more. I want to understand. What does it mean to belong to Him? What does it mean to have His life in me? Those are difficult concepts, but it's a very simple thing that comes down to admitting your need for him, his death, and his life. Then come. Come at 10 o'clock. Next week. Read Matthew. Read between now and next Sunday. It doesn't take you all that long. Twenty-eight chapters is short. Go through it. 10 o'clock next Sunday, come. Going to meet over in my office for the first Sunday and gather around there. Just a group of however many want to come. If you need a bigger room, we'll find something. And just come on together and we'll have a discussion, led by one of our elders. Then the next week, Mark, the next week Luke, the next week John, and that's it. Don't go on trying to live in this life in your own strength, in your own power. You can't do it. Jesus wants to offer to you a new life. A life that you cannot gain by yourself. The gospel is not that we try to be good so that God will bless us. The gospel is that God has blessed us. Therefore, go and be good. In His strength, in His power. Want to take me up on that? I hope you do. Now, if you've been walking with Jesus, you've been a Christian for some time, what does this mean very practically? I challenge you this morning to think of an area of your life. Where you feel that there has been failure, an area that's been an area of discouragement to you, an area where you feel like you've tried again and again and you're hopeless About being able to change in that area. It could be an area of addiction, it could be pornography, it could be your temper, it could be your tongue, your gossip. Paul gives a whole list in chapter 3 of what these what kinds of things these are. And in every case he says, put them to death, therefore. In other words, you can see these things die in your life, in the new life of Christ, but you can't do it yourself. It is only by means of your union with Jesus that you can see those areas of your life that have so discouraged you. So put you to shame. Those areas you'd want nobody else to know, just how bad, how much control it has on you. To see Jesus Christ release you. The guarantee is his resurrection. The fact that he rose guarantees he can give you that new life. Do you believe that? Do you believe that? Do you really believe that? Try him. See what he could do for the person who comes and says, Lord I can't do it. I'm tired of trying on my own. And I ask you to come into my life. I ask you to take your Holy Spirit To mediate that resurrection life. I want to claim his resurrection. I've seen people do that. who have been alcoholics, I have seen people do that, who are addicted to pornography, I have seen people do that, who had broken relationships that they did not know how to restore, and I have seen Jesus Christ bring healing and freedom. And new life. The Bible says, the gospel says, you are a dead, alive person if you are in Christ. You have died to the law. You are forgiven. You have been raised to new life. You are empowered. And in our support groups at Columbia Presbyterian, we're always building in our recovery out of the gospel. It's not something that's psychological, it's not something that we do simply by accountability. It is that which comes out of the gospel. But this morning what I need to remind me and remind you is that sometimes we only hold to part of the gospel. We talk about the death of Christ and the freedom that gives us from a guilty conscience, how we are adopted as his children, loved unconditionally. But we forget that part of the gospel that says, not only are you forgiven and adopted But because of Christ's resurrection, the fact that you rose with him, you are empowered in a new life this morning. That's what I proclaim to you in the name of Jesus Christ. To believe it, to claim it, to come to Him with that new heart and that new hope. The hope that says that while I am struggling in this, there is a day when Jesus was going to appear and I will appear with him in glory, and this struggle will be over. And when Jesus comes, my nature, my mind, my body will be transformed like to his glorious body. And at that day there will be no shame, there will be no guilt, there will be no temptation. I will simply be all that God has intended that I be centered on Him, enjoying Him. Praising Him, loving Him, and experiencing the full freedom of my being. The resurrection is the guarantee and the first fruits of that in your life this morning and this week. Amen? Believe it, brothers and sisters. Christ rose. You rose with him. Now live that and experience it. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus. Lord, I think of first service. I was thinking of the Burkes' there, and Jim Bjorkes, who's just come back from Iraq. I think Lord of how Jim was in Iraq for months and every day thought about home. Thought about home. How he wanted to be out of the war and out of Iraq. Lord, we uh we want to be home. We long to be home. Your resurrection is guaranteed. There is a home, there is a place that you're preparing. And Paul says here, set your mind on the things above. Set your mind on that new life that's hidden with Christ and God. Lord, we so let our minds just revolve around this earth We pray in Jesus' name, Lord, that our minds cause us, Lord, to think of that home That home that we have because we have been raised with Christ, so that when you, Lord Jesus, appear, we will appear with you in glory. It's as good as done. We're just waiting for that day. Lord, I pray for anybody that doesn't know that, doesn't have that hope, Lord, that you would grant to them, grant to them this morning. The desire, that desire for Christ. That there'd be people that would come and be in that discussion as we've had at other times and seen people come, pass from death to life in that. Lord, we pray But there'd be people who would come to that discussion next Sunday. And from right here in this room, there'd be some that say, yeah, I want to know more about Christ. And Lord, we pray for those of us who hear this and we're tempted to be cynical. Yeah, there's areas in my life, and I haven't seen the power of the gospel as I would hope, Lord. Lord, deliver us from thinking only about the death we've died with Christ, but to think this week about the new life that we live out of Christ's resurrection. To claim that resurrection, even this moment in that area that seems impossible for us. Lord, we bring that area of our lives to you right now, at this moment and claim the resurrection of Christ in it.