This morning we're here to look at God's word, and so as we prepare to do that, let's go before our Father and ask his blessing. Father, we come humbly because we are not worthy of your message. And we come faithfully because we believe in your promises that you will come to us. In our sin and our struggle, and lift us up, and you will redeem us and glorify yourself through us. Lord, words are hardly expressible. And as we open your word today, and as you speak to us, it is my fervent prayer that Every mind in this place will be enlivened to the truths of the Scripture. And that the souls of everyone here today. We'll commune with the Spirit that you have promised is here with us this morning. And that our hearts would feel the message Father, bless your word and bless this time. Amen. You can go ahead and begin to turn to the book of Ecclesiastes, and we're going to spend all of this morning in the book of Ecclesiastes. As you're turning, there's an alarming trend I have noticed Over the last five or six years among students. And the trend is basically an overall lack of foundation. A lack of any kind of strong jumping off place, if you will, to guide them and give their life structure and meaning. The problem is this trend is not just among students, but it's founded in mom and dad. It's a trend that parents that I have talked to, they have very little foundation either in their lives. And as we look out at our world, we see A world, a new age as we approach this 21st century of people looking for something to make sense of life. And you don't have to look very far if you turn to your TVs. You will find th probably every other station will if you wait long enough you'll see somebody selling you something that will make your life work or at least make it a little better. You know, four easy payments of nineteen ninety-five If you have a credit card and a TV, you're set. And if you're like me and you go to Walmart or Target, you find all kinds of things you didn't know you needed. Just amazing little gadgets that are just great until maybe a day later and and you find out you really wish you hadn't bought it. Uh we often find things and consume things that we think will make our lives better and maybe give it some more sense. But often they don't. And this this this new age dilemma of a lack of foundation is not new at all. And in fact, it's the very dilemma that the teacher here in Ecclesiastes is struggling with. I'm going to begin by reading the first three verses of chapter 1. The words of the teacher, son of David, king in Jerusalem. Meaningless, meaningless, says the teacher. Utterly meaningless. Everything is meaningless. What does man gain from all his labor at which he toils under the sun? That's fairly depressing. In fact, verse 2 says meaningless four times. That does not sound like the rest of Scripture, does it? The rest of Scripture is full of hope. In fact, it's the dismal and dark picture that Ecclesiastes paints that has caused many scholars throughout the year to even doubt whether or not it should be part of the canon. You know, it it doesn't seem to teach hope. But I think as we'll see later on this morning, it does preach hope. Rather, it's very dark It's much like uh the movies. I don't know if any of y'all have saw the movie uh The Lost World. It was out one of the big blockbusters this summer My wife and I went and saw it and there was a point in the movie, and most movies you'll recognize have this quality where I really thought they were gonna have to stop the movie halfway through because there was no way the people were going to get out of this situation. I mean, one thing after another their trailer goes off the cliff, then a T Rex comes, then another one. and then it slips further and everything's breaking and I just knew they were going to die and they'd have to wrap up the movie because there'd be nobody else left to act in the movie And throughout the movie there were times like that where I just was thinking, how are they going to get out of this? You know, and and the the producers and directors and writers do that purposely So that we will stay on the edge of our seat. Another one was uh Air Force One. We don't go to a lot of movies, but uh Air Force One. Uh and and that was uh I was on the edge of my seat. I didn't know what was gonna happen And I didn't know how they were going to get out of it. This is exactly what Ecclesiastes does. The first couple chapters, you have no idea if there's ever going to be any hope. And he paints a picture that, as he says in verse fourteen, is like chasing after the wind. Let me read it. I have seen all things that are done under the sun, all of them are meaningless at chasing after the wind. Now who here, and you don't have to raise your hand, has ever tried to chase the wind or catch the wind? Even your children probably can gather that that's not a smart thing to do because it can't be done And if you saw your eight-year-old in the backyard with a jar and he said, I'm gonna try, I'm trying to catch the wind, you would probably bring him in and talk to him. Because it's just a very futile thing to do. And that is exactly what the teacher says life is like, trying to chase the wind. It doesn't make sense, it has no meaning. And he goes on, and he calls it everything under the sun. He leaves nothing to the imagination. There is nothing that's not meaningless. It's a very depressing truth. But, mind you, it is the truth. It is the truth, and it's a truth, and it's not a very pretty package. I'm going to read verses 14 to verse 13. And in these verses, we will see a very mundane, monotonous cycle to life. That the teacher here in Ecclesiastes sees as meaningless. Generations come and generations go, but the earth remains forever. The sun rises and the sun sets and hurries back to where it rises. The wind blows to the south and turns to the north, round and round it goes, ever returning on its course All streams flowed into the sea, yet the sea is never full. To the place the streams come from, there they return again. All things are wearisome more than one can say. The eye never has enough of seeing, nor the ear it's fill of hearing. What has been will be again, what has been done will be done again. There is nothing new under the sun. Is there anything of which one can say, look, this is something new? It was here already long ago. It was here before our time. There is no remembrance of men of old, and even those who are yet to come will not be remembered by those who follow. I, the teacher, was king over Israel and Jerusalem, and I devoted myself to study and to explore by wisdom all that is done under heaven. Oh, what a heavy burden God has laid on men! Indeed, what a heavy burden. The teacher here is on the same path that many of us have been on and perhaps are presently on. The cycle of life goes on and on. It's like the energizer of money. It just doesn't stop. It just keeps going and going and going. And it brings us to something that in our modern age would be called nihilism. Now you might not know what nihilism is, but it's a basically a philosophy that you and I really don't amount to much. We're nothing. Everything's nothing. It's kind of dark if you've ever seen people uh going around and they look like they're all dressed in black. Uh and and they they really look dismal and they look dark. It's kind of a that that trend, although many who who do it maybe they don't know even know what nihilism is, that comes out of this idea that It doesn't really matter. I'll do what I want because it doesn't really matter. This is what is here in Ecclesiastes. It's the idea that they're running from the nothingness of their life. The living for the weekend. I hate my job. I hate my life. I hate my family. But boy, when the weekend comes, then I can live. And I'll go back and do it again Monday. There was a movie out in the eighties and and I know you're gonna think bad of me I'm I'm using all these movies, but uh there was a movie out in the eighties called The Never Ending Story, and maybe some of you have seen it, and and the basic uh scenario was this little boy who had gone up in this old attic and pulled out this book, a fairy tale book And he starts reading this story, and in the story, and actually in the movie, he starts reading it, and then he kind of gets like teleported uh you into his imagination and and you can begin to live the story with him And there's this creature in the story, and I really don't know what it is or how to describe it, but it's kind of like a giant cock or spaniel with with scales on its back or something. It was kind of weird. And it flew. Uh very realistic. And uh this is kind of his friend in the story. And there's one goal in the story, and that is that this plight has come over the earth of nothingness And the nothingness is taking over everything, and they have to go through a series of tests and mythical passageways to try to uh get the solution to stop the nothingness. And there's one point in the movie where the boy's on the back of this creature and they're flying close to the earth, and you can see the earth looks like it's been burned and it's barren. It looks very desolate. And behind them on the screen is black. It's the nothingness. And it is just almost nipping at their heels as they are racing for the solution. That sounds like us a lot of times. The nothingness is nipping at our heels as we race for some kind of solution, some way to make life work. This is a common conclusion in our land today. We live for a stress-free life. I can't tell you how many publications that I read or see that say we have the solution for stress-free living. You will never have to pull your hair out again. The top two problems that counselors see are anxiety and depression. Anxiety that my life isn't working and I can't make it work, and depression depression that it's not going to work, and and it's just very dark. And it's not void from the church or from Christians or even from pastors. I have a friend of mine who is very close and just recently has gone to a very trying time in his life. He's a pastor. And he confided in me that he had even thought about suicide. A pastor. And I know this man. He knows God. What would drive him to think of that? What would drive the many people that you know who have been in that deep dark place to have such thoughts? Life is what drives us. Sin and our fallen existence. Because, as we see here in chapter one, it's not a pretty picture. This is a book for today, if there was ever a book for the new age. Life is hopeless, but hopelessness is not the message of Scripture. So what's the answer? Well, we see in chapter two, and I'm not going to read it, but you can kind of look as I kind of summarized. Most of chapter two. But in chapter two we can see the teacher begin to search for himself meaning. And the first thing that he does is he goes to intellectual pursuits. He says, basically as you hear on your TV, knowledge is power. So if I get enough knowledge, if I can get enough degrees and letters behind my name, then I'll have the meaning to life. I'll make it be able to make it work. And so it says that he goes to all the greatest universities, reads all the greatest books, he knows all the greatest philosophies and the new trends, and at the end he comes to the conclusion this too is meaningless. Look at our world, look at your community. How many people are looking to knowledge and intellectual pursuits to make life work? And they will come to the same conclusion. This too is meaningless. Next, he says, well, if it's not in the mind, it must be in the body. And so he turns to carnal pursuits. Now, Solomon is really known as as a carnal individual. And in fact he had 700 wives and a 300 plus harem. Uh He must have had to been reintroduced to his wives, because I know it had to be at least a year or two before he saw uh some of his wives. That's m that's three times as many almost than there are days in the year. Uh he says in here at one point I denied myself nothing my eyes desired, and I refused my heart no pleasure. Can you imagine living like that? Can you imagine having the money and the time and the ability to deny yourself nothing that you wanted? If you wanted it, you just snapped your fingers and you got it. That's exactly what Solomon was at. And he said, I wanted to see. If carnal pursuits and pleasure could give me meaning. And he comes to the same conclusion. When I surveyed everything, this too was meaningless. Well we definitely live in a world that's geared by carnal pleasure. Uh but they will come to the same conclusion. And lastly, he he decides, well, if it's not in the body And if it's not in the mind, it must be the things that I accomplish with my hands, the things that I leave behind. Have you ever heard that? All I want to do in my life is be remembered. I want to leave behind something that people know who I am. Well this is exactly what Solomon tried, nothing is new under the sun. And he says that he built tremendous gardens and fountains. I'm sure they were Solomon Park or Solomon Gardens. And uh he had all these wonderful, beautiful things. He probably had a house in the in the country, in the mountains, you know, a little sk ski chateau, uh a place on the beach. He had everything that he could want. He had all kinds of men and women slaves. Silver and gold, his hands accomplished a great deal more than many of us will ever even dream of accomplishing Yet he comes to the conclusion, yet when I surveyed all that my hands had done and what I had toiled to achieve, everything was meaningless, a chasing after the wind. So, what's the answer then? If he couldn't find it in all of those, what is it? Well, he begins to give us some foreshadowing in the end of chapter two. Turn with me and look at verse 24. Verse 24 is the first time God is ever mentioned. It's very unique. There's no other book like this where it waits so long to mention God. And finally in verse 24 he says this and 25. A man can do nothing better than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in his work. This too I see is from the hand of God. For without him, who can eat or find enjoyment? Just a minute ago, he was saying that eating and drinking and finding satisfaction in your work was meaningless, and now he says there's nothing better that you can do. Now did he just have temporary amnesia? Or is he trying to pick on a different point here? He's saying that yes, all of these things are meaningless. Unless God is part of the picture. If God is part of the picture, there's nothing better you can do than eat and drink and find satisfaction in your work. There's nothing better that you can do than to use the gifts that He has given you and the life that He has given you. But the key is God has to be the priority. And he has to be the priority, not a priority. And that is an important distinction that I hope everybody here can can catch this morning. Often God is a priority in our lives, and I have no doubt if I were to poll everybody here this morning, that everybody would say, yes, God is a priority in my life And if I were to look at your life, he would be a priority. But it would be a priority as well as your family is a priority and your work is a priority and your kids are a priority. And your leisure pursuits are a priority. We have a lot of priorities. Your religious work here at the church is a priority. And God becomes one of many priorities. But that doesn't work. And in fact, that's meaningless, and that will eventually lead you to a dismal place. If he's just a priority, God demands more. He demands to be the priority. He demands ultimate commitment. He demands to be above your wife or your husband. He demands to be above your children, above your work, above your religion. He demands to be the number one priority by which everything else is sculpted. And if that's true, then there is nothing you can do better than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in your work. And there is often a very great distinction between what we say and what we do. And the teacher, excuse me, the teacher here in Ecclesiastes is saying. If you say God is the priority, then live like it. So that's the answer. The answer is God. How do we actualize that answer? How does it all really come together? I mean, it's great to say God needs to be the priority, but what does that really look like, and what is the what kind of conclusion does that lead the teacher to? Turn with me to the last chapter of Ecclesiastes. Chapter twelve I'm going to be reading verses 13 and 14, last two verses of the book of Ecclesiastes. Now we have skipped over a lot of the book. And I did that on purpose because otherwise we would be here a long time. But I want to encourage you this afternoon as you go home to read through Ecclesiastes, and you will see a more in-depth version of what we have talked about here this morning, of this search for meaning and the answer that Solomon comes to. But here in the end of chapter 12, he comes to his conclusion, and this is what he says. Now all has been heard. Here is the conclusion of the matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment, including every hidden thing, whether it is good or evil. This is the essence of the Christian faith, right here. Fear God and keep his commandments. It's basically saying, stand in awe of your Creator. Stand in awe of God even in America, even in our modern day. And I say that because in America, we are not conditioned to stand in awe of anything or anyone. Our country was founded on the principle that you pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, you do it yourself, you don't need anybody else, you can do it. You can be the one. And God says, No, you can't be the one. You can't do it. You're not the master of your own destiny. I am. And you are to fall before me and stand in awe of who I am and my holiness. We are to respect the one who is in control. We are to respect the one who is ultimate in holiness. We are to let God be God. Martin Luther understood this. There's a popular phrase, and I don't know if this is attributed, if he really said this, but Basically some students came to Martin Luther and they said, uh Dr. Luther, can you tell us what God was doing before he made the world? And he looked at them kind of grimly and said, Well, he was making hell for people who ask questions like that. Now that's funny. It might be true, I don't know. But the point was Your focus is wrong, student. You're sitting here trying to pick apart God and pick apart things that He did not reveal rather than worshiping the God that is revealed. He understood who God was. Job understood this finally at the end. At the end of Job, he's finally to the point where he is just fed up. And he says, God, judge me. I mean, have I been so bad that I really deserve all this? And he's just frustrated because he doesn't understand why God would do this to him. And God looks at him in all his glory and all his power, and he says, Who do you think you are? That's a paraphrase. But basically he says, Who do you think you are, Job? Did you hang the universe? Did you put the stars? Did you put the planets in orbit? Can you tame the beast of the sea? And he lays or paints a very vivid picture for Job that Job cannot even compare to God. And Job falls on his face because he understands he needs to let God be God and worship his holiness. And this kind of fear of God, this respect, ultimate awe, can only come from a pure passion for God. When I was a kid, and and all of all of the uh high school students have already heard this, so you can tune out for the next 30 seconds. But when I was a kid, my youth minister had a sign that said, Christianity isn't a performance, it's a passion. And that was kind of a motto that we all kind of adopted. That it wasn't about what you did, but it was about what was inside of you and what Pushed you towards God, that passion. Well, it's that passion that produces an ultimate fear and respect of God. The problem is we live in a passionless society. We live in a society and I can attest that I see people all the time and especially in my work with students who they have no passion. They're just kind of coasting through life. Nothing drives them. Not only does God not drive them, but really nothing drives them that much. And the things that do drive them are not the right passion. Maybe it's the passions that drove the teacher here in the beginning, intellectual pursuits, carnal pleasures, or things that they do with their own hands, hobbies, things like that. Passion must be lifted up as the key to a fear of God. We breed complacency, and it's not just students, by the way, it's all of us. We breed complacency. We live in a very comfortable nation, one of the most, if not the most comfortable nation. as a whole than there has ever been. I don't know about you, but I love comfort. There's nothing better than climbing into an overstuffed leather couch. And just with a nice quilt and it's cold out and you got the windows open and it's just comfortable. Now there's no passion in that. It's just very comfortable and likes the days ago, and it's wonderful. Well, listen, that kind of paints a picture of our of our country and of our world. Comfort. And many of us spend a lot of hours at work trying to earn the money so we can give our families comfortable li lives. But you know, comfort is not synonymous with Christianity most of the time. It's often very uncomfortable. And passion does not come from comfort. Passion comes from fear. True fear of God is not complacent. True fear of God is not lukewarm. It's not in the middle. It doesn't ride the fence. And this passion is a prerequisite for obedience. He says here, and I believe it's in the right order. Fear uh fear God and keep his commandments. It's not keep his commandments and fear God. You cannot keep his commandments and it mean anything. If you don't fear God, if you don't have a passion for God, if you keep his commandments without passion and without a fear for him, then that too is a chasing after the wind and it's meaningless. Coming to church and doing the right things, and even reading your Bible and praying, if it's not filled with passion, if it's not a direct result of your fear of the Holy God. Then that too is meaningless, a chasing after the wind. We must fear God and keep his commandments. Obedience without passion is a chasing after the wind This is it. There is no more. This is the sum of not only what the teacher is trying to get across here at the end of Ecclesiastes, but it's a sum of the Christian faith. What is Christianity? It is to fear God and keep his commandments. That is it. Fear God, if you hear nothing else, it's to fear God and keep his commandments. And if you are here this morning and you don't know God, and if you are here this morning and you have Been searching and searching and searching for something to make your life work. And you keep hitting a brick wall. Let me tell you there's only one answer. And that answer is Christ. There is only one answer that will make life work. That will bring any kind of foundation from which you can then jump off And do as the teacher says, eat and drink and find satisfaction in who you are and in your work. And that is God. You will that's the only way you'll find meaning. And I would encourage you, if you don't know that meaning, to seek an elder out or seek the pastor out, or even seek me out. I would love to tell you about how that can bring meaning and foundation to your life. But if you're here and you're a Christian, maybe you've been in this church or in a church all your life for a long, long time. And you hear this and you're just saying, yes, yes, I agree, I know. Let me tell you, there's a message in Ecclesiastes for you. And that is you need to be rejoicing, you need to be dancing in the aisles, you need to be singing, you need to be lifting your hands, you need to be excited. About the message of Ecclesiastes, because it's just as real for you as it is for the person who doesn't know it, if not more real, because you have realized it And you have realized that it has nothing to do with you, and that it has everything to do with the one who reached down in the muck and the mire of your life and pulled you out graciously. That you, as a Christian, have meaning to your life. You have foundation. You have purpose. So many people don't have that. That ought to get you excited. And thank goodness it doesn't have anything to do with us because that means it continues and continues and continues. There is something to be excited about here this morning. There is something to worship. And that is our Creator. Let's pray. Oh, Father, we are so gazed by who you are. We are so excited. That you in your grace and your love could see fit to clean up people like us. To save us, to come with such an ultimate sacrifice and love us Words are pitiful at trying to express what a wonderful mystery that is. It is my prayer. That this truth will be true for everyone here this morning and true for the community of Columbia. Lord, bring us meaning. Bring us you. We ask this in your name. Amen.