Now that statement, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms is just another way of saying the Old Testament. Those are the three parts, the Jewish parts of the Old Testament And so what he is saying is, when he says scriptures and or when Luke says scriptures in verse 45, it's referring to those three parts. In other words, Jesus is saying the whole Old Testament is about the gospel. And the whole testament's about me. I used to think that here's the Bible, Genesis to Revelation, and that within that That whole book, there is something called the gospel. You need to extract that and understand that piece, some of those elements. But there's just certain elements. And it was kind of a breakthrough in my Christian life when I realized the gospel is the whole Bible. In fact, the gospel is really just a distilled way of communicating the message of the entire Bible. So that when we talk about, when Jesus says this whole Old Testament was about me, the whole Old Testament's about the gospel, he's saying that The whole message of the Old Testament is the gospel. And it has three basic themes that run through it: creation, fall, redemption. Now imagine you have, when you have the Bible, you have the revelation of the very heart of omniscient God on the most important issues of your life. Because the Bible starts by telling you that the world ultimately is not an impersonal world. It's not an impersonal universe. It's profoundly ultimately a personal universe. And so as we uh see more and more in cosmology about the universe and understand that This world is just one tiny little speck going around, one average size star in the corner of one tiny little galaxy among billions of galaxies, then people without the gospel, the Bible say, well it's it's absurd to think that in that one little you have the center of the universe and the focus of the attention of God, and that's where the only intelligent life really exists Sometimes you may wonder about the intelligent life, but the fact is the Bible says that God's attention is focused right here. There is something absolutely unique about this world. We are the only creatures made in his image. You have been made with a purpose, with dignity, in the image of God. That makes all the difference in the starting point of your view of the world. That's the foundation of the gospel. Well we see that this world is corrupted, that this world is in pain. This week, uh Oprah devoted one of her programs to preteen kids who want sex changes. These are little, these are four, five, six, seven-year-old kids, little boys that desperately want to be little girls, little girls that want to be little boys. Distraught parents. What do you do in this situation? You look and you weep at the confusion of Transgenderism. You know, transgenderism is exploding in the last few years. You know there are a number of colleges now where when you enter, you can put down your sex. And that is totally subjective. I mean, you know, you could put down that I could put down female. And they'd say, hey, whatever. You say you're female? You're female. You know, a guy comes in, he wants to have a a girl for a roommate, puts down he's a female. They give him a girl for a roommate. I'm telling you this is true. This is true in a lot of colleges because you see We've come to the place where something as objective and seems as evident as whether your man or a woman is not. And so It's not just a matter of homosexual, sexual orientation preferences. Now, transgenderism has become up for grabs. And so we live in a world that's full of confusion and pain. Take another example. You look at the scandal in Iraq among the prisoners. The gospel means that your response, my response as Christian, should be, I would suggest, directly opposite to what you're reading in the media. Directly opposite to what you see in the world. You see, the world's view of that is, that's not the America I know, not our boys. Hey, you know, we don't do that kind of stuff. Whoo, boy, I'm shocked. But then after all the hand-wringing goes on and all the blame shifting and everything happens in that, I'll bet you that there will be minimal consequences except where world opinion will force there to be something done. The Christian's response is just the opposite. The Christian says, what do you mean, our boys Americans? They're sinners. I know what the sinful human heart is. God tells me in his word that when somebody has an enemy who is at their mercy, they're going to take revenge. And if they think they can get away with it, they're going to be cruel. That's the way the human heart is. So we're not shocked, we're appalled, but contrary to the world, we don't say, well, you know, slap on the wrist, that's okay, because you know who knows, they probably had their baggage. There's all these reasons why they did it. We say no. Men and women made in the image of God are responsible for choices, and there needs to be severe consequences when people are treated like that. So you see, the gospel transforms the way we think and look, and we understand that this world, even in its brokenness, that that brokenness is not normal. It's abnormal. That is to say, even though as we look at the world, we see what seems to be normal because it is pervasive, it's all we see and know. The gospel says it's not normal. It is not innate to the way the world is. God created it, a good world. It is fallen. It is in a time between the times between the perfection of original paradise and what God is going to do to restore it again when Jesus comes. And that because of that, the Bible has that third theme of redemption. Redemption means to buy back. And so the Old Testament has this theme going through it about God purchasing a people back for Himself. When you come to Exodus chapter 6, and God says what he's going to do in bringing his people out of Egypt. He says in Exodus 6, 6-8, I am going to redeem you into a relationship with myself and give you a reward of a land that is peaceful and prosperous. And that's a hope that pervades. In Psalm 22, he speaks of the servant who is forsaken of God and pierced And the result of that is that there is a worldwide feast and celebration of the nations. Isaiah 53 speaks of this servant who comes and Gives his life as a substitute for the sins of his people, not for himself, so that he would die and rise again to rule forever. Jesus says, These are the things that were written about me And wouldn't you have loved to have heard what he said when he opened their minds to understand the scriptures? I mean the world's best Bible study, right? To understand how the Old Testament speaks of Jesus. Now, that's the comprehensive view that he gives. But then notice what he does. He goes immediately from there, opening our minds to understand all the scriptures, to reducing it. To the bare essential core in verse 46. So verse 44 and 45 is the comprehensive view, verse 46 is the core of the gospel. This is what is written. The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. That's it. Boils it all down to those few words. You see it has three parts to it. The core of it is that there is a Messiah, the person, he's going to suffer, and he's going to rise. Now those three parts each are vital. It's saying that God is coming in the place of a person. That this one who is the son of David, this one who is the king of Isaiah 9, whose dominion will never end, this one who is the victor, blessed one of God. Is going to suffer. That he is going to suffer under the curse of God. That his suffering will involve death. You know when he says he will suffer, he means die because the next phrase says he'll rise from the dead. So it means suffering to death. He is going to die. Now, in the wake of Gibson's film, The Passion of the Christ, there's been a lot of discussion about why did Jesus die? And uh Time magazine back uh last month had a cover article devoted to simply that topic of why did Jesus die? It was actually a pretty good article and talked about various theories of the atonement, things like this, goes through history, and includes some very good comments. I'm always interested when I read articles like that to see what the letters to the editor will be in the weeks to come. So sure enough, a couple weeks later, there were nine letters that they published On this reaction to the article of why Jesus died. Of the nine letters, only one had any idea of substitutionary atonement. The others said things like, Jesus' life and death were an example to us, to show us that death is not the end. He was to remove the fear and desperation from our lives as we saw how He entered into that. The death of Christ, one other letter says, I never believed that Jesus died in order to satisfy some sort of debt. Jesus came to show us God the Father. Why? Remains a joyous mystery. For this letter from a pastor, death and resurrection of Jesus are a revelation on a grand scale of what takes place in every life. We all go through suffering and joy and death and resurrection, and seeing his death keeps us going. Don't always trust pastors, you know, so much for that The Bible tells you why Jesus died. It tells you, despite any speculations of nuances, that he was a substitute as a Lamb of God in place of his people. That's the gospel. Jesus says that is the irreducible minimum. The Messiah came and suffered and died and then rose again. He rose again as an indication that God had accepted his sacrifice, that he had risen to rule and to reign the kingdom that he had come to establish. As you see in the beginning where God, after the fall, promises that there is a hero that is going to come, and he's going to crush the head of the serpent. So, his victorious resurrection says he has crushed the head of the serpent. He will do all that is promised. And when he returns, you and I will enter into that final hope of victory with Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. But it doesn't end there. Jesus goes on from the what to the so what. It's very important that you and I always realize that there's two parts to the gospel. There's always the what, that's the first blank, and there's always the so what, that's the second two blanks. The gospel is never presented as simply news for interest. The Bible never calls you and me to respond to God in a vacuum. So whenever we speak of the gospel, we always speak about two things: the what, the news, and the so what, the response Jesus moves here immediately from the Wat in verse 46. The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. And gives that second part, essential part of the gospel, the so what in verse 47. And repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name. Two parts, repentance and forgiveness of sins. Now it ought to grab your attention as it grabs mine that when Jesus takes the gospel and he reduces the response to it. To simply five English words, the very first word is repentance. Exactly what is generally missing from contemporary evangelical gospel. Repentance clearly includes faith in what he is saying. Whenever the Bible speaks of Repentance, it always includes faith. Whenever it speaks of faith, it always includes repentance, whether it states it right there together or not, because they're like two sides of a coin. It's like heads and tails. You can't have the heads without the tails, tails without the heads, two sides. You know that he includes faith here because if you look at verse 45, where he says that everything must be fulfilled about me that was written in the law of Moses, prophets, and the Psalms. Then that's simply what he had said back in verse 25. Same thing he had said to the two disciples on the way to Emmaeus. How foolish you are, how slow of heart to believe All that the prophets have spoken. Didn't the Messiah have to suffer these things and then enter his glory? So among the eleven, Jesus focuses on repentance. To the two he had focused on faith. You need to believe. The two always go together. But it's repentance particularly that is so missing from much of the gospel today. Repentance for forgiveness, you notice. No forgiveness without repentance. Repentance is the basic response, together with faith in the finished work of Jesus, that brings about forgiveness. That's the gospel. Take it down to its irreducible core. That's what it's about. Now let me ask you, the things that you see on the internet or radio preaching or Christian magazines you read or Christian books you read How much do you see a specific call to repentance in the things that you're reading or hearing? How much do you see a call to recognize your sin? To not play with it, not minimize it, call it by other names, blame shift your background, other people, circumstances, all the rest of that. But to simply see your heart for what it is, an idol-making factory that is determined to exalt itself. How much do we understand about repentance today? That's the fuel of the gospel. The gospel means good news, but the good news is not good news without the bad news of the need that you and I have because of our wicked hearts. If you get vague about your sin, you will also find Jesus to be irrelevant for your need. Francis Schaefer, I remember saying back in the 1970s, one of the great theologians of the 20th century, he once said, If I had one hour on a train with a man who had never heard the gospel, He said, I would take 45 minutes to tell him the bad news. Tell him about his need, his brokenness, his guilt before a God who is really there, who has made him and judges sin. And I would reserve only 15 minutes to tell him about Jesus. Because he says, until I have his attention to understand his need, Jesus is irrelevant. And that is what we need today. That is what you and I need. You may need it because you've never come to Jesus. You may need it because your heart is drifted from Jesus. But we live in a day and in a culture where, as recently Chuck Colson has said, quoting columnist David Brooks in the New York Times, evangelicalism has become part of the mainstream culture. rather than a dissenting voice to speak to it. Colson says he was shocked at seeing that, and as he said, he looks around, he says, I have to realize that Brooks is Pretty accurate, even looking from the outside into what we're like. That we're a people who praise God on Sunday, but we adopt our values from the culture for the other six days. Then he gives an illustration. Two families in an evangelical church both homeschooled their kids, trying to live a radical Christian lifestyle. But in their friendship, the husband of the one couple left his wife and took off with the wife of the other couple When that wife was confronted with the sin of leaving her husband to take off with him, her response is, Don't I have a right to be happy? David Brooks says, we become part of the mainstream culture. We don't know what repentance looks like. John Leo, in a very recent article on May 10th, U. S. News and World Report, very interesting article entitled, I'm Terribly Sorry, really. Says, in a deeply therapeutic culture, apologies function like secular sacraments. But more and more people demand them while fewer and fewer are willing to give them. So instead of I did it and I'm sorry, we get fake apologies and conditional ones He gives 13 examples of public figures recently making apologies, with his point that they don't seem to be able to simply look and say, I was wrong and I'm sorry. One fellow says, I'm sorry if I offended you. He had called them a terrorist organization. Another fella, Cardinal, says, if in hindsight we find that we've made mistakes in the sex scandals, then we want to apologize. Yes? He uh quotes Pete Rose, who says, Okay, so I bet on baseball. You probably want me to be well let me read what he says. Uh I'm sure I'm supposed to act sorry or sad or guilty. Well let's leave it at this. I'm sorry it happened. I'm sorry for all the people, fans, and family it hurt. Okay, let's move on. We're take Arnold Schwarzenegger. He likes invest Schwarzenegger was accused of severe sexual misconduct. His response was Well, I was on rowdy movie sets and I've done things that were not right, which I thought then was playful. I'm deeply sorry about that, and I apologize because this is not what I'm trying to do Leo says, rowdy, playful? The accusations were far more severe than what those words referred to. But we're so used to being in a culture where we minimize and blame shift. I was only following orders, I was simply doing on and on and on it goes. That we as Christians Begin to slip from what repentance is. Let me tell you, let me ask you this. Let's suppose I were to ask you, which I won't, but let's suppose I were to ask you, tell me one sin. That you have committed recently, that was inexcusable, that was nobody else's fault. In which you simply failed another person andor God Himself directly, could you do it? Would you be able to say, in this area, I failed. I sinned. You see, if you can't, The fuel of the gospel becomes quite irrelevant to you. Jesus Christ in his finished work Are not desperately sweet to people who don't know about repentance. Jesus says the core of the gospel is repentance for forgiveness of sins. That's what opens the door. Into the relationship with God, in which there is no barrier between Him and us and all the blessings that He intends to give to His people. The third point that he touches on, of course, is uh the where. When you and I begin to see this We realize, verse 47, that this is a message that's not just needed for you and for me, but it's needed for all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. When we see our lostness in Christ's salvation, we realize this is good news, and it's good news that the whole world needs. No one, nothing else, can substitute for Jesus Christ. And so that passion moves us to either take the gospel or send those to take the gospel to the nations. And then finally notice he says who is involved in this, verse 48. You are witnesses of these things. You. You Clearly, he's talking to the that point, ten disciples. Thomas isn't there. He's talking to them, but his disciples And yet it refers to you and to me. Because he is referring to those who have witnessed these things. And to the degree that you have witnessed the transforming work of Jesus Christ in your life and have seen through the scriptures that God has spoken truth, you witness to these things. So it is to you and to me to believe, to repent, to follow Jesus, both initially Maybe you're somebody here this morning who has never looked honestly at your heart Who's never been able to look to see what your heart is like without minimizing or blame shifting or trying to make excuses But to be able to say, I am lustful, greedy, controlling, this is what I'm like. And I need the work of Jesus Christ. If you have never done that, why don't you do it now? What else do you need? What do you need to know about him? What do you need to know about your heart to move you, to not procrastinate, to put off? What are you waiting for? Jesus stands ready to give you forgiveness of sins if you're willing to admit what those sins are and your need for Him. And if you want to talk about that, put on a gracelet. Be glad to get back to you. You know, in the last month or so, there have been four people visiting here who have professed faith in Jesus Christ. Maybe you'd want to be the fifth. But if you've trusted Jesus Christ And you've done that initially. And then it's something also to do daily. We don't repent once. Give our lives to Jesus, and then move on. Repentance, the Bible says, is a way of life, or as Martin Luther said in his 95 thesis, began it by saying repentance is a way of life. As you hear often at Columbia Presbyterian, the gospel is not simply a door by which you enter the Christian life. The gospel is a path along which you walk day by day. This week, compared to last week, Jesus Christ and his cross have either grown in your eyes because you have been honest with yourself and come to God Openly, vulnerably, to have the gospel come as a balm to your soul, or you've begun to build up excuses, minimizations And Jesus is a bit more aloof and irrelevant. You and I, as you see in the bulletin outline there, need to walk in deepening repentance and growing faith in our gospel possessions. For example, Christ's righteousness, I have his righteousness, you have his righteousness, if you belong to him, nothing to add to that. It's all the righteousness you ever need. You have sonship adoption because of Jesus Christ, or gospel promises, for example, the Holy Spirit that we'll look into next week Or sufficient grace promised for every trial in your life. But in order to know these things, you need to be daily in His Word. God has shown me that again uh recently. Uh found my times in his word, began more focused in times of preparation, keep going, very busy schedule, a lot of things happening and And what I found was the less I was really in his word, just in that word to minister to my heart, the more I was getting anxious. The more I was getting stressed, the more I was losing my peace, the more I was beginning to focus on people. And people's expectations, the more I was becoming critical because I need to be in control. Things need to go right. Why aren't they? You see, it's only the gospel that frees us from that kind of bondage. So if the fuel of the gospel Is not something which is giving you that passion for Jesus, if it is not producing in you that peace That enables you to live above and beyond your circumstances. As one sinner who Has come again and again to realize how much I need to be in His Word. Let me invite you to do a course correction this week Think about that place, the priority that being in the Word has been in your life. And if that has slipped. To decide right now before the Lord, Lord, I'm going to readjust that, I'm going to shift my priorities. I need the perspective The fuel of the gospel, creation, fall, redemption. Messiah who has died, risen again, For repentance and forgiveness of sins in my life to be restored Then finally, we see that this is a word that is then declared. When it takes root in you and me, we want to declare it. We declare it here, we declare it abroad, and and I was just thrilled this last Wednesday to see what happened there. You know, we finally had the pornography planning and zoning hearing. That we've been praying about for months. We've been talking about this thing for since last fall. And finally, Wednesday, the meeting did take place. And if you want to read about it, it's in the Baltimore Sun, Thursday. But if you don't want to read about it, let me tell you just a brief summary, because I was given the privilege of being the representative. There were over 30 people from Columbia Presbyterian. That's what the sons count was. We had a couple from a couple of other churches. Of the 30 people that were, over 30 people that were there, four people from Columbia Presbyterian testified to the board. Three of the four that testified said at the beginning of their testimony, I'm here as part of Columbia Presbyterian Church because of Jesus Christ. It wasn't simply, I'm here to talk about an issue, but I'm here because I love a person. And as Rick said, I hate pornography. I mean, you know That's pretty straightforward. Uh on a board that is dealing with should we loosen the law to allow more establishments from 23 potential sites to 101 sites Because we're afraid of the courts. Tim Flores started off by talking about the human face of pornography and what it means, and as a pastor dealing with a support group. Of people that are in sexual addiction, bondage to sexual addiction, and very pastorally, personally spoke about Jesus Christ and what that means for us as a congregation. And then Ben England sat down and he gave him an 18-page paper. And uh, you know, you could, you know, you see him, and he put him at ease, and I'm not going to go through all 18 pages. But he in my estimation brilliantly anticipated all the objections, the fear about having a law that's going to just give more court costs and all the rest of that And he told them how they could improve the law, how it could be more restrictive and the things that they could do so that they would not be intimidated by the First Amendment arguments. And when they finished, when we finished the four-panel, one person was the chair, and he said, This is one of the largest crowds we have seen at any of our hearings. And this is the way Howard County government should work. He said to the panel, we have heard impressive testimony to this issue tonight. I recommend that we take the law. Send it back to the law court with Ben England's suggestions and implement them the best we can and bring it back. I mean, you know, they were all for us. They were smiling. They were encouraging us. The fuel of the gospel had taken ignition in our hearts. And it caught fire so that we could see what God could do. God was blessed. God was honored in that. You see how How it can work in your heart and my heart to see what God will do. It was a thrilling time. I was so proud just to be associated with Columbia Presbyterian. It was such a great job. I didn't even say anything. It was nothing I had to say. Believe it or not, nothing. God be praised. He worked in answer to our prayers. Let's pray. Oh Lord. Lord, we live in a culture that has forgotten good and evil, right and wrong. Have forgotten that the brokenness that we see is abnormal rather than normal. We thank you for the gospel. The gospel that speaks in power to each of us, each of us willing to admit what our hearts are really like, call sin, and see that Messiah. Has suffered and died and risen again for that sin. Lord, we pray for those here who have never done that, that you would, Lord, give them no rest. Until they would settle that matter with you. For those of us who have shifted and begun to minimize our sin and and don't want to name it anymore and speak in vague generalities, Lord, would you Give to us the grace of being honest and open and specific, and knowing then the freedom of that forgiveness, where we who uncover our sin find you cover it. Lord, we want to know again that that power of the gospel in each of our lives. I pray that for each person here, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.