Well, we are looking at our vision after 25 years statement for these six weeks. And today we come to the one item in that statement that is in all caps. The vision statement is a passion for God in Jesus Christ demonstrated in our worship. In our love for one another, and in our compassion for His world, filled by the gospel and fired by the Holy Spirit. We began that looking at the root of that, our our passion for God in Christ, our passion for the Lord Jesus Christ. Whom you have never seen, but you love. And we saw that that was demonstrated, first of all, in our passion for his worship. Uh that worship is not prevented by pain, but by apathy And then secondly, in our love for one another that we looked at last week from 1 Peter 4, verses 8 to 11. saw that uh God has been good to us as a congregation, that um we see much evidence of that. Um And then going on to the third one to this week, seeing our compassion for his world Now in the first two, we've seen evidence of God's goodness, but areas where we need to grow. In this third one, I would say that's again true We see Arius of his goodness, but perhaps of the three, this is the one where we most need to grow. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not saying for a moment that we lack as a congregation any compassion for his world. We have a very active World Missions Task Force made up of uh eager and zealous people who both put on a annual month of missions, keep us in touch with our missionaries, number of missionaries from our own congregation that we support. A lot of activities. Next week we're going to be having 26 Japanese pastors come as part of a tour in the United States visiting various churches so that we can try to help them strengthen their ministry. Three months out of every year we um actually almost four months, well three months, a good three months, plus some, have uh over four hundred kids right here in this room playing basketball. Reaching those families, many of them unchurched, many of you give testimonies during those times. There are many things that evidence that you as a congregation, as individuals, have a concern for lost people. But this is an area where I think even though Um where there's a lot of things that we do after 25 years existing as a congregation, growing, becoming stable, having a lot of activities, so much stuff going on. I mean, you know, you think a couple you know, Friday a week ago, over a hundred people over at the park beating each other with eggs and having all kinds of games, family fun night, you know, and you know, I don't know how many hundreds of people came through here yesterday and just huge garage sale and car wash and all the stuff going on here. Wednesday going to the um hearing at uh Howard County uh courthouse, the offices there to Testify concerning uh pornography zoning, indelible grace concert coming up next Friday, and all this stuff. Very easy for us to become rather self-absorbed So that we begin to think of the world as those sinners out there that we have to watch out for and we need to engage as adversaries like in the hearing or the pornography zoning this Wednesday to not feel like we can live in both of these worlds comfortably. So the question that I ask myself when I come to this part of our vision statement is the question that I put before you this morning, and it's simply this: Do you love sinners? Are you comfortable with non-Christians? Do you have people who you would count among your friends who are non-Christians? Now I know for some of you teens your folks say, yeah, you got too many non-Christian friends. In fact, all your friends seem to be non-Christians. Some of your best friends are non-Christians. You know, there needs to be that balance that our closest friends should be believers so that we can build each other up in the Lord. But we ought to all have people that we really care for who are outside of Christ that we enjoy. You We're glad to be with them Now, Paul, Peter, in 1 Peter, chapter 4 last week, instructed us: love one another deeply. Paul says something very similar in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, and I would like to look at that verse, 1 Thessalonians 3, verse 12, with you this morning. In that verse which you see there, Paul says, May the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other. And for everyone else, just as ours does for you. Four things that I'd like you to notice from that verse that you see in your bulletin outline in your order of worship. First of all, notice the nature of this love. Now that's the stuff that's actually supposed to be yellow, which looks pretty much like the green over here. But you know that's the so there's two words, increase and overflow. Paul says, may your love increase and overflow. The word increase means to abound. It is A word which uh means to peam, uh like a stream that's full of fish. You know, every spring in Cape Cod uh up through the streams from the ocean, alewives or herring, just come up in massive droves. You could reach into the creek and just pull out fish. Because it's teeming with them. That's that idea of that word. May it abound. May it teem. And the other word there overflow, obviously, means to spill over, may it be so abundant that it overflows. I still remember the ex uh experience that I had that uh riveted the um meaning of that word in my mind Uh some years ago I was meeting down on the middle middle Tetuxent River with George Walgrove, and we are having lunch there together. George had to take off and uh go up back to work and I had an appointment, but I had a few minutes before I went on to the next appointment, so I thought well I'll just work and read and pray here rather than go back to my office. So I was just sitting there by the river and it was Quite beautiful as a summer day. And uh you know how it happens the thunderclouds move in very swiftly, it gets real dark, and all of a sudden just the sky opens with water. I mean it was torrents for 15-20 minutes, just one of those deluge downpours. What's interesting is I was watching the river, you know, as all this came down, the river started getting a little swifter, you know, and then started getting fuller And after a while I started noticing there's leaves and twigs coming down the river. And then I started noticing a little faster, and there's branches coming down the river. And then I started noticing limbs of trees coming down the river. Then whole trees were coming down the river. It kept getting higher and faster. And I the the bank where I was was probably about six feet above the river. Well, when the river finally crested the bank, I thought, I think it's time to leave, because I was in a valley, and as I drove out, you know, the the water started spreading over the whole area. I went back the next week to have lunch with somebody. And the picnic table where I had been sitting had been underwater because there were limbs on top of the picnic table that had kind of gotten wedged in there Now that's overflowing. Now Paul says, may your love be like that. Then it spills over the banks. It's like what Kathy said last week. What you know when I said, hey, what what do you think this picture is of? She says it's more than what's expected. It just overflows the banks. It's doing more than the minimum necessary. This is what we ought to do to love each other as Christians. It's overflowing. It's spilling over the banks. It can't be contained. Well Paul is saying here, may your love as believers increase and overflow for each other. And that's something I think we need to pray that God would do more. I mean, just this week I had a woman that um shared with me that she said, you know, there's There's a family at Columbia Presbyterian with whom I have very little in common, but she said there are certain events that bring us together. And she said we have different values in a number of ways. We've chosen different kinds of lifestyle. But we both love the Lord Jesus. And she said, when I am with that family, she said, I don't feel any criticism, I don't feel any judgment, I feel that we share Christ, and I am encouraged. But she says, I gotta be honest, there's a lot of people I don't feel like that with in our church. And this person's not in sin, I mean it's not like they're doing anything that they would that somebody could say, well that that's just wrong. But we choose as Christians different kinds of lifestyles, different education options, homeschooling, Christian schooling, public schooling. And the danger is that we need to demonstrate that my way is better than your way. And it can be done very subtly. When Paul talks about I love increasing and overflowing to each other, it's saying that the gospel transcends the particular choices that are not Right, wrong, clear scripture warrant. And even if they are, there's grace that covers a multitude of sins, as p as Peter said. Now this is what he says we do, and there's two references. Notice the second thing, the recipients of this love Two groups. First of all, he says, this is the kind of love you should have for each other. We pray that that God would by his spirit bring that to increase. The each other obviously refers to the brothers and sisters in the body back in chapter 1 in verse 3. Paul had said, we continually remember before our God and Father your work produced by faith, your labor prompted by love, and in your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the love that you have for each other. In chapter 3 and verse 6, he says, Timothy's come and he's brought good news. About your faith and your love. He's told us you always have pleasant memories of us. You long to see us just as we long to see you. That's the love that they have for each other. But then he adds, notice in verse twelve, he adds for each other and for everyone else. Who's everyone else? Well, um it's not the only place he says that, chapter five, in verse fifteen. He says, make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong, but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. That contrast, when Scripture uses it, indicates it's not just those in the body, but also those outside the body, not just each other, but everyone else. In chapter 1, in verse 8, he talks about this love and the fact that it prompted them to share the gospel with everyone else. Chapter 1 and verse 8, the Lord's message rang out from you. Not only in Macedonia and Achaia, your faith in God has become known everywhere. Therefore, we don't even need to say anything about that. Don't need to tell you about sharing your faith. Your love is prompting you to share your faith with everyone else that's around you. So this is talking about our community. This is saying that Paul's concern for you and for me is not just that we love our brothers and sisters. But that we're seen as desirable neighbors in our neighborhood. People say, you know, I'm glad those folks are on our street. I'd like to have them. Our community should be able to say, well, you know, Columbia Presbyterian, they got some narrow views on things. They think you need Jesus to get to heaven. But you know We're glad those folks are there. They add to our community. The net effect of them is positive. So maybe we'll be seen by some as a nuisance this Wednesday Testifying and supporting those that testify to say we we want you to restrict the pornography permission zoning for adult entertainments in Howard County. That's loving the community That's loving everyone else. That's saying we care about this community that we live in. Now, notice that he goes on to describe this love. What's it look like? Paul says, May the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else, just as ours does for you. What kind of love is that? Well we don't have to guess. He describes it. Back uh in chapter two He had said there in verse 6, the end of verse 6, as apostles of Christ, we could have been a burden to you, but we were gentle among you, like a mother caring for her little children. We loved you so much that we were delighted to share with you not only the gospel of God, but our lives as well, because you had become So dear to us. You know, there's something very precious about the transformation that comes over a woman when she becomes a mother. Now I know it's Mother's Day, and I know this isn't a Mother's Day sermon. So you women who are mothers, grab this for all you got. It's two minutes. Happy Mother's Day. But it is I think significant that when Paul describes his love for the Thessalonians, he takes the picture of a mother. inner tenderness. And he also uses the father. Get to that in a moment. But you know, when I see our daughter Julie with her two children, our grandchildren, Riley, and then particularly Emma, five weeks old today. When I see how tender she is with Emma, I think, that's not the girl that grew up in our house. That's not the girl who one day almost knocked her sister senseless with a field hockey stick. And of course it was an accident, you know When they used to get into it, we thought one of them was going to throw the other one out of the upstairs window. But now she is so tender. You know, think what a transformation God places that in the hearts of you moms, and praise God for that. Be few of us that would survive to adulthood. But Paul says, that's how I was with you. I was tender because you were precious to us. He also says then in verse ten, eleven, twelve, he says, I was like a father to you, too. It's very interesting for whatever it's worth, and I'm not going to develop this, but when he describes the mom he says tenderness and gentleness. He describes the dad. He says we were like a dad in uh verse eleven. It Uh uh we dealt with each of you as a father deals with his own children, encouraging, comforting. urging you to live lives worthy of God, who calls you into his kingdom in glory. And there he's describing a cheerleader. He's saying someone who empowers you, someone who cheers you on and says, you can do it. Go on. This is the direction. The tenderness of the mom, the cheering of the dad that he describes as his love for them. Now, I think that when we read that It's easy for us to assume that he's talking about his love for them after they became Christians. He's saying, well, you know, this is how Paul felt toward his brothers and sisters. This is how we feel for each other. I think that'd be a wrong reading. Remember how this church got started. Paul was on his second missionary journey with Silas. moves from Turkey westward through Philippi, a couple more cities, comes to Thessalonica, and at Thessalonica he adopts his typical pattern strategy. Speaks in the synagogue about how Jesus is the Messiah. Then there's some interest. He goes to this house of this fellow, Jason. Sets up a kind of base of operation there and continues to share the gospel. And some people become Christians. It says some Jews became Christians. Acts 17 says Many Greeks and particularly a number of very prominent women became Christians and formed that base of the church in Thessalonica. Shortly after that, some Jews stirred up a riot because they were incensed that Paul was saying Jesus was the Messiah. Some of these brand new believers take Paul and they hide him. And guess who they get? Poor Jason. It's his house. So they dragged Jason away, you know, and who knows what happened to Jason. But Paul, they sneaked out of town that night and whisked him off to Berea. I think that Paul is saying It was in that period of time when I knew you guys before you were believers that God knit my heart to you. Why do I say that? Look at chapter 2, verse 8. Verse 8 He says, we loved you so much that we were delighted to share with you not only the gospel of God, but our lives as well. Because you become dear to us. Now, I think the sharing of the gospel, of course, continued after they became Christians, and that's something we do with Christians. I preach the gospel to you, not just unbelievers But I think that he's saying it was at that beginning time, before you guys were believers, God knit my heart to you so that I wanted to share with you not only the gospel, but I delighted, I was joyfully giving myself, my my own life and self-sacrifice for you, whatever it took. I so tense to everything so I wouldn't be a burden. I did all these things because I cared for you. You know there's a time when every one of you who right now are a follower of Jesus Christ were one of the everyone else that somebody else had a love and care for. And perhaps give not just the gospel to you, but share themselves, so that the gospel combined the sharing with the caring Was what God used to bring you as he brought the Thessalonics to Christ. I'm not from a Christian home And I've shared with you before how God providentially brought me into a Sunday school from a local church Where the Sunday school teachers love me. This nerdy little kid, self-centered, only child that just came and showed up From a very different kind of family from those in the church. And they loved me. They cared for me. They invited me to come along and To see a different kind of lifestyle. Humanly speaking, I'm a Christian today because those Sunday school teachers shared with me not only the gospel but themselves. They loved me everyone else. that Paul's talking about here. Do we love the everyone else's? You know, and maybe you say, well, boy, you know, it just makes me feel guilty 'cause I don't love people like that and You know boy, like Tim said, you know, one of those messages make you feel guilty. But listen, I'm gonna tell you, I don't want people like that either. I'm very aware of that I mean just this weekend, we had a neighbor that uh said, hey, let's get together and we'll buy some mulch together. So he got a mulch and he kind of got eleven yards of mulch. And I was in for three. And so, you know, they dump all this mulch, you know, and I'm thinking, uh, how am I gonna make sure I get my three yards here and don't get cheated, you know? So what are these guys thinking? You know, we start taking the malts and the one guy says, Hey Alies, I got a better wheel bearer than you. Why don't you use my wheelbarrow? Another guy says, Hey Alies, I got a better shovel for doing that stuff. Why don't you use my shovel? See they're caring for me. You know, so I need a heart that's changed. And that's the good news of the beginning of that verse. You see how Paul starts it? He doesn't say, you guys, do this. He says, may the Lord increase your love. So the fifth fourth point is the source of this love, which is the Lord Jesus. May the Lord, when the Lord is used like that, it typically means the Lord Jesus May the Lord make your love increase. Isn't that good news? He will make your love increase. Because there's an implicit promise here. It's not you guys May your love increase. It is may the Lord make your love increase. So when I look and I see my neighbors and I see Tony and I see Philip, great guys, and I say, I don't love those guys like I ought to love them, and we get into conversations. yesterday and the one guy just sits down and we just have a good old chat. I say Lord you make my love increase for him. That's the only way it's going to happen Tell me what's going to happen for you. If you and I repent of the lack of love we have, Jesus places that love. Nobody loved you ever like Jesus. It was Jesus who Matthew 9, 20, 36 says, when he saw the sheep, when he saw the people scattered, he saw them as sheep without a shepherd, and he had compassion on them. The compassion that we have for the world is a compassion that is derived from the heart of Christ, not from inside us. It's Jesus who said in John 10, I have other sheep that are not from this fold. Those also I've got to bring. It's Jesus who said in Luke 15, you guys, let me tell you a story about a shepherd. He had 99 sheep, but one was missing. He went out and he looked high and low to find that sheep, and when he got that sheep, he carried the sheep back on his shoulders. And he rejoiced. And he said, there's going to be more rejoicing in heaven over one of you that repent than of 99 who don't think they need repentance. It's the heart of Jesus, you see. And you and I are are like those branches that are clinging to the vine. Lord, it's your love. For these lost sheep. Lord, it's it's you that needs to do this. And so our vision statement sees what this looks like And we state in that vision statement that we're a people who we see Columbia Presbyterian as people who are not ashamed of the gospel because we believe it's the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes. We believe that Jesus Christ, who is the one who your neighbors, your friends most need, is the one who makes himself seen through us so that we intrigue people. By a very imperfect but grace-filled lives seeking to demonstrate the love of Christ. If you're looking through that vision statement, you'll notice there's not a whole lot of strategy because the basic strategy is simply putting people without Christ in touch with God's Word and God's people, and we'll shamelessly do anything that is not uh you know, deceptive. Anything that is honorable to do that. Right? I mean we'll you know bring him to an indelible grace concert. We'll Bring him to a picnic, we'll bring him into our cell socials, we'll do anything because we know you get people who need Jesus in touch with God's Word and God's people and God works. Just this last week, I had one of those rich, precious opportunities to share the gospel with a couple who've been coming here for a couple of years. And what's precious particularly about this is they gave me permission to share this. A couple has been coming here for a couple of years, and they were attracted to the congregation. Saw, you know, they seemed to be friendly people, and they came and they heard the word and they continued to come and they continued to come. And they finally said, we'd like to become members. But it was clear in talking together that they weren't clear on the gospel. And so we met together. And I had that opportunity to talk to them out of this experience, this reservoir of experience that they had had in seeing you guys And being exposed to God's word, that I've rarely seen something like this when I talk to them about their trusting in themselves and being good enough for God to accept them, and showed how that was antithetical to the gospel of Christ's righteousness plus nothing outside of us sufficient It was like the explosion of light. And they both lit up almost at the same time. And they said, Well, of course, it would have to be him. It can't be us. And we talked about that and we unpacked that and it and I began I guess then I you know asked the question, they're like, You really understand but come on, this is really this is too quick too Oh I really understand it, you know, and they they've written down some stuff and they We want to change it, no that's not true and you know and I said you won you got I share it. Oh yeah. In fact they said when we get baptized, when we uh come up, you know, we're gonna share something, so you're gonna hear from them firsthand. But they said that's okay, give you a preview. But the reason I'm saying all this is because that's a culmination, you see, of a process. A process of loving the everyone else and God's word taking root in that person's life and finally coming to that fruition. A beautiful thing to see. I long for you to have those kinds of experiences to see people who you care for. Finally Break through and say, it's Christ. I rest in him. It's finished. It's great. You know a wonderful thing. Well, let me say just a couple of things. You know, and we're we're seeing God do this in other ways. I I see Wayne and Hart and you think of the ministries going on in the Howard County House of Correction. Ministry that started and a fellow who was in for murder became a Christian. And you know, and the guy says, I'd like to plant an OP church here. And what do you do with a guy who's in for murder in a maximum security prison wants to plan a mission work of our church? We say, ah, come fit our image. We don't have murderers for our churches You know? What'd you gonna say? Oh yeah? I thought you guys preached the gospel. Do you believe the gospel? Believe our hearts are the same? And in the last couple of weeks, Wayne and Hart have examined ten guys who have professed faith through that ministry in Jesus Christ. I remember a fellow that I shared with years ago about the gospel, came to our church, gave him a Bible, didn't have a Bible, gave him a Bible and shared Christ with him. Very tepid interest. Stop coming. Wasn't interested. And then he was on the print page of the Baltimore Sun. He had shot and killed a man He called me up the next morning. Said, you see me on the paper? No, I don't I didn't look at it. He said, I just murdered somebody. Could we talk? And that guy came to faith in Jesus Christ and was gloriously, powerfully converted. Loving everyone else. Enables us to see God's hand through our congregation. I came to Columbia Presbyterian because back in 1978, when I met with the Corps people, I saw an unusual Eagerness among the people interested in starting to share Christ with their friends. We want to recapture something of that passion and that expectation As God enables us to love everyone else, to see people coming to faith on a regular basis in our congregation. Amen? Amen. Well, I had some other things I wanted to say. Let me just touch on them really quickly. Four things about unloving everyone else. I could do a whole hour seminar on this. I had enough notes. I had a you know examples and let me just touch on a couple things. Before we pray. First of all, the need to distinguish between tolerance versus apathy. That's referring to the fact that in a world where there is so much pressure to be tolerant What we're finding is that Christians are becoming more apathetic instead of just tolerant. Sixty percent of Christians in a recent survey said that I believe a person that lives a good enough life will get to heaven. People labeling themselves born again. Born-again people also said, twenty-six percent of them, it doesn't matter which religion you're part of in terms of whether you get to heaven or not. And this kind of um view around makes it so that after a while we get embarrassed to say we believe that there is a truth and that there is a heaven and there's a hell And it makes a difference whether you have Jesus in your life. And after a while you begin to get on the defensive and feel a little embarrassed about that. Listen, I'll tell you. You have got to be convinced That people, no matter how big their SUV is in your neighborhood or how perfect their image looks like, they are lost without Jesus Christ. And the very best thing you can do for them is introduce them to them. So we can't get caught up in that apathy that says there's really no lost people now. There's just people that are better and worse off. I could go into a lot more, but let me move on. Secondly, building bridges with postmodernists. A lot of things we could say about this. Thought of a lot of illustrations. Let me just share One thing that I'm just thinking about this week, um how we need to at times act on our convictions that says we believe something And that will speak more powerfully than arguing about whether there's truth or not. Now think of a fellow, Ian, who is part of a fraternity in one of those kind of animal house kind of fraternities. And the guys there all had all these pornographic pictures on their walls in their rooms, and after a while they started putting them on the outsides of their doors in a hallway And then some guy had this bright idea of, why don't we have a contest to see who can display the most flesh on their hallway? So they had these pictures. all over all the hallway, up and down, and then start putting them on the ceiling so that when you walked in there, floor and ceiling and walls and ceiling were covered with nude women This Christian Ian lived in that. And rather than just criticize and grumble and wrestle with all this and think of himself He called the brothers together, 40 of them, and he said, guys, what you have in your rooms is your business, but what you have out in the halls that I walk through is my business. In a half hour, I'm going to tear those pictures down. So if you want any of them, you better grab them in the next 30 minutes. It was stunned silence Thirty minutes later, he and another Christian started taking the pictures down. You know what happened? Some of the other guys started joining them. And pretty soon everybody's ripping paper pictures off the walls, off the ceiling, trashing them, shredding them. And then they wanted to know why he did that. And he was able to talk to him about his understanding of sex and relationships and Jesus Christ. It wasn't the debate, you see. He was acting on something he believed out of caring. Third thing is make sure that our focus is on Jesus, not just the issues. It's so easy to just stick on the issues, be vaguely spiritual I need to be able to talk about why Jesus is important to me, what Jesus has done for me, what Jesus can do for you. Think of him as a person. Present him as a person, not just something that is vague and ethereal. That's the the value of the alpha video. I was talking to somebody in the first service that's thinking of doing an alpha in their neighborhood. You know how it started? This past winter, on a snow day, they decided, let's get all the neighbors together for a meal. So they all got together. And uh one of the neighbors said, hey, this is a lot of fun. Why don't we do this every month? So they started getting together every month. And they made this a priority commitment. One guy missed his brother's birthday party because he wanted to get together with his neighbors for just having this meal. And so now they're praying about just having an alpha for the videos, which just talks about Jesus Christ and relationship with him, with these folks. And As we l as we seek to love people, the people that God just places around us, you know, being available is a lot more important than being articulate. You just see where God leads us. And that's the last thing I want to say. Lame evangelism is better than no evangelism. And sometimes lame evangelism is the only place we can start. I mean, I don't know how many times I still have conversations with people and say, that was really dumb. If I only had a chance to do it over again, you know, I would have done it a lot different. My son goes to Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. There's a woman in that church that lives in the area. And uh she was moving. A a while this was years ago. She was moving. And uh the guy who was the mover was a real hard drinking, profane guy. He had actually been a uh cavalry commander in the army. And um she felt like she ought to say something to him, but she didn't know what to say. So before he left, she finally just said Um if you're ever looking for a good church you might try tenth Presbyterian. They're probably kicking herself the rest of the day, you know. I remembered that months later In a point of need, he went to 10th Presbyterian, heard the gospel, trusted Christ, now he's a gospel preacher. Another woman, not a woman, another person who was a woman Mature Christian now looks back and says, you know, I became a Christian when I was burned out on acid in the early 70s, and this Christian came up to me and said, Do you like to meet some normal people? Now, I don't recommend that as your opening line. But in this case, God used that. She got into a Bible study, found Christ, and is walking with the Lord today. And you know, you you you get involved in a number of these kinds of incidents. After a while you begin to suspect something more is going on than just our persuasion and our lame attempts. And you say, you know, I think something supernatural is happening here. And you know, as you do that, the more you do it, the easier it gets to trust that whatever I say and however I lamely try, God's going to be in it and I just trust him with what he'll do. Loving the everyone else. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we want to learn to love. And we we know, Lord, uh our hearts are not like that. We thank you that Paul here said, may the Lord increase your love. And we ask you, Lord, increase our love, not only for each other But for those people in our neighborhood, for those people, dear people, people who may be aware of needs or may be oblivious to needs, but Lord We bring those people before you now and pray, Lord, give us a love for them, a heart for them, a heart that overflows and abounds with love for them. That seeks to simply be available to your spirit and trust that you could use even the things that we would say Like this couple who just this last week trusted out of this congregation, people come just like people that are sitting here now that may also need you. Lord, that you'd speak to each one of us Because Christ is free. And we so need you, Lord Jesus. Thank you for what you can do, even through sinners like us. In Jesus' name. Amen.