You two brothers from Japan especially. Again, I am not going to translate. I can barely get through my time without doing that, so follow best you can. A shepherd was herding his flock in a remote pasture when suddenly a brand new BMW advanced out of a dust cloud toward him. The driver, a young man in a brione suit, Gucci shoes, Ray-band sunglasses, and a YSL tie, leans out the window and asks the shepherd, If I tell you exactly how many sheep you have in your flock, will you give me one? And shepherd looks at the man, then looks at his peacefully grazing flock, and calmly answers, sure, why not? The yuppie parks his car, whips out his Dell Notebook computer, connects it to his ATT cell phone, surfs to the NASA page on the internet where he calls up a GPS satellite navigation system to get an exact picture on his location Then feeds it to another NASA satellite that scans the area in an ultra high resolution photo. Then the young man opens a digital photo in Adobe Photoshop and exports it to an image processing facility in Hamburg, Germany. Within seconds, he receives an email on his Palm Pilot that the image has been processed and the data stored. He then accesses an MSSQL database through an OGBC connected Excel spreadsheet with hundreds of complex formulas. He uploads all this data via an email on his Blackberry and after a few minutes receives a response. Finally he prints out a full-color, 150-page report on his high-tech miniaturized HP laser jet printer, finally turns to the shepherd and says, You have exactly 1,586 sheep. That's right. Well, I guess you can take one of my sheep, says the shepherd. Watches the young man select one of the animals and looks unamused as the young man stuffs it into the trunk of his car. Then the shepherd says to the young man, Hey, if I can tell you exactly what your business is, will you give me back my sheep? The young man thinks about for about a second and says, Okay, why not? You're a consultant, says the shepherd. Wow, that's correct, says the yuppie. How'd you guess that? No guessing required, answered the shepherd. You showed up here even though nobody called you. You wanted to get paid for an answer I already knew to a question I never asked And you don't know beans about my business. Now give me back my dog. I use that illustration for two points. Number one, it shows vividly how we live in a world of amazing technological knowledge. Of people that don't know beans about real living. A world that is so savvy and sophisticated In an amazing array of knowledge that can't tell a sheep from a dog or a wolf spiritually And secondly, and so this is a world that desperately needs the gospel because it doesn't know how to live successfully in plain, simple, everyday terms. And secondly, for us as Christians, we can have technical gospel information and know all about the doctrines But if they haven't connected in our heart, it hasn't transformed us, and we don't know how to live in the wisdom that the gospel supplies. So our vision statement, which we conclude today, last day on this series, states again what we see in our church Is a passion for God in Christ that is demonstrated in our worship, how we worship Sunday mornings. In our love for one another, in our compassion for His world, which is fueled by the gospel and fired by the Holy Spirit. Or, in other words, our vision is of a church that is passionate about our love for Jesus, and that that passion is seen in our worship In our being a safe place to grow because we deeply care for one another, and because we have a deep Compassion for a world that is satiated with high-tech information but doesn't know how to live successfully. A church that's growing. Do you want CPC to grow? Or do you say, I think the size is about right the way it is now? Thank you I'm comfortable with the way it is and I don't want it to change a whole lot. But if we are faithful to the Great Commission, it's gotta change and we've got to grow And our vision is of a church that's growing primarily through conversions, not through transfer growth. So that we're seeing people whose lives are being changed because they're seeing other people's lives that are being changed. And they're being attracted by that, not primarily by programs or by other things. But by lives that are being changed, by that passion for Christ, fueled by the gospel, fired by the Spirit. And that's what drives it. Fuel of the gospel, the information, the content. That we need desperately to understand, but then fired by the Spirit in our hearts and lives. So last week we looked at Luke chapter 24, verses 44 to 48 to see The fuel of the gospel, you remember Jesus says to his disciples there that uh the whole Old Testament speaks of him. speaks of the gospel, speaks of it comprehensively. And then he uh finishes by coming down to the very core of the gospel, verse forty-six, where he says, This is what is written That the Messiah, Christ, will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. That's the what of the gospel. And that repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name, the so what of the gospel. To all nations, beginning here at Jerusalem, you are witnesses of these things This week we want to look at verse 49 to see that gospel as it is ignited by the Spirit. Verse 49, Jesus goes on. I am going to send you what my Father has prompted, promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high. I'm going to send what my Father has promised. Stay until you're clothed with power from on high. Three things I'd like for us to notice from verse 49. Number one The promise. You see your bulletin outline, first blank there? That's the promise that he will send what the Father promised. You remember that Jesus here is saying, the gospel is not enough. There's two parts. There's the gospel and the spirit. The gospel is not enough. If you were to uh Take the gospel and get the gospel on every TV program and had it put on every billboard Put in every magazine and every book that is published, that still would not change a single life. The gospel by itself is so radical, we simply would not believe it. Nobody would Jesus says there needs to be the Spirit, the clothing of power from on high. And he says this is what the Father had promised. This was from the beginning. He knew in his ministry that there would need to be that Spirit coming in addition to, connected with the gospel. That promise was given, you remember, by John, back in Luke chapter three, where we read in verse fifteen that the people were waiting expectantly and were all wondering in their hearts if John might possibly be the Christ, the Messiah. And John answered them all, I baptize you with water, but one more powerful than I will come, the thongs of whose sandals I'm not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. And so Jesus says, I'm going to send you what my Father promised through John and through the prophets, Joel, other places. Picks up on that in Acts chapter one, where he says again in verse four, Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my Father promised. Which you've heard me speak about. For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So here's the promise that he will send what the Father promised, the Spirit, because the gospel is so radical. That we simply would not believe it without him. Even having the Spirit, we often live as semi-atheists, don't we? Saying, I believe And yet, practically in our daily living, not believing, the Spirit is needed to cause the gospel, the fuel of the gospel, to take fire in our hearts. Second thing to notice is the command. The command, which is simply wait. Verse 49, I'm going to send you what my father has promised, but stay in the city. Wait. Literally, the Greek is sit. Just sit. You notice he doesn't say to do anything. Doesn't say surrender yourselves, examine yourselves. He doesn't even tell them to pray. He just says sit. Wait for what God is going to do in fulfillment of His promise. Three things to notice from that, you see any outline. First of all, you see the grace of God highlighted there There is nothing that they do to bring the Spirit, to gain the Spirit, to deserve the Spirit, to deserve being clothed with the power from on high. They simply wait. Notice the sovereignty of God in that. He comes at his time. Shortly after that, on the day of Pentecost. Seven weeks after the resurrection. Pentecost is actually next Sunday. This is Ascension Sunday in the church calendar. So we're a week early talking about the Holy Spirit, but couldn't wait and didn't want to just throw in an extra message to fill in the time, you know. So this is Pentecost Sunday for us, all right? Pentecost was the first fruits of the wheat harvest, and God determined that he would send his spirit on that occasion Because it was the symbolization of the fact that the world is white to harvest And the Spirit comes in power so that they experience on Pentecost the first fruits of the 3,000 converted, and then the others that come for the harvest of the nations to be brought into his kingdom. So God determined when his spirit would come, and they didn't do anything to affect that. Notice thirdly that it all focuses on Jesus, because as I'll show you in a moment He did everything necessary by his life, his death, and his resurrection to earn. and procure the Spirit to come on us in power. So thirdly then, look at the results. Look at the results both in terms of Scripture And then look at the results in our lives and our congregation. In terms of Scripture, notice that after this promise in Acts chapter 1 They waited in obedience. You read in Acts chapter 2 that when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place, and suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated from one fire and came down To rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues or other languages as the Spirit enabled them. Now, why was this able to happen? Again, back to Jesus. Notice in verse 33 where Peter is explaining What is going on there? He says about Jesus, exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. And has poured out what you now see and hear. Jesus received the Spirit. He was the one qualified to receive the fullness of the Spirit in this new age. And Jesus has done all that is necessary for the Spirit to come. So Jesus had said, I'm going to send what the Father's promised. I'm going to be the one who will do everything to obtain him. And so because Jesus has fulfilled all the conditions, you and I simply receive that gift of the Spirit in your life. And in my life. And what's the result of that? After Peter, who quaked and quailed before a servant girl and denied that he even knew Jesus three times with cursing, rather than to be embarrassed or perhaps to be in trouble before this girl Now stands and says, You with wicked men crucify the Lord of glory, and calls them to repent. They're cut to the heart. And you read in verse 41 that the Lord added three thousand. To their number that day. You get down to verse 47. The Lord was adding daily to their number those who were being saved. This Peter, who was with the rest of the disciples, huddled in this locked room, not believing, daring to believe that Jesus could rise from the dead, afraid, disoriented, what is he going to do? He stands before the Sanhedrin, the most intimidating body of that day, and says in Acts chapter 4, in verse 19 Judge for yourselves. Now they've just threatened him. Do not preach anymore. Speak of this Jesus. And Peter answers with John, judge for yourselves whether it is right in God's sight for us to obey you rather than God. Pretty gutsy. For we cannot help speaking about what we have seen and heard. That's a transformed man He's been clothed with power from on high. Now I said that it's the fuel of the gospel and the fire of the Spirit. The reason I say the fire of the Spirit is because fire is often a symbol in Scripture of the very presence of God. Do you remember in Acts, I mean excuse me, in Exodus chapter 3, when Moses in the backside of Midian was brought before God, how did he see God? Do you remember it was in a burning bush? that was not consumed, the presence of God spoke out of that fire. Do you remember when God brought Israel out of Egypt and he led them into the wilderness? He led them how? By a cloud by day and at night, remember? A pillar of fire. Do you remember when he brought them to Mount Sinai? How was he revealed to them in Mount Sinai? Smoke and fire on the mountain that shook with his presence. Do you remember when Elijah was up against 400 prophets of Baal? And he says, who's the true God? And Elijah takes his sacrifice, douses it with whatever water they can carry up for the Mediterranean Sea, and he calls upon God And God answers by fire coming down upon that sacrifice to consume it. And so when you come to Pentecost and the Spirit comes now, the power from on high, how does he come? The two displays of power, rushing wind, and then fire that comes, the presence of God distributed upon each of them. We each have the spirit in us, one spirit, so the fire is distributed, separated. And binds them together in their common life in Jesus Christ. So they are clothed with power. It's interesting Jesus uses that term, isn't it? He says you will be clothed with power. I think the idea there is that you are naked without this power. You need to realize, I need to realize my nakedness. I need to realize that without this power, I am unclothed. I am utterly inadequate, unable To bring the gospel, because it's not ignited in my heart and there's no power to communicate it to others. These guys were losers. They were full of fear, but after this they become unstoppable. Do you remember Paul who spoke, wrote to the Thessalonians, we looked at a couple of weeks ago talking about love for one another and for everyone else, said to those new Christians That because the Spirit had come upon him, he says in 1 Thessalonians 1 verses 8 and 9, that the gospel has sounded out from you all over Greece, all over Macedonia and Achaia. Don't even need to talk to you about this. Don't even need to encourage you to do it. You're already doing it. The Spirit has come in power upon you. You're already uh involved in uh Boldly, fearlessly declaring the gospel. Or you think of Paul himself. Do you remember in First Corinthians? Chapter 3, or chapter 2. We think of Paul as kind of innately fearless, and we've looked at other occasions to see how that was not true. But here he talks about how he came to those people in Corinth, a little southwest of Athens. He says, I came to you in weakness. And fear, with much trembling. My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit's power So that your faith might not rest on man's wisdom, but on God's power. Later on he says in chapter 9, verse 16. Yet when I preach the gospel, why cannot boast? For I'm compelled to preach. Woe to me if I don't preach the gospel. I just can't keep from doing it. You see this kind of ambivalence, there's this fear, and then there's this boldness. Have you ever been in a situation where you are afraid to speak about Jesus? But you knew you had to. Ever been in that situation? Uh I have many times. Uh it could be with your family because you know what bringing up religious things does, or with somebody at work or something, but it's a situation where you are afraid. But you are also compelled. I can I can remember, I don't know why, but repair in preparing this, uh a situation that I had as a brand new Christian kept coming to mind. I was uh first year in college And I um was hanging around this fraternity. There was a pretty rowdy fraternity. Um their idea of of having a drink was 200 proof alcohol from the chem lab. Uh these were pretty rowdy guys. And I I don't know there was a single Christian in that fraternity. Um And uh I cared for those guys, and I remember trying to say something about Jesus, and one day I was going over there and I I cried out to the Lord, Lord, uh I'm afraid I I don't know how to do this, but Lord, I want to speak for you. Would you bring up somehow something that will prompt this so I can talk to these guys Just, you know, the faltering prayer of a new Christian and I walked in there and some guys were sitting there and it was less than five minutes that I was in there that this one guy who hadn't seen very much came over and said I was just looking at this thing that was saying that Jesus Christ is going to come back at the end of history. Have you ever heard anything about that? Oh, it sort of rings the bell somewhere there. You know, and instantly I I felt clothed with power I mean I was just so delighted that the father had heard this weak, vacillating prayer of his disciple, and and so I began to talk to him about Jesus' return and what it meant, and you know how You know, were you ready for it? And some other guys started joining in with the discussion, you know. And and that's what God's pleased to do. To take naked, weak people like you and me. And to clothe us with power, even in our fear. But but the more prevailing than that fear is I I want to speak for you. I just want to. I don't know how to. Lord, would you clothe me with power? I think the problem is for us that you guys are a very articulate, very competent, very gifted congregation. And we're so competent in so many ways that we wind up clothing ourselves with our own power We put on our best shot at how to function. We're so used to trying to impress people with how well we can do Do we think that somehow witnessing and engaging in spiritual warfare is to switch over to another realm? You know, now I gotta switch over to the spirit's power rather than realizing Day by day and every activity, I am constantly dependent on the Spirit to clothe me, to ignite the gospel in my heart. So that it connects and changes the way I think, the way I act. And so we can get along daily in the chores and the things that we do. But we find that lack of clothing with power when we try to talk about Jesus or when we're engaged in spiritual warfare. So the question is, uh now we're down to CPC. What about this? Us? How do we see? How do we long to see? This clothing of the Spirit in power to ignite the gospel in our hearts. Our vision is that we see ourselves clothed with His power. We see his power igniting the gospel in weak, self-absorbed sinners like you and me, that he would do that in evangelism. That we would have a freedom to speak and not fear people, not fear the rejection, the embarrassment. You know, I still remember that night a couple weeks ago At the Howard County Board of Zoning Planning, where three of you from Columbia Presbyterian stood and more more talk, but three of you specifically said at the beginning of your testimony before that secular board, I'm here to speak tonight Because I'm a member of Columbia Presbyterian and the gospel has brought me here. Or my love for Jesus Christ has brought me here. Or this is the issue: an explicit identification with Jesus Christ. And we were all kind of amazed that that didn't seem to turn them off. Nobody frowned or scowled or they didn't throw us out of the room, you know. They listened. In fact, they said afterwards, that's pretty impressive testimony that was given here tonight. You know, it's being clothed with the Spirit's power. To stand and at risk, to say, this is where I'm coming from. I just want you to know That's what we see. We see conversions that are coming from that, people's lives being changed because we're not ashamed of the gospel. Believe it is the power of God, the salvation, to everyone who believes. And because of that, we see testimonies regularly occurring. You know, uh in the last um month or so there have been four, at least four professions of faith I know here. And I'm looking forward to your hearing testimonies from these people as they tell you about what God has done, and drawing them to Jesus and making the gospel plain, clear to them. Let me urge you, if if you're seeing God do something in your life, or you've seen someone come to faith, or you've come to faith here. Don't be afraid to to share that. Um you know it's it's hard to stand before a group. Say something new and unfamiliar, not used to talking, but you know how much that encourages your brothers and sisters here? We need to be encouraged by hearing That the gospel is not just something we believe in a theoretical realm, we're seeing God work, that His hand of power is at work in our midst, changing lives and showing That the gospel's being ignited in people's hearts. So don't be afraid. Be willing. Be open to that. We'll see that uh this passion is demonstrated in the three areas of our vision. I've talked about that. Thessalonians are an example. You see all three of those areas, their worship, their love for one another, their They're pro uh proclaiming the gospel. You see the references there. I'll let you look them up for sake of time. But I just uh want to say a few words of application In claiming his promise to us to finish up here. First of all, we need to gather, to ask his Spirit, who lives in us. to fall upon us in renewed power. Jesus, do you remember in Luke chapter 11 before this reference had taught them the Lord's Prayer. And then he went on to teach some other things about prayer. But he concludes that section of teaching on prayer with these words, beginning at verse 11, Luke 11. Which of you fathers, if your son asks for a fish, we'll give him a snake instead? Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. I don't have any eggs, son. Here, take a scorpion If you then, though you're evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give what? Now, Matthew's parallel says good gifts. Luke says give the Holy Spirit. To those who ask him. I don't believe that's talking about Pentecost. This is in the context, and Matthew's is even clearer, in the context of a Christian's daily living. So he's saying that asking for the Spirit is something that we do as believers, not because we don't have the Spirit. The Spirit came at Pentecost in fullness The Spirit clothed his people with power, but we often don't believe it, don't experience what we have Martin Lloyd Jones, one of the great preachers of the 20th century, pastor in England, a man who had seen much of God's power, had known something of revivals. A man who um, well, for instance, in one time when he was preaching, uh, one of the people in his congregation brought a friend who was a witch And uh when the witch came into the congregation of worship on a Sunday morning, just like here, she said, as soon as I entered the room, I sensed the power. I sensed a power that was different from all the powers I had known. The best way I could describe it was this was a clean power. And I had never known anything like that. Martin Lloyd Jones said, one of the greatest tragedies of the contemporary evangelical church is that we have despised the prayer for the Spirit to fall upon us. We have despised the prayer that the Holy Spirit, who we keep sometimes at arm's length, needs to come and fall upon us. In a demonstration of the power that he has. So, on June the 6th, our next Lord's Supper service The elders are calling us all together, an hour and a half before that service, to come and simply ask for the Spirit of God to fall upon us. Now how do you respond to that when I say that? You feel like, oh geez, what are we getting into now? I mean, you know, can you imagine I mean if you just stop and think for a minute, what would happen if God answered? And his Spirit, who dwells in you if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, his Spirit would actually come and manifest himself in power in our midst. He would ignite the gospel in our hearts so that those things that we hear and are so familiar with all of a sudden seem like new truths because they grip us in a profound way. What does it mean for the Spirit to come and fall upon his people and ignite the gospel? You want to come? You might miss out. But then on the other hand, if you come, you might lose control. Because the Spirit is symbolized in fire. When the Spirit comes upon his people, he takes control of the meeting. I mean, I don't know we maybe have to reschedule the Lord's Supper. Maybe we'll have a Lord's Supper service goes on for a while. Who knows what'll happen Are we open? Do we want that? Or do we want to maintain control and dabble in spiritual things? Our vision is of a congregation that is open to the very best God wants to give us. You know, I don't know what that's gonna mean, and I fear it too like you. You know, you know, I like to keep things neat, but it's not his best So let's come, come, join us. Five o'clock on June sixth. Also, notice I'm inviting us to Rethink some of us participation in our Sunday morning prayer ministry. Right back there behind those double doors, there's people praying. I know there's people there right now. There's there's almost always people, but you know sometimes it's just one person praying, and occasionally nobody One of the things I most fear in my ministry is Sunday morning services that become routine, where we don't expect God to do anything unusual. So to keep that from happening in my life, I've covenanted with these people who pray once a month. You know, it's either eight or ten services a month. And so you just sign up and you don't even you don't even just have to sign up to commit yourself to that time. It's just helpful enough for the scheduling. But just come for a while until you kind of settle in. You just come once a month, either an hour before the early the later service or the hour after um you know the middle hour. Uh and you just pray there for the worship. There's a guide there, you sign up, I give you feedback by email of how God answered the prayers that very week Because we expect God to be meeting us, don't we? I hope so. I mean, you may be here this morning, and you're not in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ You can hear what I'm saying and you can say, that's interesting, hmm, where he's coming from. That's part of the service was that opening story. The rest of it you can sort of have, you know Or you could sit there and you say, I can't do another thing until I have Jesus Christ in my life. What makes a difference? It's not my words. It's the Spirit coming in power. We need to pray. Do you want to just try? Just join. What would what difference would it make? It's not like ten people praying means we have ten times this power, you know It means that we as a congregation realize our nakedness and we are calling upon him. We love him and we want to see him glorify himself, so we're going to call upon him. And I ask you, please pray, think about whether God would have you to come once a month. And you don't you don't have to commit yourself to anything at this point. You just show up, pray with those that are back there, and just see if that's something God's calling you into. And then just let you give you a heads up in the fall, I'm going to be preaching a series to continue this idea of our need and In anticipation of our beginning to move into our final phase of our facility, the worship center, and all of the rest of that, there's a danger in our beginning to think about building this new facility and thinking Well, you know, that's gonna make 'em come, you know, build it and they'll come, you know, and all the rest of this. And to get our eyes off of Jesus And so I'm going to be speaking on Jesus' words to the seven churches in Revelation two and three, seven weeks, one per church, in order for us to look and to see what were the things Jesus Rebuke the church for, warn the church about, encourage the church for, that we would be seeing our need for His Spirit to come and to put us in that proper attitude Where that simply becomes a base of operation, but it's our lives that are having the Spirit ignite the gospel in us. It is transforming our congregation and drawing others to see it. Don't have to wait until June 6th. You can pray with me right now for God's Spirit. To come in power. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come to you in Jesus' name and we thank you. We thank you, Lord Jesus. You have done everything to obtain the Spirit. There's nothing that we can do or add. We receive Jesus and you, Holy Spirit, have come to live within us And yet some of us, Lord, have to be honest and say, we don't notice a whole lot of difference more than what we would more um what than not what we would think That we have a person of the Godhead living in us, that we are clothed with power. We feel so often insecure and weak and timid and in vacillating We ask you now, Lord, to give to us that awareness of our nakedness, awareness of our weakness and our helplessness. That this week, Lord, you would remind us of this promise several times so that in situations where we are either called on to identify with you or to deny you in subtle, simple little ways, Lord, you would remind us of this and we would call upon you. Holy Spirit, remind me you are in me. Holy Spirit, come fall upon me in power now. Ignite the gospel in my heart, in my life, my mind, that I would be available for what you want to do at this moment. We want to experience what that would be like. We ask you, Lord. We ask you to do that in Jesus' name.