A couple of weeks ago we had a family that were visiting in our worship for the second time. I chatted with them briefly afterwards and they Told me that uh they've been looking for a church for about five years and that in the last five years they had been to, they said this is no exaggeration, thirty-five or forty churches in Howard County. And uh they had an observation. I mean I guess they serve as some sort of expert in comparing the churches in Howard County, and they said Why is it to be noticed that some churches everybody is very friendly? It's very warm. It's very celebratory worship That seems very superficial. There's no content. Then in other churches, man, there's a lot of content, good, heavy stuff, you know, but they're not friendly. And they don't seem like they have a lot of joy. And the wife said, Why can't it be both? Why's it gotta be one or the other? And I say, indeed. Why can't it? That's our vision. That at Columbia Presbyterian there would be both. So after twenty-five years, we're looking at that and we're saying our vision is that we would be a people with a passion for God in Jesus Christ. Demonstrated in our worship, a worship that engages both our minds and our affections, our hearts for Him, and then our love for one another And our compassion for his world fueled not by something vacuous, but by the gospel fired by the Holy Spirit. You see that combination of those things all involved there. So we're looking at that vision for a few weeks just to kind of Examine ourselves again and to see by God's grace what he has done and to see where it is that we need to be strengthened as his body And two weeks ago we started that looking at 1 Peter 1, verse 8, this idea of our love for Jesus Christ. That verse that read You, though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not so now, you believe in him and are filled with inexpressible and glorious joy. And then we looked at worship, the first way of expressing it last week, and this week, secondly, to see our Love for one another. Our passion for Jesus Christ expressed in our love for one another. So now we go to chapter four of Peter's letter. And instead of 1-8, we look at 4-8. And in 4-8, Peter again talks about love, this time not love for Jesus Christ, but he talks about our love for each other. And he talks about that love and its consequences. So what I want to look at with you this morning is 1 Peter 4, verses 8 to 11. Let's hear God's word as he addresses us through this. Above all, Peter says, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in all its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides. So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power for ever and ever And all God's people said, Amen. That's scripture. Okay. Well, notice that Control and command, the basis of this whole section, is Peter's first statement. Above all, love each other deeply. And that word deeply is where I get this idea of of our passion for one another. The word deeply that's used there is a word that Has the idea of straining, uh, it's used of athletes who are stretching and straining their muscles in contest. Or if you picture a horse running at full gallop, dashing across the room here, you know, and it's beating away, uh the word is used of a horse straining in full gallop like that. Intense passion. It's used in scripture in a couple of places. For instance in Acts You remember where Herod had beheaded James, and uh that got such applause he decided he'd go after some of the rest of the apostles, so he imprisoned Peter, chained him to some Roman guards, and had him scheduled for trial and execution and we read in Acts chapter twelve on that occasion that the Bible says uh so Peter was kept in prison but the church was Earnestly praying to God for him. The word there, earnestly, concentrated, devoted attention, earnestly. That's the same word that you have in 1 Peter 4:8. Love each other deeply, earnestly. The idea, you see, is it's not casual. It's something that takes focused, diverted, intense attention. It doesn't just happen Love each other with focus and attention, with concentration. It's something that you work at We do not love each other naturally. And Peter tells us this is a gospel-prompted activity. Gospel-prompted heart focus. And he gives to us three consequences of that kind of love that I want for us to look at briefly this morning. Three consequences. First of all, it's not judgmental. Secondly, it's not closed. And thirdly, it's not independent. Three things that speak to us very much today. to American churches, and particularly to Columbia Presbyterian. It's not judgmental, it's not closed, it's not independent. So first point, this kind of love covers sins, it's not judgmental. Verse 8, notice the Direct connection. Above all, love each other deeply because love or this kind of love covers over a multitude of sins. Now that's right in line with what Peter has been writing about throughout this letter. You remember in chapter 2, he had said, now look at the Lord Jesus. When he was insulted, he didn't insult back. When he was threatened, he didn't threaten back. When he was abused, he didn't retaliate. So he said, he gave you an example that you would follow his steps because And there he quotes from Isaiah 53, by his wounds you were healed. In other words, you look at your life before Jesus Christ And when you see what someone else has done to you, and you say their sin was inexcusable, I don't care what you say, what they did to me was wrong. There's no excuse. And then you look at Jesus and you say, so like my sins are excusable? And you realize your sins were inexcusable. And when you realize your multitude of sins were inexcusable, but by his wounds, God covered over your sin. God doesn't hold your sin against you. He has forgiven it fully, clearly. Then you say, even though their sin against me hurts. It's not a peccadillo. I love that little word. Peccadillo. You know, a peccadillo is a peccadillo is a little offense. It's something that's a slight. It's it's something that, you know, is just It's uh that stone in your shoe. But notice that Peter says, don't this kind of love just doesn't cover peccadillos It covers a heap, a multitude of inexcusable sins. And you have been sinned against inexcusably, haven't you? But you've sinned inexcusably. And Paul, Peter, is making that connection. See, only a gospel-prompted love covers over sins. And there is so much. And so much in the church. I mean it wasn't not just in the world. Just as weak. I was talking to a brother, goes to a different church in Columbia. And he was telling about a meeting that everybody had dreaded in their church that happened this week, and in this meeting it was whether they keep the pastor or not. And they voted 101 to 33 to kick him out. Get rid of the pastor. Don't get any ideas on those kind of meetings or anything. But you know what? The pastor, I mean I can't believe this. The pastor didn't say, Well, I can take a hint. He said, You're gonna fight it. And this guy said, I have been a member of that church for over 30 years, and at that meeting, I had friends who I have known for nearly 30 years who would not talk to me. Congregations so divided, so full of pain. Turned out in the first service somebody was at that meeting. Not because they go to that church. But because of other reasons they had been in that situation. And he said it was just a room that was full of people nurturing their pain I remember when I came here with Kathy to plant this church 25 years ago, first four years I was here, I was on three committees about church splits. I remember the first one of those, uh there was a situation, very tense situation. The elder was sitting on this side of the table and the Pastor was sitting on that side of the table and the pastor said something, the elder leap over the table. And I thought he's going to punch his lights out right there. Okay, what do I do now? They didn't teach me this in seminary Fortunately he stopped just before he got to his nose and then he stalked out, you know Um I teach a course on leadership at Westminster. It's one of the parts of the course, you know, how do you stop at this point? Well, you know, I was teaching this course and I didn't know. I found out from one of the professors there, there was a guy in the class that in his church that spring the police had been called in twice to stop fistfights at session meetings Why are we as Christians so feisty? Peter says, love one another deeply. Because this kind of love covers a multitude of sins. It's not after revenge, rights, protection. Uh you know, after um last um week, middle hour, talked about our policy of women in public ministry and I had a woman deeply hurt in that and called me up and uh she didn't want there to be alienation, so she took the initiative. And we were able to get together and my heart went out to her and God gave to us peace, precious restoration of peace together. Have you ever experienced that, you know, where there's tension and strain, you're churning And you think, I don't want to go because, you know, who knows, maybe it'll offend 'em more and you know, things will really be no and I've I've tried. You know, it's tough to take the initiative in that situation, isn't it? Let me ask you, is there somebody at Columbia Presbyterian that you avoid? Somebody that you say, and I if I see that person coming down the aisle, I'm I'll probably walk down the other aisle. Because I just I'd really prefer not to meet them. I mean I I don't want to just not have dinner with that person. I don't want to have to say hello to them. Is there somebody that you avoid? Let me remind you, brothers and sisters, tonight's the Lord's Supper. And at the Lord's Supper, we come and we celebrate not only our union with Jesus, we celebrate our union with each other. And you remember Jesus said in Matthew chapter five and verses twenty one and or excuse me, verses twenty three and twenty four, that if you know that your brother or sister has something against you, or you have something against them Then before you come to the worship, you need to make that right? Maybe you need to make a phone call, you need to talk to somebody before we come together this evening And uh I don't think this verse is just talking about needing to reconcile, and if you need to, then I pray that God would give you grace to take the initiative. Because there is such sweet peace and release when you experience that restoration. But that I think he's also just talking about the judgmental critical attitude that doesn't want to cover a multitude of sins, wants to point them out. And here I want to tell you one of the reasons that this is in our vision statement is because when a church reaches a quarter of a century or so As churches ages, there is a natural tendency to want to become more precise and make issues out of things that, when you first started, weren't issues. Now part of that can be good because you're refining and you're understanding what God is saying, and so you're thinking through things. I'm talking about the tendency for churches in areas where Scripture is not clear, where Christians should agree to disagree. And there needs to be the freedom of the gospel to want to draw lines that are tighter, that are narrower than what the gospel focuses on. and forced to become precise to the exclusion of being gracious. Let me be honest with you, and I hope you don't understand what I'm about to misunderstand what I'm about to say. If I had the choice, and I pray I never will, but if I had the choice to pastor a congregation that was precise and articulate in its theology, But that was picking at each other to correct each other in ungracious manners versus a congregation That was less articulate in its theology, but loved each other deeply. There's no question in my mind what I'd rather be part of. Which would you rather be part of? And yet there's the tendency as we mature in age to want to draw the lines. Now I say that, and if any of you know me, you know my zeal and passion for truth and a desire to uphold truth, to follow truth. So I don't say that as if it doesn't matter what we believe or that it doesn't matter in any area. But what Peter says here Is that his concern above all, he says, love each other passionately, earnestly. Deeply, because that kind of love is gospel-prompted. It covers, as God did in your life, a multitude of sins. Not only that, but it goes on. He says that this love is not only not judgmental. But it's not closed. It's not only not picky, it's not private. Verse 9 offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Now it's interesting that Paul would Peter would say that because um hospitality was simply expected in that culture. Uh, you know, you didn't have holiday in quality ins and marriots and all that up and down, and you didn't have all the restaurant chains, and so people depended on the hospitality of people as they traveled And it was simply understood that you could expect, if you were going into a village, that you would be able to find, particularly within Jewish culture, a place that would give you a home, some home that would give you a place to stay that night. That's one of the scandals, by the way, of the Christmas story, is that in Bethlehem what was essentially a co-op con, it was a kind of hostile It wasn't a you know a check-in motel, but it was an open area where people shared together hospitably that they didn't find room for a woman about to have a baby. That was the scandal of it. That's how bad things were. Hospitality was expected. But what Peter says is, practice hospitality without grumbling. It's not just the fact that you do it. It's the heart. He says, don't do it grudgingly. You know, there is nothing that so reveals the overly busy schedules that you and I have like disruption, is there? I mean, I can find every excuse and reason why somebody else should be hospitable and not me, because I can't this week. And why didn't these people plan ahead anyway? Or why didn't they take care of, you know, why weren't they more independent? But Peter says, practice hospitality without grumbling. The word hospitality is the Greek word that means literally love of strangers, and that gets to the heart of it Because you see, what Peter is saying here is again, this is a gospel-prompted heart matter. Peter is saying, you remember, you were strangers. Do you remember his brother Paul had said that in Ephesians chapter 2, in verse 19? Remember where Paul said, Consequently, you're no longer foreigners and strangers. Your fellow citizens, God's people and members of God's own household When you were a stranger, in fact, when you were God's enemy, he took you in. He loved strangers. Even you and me, his enemies. And he didn't just take us in for a little bit. You know, after the New Testament there was a document called the Didicet teaching It was uh written in the early second century probably. And in that document, which is a Christian document, and some people even thought it should be included in the New Testament, but one of the reasons I think it's clear it shouldn't have been included in the New Testament. Is it said it has a whole section, three short chapters on hospitality. And one other section says If any prophet comes to you, you must offer him a place to stay. Be hospitable. Give him a place for one night. And if by necessity he can't move on, give him two nights. If he stays the third night he's a false prophet. Kick him out. Somebody, you want the reference? Did the key ten. All right. But you see, what what What Paul is saying is God didn't just say, okay, here's what you need. I'll do the minimum. He brought you into his household. In fact, verse 22 says, In him you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. So Peter is simply saying, reflect the grace of God in your heart, the God who loves strangers by loving strangers. By giving and helping people that you don't expect anything back from. Because that's grace. And when you do that, you enter in a little more fully to the fellowship of Jesus. Now I must say that when I look at Columbia Presbyterian, I'm impressed with how hospitable you are. I mean, you really are. You know, in May 20 to 23, we're going to have twenty-six Japanese pastors and missionaries come in order to give a tour of parts in the United States and help them with some philosophy of ministry things. Polly Myers volunteered to head up the housing on that, and a couple weeks ago she put a notice in. One notice, one week, half the places were filled immediately. Then we got need for thirteen more and we're sending them on to Chapel Gate. I mean they're doing it with us, you know, so we figure we'd give them a chance and wouldn't hog all the grace, you know So if they can't film them, they'll send them back to us. And if you want to have a Japanese pastor or two and a wife or missionary or something, then contact Dolly Meyer. She'd probably find you one. But that's that impresses me. One notice without any announcements or fanfare. And you've opened your homes. You see, Peter is saying love is not closed. That passionate love that derives from the gospel is open-hearted. It loves community. It says, hey, tonight before we do the Lord's Supper, we're going to have a meal. So I'll bring a dish and I'll get to know somebody. That's hospitality, you see. It's saying I like to live in community. I don't prefer to stay separate, enclosed But Jesus opens my heart. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on, the third thing, to say that he also causes us to serve others and to minister his grace and to not be independent. That's verse 10 Each one of you, then, should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. Now briefly note five things real quick about the words in verse 10. First of all, notice that the words each one. That means you. There's no asterisk that has your name as an exception at the bottom of the page. Each one of you. We all need to be involved in what he says in verse 10. Not because you're too busy now, and maybe in a year, six months. Give me a break. Sometime get back to you. Don't call me. I'll call you. Each one, notice he says, has received. You don't choose it. It's something he gives to you. He chooses what your gifts are. Because the gifts are not for you. They're for others. That's the third thing. It's for others to use your gifts to serve. Fourthly, notice that this ministry and is always Causes me to pause when I look at this verse. This ministry is a means of grace. You notice I said to Dan when he was up here with his profession of faith, and I charged him and I said That you will seek to find your gifts, and I said, Charge and make faithful use of the means of grace, and I said, Among those are the gifts of the Spirit. And, you know, the reformer said there's two means of grace, the word and the sacraments. I humbly would offer they missed one. Because this verse is quite clear. When you minister the gifts that God has given to you, you administer God's grace in its various forms. It's a means of grace. As you are faithful, not holding yourself off and saying, I don't have time to be part of a cell or a small group or some ministry. But I'm gonna just come on Sunday, gonna worship, hear the music, take off, and live separate. When you finally repent of that kind of independence And see that the gospel is essentially community, and you're willing to live in community, you become a means of grace. Isn't that awesome? You and I are means of God's multifaceted. It's like a diamond that he's displaying there. It's God's grace in all its multifaceted dimensions. We're all unique and different. Every single one of you is different. And you have a unique capacity to reflect the grace of Jesus Christ. And if you do not do that, nobody else can do what God has fitted you uniquely to do. So you notice this is not a suggestion, it's a command. Each one should. Now, there's two ways that you do that. By words and by works. Those are the two blanks. So the two kinds of ministry are word ministry. First of all, it is by speaking God's words. Notice in verse 11. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. Now that doesn't mean that when you sit around in your cell and you discuss, you say, Hey, I got a word from the Lord. Here it is. Listen. These are the very words of God I'm about to speak. That's what Peter said. No, what it means is That we are centered on the word, and that when we speak, we seek to reflect that word, not changing it, altering it, adding to it, detracting from it. We are faithful to that word. The very words that God spoke is what we seek to minister. That may be words of instruction, words of encouragement. It's gospel truth. We need to preach the gospel to each other again and again, right? You can't too often hear the gospel from your brother and sister, right? You're down, you're hurting, you're guilty, you're stressed And somebody reflects to you, not just, hey, pick up your chin, get out there, and try again. They give you the gospel. And that ministers to your heart. So you and I need to be word-focused at Columbia Presbyterian. That's why in our services there's a major portion of the morning worship devoted to the expositing of the word. You need the word. You come here this morning. God, I am hungry for your word. Speak to me. I don't give a whip what Al Harris thinks, but I want to hear from you When we meet in our groups, we want to hear from Jesus. We get in Bible studies, we want to hear from Jesus. When we interact together to point each other to Jesus. When you set your schedule for this week to carve out priority time, do you hear from Jesus? So the word is central to you. But then he also talks about works ministry, that is the serving. He goes on there. Notice after he says, if anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves He should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised. Now here you see, go back to verse 8. He We love each other deeply, passionately. That means, I asked my wife what that means. That's always helpful, you know you think about something like, Hey, what do you think this means? And I put away all the books and I say, honey, dinner time. What do you think it means to love each other passionately deeply? And she is very swift in her response. She says, it means loving beyond what's expected. Say that. I like that. I thanked her. She's in the service. I thank her again, but she was in a high service. You know, it's not just doing what's expected. It is being creative in our service for one another. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides. Now I've heard of just a lot of things that have impressed me about what you do to serve each other, people that have served Lisa House over the last couple of years, people that serve others in crises and needs and various things. You know, and I am really impressed, and some stuff you probably don't know that I hear, and there's a lot of things you do that nobody knows, except the Lord and maybe the person served, and maybe they didn't particularly value it the way you thought the sacrifice would have deserved. And that's why Peter says, if you serve, you should do it with the strength God provides. If it's not gospel-prompted service, you're going to run out of gas and you're going to be resentful. After a while you're gonna say, you know, I don't think they really appreciate what I'm doing And why am I always the one that has to bring the stuff for the cell? Why am I always the one that brings stuff for the Sunday monthly dinner I don't see other people bringing all the stuff I bring. Why don't other people, everybody's trying to take a bite out of me? We begin to think like victims. We begin to feed that sense of resentment. There's only one thing that cuts through that. Peter says, You're going to do it? It's got to be with the strength God provides. It's got to be by grace. It's got to be that you see Jesus and how he served washing his disciples' feet, hung on a cross for you, gave his life for you. And so Ephesians chapter 5 Verse 1. The imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, imitate Jesus and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering. And sacrifice to God. You see, when you offer yourself in service, it's not ultimately to that person, it's an offering to Jesus. And so it's kind of like, well, you know, if they appreciate it, that's nice. That's encouraging. If they don't, it was an offering to Jesus anyway, and I know he appreciates it. He is pleased. A pleasing, fragrant sacrifice to God. And when your focus is on Him You draw upon the strength that God provides, and the result is, Peter says, that in all things, God will be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. So how do we see that here? Well, a couple of examples. I just put a few down there for you to notice and to think about as we close. You know, our welcoming one another, our um caring for people that God brings to us and realizing that Even though it's fun after the service to always just talk to our friends, if you see somebody you don't recognize, you invite that you just say something to them. You know, are you new here? I don't think I've met you And you take the initiative, you know, you take that risk that they're gonna say, What do you mean, I've been here for ten years? Listen, you ever get Feeling like, you know, I don't want to take that risk. Just remember Donald Gray Barnhouse. He was pastor at 10th Presbyterian Church. He was not a very extroverted person. And one day he went up after the service to a man and he said, Well, good morning, sir. I'm the pastor here. Are you new here? And the fellow looked at me and said, Sir, I'm one of your elders. It won't be that bad, right? You know, it's it's to put people at ease. It's it's just a small service. So I'm gonna take the trouble to get it, put it on. Because when people come they come back, they feel more at home if they maybe saw me, met me, but they don't remember my name, so It just is more friendly. It's serving. Um, extending mercy as our deacons lead us, whether ministries of mercy to single moms or meals in times of need. I was reading about a church this week that just keeps a supply of frozen casseroles in a freezer accessible to the deacons, so you don't have to have this big emergency call. They're there and you access them when they're needed. You gotta keep a lock on that, I guess. I don't know what they say about that. Hey, we don't feel like cooking tonight, you can go over and check the freezer. You know, raising our covenant children in community rather than isolation. I heard that uh Friday night was a real good example of this. I wasn't there, but I mean there was real community there. I heard you went through five dozen eggs, raw eggs. that you baptized each other with. You know. Uh you know, we don't have to raise our kids in isolation. That's a that's a desperate attempt in today's age But we live in support and community, serving, helping one another, singles that are part of communities and cells, especially when you're a long way from where your family is for us to be able to provide that kind of support for one another. The intimate communities that practice the one anothering of the New Testament, particularly the ideas of Ephesians 4, speaking the truth to one another in love, building one another up into the image of Christ that ourselves are intended to do So that we are able to gather together and provide a safe place for us to grow in the grace of Christ. Neither fleeing nor trying to fix each other when we see problems A couple weeks ago Steve Green was leading the cell leader ministry and talking about this idea of our tendency. That when we see somebody with a problem, I either first want to flee and just say, Well, I don't want to deal with this, and so I just want to distance emotionally A or to say, well, I'm going to tackle this thing head on and here's what you want to do. So we try to fix each other. But rather the supernatural ability to stay engaged and focus each other on Christ. Who's a big savior for big sinners? That's what Peter's writing to. He says, you and I were big sinners. But the grace of God is even bigger. And it teaches us to love one another, cover a multitude of sins. Teaches us to open our hearts and our homes and teaches us to minister the word and to serve one another out of the grace of Christ so that He gets the praise. And so the people who come here see people who love one another and they're drawn to Jesus Christ. And when I have visitor feedback cards or I have people that say, you know, the church really seems loving and friendly, and I often hear that. That gives me an opportunity to tell them about Jesus. And you too. Let's pray. Lord Jesus. How we thank you for your grace evident here in our midst. I really do see that, and I'm thrilled to see that Lord, there may be some people here this morning that are saying, I gotta be honest, there's people I just want to avoid here. Lord, we pray that uh you'd speak to them and You'd bring about this week some reconciliations that may be needed. That you would teach us, Lord, to cover one another's sins rather than want to pick at them To prove that we're right. Lord, that we would open our hearts and our homes. We'd even welcome people over after services to have lunch with us. We would be people who delight to live in community in a world that is so desperately isolated. That we'd be serving one another through your word and through simply seeking to wash each other's feet, to just do what is needed, to be creative at that, doing beyond what's expected. Lord, we can't do that of ourselves. That's why when it's done, you get the praise because only you can change our hearts to make us those kinds of people. We ask you to do that, Jesus. Fix our eyes on you So that as we look at you, you change our hearts to become that kind of people. In Jesus' name. Amen.