Let me uh just mention before I get into the message, since it's fresh on my mind, middle hour we covered uh the matter of women in ministry. And part of um my remarks on that I intended to uh make some comments about the whole question of women coming in on the staff or coordinating women's ministries and let that part out. We'll begin our discussion next Sunday that we'll have after the Lord's Supper by addressing that. So I do want to cover that in case you uh miss that and we're looking forward to it. That'll be next Sunday evening after the Lord's Supper. If you don't know what that's about, then that's okay. Let's just go to Psalm 63. We are going through our vision statement as a church for these few weeks. To see how each of these six points of our vision statement are based on scripture. See what the Lord is calling us individually and corporately as a church to be and to do as a result. Let's see again that vision statement. Statement itself is back on the table. If you don't have a copy, want to get a copy, lost your copy somehow. It's a buff-colored thing, and this is the summary statement A passion for God in Jesus Christ. That's the first point. Demonstrated in our worship. Second. Our love for one another. Third. Our compassion for his world, fourth thing, fueled by the gospel, fifth, and fired by the Holy Spirit, sixth. We're looking at each of those six points, and I hope that you see in our going through this, if it hasn't occurred to you as we did it last poll, That the core of our vision statement is not a strategy, but simply a passion for Jesus Christ. That is in each of our lives, and that comes from the gospel catching fire in our hearts. That's what we're praying that God does. That's the goal of this miniseries. That's our prayer. My prayer for me as a pastor, my prayer for you as a disciple of Jesus Christ, and that we see that passion expressed in three ways. Worship, our love for one another, and our compassion for a lost world. Today we're looking at the first of those three ways it's expressed: worship And again, I could have looked at many different texts to go through this. I could have looked at John 4, where Jesus talks with the woman at the well about how worship is in spirit and in truth. I could have looked at Romans twelve, where Paul enjoins us to offer our bodies as living sacrifices, which is our acceptable worship to God. But In fact, what I've picked is one of my favorite psalms, Psalm 63. Psalm 63 is just so quintessentially a psalm of worship, the psalm that Tom just read to you there. It's such a passionate psalm, verse one, Oh God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My body longs for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. Verse 8 My soul clings to you. Your right hand upholds me. Now, what prompted this outburst? of such passion and longing that you see in this psalm. It's always uh a good idea when you read a psalm to see if there's any heading under it. Not something that was put in by the translators, but something that was placed there very, very early in the history of that psalm. Probably not part of the original, but um Is seen to have a great deal of weight in telling us something of the situation. And if you look at Psalm 63, you see it says it's a Psalm of David. Okay, now you know who wrote it. When he was in the desert of Judah. Well, that narrows it down to two possibilities. It could have been a period of time when he was fleeing from Saul, you remember, because of his jealousy for David, who God had anointed to become king. Or it could have been later in his life when he was king and he was fleeing from Absalom, his son, in the wilderness of Judah. We don't have to guess because verse 11 tells us that the king will rejoice in the Lord. This is David speaking of himself in his situation. So he is king at this point. That means that, barring something else we're not seeing, that it um was written during the time that he was fleeing from Absalom. Do you remember that story? Remember that after David had sinned against Bathsheba and Uriah by adultery and murder, he was forgiven. But it affected his moral authority. It um It meant that when sometime after that his son Amnon raped his daughter, Tamar, who was Amnon's half-sister, different mother. David didn't do anything. Leviticus 20, 17 says he should have cut him off, but he didn't. He let him go. Alfred Edersheim, commenting on this incident, says, it is difficult to wield a heavy sword with a maimed arm. David's conscience still smote him in judging Amnon. But Amnon's half-brother Absalom, who was Tamar's full brother, remembered And two years later, he caught Amnon off guard and assassinated him. Again, David doesn't act. He reparicates. He he doesn't have the moral courage to deal with Absalom. Absalom flees. He's finally brought back to Jerusalem, and you have a couple of years of family strife going on. Absalom comes to despise his father David. Absalom is just a natural-born hero. You know, it's a good-looking guy, a lot of hair, and very persuasive. Great politician. So gradually over a period of time he steals the hearts of the people of Israel from his father. Oh, if I were just king, I'd give you justice, I would do this, I'd lower your taxes, I'd do you know everything. All the promises of the campaign trail. So David finally is faced with a coup from Absalom. He comes in, takes over the throne, chases his father out into the wilderness, and David is at this point fleeing for his life. in the wilderness of Judah from his own son. And you think you have family squabbles. Can you imagine what it would be like for a father to be saying, my own son wants to kill me I'm fleeing from him. And one morning, David gets up and he writes this song. Now I believe there is an important lesson about worship in the very fact of that. And it's simply this. The enemy of worship is not pain, it's apathy. The enemy of worship is not pain. It's apathy. Do you remember last week we saw that Peter wrote that Him who you have not seen you love. Him who you do not now see, you rely on. And he writes that saying, this is in the context of bitter circumstances, trials that are refining your faith like fire to purge it have come on your life. That's the situation in which you know more of your love for Jesus and your trust, your reliance on him. And he says you're even filled with inexpressible and glorious joy at the hope of his coming. The enemy of our worship is not pain. It's apathy. It's self-absorption. Not going deep into life and truth. What more excruciating circumstance, what more painful situation can you imagine? Than being hunted by your own son to be killed, who despises you. And it's in that situation that David writes, Oh God, you are my God. Now, I believe that uh nobody has any decent outlines for this psalm. It's really very hard to outline. There there really really isn't any outline because it's just an outrush of passion. It just it's just this Flowing of his feelings and his heart longing for God. So it really doesn't form any particular outline, but I believe there's four words in it. That are keywords to pick up the threads of his thought. And they're words that you can put in the blanks on the right side of each of your four points. I'll give them to you right now and get them off your mind. For some of you who be distracted wondering, are they alliterative? What are they? They rhyme? What do they do? All right, first one is seek, see, then see, then hands, then heart The four points. And that's what David does. He seeks God, he sees God, he lifts his hands to God, he pours out his heart, and his heart is satisfied in God. First point then, I declare my longing for you. First length. Verses 1 and 6, he seeks God. Oh God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. You underline that or circle it? My soul thirsts for you, my body longs for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. The word earnestly there is literally in the Hebrew at dawn. That's why I say he wrote it in the morning He's saying, Oh God, you're my God at dawn, first thing in the morning. You're the first thing I think of when I wake up. What's the first thing you think of when you wake up? Have you ever been in a situation where the first thing that you think of when you wake up is pain about some situation, some stress, something you're anxious about, some grief? Something heavy on your heart. The first thing you think about is, oh, that. It's the last thing I thought about as I fell asleep. First thing I think about when you wake up The second thing you think about, I have a refuge in Jesus and I need to go. The enemy of our worship is not pain, it's apathy. And David is in a great deal of pain here, but that pain drives him to his God. Oh God, you are my God. And so there is that sense that here I am in this painful situation, but God, I have you to go to. Now, you see, we may have had a situation like that. You may recall a time like that and say, Yeah, I remember. And you think, boy, did I go to Jesus then. But why don't we do it every day? Because we don't know our hearts, right? And we're just out of touch with our hearts. If we knew our hearts, every day we'd say, Lord, I need you today. I think of a fellow who wrote these words, so far today, God, I have done all right. I haven't gossiped, I haven't lost my temper, I haven't been grumpy, nasty, or selfish. I'm really thankful for that. But in a few minutes, Lord, I'm going to get out of bed. And from then on, I'm probably going to need a lot of help You see, uh we think that you know, we're okay until the pain comes This psalm is given to us as someone who is in excruciating pain as a pattern for us to use in those situations But you can just kind of go through the Psalms and you come on this and you say, yeah, that puts me in touch with my heart. And so he goes on to say Um this is uh in a my soul thirsts for you, my body longs for you, in a drying weird see the the dual spiritual, emotional, circumstantial, he's in the desert But not only is my body thirsting, my soul is thirsting. Oh Lord, in a dry, weary land. Uh I don't know if you've ever gotten a email from Tim Floor in the last couple months, but if you do on his byline with his name, you see down there Uh the the waters of the earth have failed and I am thirsty still. I keep wanting to give him a drink when I see that and poor guy. But he's saying something obviously a lot deeper that, you know, this This world can't satisfy. And David is saying that. He's he's saying that I thought about you through the night, you know, that's what he says in um Verse 6, on my bed I remember you, I think of you through the watches of the night. So I'm seeking you, I'm thirsting, I'm longing, I remember, I think of you, I'm on and on. He's driven toward God. This these are the thoughts, the feelings of a lover. Not a stranger, someone who knows God intimately. You know Jesus Christ like that, that you can say, Oh Jesus, you are my Savior. I long for you, I thirst for you. He's there for those who seek him. He's available to you if you seek him with this kind of longing, but not casually. The enemy of our souls and the enemy of our worship is not pain. It's apathy. Self-absorption. Secondly, notice I declare your power and your love. I see you. Huh? How's he seen him? Verse 2. I have seen you in the sanctuary. And beheld your power and your glory, because your love is better than life. That is, it's better than just having my days prolonged. I'm not just asking God to deliver me from death. The worst thing I could do is die. Your love is better than life. It's better than just prolonging days. My lips will glorify you. He says, I'm acquainted with your power and glory, and I'm acquainted with your love. I've seen that. And so We're going to look at that a bit more at the end of the sermon. We want to show you just a glimpse of God's power, God's glory. But as we do that, we want you to be very aware. That his power and his glory are not ultimately revealed in creation, but at the cross. I've seen it in the sanctuary, says, where the Ark of the Covenant is, where you and your name are revealed as the Redeemer of your people. I've seen that, and I know that you're a refuge to go to. So my lips glorify you. So I'm able even in this circumstance to worship. To give you praise. You notice again the same thing we talked about last week. The focus is on your love for me, not my love for you. I've seen your love, therefore my lips glorify you. As soon as you start thinking about whether you're worshiping and how much and how much you love Jesus, you're going to get right back to yourself. The enemy of our worship is self-absorption. And so our prayer is every week at Columbia Presbyterian, that as we have worship, we lift up Jesus Christ and you see him and you think of his love for you. And that draws your heart to worship. I've seen your love, therefore my lips glorify you. You see, the the wonder of worship is that glorious, blessed self-forgetfulness. You come in here and you're all wrapped up in yourself and I'm wrapped up in myself and you see Jesus and you go out and you say for one glorious hour I forgot about myself. I just I thought about Jesus as a refuge, as a savior. And then everything else takes on different perspective, doesn't it? You can handle the other stuff now. That's what worship's about Forgetting ourselves, seeing his power, his glory, his love. Then he goes on thirdly, I declare my reliance on you. Verse 4, I will praise you as long as I live. In your name I will lift up my hands. And that's the third key word, hands. Why do we lift up our hands in worship? Why do Christians do that? You see some Christians doing that they must be charismatic. So why do Christians do that? There's two things that are being symbolized when you lift up your hands, at least two things. One is that it's an offering. You're saying, Lord, here I am, take me. It's kind of like extending yourself to the Lord symbolically. But it's also saying, Lord, I'm dependent on you. I open my hands to receive from you. I have nothing to give you. Lord, I just. I receive as I give myself. So there's that reciprocal. I receive and I give from the reception of your grace. And you see what David's saying here also is we're physical beings. He said, Lord, I'm lifting my hands to you in this gesture of helplessness and longing. And um our worship, you know, is a physical thing. Uh we can't just worship out of body Some of us might think that, you know, it'd be better if you could do that, but I w I wish we had kneelers, so that when we pray that sometimes we could kneel. It's a little hard, you know, with these chairs screws all around. You don't want to feel like one kneeling. It's okay. Go ahead and kneel. Wanna lift your hands? Lift your hands. Feel free. You want to clap? Clap. Express joy. Want to say amen? Say amen. Let me say something about the amens. I've been a little hard on you about the amens recently, you know? I I view that saying amen is is an affirmation of God's truth. It's good because when if I'm hearing something and I say amen, it's kind of like saying, you know, I really do believe that. You know, it's kind of like talking to myself. I'm affirming something. Um and so I think it's good to do it. But I realize, and I've been reminded just even this week, that For some of you, saying amen is going to be about as likely as a cat barking or a sheep mooing. It's just it's just not going to happen, you know? It's not the way you're wired And I just want to tell you that's okay. And I'm sorry for times that I have implied that you're a bunch of passive Presbyterians rather than passionate Presbyterians because I don't get a response when I think, can't you guys see that? I just I just want to worship with you and and and see I'm also used to it various times I have preached to black and African American congregations and taught black classes And they're in that situation, it's more of a dialogue, you know, it's back and forth and it's energizing. It's kind of like, hey, we're in this together, you know. But I realize that it is not helpful for me to put pressure on you to respond in a way that can be very contrary to your nature. I just want to free you up. I just want to say, if you want to clap, you clap. You want to lift your hand? You lift your hand. Do you want to kneel? You kneel. There is a freedom to physically. If you want to say amen, you say amen. Amen? Okay. And I love all of you those that didn't say amen then, alright? There's freedom, and that freedom is important in our worship. And I thank you. And I need to I need to work at that And you and I, but the point is, in all of that, it's not whether you say the amen, it's not how loud you sing or it's Is this from my heart? Do I say, I'm going to praise you as long as I live in your names, I lift my hands, my soul is satisfied with you. And that gets us to the fourth point, his soul, his heart. You see, uh David here Is expressing my soul, that fourth point is I declare my satisfaction in you. That his soul, his heart, is satisfied even in this terrible circumstance. Now, uh probably ought to go back. I think I probably screwed you up. Go back one song, I mean uh one slide. And you see that what David does is before the solution, it's in this situation, he's saying, I'm satisfied. He doesn't know what's going to happen. In fact, he is convinced that this God that he is coming to is going to keep his promises and he knows he is the anointed one. He is the king. Therefore God will be faithful and preserve him. So he says, those who seek my life are going to be destroyed. They're going to go down to the depths of the earth. They're going to be given over to the sword, become food for jackals. In a very brief time, there's going to come a definitive battle between David's men and Absalom's men. And in that battle, in one day, there will be 20,000 casualties, the Bible says. If you go to Antiodon Battlefield, the bloodiest day of the Civil War, the number of casualties on that battlefield were approximately 22,000. So that's saying that this battle that is coming up, that David is contemplating, knowing something's gonna happen, these people are gonna be food for jackals, and he's saying their bodies are gonna be all over. Because God's going to be faithful to his promise to preserve his anointed. The king will rejoice in God. All who swear by God's name will praise him. In other words, your worship isn't confined to here and it's unrelated to Monday morning, the rest of your week. He's the same God who is your refuge in the stress, in the office, in the home, at the neighborhood, in all the things you're doing tomorrow. And he will be your protection and your refuge. But even before that, David says, I will be satisfied. And now let's go back. You're my satisfaction, so I can sing even in the midst of this turmoil. So he says, God You are my food and drink in the desert. Verse 5. I'll be satisfied as with the richest of foods, like Psalms 23. You have prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies. My cup overflows. John 7, David saying, It's, You have bid me, Lord Jesus says, Come to me all you who are thirsty. And I will quench your thirst. I will give you water that will flow out of your being in streams. David says, I'll be satisfied. You are the quencher of my thirst. And that's before you solve the problem. The enemy of our worship is not pain. It's apathy. It's self-absorption. We can be satisfied in the midst of the pain. Have you ever sung to Jesus in the midst of your tears? You've cried? You've sung. Have you ever done both at the same time? It's an experience you don't forget, isn't it? There's times when it seems like it's just foolish to cry out to God. But you're saying, God, you're my refuge. You're the one, and I cry out to you. And as I cry, I find a song comes into my heart and I and I'm singing through my tears. And there's something that connects you to Jesus in that. Just sing his praise, Lord, I'm satisfied with you. He goes on to say that I cling to you, verse 8. The word cling there is the word that's used in Genesis 2. 24 where God says he created the male and female. And for this reason a man will leave his father and his mother and he will cleave to his wife, cling to her. It's the same word it's used here. The word in the Hebrew is a word that's used of an adhesive. It's like glue. I'll cling to you. The word is used in Job 41. On more than one occasion, I've actually read these verses about the description of a crocodile at weddings. Because it's instructive. It's the same word that's used. God describes a crocodile and he says his back has rows of shields tightly sealed together. Each is so close to the next that no air can pass between. They are joined fast to one another. It's the same word. It's used here in Psalm 63. I cling to you. I'm joined fast to you. The same word that's used in Ruth, chapter 1, and verse 14, when Ruth's two daughters-in-law, Moabitus's. lost their husbands and Ruth says, I'm gonna return to my land. I'm Naomi. I'm I'm I've had a daughter, Mara Bitter. Changed my name. She's changed my name to Mara Bitter And I'm going back. And Dorpa says, okay, I'll head back. But the Bible says that Ruth clung to her. It's the same word. Can't let you go Where you go, I'm going. I'm not going to let you go. Deuteronomy 10 verse 20 says, fear the Lord, serve him, and cling to him. I kind of think of it as like velcro. You know, you get a piece of velcro, you put those two things together, they stick. It's like David saying here, Lord, I'm like velcro to you. I can't let you go. I'm clinging on. We're like a magnet that's attracted to stick. I'm drawn to you. I can't let you go. That's the idea. I'm satisfied because you are complete. You're sufficient. You're enough for me. So our worship, as you see in the bulletin there, our worship is to be the passionate expression. I've written this out so that you can Let your mind run around this and think about this this week. Our worship is to be the passionate expression of our deepest longings. Our wondrous admirations, our confident reliance, even when such seems to be folly, and our inexpressible satisfaction In the one who is a spring and a feast in the desert. Amen At Columbia Presbyterian, is that expressed in our worship? Are you singing when we sing? Some of you do, some of you don't I don't know why some of you don't sing. Maybe you're not singing because it'd be dishonest to sing. That's okay I just want you to think about why don't I sing? Why do I come here as a spectator rather than as a participant? Where is your heart? As you think about this great God that is presented to you week by week. Let me offer to you just a couple suggestions practically. Let me suggest to you that this week you memorize verse one of this psalm. It won't take you very long, very simple. My memorizing will help you to think about it and that you say that verse as soon as you wake up, get out of bed in the morning. By Tuesday or Wednesday, you should have it down. And be able to say that verse. Oh God, you are my God. At dawn first mostly get up at dawn, right? At dawn First thing, I earnestly I seek you, my soul thirsts for you, my body longs for you on a dry and weary land where there's no water. And then as you desire to do it, add on a couple other verses. Maybe verse eight, some other verse. Memorize this. Imagine what our worship would be like if we were a people who were praying and Internalizing these kinds of thoughts during the week, individually, as families. And then we come together. And it's like a crescendo of mutual energizing one another and all of our difficulties and our joys and the rest of it as we see Jesus lifted up and we come and we're here on time because we can't wait to get started and we don't want to miss it. Rather than getting credit if I got here part of the time. Or like a church, local church that I heard of just recently, had a little skip. And the point of the skit was, would you guys please turn off your cell phones during worship? You know, it's not all so bad at Columbia Passman, right? I don't know that problem, you know Um I mean that's you know you can imagine your cell phone goes off and you well I gotta get out of worship. Hey this is two for one. I'm getting credit for being a worship, I also get some work done. I didn't call, it was my not my fault. You see, where's our hearts? Or our hearts to put away the distractions? Or our hearts to get to bed Saturday night? So that we get sleep, so that we can get up and be refreshed? Or is it kind of like ah Saturday night, you know, I stay up later, who cares, just worship, I get up, I'll drag myself in. See, where's our hearts? Sunday mornings we come and we say, Lord, I want to meet you. I want my heart to be ready and reflected. See, our vision of worship is the kind of worship that energizes us with the gospel coming and in our being flowing and being reflected back. The enemy of our worship is not pain. It's apathy. It's self-absorption. How we would love to see that people who drop in don't know anything about the gospel or CPC, they come here And they would be shaken by a people who knew the presence of God and whose worship was so compelling that they said, God is in the midst. of you here. You know, I've had people actually say, I could tell God is here. We long for that. Deepen. Extend more and more through our congregation. I'm not saying we're nowhere there. I'm just saying that's our vision to deepen and extend this. So that we're energized by it and we bring something to it and we receive with hands that express, I'm empty, but now take me in our worship. Oh Lord, God, you are my God. I'm satisfied with you. I cling to you. In verse 2, he says, I've seen your power and your glory. This morning I want to close, rather than in prayer leading you, by having you see something, just a glimpse. Of his power and his glory in creation. It's going to go very fast. It's going to be kind of a four-minute tour of the universe. And so what you will see, just so you're ready, will be basically starting fairly local in our neighborhood, 10 million light years away. Not, you know, we're not going out billions, ten million light years away, and each successive slide will be a tenth closer. So we'll go first slide ten million light years away, second slide, one million light years away, then a hundred thousand light years away, ten thousand, one thousand, you know, until we come down to a particular leaf in the state of Florida. ultimately to the subatomic particles in that leaf. And remember, it is our God who has made all this Rules every molecule under his power, no rogue molecules in all the universe, and ultimately his power and his glory are not seen in creation. But at the cross, let's worship.