Because we're coming to God's Word together, and we turn again to the Gospel of John. As we look together again at this prayer, we're spending these uh four weeks in September to work through our what does it mean to be a church on a mission? As we've been talking about our mission statement, and let me remind you that our mission statement, our vision for this church Is to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Colombia, the region, and the world And we spent the last couple of weeks looking at what does it mean to experience God's grace, and we're going to spend the next two Sundays looking together at what does it mean to extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we turn to the Gospel of John again, where we hear the words of Jesus as he was praying, and in it we find a great deal about mission. And this morning we learn that he was one sent from God to make a people for his own, disciples and those who would believe the message. That they would be a people, and that his church would be a people with a cause, to make the man, that is the person, and the message of Jesus Christ known to the world. So let's turn if you have your Bibles to the Gospel of John 17, verses 13 and following. If you don't have your Bibles, the scriptures are available to you on the screen. Hear now God's word. I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that they that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified. My prayer is not only for them alone, I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. That all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you. They know that you have sent me. I have made you known to them. And will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them, and that I myself may be in them. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Father, we thank you for the psalmist David As he opened your word and he prayed, as we pray this morning by your Spirit, open our eyes that we might see wondrous things in your law. Teaching us the mission of God has come to form a church to be on a mission. Help us, Lord, to see it, to embrace it, and by your grace to live it out. In Jesus' name. Amen. So, what does it mean to be a people with a cause, to be a church on a mission? Jesus states clearly here, if you look together, if you have your Bibles, at just the verse where he says the following. He says in verse 18, As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. The word sent, as we discussed a couple of weeks ago, is the same word from which we get the English word mission. Missio. Sent. So by its very nature, Jesus says here that he, by God's appointment, was on a mission. And so therefore, the message that he announced and declared, and the life that he would live, is itself the content of that mission. It is that content of the gospel of Jesus Christ that comes into the life and turns everything upside down, but then intends to send out. That is Jesus' prayer. Jesus' prayer for his apostles, because it would be through the message of the apostles that those who now believe have heard this message and the person of Jesus. But he intends for his church not to simply be a depository, a place where the gospel is simply preached and we all pat ourselves on the back. Or those who believe say, isn't it great? And then we take it and simply keep it to ourselves. We are meant to be a church on a mission. So this morning I want you to see the goal of this mission, the goal of the cause, the ethic that characterizes this cause, and then the constancy. That should also attend it. The goal, the ethic, and the constancy. Let's look together at the goal Jesus says very clearly when he tells them as he's praying, rather when he's praying for his disciples, that he has given them the word. That is the literal message of the Bible, but also and equally important is the very message that Jesus refers to in the Great Commission. Go out and make disciples of all nations, teaching them to obey everything that I have commanded you. So the word that he has given them is his message. And they are to take it into the world. He says, I'm praying that you would, as you have sent me into the world, I'm saying, send them into the world. But the goal of being sent is in fact the announcement. The goal is the announcement, the declaration, the proclamation of the person and the message of Jesus Christ. And it is particularly that that is both revolutionary and significant. What I mean by revolutionary is that when the gospel is actually taught, It is a message which turns everything upside down. It turns the world's ideas upside down. It turns our lives upside down. Because it is at the same time. Both offensive and attractive I learned this, of course, when my seminary professor said, there are two fifths of the gospel The two fifths of the gospel are the one says, and here is one part of the message of the gospel. The first fifth tells us this, that in fact. That human beings are sinners, full of pride and wickedness, and all kinds of evil desires that deserves hell The second part of the gospel is that while that is absolutely true, the second part of the gospel is yet God, while we were yet his enemies, sent his son. To die on the cross, to take our sin, and in exchange give us both the forgiveness and his righteousness, because he lived in our place. So the gospel, using the two-fist metaphor, is this The one-fist is the one that takes the wind out of us because it finally tells us the truth. And no other faith, no other religion in the world Says these things, that is, that you as humanity and I as a human being are desperately wicked, deserving of hell, full of pride, and yet, so while that wind is taken out of us. There's the other fist. The other fist is the fist that in fact, yet God sees us in our need and sends his son to die. But here's the unique thing. That fist was not put to us. That fist, if you will, was put to his son. Where Jesus died on a cross, his life taken, his sacrifice given in our place, so that on the third day when he was raised from the dead, victorious over sin and death, That the wind that was taken out of us by the truth of acknowledging that who we are as sinners deserving hell, God returns that air, that wind, that life, through the life of his Son Jesus. His grace. It is particularly this, this two-point message, this gospel Which is in fact revolutionary because it is the only thing in human life, in human world, understanding of religions that says just exactly this. It doesn't just say you're desperately wicked or that the world is broken. It doesn't say that your problem is you just need to be a better husband or a better person or a better worker. No, it says at our very nature what our problem is. But it also says that the good news Is that it's God Himself took our place. It is That kind of revolutionary. And when Jesus says, as you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. What he has sent them with is this revolutionary gospel. Because by this gospel By God's love, he has created then a place for peace, fundamentally first, between us and God. There's that reconciliation that Paul speaks of in 2 Corinthians 5. That Jesus has reconciled us to the Father. So one of love, one of peace, one of grace. Now I was reminded as I was thinking about this, don't ask me why, but I was, I was reminded of Woodstock. So some of you are of age and remember Woodstock. Personally, perhaps. If you can remember, if you were there. But work with me. It was over three days. Right? And over these three days, if you look back, there are folks who have actually gained their PhDs by going back and writing a cultural study of this great three-day concert in Woodstock, New York. I had some young children ask me earlier, what's Woodstock? So it was a big concert. Lots happened at this concert. Okay, so people have said, what's the meaning of Woodstock? Some have written that the meaning of Woodstock is that finally, here we have a group of young people gathering around, not about war, but about peace, centered around a connecting point of music. And the meaning of Woodstock is that a group of kids could get together and we could be committed as one for what? Love and peace, not war. That's a you know that's not a bad idea. I mean, in and of itself, as an idea, to gather together for the sake of love and peace. The problem is, it seems to me, that Woodstock and its likewise expressions around the years Doesn't go far enough with love and peace. It can't solve the fundamental problem. It's not revolutionary enough. Here's why. Okay, so in the mid-90s, Acura had this commercial. And uh the this gentleman nicely dressed and He's coming out of his office building and he gets into his accura. You don't know what city's in, but as the camera pans back, he's in New York and he's on Wall Street, you see that. Okay, so he gets in his car, you think he's driving home. He So he's driving, he's really enjoying his new car, you know, you get to see the dashboard and the music. It's it's all great. He's putting back the sunroof, the windows are down. I mean he is feeling it. He's it's great. And he's he's going through this very pastoral setting, winding roads, because you know accurators can do that, blah, blah, blah. Then all of a sudden, towards the end of the commercial, he stops, he gets out of the car, and guess where he is? He's on the bluff overlooking Woodstock. Right? He's overlooking and he's and he's thinking back whimsically, you can tell. But I have no idea what Acura was trying to say. I have no clue. But what's interesting is That the Woodstock generation, I think, Acura is trying to appeal to the Woodstock generation. That in fact, yeah, okay, love and peace and happiness. But to what end? I think it's because it didn't go deep enough, it turned into personal peace and personal affluence Love in a way that helps me. But the gospel is revolutionary because it not only comes to humans, To reconcile us to God and to turn things upside down, it means to take us out of ourselves to something far larger. So much bigger. Because it is so incredibly significant. Because it means not just because it's revolutionary by what it says, it's it's significant by what it does It means not to be a set of theological or philosophical beliefs that then you just sort of agree with and assent to and you go get in your car on Sunday and you go home and have lunch and And wasn't that nice? No, it means, yes, it is a a group of theological beliefs and statements of from the word. The word is truth. So there's a a fundamental embracing in the Christian faith of Christian truth propositions from the Word. But it means to not stop there. It's propositions that change every aspect. of who we are. And I believe that's exactly why the world hated the disciples. Why, in fact, the world was so bent on Jesus' crucifixion. Love, yes, peace, great. But you need the love of God in me, says Jesus, because I am the only way, truth, and life. And so it's not surprising to me as I began to think about the significance of this very mission, this very gospel that is to be the goal of the mission, declaring it. Is that its significance is that it does change everything. And in Matthew chapter 5, we hear Jesus' first sermon. So I would like to connect his first sermon and his last prayer. His first sermon tells us that the significance of what he was coming to do and to embody and to live out and to declare is a whole new kingdom, a whole new way to live. Which is why when he says You have heard it said that to people long ago do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. He's saying that even if I harbor hate in my heart or malice towards another, I am taking their life. And what that is telling me in the first sermon is this that the revolutionary sense of the gospel goes to the very significant part of ourselves. It goes to motivations, it goes to thoughts. It's not first and foremost. a behavior modification system. It's changing our very identity, our heart, and the way we think, the way we view things, what motivates us, what animates us, what is our goal. Because it is revolutionary, it is significant, it is deep. And it changes everything that comes into contact with it. Otherwise it's rejected. And Jesus, of course, I believe wants to send his disciples with this message because he says that when he prays in verse 20, my prayer is not only for my disciples alone, but I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. It's what Paul refers to in Romans chapter 10. That it is this message that they are sent into the world. And therefore those who believe and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ are given this very same message. To take into the world the church's mission. Let me be clear. The central mission of the Church of Jesus Christ. Is one thing to declare and to live out the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ We can have programs and we can have all kinds of events and we can be into art and we can be into all kinds of stuff and that's all great But it is never central. It is always secondary to the one thing: the declaration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But there is an ethic that is to characterize this very message, the way in which it is declared, how it is taken into the world. I want you to see this in two places. Verse 23, as we see that I believe the one ethic, the way in which it is announced, the mindset is this. It is one of peacemaking. Where do I get that? I get that from this. Look at verse 23 where it says, I and them and you and me, may they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you love me. I believe buried deep in this idea and deep into this word of unity is to be lived out. What the gospel does first. What the gospel does first is to reconcile us to God vertically. But it doesn't just stop there. It's meant to also form a community where horizontally we're being brought into unity. And by unity I mean oneness of heart. And that it changes relationships. But here's the rub. Why would Jesus need to pray for that? Because we're sinners. And first and foremost That means that everybody in this room has a different personality, different background, different gifts, different weaknesses, different strengths. And the problem is, you put a group of people together, what's going to happen? Conflict. And what he's praying for is that we would be one as the Father is one. Notice this, I don't mean that peacemaking means the lack of or the absence of conflict. But when conflict happens, to have this unity, to maintain the unity, means we also must go back to the gospel to learn how to love one another when we hurt one another. He was also praying for this because Jesus knows what I think any Christian inherently knows. That how can we go to the world and to declare that Jesus came to reconcile us Through the body and blood of Jesus Christ to create a peace between us and God if we horizontally, as those who profess Christ, are not living at peace with each other. If we hold on to grievances and have these attitudes towards one another. But it stretches beyond here from Christian to Christian. I think it also means what Paul was talking about in the ministry of peacemaking, being an ambassador of Jesus to the world, that the church is to also go about the proclamation of the gospel. With the ethic of peacemaking that we go to those who do not believe who are different than us, who may even be violently opposed to what we believe and yet the Bible goes remember this is a significant part? Jesus won't let us get out from under it. He says, even though the world hates you, he says, Father protect them. But it doesn't mean we're not sent. And it doesn't mean that we take the sword. It means that we have to love enemies if you're a Christian That is a hard ethic. And let me take this as a point of illustration, because it's been brought back up in the news recently. I see no motivation in any place in the scriptures whatsoever that would ever lead a minister of the gospel to burn a Quran. Because that in no way, shape, or form is a proclamation of the gospel, that is a provocation using the gospel as pretense Now let me be clear, there are a lot of very legitimate issues and differences between the Christian faith and the faith of Islam. There needs to be a sincere building of bridges, a dialogue, even though those who are of Islamic faith may violently disagree with what the Christian gospel teaches. But nowhere ever does Jesus promote that we are to use the means of the world to get the message out. But let me be clear. I recognize that we're not burning Quran, but I also know in my own heart that I must be careful of the creeping thought that might say Yeah, I wouldn't do that, but go get 'em. It's subtle If you're a Christian, human flesh is not your enemy. And the Christian is never a victim. It doesn't lead us to triumphalism. I believe Jesus leads us to humility. Because if I deserve hell and yet God saved me by his grace, That means that has implications for how I greet those who don't believe. How do I do it? By first coming. After I've absorbed the beauty of Jesus and his grace, being humbled by that. And offering the humble message of Jesus. But it is also marked not just by peacemaking, it is marked by love. I know you might be saying, well, duh, stick with me. By love, I don't mean that we love people at a distance if you're a Christian. That the church can just say generally, well, I know we're supposed to love the lost. Loving means you're actually engaged. Look what Jesus doesn't love from afar. He gets into the messiness of the lives of human beings. And when he does, he demonstrates his love and he equips every Christian and calls every Christian. to therefore move into mission and move into relationship, friendship, neighborliness, hospitality with those who don't believe Because you love them as fellow human beings. And you get it it means you come into contact with a lot of messiness. I was reminded of this through Jack Miller, pastor who's no longer with us, but wrote in his book about a story where he was talking about this very idea. And he said, experience is the best teacher. He said, a young woman in 1974, My wife and I took her in, and a woman as she came deeply involved with us, we we learned that she had also been very involved in the occult, drugs, and various gangs. And she lived with us. As the gospel began to touch her life, the dark powers at work in her, in her heart, stirred her up to plan to murder my wife and me. One day, in a spasm of guilt, she blurted out to me, I've been planning to kill you and Mrs. Miller. I was stunned, completely appalled, by the depths of evil that are now being exposed. This woman who had been soaking up our care, hospitality, friendship, and was intent on committing murder. Almost immediately I knew what the Lord would do if he were there. And I said to her, Gwen, before anything else happens, I want you to know I forgive you. I forgive you for planning to murder us. Now it was Gwyn and her it was her turn to be stunned. She fell back as though I had struck her on the face. And she cried out to me, You are the only people who have ever loved me, and I have been wanting to kill you. I am so sick. It shows, I said, that you cannot change yourself and that I can't either. Gwen, you need Jesus in your heart. Let's pray. Gwynne prayed to receive Christ and went on to walk with the Lord. And there was a young person who asked me from the first service, was that a true story? It is a true story. But I recognize also it's rare. And the Lord doesn't call everyone to perhaps this radical kind of hospitality like the Millers. Some of you have. And some of you are, inviting people into your home to live with you. But there is not a person who can hear my voice, who trusts the Lord Jesus Christ, who isn't called to move into the lives of others. Who do not know Jesus, to love them where they are in the messiness of life, because Jesus has first made you the object of that very same mission. It's what the Christian gets to do. It doesn't become a labor. Jesus intends for it to be a delight. But how does that happen? How does it become a delight? It happens, I think, through seeing that the mission, the cause to which Jesus is calling us to It's characterized also by constancy. It's not just once in a while that the church is called to go and to declare Jesus and his salvation. It's not just once in a while that we're called to move into the lives of those who don't know Christ, to share Christ with them. It is to characterize our very life together, our very ministry as a church. And for your Christian life. It is to be constant, it is to be persistent. But how in the world do we do that? I think it is when we stare into this word of Jesus' prayer, as one writer said, it is to recognize that this, that we are the object of the mission of Jesus. And only when we truly absorb by God's Spirit and Him opening our eyes that we see that we are the object of His affection will we be willing to be a subject of the mission. When we see the urgency, the urgency that God by his grace was willing to take his son to the end of himself that we might have life gives urgency to the Christian That when we recognize that we've become the object, we're willing to be the subject. But there is also this The ultimate way, I think, to see, to be able to maintain this mission on a daily basis, it is to see the presence. of Jesus. In verse 26, these are the words that he says. I have made you known to them and will continue to make you known, in order that the love you have for me may be in them. And then he says this phrase, and that I myself may be in them. Every time God sends out his church Every time God sends out the Christian, he always goes out with them. This is a biblical theme throughout the entirety of Scripture. When God created Adam and Eve, where did God was there with them in the garden When God sent out Moses, what did God tell Moses? I will be with you. When God said to Joshua, do not be afraid. Go into the promised land. For what does he say? For I will be with you. He says, do not be afraid. Why should I not be afraid? Because you are with me. When David cries out in the Psalms through all of his trials and difficulties, what does he say of the Lord? Surely the Lord is with me. When he sends out the prophets, he says, I am with you. And What does Jesus say? When Jesus comes to be clothed in flesh, he not only says that I am God, he says that God is with me. And then to his disciples, earlier in John, he says, I will not leave you as orphans, I will give you my spirit. It is better that I go, otherwise he will not come to you. That is a remarkable thing. That the Trinitarian idea is that the Trinity Goes out, sends out, and then goes out with us. That Jesus, taking on flesh, is now seated at the right hand of God the Father, but he sent his Spirit, the third person of the Trinity. That the only way to maintain the mission, I believe, is also to draw on the presence and power of the Spirit that has filled his church. With the revolutionary and significant gospel, with the peacemaking and love of Jesus that the gospel brings about. To then give us his presence to send us out. And he will go out with us. If you're visiting with us for the first time, or if you've been here for 34 years, last Sunday was the thirty-fourth anniversary. Our first and primary duty is to declare the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. To Colombia, the region, and the world. That is what we get to do. May God give us his spirit And give us strength. And give us the voice to make it known. Let's pray. Lord, you have come. You have made yourself known. But not by the means that the world ever expected. But you have come with the message and the person of your Son Jesus. Lord Jesus, you have declared your message. You have done your work, and you have given the message and the mission to your church. Lord, I pray that by your Spirit we would first and foremost receive that gift. Experience that grace. But then to know the mission to declare it. Help us, we pray. By your spirit and your word. In Jesus' name. Amen.