Luke chapter 1, considering the foretelling of the birth of Jesus Christ by the angel Gabriel, beginning with verse 26. Luke chapter 1 verse 26. Let's give our attention to God's word as we hear it. In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to average. Pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give Birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the Lord. over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asked the angel, since I'm a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you and And the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. She who is said to be barren is in her soul. Sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. May it be to me as you have said. And then the angel left her. So far God's word Let's consider this truth together. I don't know about you, but uh this wasn't exactly a winner of a week for me. It's been kind of a rough week. I uh Must say that our home wasn't the uh picture of domestic tranquility that you might think that a pastor's home should be. The Christmas tree fell over three times all over the living room, and it was downhill from there. In our ministry in the church, uh Dan and I, with the session, have been ministering to some hurts and particular sins and difficulties that have frankly made me uh tempted to question the power of the gospel for those that profess Christ. It's been kind of a rough week in a number of ways. And I find that it's so easy to forget, to be amazed at God's favor. It's so easy, isn't it, to forget that God has come and said to us just as personally as through the angel to Mary, you are highly favored. We like to think of ourselves as sinners emeritus, sinners and the past tense and somehow we've gotten it together now and we're a scrubbed and cleaned up congregation. We forget the fact that if God is ever going to accept us, it's on his grace. And if we're ever going to accept one another, it's as sinners that we need to do that. And yet I don't want to turn us inward to introspection, to self searching, to heart searching and deep confession necessarily so much this morning. But I would like to point us To look to Jesus. Because I'm convinced that that's what we as a congregation need to see if we're ever going to turn from our sin. We need to see Jesus the way the angel Gabriel presented. Last week you remember we talked about the greeting of the angel Gabriel, the marvelous news that we, like Mary, are favored by a holy and gracious God. And that his presence is with us. And then what I want to do now is to look at what the angel said about this one who was coming. What did he say about this? little baby. How did he describe the one that Mary was to have? And as we look at that we see that there are seven remarkable statements about Jesus, the one who is to come. In fact, I believe that if you look at these verses carefully you'll see that some of the most exalted Christology in the entire New Testament is contained right within this statement of the introduction of Jesus. I think this is a passage that is sadly neglected. when we talk to people like Jehovah's Witnesses or others who claim not to believe in Jesus' deity, say the Bible doesn't teach that. It's very clearly taught in these passages as we'll see. So let's take a look at what the angel has to say. Seven things. You see them in your bulletin outline, follow along as we see these now, that our hearts will be lifted up as we see Jesus. First of all, the angel says that he is to be named Jesus. We see that in verse thirty one. You will be a child and give birth to a son, and you're to give him the name Jesus. Bernard of Clairvaux has said that the name Jesus is honey in the mouth, a melody in the earth. ear and joy in the heart. And it's true, isn't it, when we think of what Jesus means. What Jesus means to us. The name Jesus is simply the New Testament or Greek counterpart to the Old Testament name Joshua or Yeshua. It's the word, uh the name that, as we saw a couple of years ago at Christmas time, means God is salvation or the Lord Is salvation. It means deliverer. It's defined by the book of Exodus. You remember there in the book of Exodus, we're told that God's people were in bondage, slaving day after day. You can't go where you want to go. You can't do what you want to do. You're hot, and all you get is criticism and the whip. And there's no choice that you can make. You're in bondage. Your will is captive. Everything that you do. Is directed and all of your actions are controlled. You're in bondage. And God sent the deliverer, Moses, and he said, I'm going to show you that I am your deliverer. And he brought Israel out, slaves from the most powerful And then they still were in the desert, still hot and thirsty, still without any enjoyment of the riches of God, still without any place to call their own that they could say they belong. And God raised up Food. Joshua. And it was Joshua, the deliverer, who brought God's people into Canaan, a land flowing with milk and honey. Don't think of Canaan as you see it today, just beginning to return to its fertility. Kingdom at that time was covered with forests and pastures and fields and much of its topography. It was a beautiful place, a place that was lush and fertile, before it had been destroyed and by the uh uh sad uh neglect of any uh environmental principles in the days of Solomon and the kings after him. But before that it was a beautiful place that God brought his people into. And we have a Joshua, a Jesus, who's a direct for us not from the Egypt that we live in, but from the bondage of the kingdom of Satan. And Jesus has delivered you and me from the bondage of our sin, that sin which controls us. It doesn't enable us to do what we want to do. The sins which control our habits and our thinking. And Jesus has delivered you, if you've trusted in him, from the bondage of your sin, and he's brought you into his kingdom. Of which we have only the first fruits of a taste by the Holy Spirit now, but a kingdom of milk and honey and peace and prosperity, which will outshine anything that Solomon ever has when he brings us into that kingdom of Heaven. If you feel the bondage of your sin this morning, remember the first thing that the angel said about this wife is that he's to be called Jesus because as Matthew says, he'll save his people. Will deliver his people from their sins. But secondly, we see that he will be great. You see that in verse 32. He will be great, the angel of Israel said. Now that word great. Implies that he will be successful. Even famous is contained in that thought. We know that at least it means that he will be great in the sight of the Lord. For the same words used in verse 15, when the angel Gabriel also said to Zachariah, Concerning John, that he will be great in the sight of the Lord. Same word that's used there. And so this one is going to be great in the sight of the Lord, but even more than that. For instance, look at Isaiah chapter 6. Isaiah's vision of the Lord. Do you remember that vision where he saw the Lord high and lifted up in the temple? And he saw the angels bowing and prostrating themselves before the Lord. And Isaiah said in chapter 6, verse 3, they were calling to one another. And they said, Holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. Then John, writing in his gospel, in chapter 12, in verse 40, quotes. From Isaiah chapter 6, they says in verse 41, Isaiah said this because he saw what? Jesus' glory. And spoke about Him. Didn't you realize that when you're reading Isaiah six? That what Isaiah was seeing in that vision of the whole earth being full of the glory and the holiness of God was the glory of Jesus. That's what he was talking about. And so the angel Gabriel says, This one is going to be great. You don't have any idea, Mary, of the greatness of this one to be displayed. The whole earth is going to be full of his glory. Remember, that the angel is not. speaking this to a Madonna who is in gilded robes with light, you know, sort of flowing about her hair and behind her, you know. He's speaking to somebody like Carrie Williams or Laurie Sullivan. A teenage kid. You gotta identify that, you know? Because you gotta understand that it's these kinds of girls that the angel is speaking to about that age. I'm not gonna compare character, I don't know. But they were that kind of She was that kind of a girl. Uh don't put a hala about her. Because that's that's the amazing thing about the favor and the grace of God. This great one is going to come. The third thing that he says is that he will be called the Son of the Most High. You see that in verse thirty two also. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. Now that phrase in itself does not necessitate deity. In chapter 6, verse 35, you'll see that the Lord called his disciples sons of the Most High. And so in itself it doesn't require. require that one is uh God Himself. But as we'll further see in verse thirty-five, the way the angel uses this reference, it does necessitate deity. But hold off to verse thirty-five. The fourth thing that we see is that he will receive the throne of David. He'll receive the throne of David. The end of verse 32. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Mary's eyes must have really gotten wide at that point, I imagine. Because all of a sudden she remembers that her great-great-great-great-great-great on back so far, granddad, was David, the king. remembers so vividly how there has been passed down to her the recollection of the promise that is given to her ancestor, her great-great-great-great-great one father down father-grandfather David. And that promise It was in 2 Samuel chapter 7, where God had said in verse 12, That I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, David, who will come from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom. Verse 16, your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. And she remembers how from David came his son Solomon. And Solomon ruled in the golden age of Israel, and when even the Queen of Sheba, who was rich and famous in her own right, came to see this glorious one who had such wealth and such wisdom, who ruled him an age of peace and plenty. in which there was a government that was absolutely just and righteous. But then you remember what happened. Decay, corruption began to set in, as it always seems to, in any golden age of any country. And soon things went downhill very rapidly, from Solomon to his sons and his son's sons, until God's judgment was poured out upon a people who were so wicked and corrupt that he couldn't allow them to span the land. And Mary recalls how Just 160 years ago, her parents have told her about how God had raised up the Maccabees to throw off the Syrian yoke, and how God had established that household and its righteousness and its power. And the same thing she recalled. how she's heard her dad tell her the stories again and again of how after Jonathan and after Judas and the others, the brothers, there came a declinion and a very quickly setting in corruption and decay in the Maccabean household. So that Israel's worst enemies were its own rulers who were persecuting them, their own high priests and governors, who crucified them for their desire for the scriptures and to follow God. And she remembers how through the ages there has come that longing from the prophets that God will re-establish the throne of David. And this time there will not be a decay. This time God is going to establish peace and peace. Prosperity through his king. She remembers, for instance, from the words of Psalm 89, how that hope was expressed. You have said that I have made a covenant with my chosen one, and I have sworn today. David, my servant, I will establish your line forever. And I will make your throne firm through all generations. The verse twenty nine, I will establish his line forever, his throne as long as the heavens endure. Verse 35, once for all I have sworn by my holiness I will not lie to David, that his line will continue forever, and his throne endure before me like the sun. It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the star. And then what follows? Do you remember? Psalm 89, the very next word in verse 38. But. But you have rejected. Yes. You'll get angry with your anointed one. The psalmist goes on in great discouragement to speak of the fact. Where are these promises? Where are these promises of this one who is coming through the line of David? He's going to fulfill all that God promised to David, that he would establish his kingdom of peace and justice. Who are those promises? Is God mocking us by giving us such glorious promises? And then what does he do? He sends us into exile. And we have to do it. Have no king on the throne, and the Babylonians rule over us. And then come the Persians and all of their wickedness and cruelty. And then comes Alexander the Great. And that is it bad enough that he subjugates us through the Greek government, the Herodotus. Hellenistic government. But Hellenistic influence comes and it corrupts the pure worship of God. And then the Maccabees that we've spoken of. And then as if God just wants to rub it in, he sends the Romans in 63 BC to capture, to decimate Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Here's Mary, who's in the midst of that. That's just a generation or two before her. And she looks about her. And a madman, Herod, is on the throne. Not a descendant of David. Not even a pure Jew. You. And this one mocks the promises of God. And Mary says, Where is God in this? And the angel comes to her and he says, Mary, through you is going to come what? And the Lord God, notice who gives the promise. throne. It is not Israel. The angel does not say Israel is going to recognize and exalt this one to the throne. The Lord God himself is going to give the throne of David to your baby. So there's no Going to come that time again when this throne will be established. When there will be no fear of rape or mugging. There will be no fear of being mubbed or shot even in the Long Reach Village Centers. of years ago, a policeman shot right in this village site. Muggings that have taken place right here with people going into the safeway. There's not going to be the fear of nuclear war. There's not going to be the fear of terror. terrorism and hijackings. There's not going to be the fear in this kingdom of industrial pollution. There's not going to be the fear in this kingdom that will be established of any more insecurity. There's not going to be heard in this kingdom kingdom, but I just can't get along with so and so. There's not going to be herd in this kingdom. I just hate to get up and go to work. I despise my God. There's not going to be heard in this kingdom. I just don't know how to deal with the time pressures that are crushing. I want to enjoy Christmas in my friends and I want to have ministry and I want to be fulfilled in the things that I do to serve the Lord. But everything crushes in upon me and I just don't know where to turn and I'm discouraged and depressed. The angel saying, There's coming this way. The Lord God is going to give him the throne of his father David. And wrapped up in all of that are the promises of peace and prosperity of the kingdom that are going to outshine the golden age of Solomon. like the sun outshines the stars as we see it. Not only is he going to give him this throne, but the fifth thing that he says is that this throne is going to endure forever. Look at verse 33. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. Twice it stated, just so you don't miss the point. Not only is it forever, but it's never gonna end, too. Forever. The fact that he speaks of the house of Jacob, I think, is to remind us that it's by grace. Whenever God refers to Israel as the house of Jacob, he's reminding Them of their roots and of their origin. But they came from Jacob, the heel grabber, the conniver, and the one who sought to out to cheat his brother of his birthright, and the one who was constantly in opposition to God through his life, who God had to humble by pressing his thigh out of socket. And God is reminding Mary, Gabriel is reminding Mary here again. Not only are you favored David, But those that this king is going to rule over, those that come from Jacob, they're not princely in their own right. They're the connivors, the cheaters. And he's going to reign over them in this kingdom of peace and prosperity forever. It's never going to end. Not just the kingdom is never going to end. Notice that, carefully in that verse. But he will reign forever. Clearly, this kingdom is not only one that's of grace, but it's supernatural. Here we have one who now is going to be a king who will live forever. And so his kingdom will not only never be wrenched from him. But he himself will stay in that throne forever and ever and ever. And so we're reminded of the hope that was set before us in the Old Testament. We're reminded of the fact that when the uh prophet came to David and shared with him that promise of God in 2 Samuel chapter 7. But the promise was I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will will be established forever. Or Psalm 45, verse 6 put it. Your throne, O God, will last forever. Ever, the scepter of your justice will be the scepter of your kingdom. Well you remember Isaiah chapter nine, where we promised that to us a child is born, and a son is given, and the government will be born. on his shoulders and he'll be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And of the increase of his government in peace, there will be no end. No end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on, the time that he comes, the time that is upon. Upon us now, forever and ever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. Chapter 7, when Daniel saw the night vision, the one who is the ancient of days, Coming into the divine presence, and he comes up to the throne. That throne which is above all thrones, and he was given authority and glory and sovereign power. And all peoples and nations and men of every language worshipped him. Dominion is an everlasting dominion and will not pass away. And his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. The one is coming who will reign forever. Have you ever thought about what forever means? Perhaps you've heard the illustration, and if you have, I hope the reminder will at least be Helpful, but to me it's one of the best to help me to understand what is an unfathomable concept of eternity. You picture a little bird, a little bird who is uh able to fly at the rate of a sparrow, but a bird who has supernatural qualities of uh making being able to make uh long, long trips without refueling. And this bird picks up one grain of sand off of the eastern Shore. He takes that one grain of sand, and begins to flap his wings, and he takes off, and he flies to the eastern shore, out of our solar system, out beyond our galaxy, to the furthest galaxy known away, somewhere. between twelve and fourteen billion light years away. Now this little thing's not flying light speed, the speed of light. He is flying like a little sparrow. And so he heads out to that furthest star upon the furthest planet of that star. And he gets there some About a hundred, hundred and fifty billion years from now. And then he comes back from that star and he picks up the next grain of sand off the eastern shore. And he takes off again. There's no rest for the weary. And off he goes, out beyond that galaxy, off to the furthest star. In the furthest galaxy to the furthest planet and he both deposits that second grain of sand. And he comes back for the return trip. And by the time that bird would have taken all the grains of sand off of all of the eastern shore, the whole east coast. coast, the Sahara Desert, removed every mountain and speck by speck have removed the earth. From here to that farthest planet, eternity would have just begun. And the angel says, this one is going to rule in righteousness with no corruption or decay ever setting in to his rule forever. And when we've been there ten times. Ten thousand years, yea, ten million years, bright shining as the sun, we'll have no less days to sing God's praise than when we first begun it. Do you see why it is It is so important what you do with Jesus Christ in your life. For you are either in that kingdom or you are not in that kingdom, depending on whether He is Jesus to you, your own deliverer. And we're not talking about and missing out on a few blessings here in this life. That is nothing compared to whether you are in the kingdom of David, in the one who sits upon the throne of David in righteousness forever. Ruling over changed people in a perfect society. The sixth thing that he says is that this one is holy. He's holy and that's very important because that's the only way that you and I could ever get into that. Kingdom. He says in verse 35, so he says, uh, this holy one to be ruled will be called the Son of God. But don't list the fact that he calls him the Holy One. Remember the word holy means one who is set apart. And that generally means set apart from something common or simple. But in this case, it is speaking of perfect holiness, absolutely set apart. From any sin or corruption. And that is what makes this baby who will grow to be a man who keeps God's law perfectly eligible to take your sin and my sin upon the cross. So that when he died there upon the cross, God was looking at your sin and my sin upon Jesus, the Holy One, who had no sin of his own to die for, and therefore could substitute his freshness. Life for your sin and for my sin, so that by our casting ourselves on him we can get in to his kingdom. And then seventhly and finally, he is the Of God. You notice in verse 34, after the first five things that the angel had said, Mary has a question. She says, How is this going to be? Since I'm a virgin. That to me, incidentally, implies that she was probably the at the very beginning of her engagement to Joseph. As I said last week, those engagements normally lasted about a year. And if she was toward the end of it, that might not have been a particular question to her. She would have thought the angel was referring simply to when they get married and what will happen. as has been the case of others in the Old Testament, such as the mother of Samson, uh, who had been married for a while, but at least as a married woman that was not a problem. It seems to me that Mary was not going to be married for a while. And so she has those How is this going to be? And the angel answers her. Notice precisely the way he puts it. It's very important to see the structure of his answer. It's a parallel structure. He says two things that are in parallel. Relationship. First, the Holy Spirit will come upon you. And then the parallel thought: the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Or we might say, the Holy Spirit will come upon you. That is to say, the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And the word overshadow there, uh the Exodus uh uh Exodus forty verse thirty-five refers to the overshadow. And that word overshadow in the Greek translation of the Old Testament was used to refer to the Shekhana glory overshadowing the temple. In Exodus chapter 40 and verse 35. After the temple had been constructed and God was descending upon it, we read in chapter 40, verse 35, the beginning of verse 34. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the the Lord build the tabernacle. Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it. That word settled upon is in the Greek translation the word overshadow, the same word used above Holy Spirit coming upon Mary and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. You see the connection? See what Gabriel is saying there, don't miss it. He's saying, just as the very presence of God overshadowed that temple which had nothing special in itself. It was made of badger skins and other things, just earthy materials. And there it was, simply a building, a construction. But then the very presence of God overshadowed that and it became a holy thing. And so he's saying, Mary, the Holy Spirit's going to come upon you. And the power of the Most High, the same word used in verse 32, you say, you'll be called due. the Son of the Most High. The power of the Most High, that is the Holy Spirit, is going to overshadow you. He's going to come upon you. His very presence is going to be in this one. And then notice what he says. Therefore, Therefore, so therefore this holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. Why is he called the Son of God? For some ethical reason, that he was so righteous, that he was so good? that he was such a great example? Was he called the Son of God just to simply exalt him, to remind us that we're all sons of God, and that we all have a relationship with our Heavenly Father, and that Jesus is the divine aspiration of this and some other such sentimental nonsense. He says, therefore, literally, this one has God as his father. He is the very presence of God, just as the Shekarna glory came upon the tabernacle in the temple. This one is literally the presence. Son of God. To me, that is one of the clearest statements in all of Scripture of the deity of Jesus Christ. Because the very fact that his Father was the Holy Spirit shows to us that blending of Mary and human as his mother and the Holy Spirit as his father so that he is an holy one eligible to take your sin and my sin forever. Do you realize what that's saying? That God himself, who Whose hand spans those galaxies that we just spoke about, has become a little baby, whose hand is now so tiny that it's too small to reach out and touch the huge heads of cattle that are by his bed. The infinite God has become finite and a creature for you and for me, so that we might be in the kingdom of David, on whose throne sits this great and holy and Majestic one breath. And our culture considers this story every year. They people sort of nod to heaven and say, Wasn't it nice that God sent his son to earth? And did all those nice nice things for us without realizing. Almost simply insulting God by giving such a recognition. Contrasted to what Mary did. In verse 38, after she heard This she said, Ah, I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said. Mary realized something of what was being told that at the very least the angel was telling her. that her son was going to be the Messiah to sit upon the throne of David forever and ever. Yet, isn't it amazing that considering his greatness, that you and I have such difficulty giving up our sin. John Patterson, in his book, The Greatness of Christ, says that if the greatness of Christ is the focus of all Christian truth, then the appreciation of that greatness is is the key to Christian progress. As Horatio Gonar expressed it, 'tis what I know of thee, my Lord and God, that fills my soul with peace, my lips with song. It is appreciation of the great Of Christ that will inform our worship, encourage us in prayer, fortify us in service, and strengthen our resolve to run through with patience the race that is set before us. For in whatever respect He is great, He is great for me. Have you ever noticed that Christians who seem able to put away their sin and to subject themselves as bond slaves, as Mary for the Lordship of Jesus Christ are those Christians who don't simply hate their sin in some abstract way as if they're just people who have a greater self discipline. They are people who know something of the greatness of Christ. For people who have appreciated what it means, that this one, born in a stable, has ascended the throne of David for them forever and ever. May God give to you and to me that that kind of vision will enable us to put away our sin gladly and love Jesus. Let's bow and worship. As we worship, but speak to God of our gladness of what He has done. Future.