Well, I didn't get to wear this last night, so by popular demand, this morning I wear my Christmas sweater that my mother knitted for me when I was 16 years old. But I only have twenty minutes this morning, so I'm not talking any more about the sweater. The Christmas story is uh full of ironies and um Counterintuitive twists, it's part of what makes it such an interesting story, besides the fact that it's true Um one of the interesting ironies of the story is that Jesus was born just a few miles outside of Jerusalem, the religious center of the world, biblical religion at that time. A place where there were many who studied the Bible more than you and I do and had a particular interest in the Messiah, his coming. What would prompt his coming, what would be the signs of his coming? They discussed this, they prayed for it, they sought him so much so that Many false messiahs were easily able to deceive the people because they were so eager to believe that Messiah would come. And yet probably A year, somewhere around that, after Jesus is born, they're still clueless that he's been born and is living right in their midst. Now that's particularly amazing to me because if you notice when Tom read from the Luke account this morning, it said that when the shepherds went to the manger afterwards, what did they do? Remember, it said it told they told everybody what they had seen, and it says the people were all amazed Now come on, how likely is it that that news didn't get to Jerusalem, maybe four miles away, and to all the people who were so intensely looking for signs of the coming of Messiah? My guess is that setting aside the lack of credibility of shepherds at that time, that the good news of Messiah being born in a stable of Galilean peasants was so outrageous, so offensive, that they probably wrote it off as not even worth checking out. Meanwhile, in stark contrast to that, about eight days' journey to the east, there's a group of Babylonian astrologers. One night these guys notice a new star in the sky. Now, you know, new stars don't just appear in the sky. So they check this out. And after some consideration, one of them says, do you remember 500 years ago, there was a man who was prime minister? who was a Jew and he talked. He was a man who had a lot of credibility because of his ability to tell dreams. And he had talked about a vision he had seen, for instance, in Daniel chapter 7, where Daniel says, In my vision at night I looked, and before me was one like a son of man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ancient of days sitting on this fiery throne, and he was led into his presence, and he was given authority, glory, and sovereign power All peoples, nations, and men of every language worshiped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. Gradually, apparently, they became convinced that this is the sign of that king being born. We remember looked at the um in evidence about that star and saw that it probably wasn't a celestial star like we think of, but rather the Shekinah glory, the pillar of fire that led Israel through the desert. So it probably looked a little different in the distance from a regular star. So they become convinced that this is a particular sign, a sign of the birth of the king of the Jews, the Messiah. Very little that they have to go on. But with just a little bit that they have to go on, they set aside their schedules, their careers, their plans for the next few weeks. They pack their things, and they take off toward Judah. Which leads to the first point. They seek him. They seek him. Very interesting how they seek him, because as I say, they had very little to go on. Just a star and some Remembrance of a prophecy from five hundred years before. People in Jerusalem had all the scriptures They had an understanding of what was to happen, and they weren't even checking it out, though it was about four miles away. Which leads me to the observation that we tend to devalue what is familiar to us, don't we? I mean just last night we went down to see the White House tree. You know, we do that whenever we can, Christmas time. We're driving past the uh Museum of Art, National Museum of Art and the uh Smithsonian Museum of Natural History, Museum of American History, all the riches, the cultural riches and thought. When's the last time I was in any of these places? You know, they're they're just so easy to get to that we don't take the time to notice and value them Some of you kids have been raised in Columbia Presbyterian, or others of you have been raised in a Christian home where Jesus has been very familiar to you. Your parents talked about Jesus so much and maybe even had family devotions and you knew that if you were nodding off and just half awake that they ask you a question you say Jesus you know figuring maybe that's fifty percent chance you got the right answer, you know. Uh he's so familiar, you hear about Jesus. You hear about how we ought to serve Jesus. You need him in your heart You've gone to Sunday school. You've gone to Pioneer Girls. You've gone to Christian Service Brigade. You've gone to vacation Bible school. You've gone to all these things, all the youth group, all this stuff. And Jesus has become so familiar to you. It's not worth checking out. This morning, you're not particularly interested in seeing Jesus. In fact, if I were to ask you, what's more exciting to you this morning, the birth of Jesus Christ, or an Xbox 360, for some of you it'd be a no-brainer. I saw on the news this past week, for those of you that don't know what an Xbox 360 is, state-of-the-art graphics and computer games. that uh a particular Best Buy had gotten 40 of these in. They were in such demand that the first forty people that assembled were ushered into the store with armed guards to get their boxes. What will an Xbox 360 be worth ten years from now? Twenty years? Fifty years? What will Jesus Christ be worth? Fifty years? A hundred years? A thousand years? We devalue what is familiar. The novel is what really captures our attention. And so the people in Jerusalem dismissed this idea of a Messiah being born of Galilean peasants. They knew the culture, they knew what that was like, and they thought, oh, nothing there. These guys from a pagan culture with practically no biblical information knew what it was like to live as pagans. They knew what it was like to live in the Medo-Persian Empire. They knew what it was like to be under the sway of Alexander the Great and the despotic rulers who knew nothing of mercy but only rule by force and violence, with no hope of a Messiah to deliver. And when they saw just a shred of a hope that there is someone come to deliver and change that. They set aside everything to come to see him. And they head west toward Judah. Probably they thought that anybody in Judah would be able to tell them where this one has been born is probably big news over there. And um maybe they're a little surprised when they find out that uh nobody seems to know anything about it. So they figure that they'll head to Jerusalem the capital. Surely somebody there is going to know about this Messiah and where he can be found. And there you see one of the great miracles of the biblical narrative of the birth of Jesus. Men asking directions. You notice they come to Jerusalem and perhaps they first see the guards at the gate, and they may have asked them. Where is this one who is born king of the Jews? And the guards say, there's no king around here but Herod. We don't know of anybody else. They get into the city and perhaps they come across a merchant in the street and they say, Do you know anything about the birth of this Messiah, the king of the Jews? And the merchant says, I don't know anything about a king of the Jews. How much would you take for that frankincense and myrrh? They see a mother wandering around the streets and they ask her, and she says, I have a child at home that's sick and may die. I don't care anything about kings. All they are is trouble. No one seems to know about the one born king of the Jews. So they figured the best thing to do is to go to the King of the Jews. See if he knows. They go to Herod's palace, and it always strikes me as an indication of their rank and their status that they're granted an immediate audience with Herod. So the next thing you know is they're asking Herod, and what also is interesting about that is that Herod takes them very seriously. He does not blow them off. In contrast to what probably was the response of the biblical scholars at that time, Herod doesn't say, well, yeah, we heard that rumor. He says, oh, really? Well I'll check this out with my biblical scholars here. And he calls them all together and asks, so where is this one supposed to be born king of the Jews? Now interesting again, they give him the correct answer I mean they're not clueless. They know they say, oh, you know, Micah 5. 2. Bethlehem, Judah, out of there out of you is going to come the ruler, the one who will shepherd my people Israel. And what's interesting is that Herod then says, I'm a seeker, go check him out and let me know. Because he takes this seriously. No indication that the men who gave him the answer ever checked it out. They don't say, oh yeah, by the way, could you let us know too? Because hey, you know, we're we're always waiting for Messiah and You know, if there's some something to this, let us They don't seem to care. So the Magi take off toward Bethlehem And there you pick up the story in verse nine, where it says, After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star that they had seen in the east went ahead of them till it stopped over the place where the child was. Again, to me. Pretty strong evidence that that's not a star. A star would never be able to stop over a house, would incinerate the entire Earth if it was within a couple million miles. And so this is likely. The Shekinah glory, the pillar of fire. And it indicates a particular house. And notice verse 10. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. Now, isn't that interesting? These guys know practically nothing about the gospel. But when they see the star, they're overjoyed because they say we're getting close to Messiah. We're getting close to him. We're hot on his trail. There's the star. It's leading us toward him. And my question, when I think of my heart and yours, I say, is there anybody here like that? Are any of you when you think you're hot on the trail of knowing Jesus and knowing something of what he is like, seeing him, that that really gives you joy? And when you think this morning of all the things that are familiar about Christmas, you say, but you know, knowing Jesus never gets old, never gets familiar. Penetrating more deeply into who he is and my need for him, knowing my heart, knowing his provision, knowing that Christmas is empty without him. Causes me to come here this morning not to be entertained, not to see Al Harris's Christmas sweater, or to hear him. I'm here because I want to see Jesus. I'm here because Christmas is empty to me if I don't see Jesus. What is it that you seek this morning? Some of you are saying I'm counting the minutes so I can get home and go back to playing with my presence. Maybe I have a few still I haven't opened yet. Do you come to seek Jesus? If you don't, you're of all people to be most pitied to actually sit in a service like this, where Jesus is proclaimed. And to find him so familiar that you devalue him and you don't pursue him But if you come because you really do seek him, your heart is set on finding Jesus in this service this morning. You know, the Lord says, Whoever seeks me will find me. And the Lord will meet you. The Lord will show you Himself. But it's for a heart that seeks Him Not one that sees him too familiar. So you come to the second point. The first they seek him, the second they worship him. First of all, notice that they see him. The impression that I have is that when they got to the house, there was perhaps a brief polite exchange with Mary and Joseph. But all the time they're looking at this little boy, maybe toddler, maybe he's crawling, maybe he's walking. They can't get their eyes off him What they're here for is really to see Jesus. And so after the preliminaries, they watch him. They gaze at him. That's all they're here to do. They just want to see him. What does he look like? Do you have a halo? Do you have some light glowing, you know, to show that he's holy and like the art displays? Well no, the art just does that to demonstrate that he's That's the one that's Jesus, you know. Instead of a little arrow saying Jesus, it you know, shows you that there's that's the one. But in reality, of course, you look like any other Jewish boy Was there anything to see by looking at his eyes and his demeanor that this was the King of Glory? I don't know. But with the eyes of faith They look and they believe this is the one that Daniel was talking about. This is the one who is the king of the Jews. And so secondly, they bow and they worship him. They see him and they bow and they worship. What this little child is going to become. They can only see with the eyes of faith. But they look with him with admiration. And the word to bow means to prostrate. Perhaps they go flat out, perhaps they kneel, you don't know. But it's still amazing, isn't it? With so little to go on that they gave him such reverence That we see here the first fruits of what the psalmist says in Psalm 72 being already displayed? Where the psalmist says in Psalm 72, verse 8, He will rule from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. The desert tribes will bow before him, and his enemies will lick the dust. The kings of Tarshish and of distant shores will bring tribute to him. The kings of Sheba and Seba will present him gifts. All kings will bow down to him, and all nations will serve him. And then may his name endure forever. May it continue as long as the Son. All nations will be blessed through him, and they will call him blessed. Praise be to the Lord God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous things. Praise be his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. And you're seeing here in these, however many wise men, the first fruits of the glorious splendor of the rule and the majesty of Jesus Christ. And so as they bow before him, they thirdly give him gifts. They gave him gifts. Psalm 72 says, they bring gifts for tribute. Interesting, nobody told them to do this. There was no command. This was not something that they were doing out of instructions. These were costly gifts, gold, pure incense, and myrrh. But they are simply compelled by the nature of the one that they came to see. They believe he's worthy. He's worth this. So as you see in your outline, it's not that the love of Christ ought to compel you, but rather the love of Christ does compel you. On a Christmas morning or anytime you see Jesus. Anytime with the eyes of faith you understand what your heart is like And you understand that this one was going to have to grow and obey God in every way, every thought, every action, every motive. Never slip up, not one time, a resentful, angry thought, but he will be perfect before God. And then he will take your sin, mine, and bear it, and give you and me his record. freely, so that we can come into his kingdom. And as you see what your heart is like and you know your need of Jesus The love of Christ compels you, constrains you to want to give, to give yourself to him. If you don't desire to give to Jesus what you are, what you have, even some costly sacrifice prompted by love that the world would look at as a silly sacrifice. But that you know out of your heart is simply the longing of a demonstration to show him your love. Then you need to go back and look at Jesus again. Because if you've seen him, if you've really seen him this morning, you'll love him. And you'll want to give to him. Nothing will be too great to give to Jesus. So, in the light of all that, I close by asking you, are you ready for Christmas? And you say, give me a break. It is Christmas. If I'm not ready now, when am I ever going to be? No, no, no, no. I'm saying, are you really ready? Because you see, it's still morning. And you don't know what the day will bring. One thing I know about Christmas is it never quite goes as I plan it in my mind. A couple of days ago, Tina Cruz found out that her dad had died and gone to be with the Lord. Two days before Christmas, talk about up-end your plans. After this service, they take off for Virginia to be with Tina's mom, stepmom. And Friday, Kathy and I got a phone call from a couple out of town that we thought was going to mean that they may be staying with us for the next couple of days. We had to pray, Lord Give us a heart to be gracious and say, sure, come on and stay with us. Because we have our plans, don't you? See Christmas is a great challenge to con control freaks like me. Maybe like you, because you know what you want your Christmas to be. And so we say, Jesus, I love you, I seek you, I want to know your heart. And he says, if you want to give, if you really seek me and give to me, are you willing to let me determine the nature of that gift? To do this day what will glorify me, to do this day what will love your mom and dad, your sister, your brother, your son, your daughter, the unexpected. Because you belong to him and you love him. And nothing is too great to give to him. Let's pray And so our Father deliver us from finding Jesus to be so common, so familiar, that he does not astonish us. For the fact that you who look upon this galaxy and this speck of an earth within that sent your sun to this speck. To die for people like us. That if wise men on shreds of evidence could come and give costly gifts, set aside their careers, their plans, their schedules for weeks. Lord, what should we give who know what you have come to do, who belong to you, who've had our lives changed by you. And Lord, if there's any here that find you so familiar that it's cheap. And they'd really just rather get back to the things that they have. Lord, I pray that you would show them their need of Jesus. That they wouldn't be able to go on through the rest of this day without the longing to know you, to find you precious in what you have come to do for them. So, Lord, we come to worship and to give you ourselves because you are so worthy. Amen.