This this December we are uh studying the twenty-first of the Messianic prophecies in the Old Testament, the one that is more referred to by the New Testament than any other Messianic prophecy. At least forty-one references in the New Testament to Isaiah fifty-two and fifty-three, that song of the servant that is the most explicit teaching. on Jesus and his substitutionary death force. And you might read that and say, how in the world do Jewish people read that and not see that that's Clearly about Jesus. How can anybody read this and see 750 years before that this isn't talking about Jesus? Yet I've heard myself rabbis say that you Christians are twisting this To make it seem like it is referring to prophesying Jesus, when in fact it's clear to us that this is about idealized Israel as a suffering community Well if you have a friend that uh says that, then all you need to do is point out to that person verse 8 Because in verse 8, Isaiah clearly distinguishes the servant in his suffering from Israel. The end of verse 8 says, For he, the servant was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people. He was stricken. So clearly Isaiah is distinguishing between the servant and the people that he suffers for. It can't refer to Israel. You recall in Acts chapter 8 in the New Testament, the Ethiopian eunuch reading this passage, and the evangelist Philip came up to him and said, Do you understand what you're reading? And he said, Uh-huh, how can I understand unless somebody helps me And uh so Philip helped him to see Jesus. And through the centuries this has been a passage, one of the most cherished and precious to the people of God to help us to see Jesus. And my hope is that I can help you. to see Jesus more clearly, fully, if this is a passage that you're not familiar with, and uh you're not even sure about your relationship with Jesus or whether this is something that as a believer has become precious to you through the years. Uh, I pray that uh today and in the next couple of December we'll be looking at this passage. We really just can't get through this one in one year Even in three messages. So we're gonna today do an overview of chapter fifty-three, and uh that's all we'll do. We'll just stop right there And then next December we'll come back and we'll start from verse 1, looking at it in a little bit more detail. Hopefully be able to finish that in two seasons, the whole chapter. Uh but um there's just so much that is so so rich here and uh I encourage you to meditate on it as you think about the Lord's coming this week. You remember the last two weeks we looked at the prologue of it, chapter 52, verses 13 to 15, where we uh saw, and let's have on the overhead there, Michael now, please. My kind of amplified translation of verse 13, look, see how my servant will perform brilliantly. He will act wisely and succeed phenomenally. All that's kind of wrapped up in that word. One word, Shaquille. Whenever you see Shaquille, you think of the Messiah in Isaiah fifty-two, fifty-three, performing brilliantly, succeeding phenomenally. And then he says he will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. In other words, he'll be high, higher, highest, exalted to the highest place. above all else. He is the highest of the high. And then he turns right around without even a button and says, just as there were many who were, and I say, astonished at him, because, first of all, his appearance was so disfigured beyond any man, and his form mourned beyond human likeness. He looked inhuman. And secondly, because they're astonished at him, because he will sprinkle many nations, so then kings will shut their mouths because of him. For what they were not told they will see, and what they have not heard, they will understand, namely the gospel that only God could have even thought of, let alone executed That's the prologue. He is the highest, he is the lowest. Then in chapter 53, you have four or three verse stanzas that go into more of the details. And there's a very definite development to these stanzas. In fact, uh for those of you who um don't like to wait to fill in your blanks, you know, you're kind of on edge wondering if I'm going to give you all the blanks or not. Uh let me just tell you right now what the uh four points are. The the four words that I think if you took one word for each stanza and said Reduce that stanza to one word. You can't do it completely, but I would use in stanza 2, that is Isaiah 53, 1 to 3, would be the word despised. He was despised. Then stanza 3 He was punished. In stanza four, he was innocent. And then in stanza five, he was successful. Brings you around full circle to the beginning. So we're going to look at those four points just as an overview introduction today, and then we'll get into them in more detail. Tune in next December, all right? First of all, notice in stanza two that the Messiah was despised, and that of course is uh not obvious. Uh The Jews would have thought that the Messiah was the most exalted one. He would be readily received. But Isaiah begins, Who has believed our message? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? It's kind of an implied negative there or few. This is not something that has been generally acknowledged. In fact he goes on and talks about how the Messiah uh was in seven different ways he describes him as rejected, uh refused. He uh talks about his um family background and says that uh wasn't what people expected. That wasn't uh in his favor. And then he uh talks about the fact that he wasn't physically attractive Uh very interesting idea. We'll talk about that more next year. That there was nothing particularly majestic about him. He uh didn't connote royalty, people didn't see him and and think that this was a royal figure Uh, he was rejected by the Jewish leaders. In fact he was despised by the leaders at that time. There was nothing charismatic about him. He wasn't a guy that stood up and everybody just rallied to say go because of uh you know, he just seemed like he was on top of his game and you know, I've always had the the right word to just make people feel good, for that he was somebody that people wanted to follow. In fact they just they rejected him. They disdained him. They despised him And that's the idea that Isaiah is communicating here. And just in passing, let me observe how that really challenges our value system, doesn't it? Um Jesus did not fill our idea of a leader. You know, we look at what a leader should be, somebody that's charismatic and somebody that Seems like they are um someone we find attractive in terms of image and appearance We live in a day of superficial appearance, and that's so exacerbated by television, media. And Jesus, even though the Old Testament gave a number of specific prophecies that Jesus fulfilled precisely They seem clueless about what kind of Messiah to expect. And there may be some of you that labor They're tortured by the fact that you don't fit the image of a glamorous person. You don't belong to the in-crowd belong to those who they get together and they talk about what's cool, the things that make you feel like you're really On the inside to belong, you feel left out. Some of you teenagers struggle with that, some of you kids, some of you adults Well the first thing to notice from Isaiah is that Jesus understands that. He didn't fit either. He was not considered glamorous, charismatic. And why should his followers? Is your value system what you aspire to be, how you want people to think of you, the impression that you want to create? Is that determined by the world? Or is it determined by Scripture? Do you so much want to fit In what people will approve. There's a caution here. Jesus didn't fit. And you shouldn't expect to. Now that is not a condoning of being crude and obnoxious. Some Christians have this idea that because I don't fit anywhere And uh everybody rejects me, that means I must be more godly. Well yeah, maybe you ought to change your deodorant and use a mouthwash. That's not what it's talking about. It's saying that grace is that which has to do with character, not appearance. And uh so if you struggle with that, may the Lord use this to speak to you. But then Isaiah goes on to say, not only was he despised Now it's one thing to be despised and rejected by people. It's another thing to feel and actually be rejected and cursed by God. And so stanza three moves on and deepens this and he says that he was despised and cursed. took up our our infirmities and carried our sorrows and and yet we considered him stricken by God and smitten by him and afflicted. We thought he must have done something terrible to be treated like this And uh so then Isaiah goes on to describe in seven ways That Jesus' punishment, his cursing, was not for what he did, but for what we did Seven times in these three verses, Isaiah points out that he was punished not for his own sins, but that he was taking your place and my place. To pay for what we deserved. The vileness was not his, but ours. And so notice, Isaiah says he took up our infirmities. That's the first statement. Carried our sorrows. Second. Yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. By his wounds we are healed We are like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has made on him the iniquity of us all. And yet That can be very vague, can't it? That's what he did for us. And as you see on the overhead, I would like to suggest that we bring it down here That we see this in a more personal way. And so what I suggest that you do is that you look for just a moment and and Substitute where it says he or him the name Jesus. That's who it's talking about. Actually tells us very specifically that's talking about Jesus And then where it says us or we, the three stars there, you insert your first name So that you read the exchange in terms of Jesus for you personally. Now, I'd like you to take just a moment to read through that Putting your name in there, and then what I want to do is have us all read that out loud together. And as we read it, we will insert our first name at each point where you see the stars. Look at that for a moment and think of how personal this is Let's read it together. Surely Jesus took up Alan's infirmities and carried Alan's sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But Jesus was pierced for Alan's transgressions. Jesus was crushed for Alan's iniquities. The punishment that brought Alan peace was upon Jesus. And by Jesus' wounds, Alan is healed. We all, particularly Alan, like sheep, have gone astray. And I, Alan, have turned to my own way. And the Lord has laid on Jesus the iniquity of us all, including all of Alan's iniquity. Makes a difference, doesn't it? To see that this was him for you Do you understand now why he was so disfigured? He was taking everything that you deserved and paying for it in full He's the fulfillment of the Old Testament sacrificial system. You remember that system meant that when you sinned if you brought an animal, could have been a bull, a goat, a lamb, or if you didn't have much money, a pigeon would do. By God's mercy. You would bring that animal and you bring it to the priest, and before it was sacrificed, you would lay your hands on the head of that animal, and you would confess your sins. And in that confession of your sin, symbolically, your sin was transferred to that animal. That was the idea. And then the priest would pull out that sharp-bladed knife, and he would cut the throat of the animal, and you would watch the blood of that animal pour out on the ground And you would think, my God, sin costs. That animal didn't do anything to deserve that. That's my sin. Sin's a serious thing. And then the priest would take his finger and he would dip it in the pool of blood. And he would sprinkle it seven times before the Lord. Interesting, seven times the exact number of times that Isaiah says in stanza 3, that he took your sin. And then he would take some of the blood and he would place it on the horns of the altar of sacrifice. Now, horns throughout Scripture are a symbol of power. And so Isaiah is depicting, or actually the sacrificial system, is depicting that the blood on the horns meant That God's power in his wrath against sin was now being covered by the blood. So his power was no longer against you, but all his power was now for you. He had been turned from enemy to friend. And then he would take the rest of the blood that had been caught in a basin, and he would pour that blood in a trough that went around the altar. That was the blood shed for your sin. And you would look and you would say, but how can an animal take my sin? The animal hadn't been obedient, as if it deserved somehow God's blessing and was taking on my sin. The animal didn't choose to die for me, it was simply an innocent victim. So the animal had to be a picture. It was a picture of something. What is it a picture of? And through the centuries, that question again and again: what is it a picture of? What? Until you come to Isaiah chapter 53. And there you see the answer. The animal is a picture. Of the servant. Messiah. Messiah is going to be the fulfillment of all this. He is going to be the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's going to be that one who, and then he goes on to stand a four, is innocent. That's why it follows, you see. What he's saying is that in two ways Messiah was innocent. In two ways he was obedient. The first way in stanza four is that he was passively obedient. He was oppressed and afflicted, and yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before her shearers is silent. So he did not open his mouth. He allowed himself to be taken to sacrifice. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. Who can speak of his descendants? For he was cut off from the land of the living. For the transgression of my people, he was stricken. He was assigned a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. Notice How precise and specific and supernatural is the prophecy? Is he speaking of his passive obedience, taken as a lamb for the slaughter, taken as a sacrifice? Isaiah says that he was assigned a grave with the wicked. In other words, he was given the death of a criminal. And as you know in the gospel account that Jesus was crucified, and therefore those who were executed in such a shameful way their bodies were simply taken down from the cross and they were thrown into a common grave. With absolutely no dignity. And the Hebrew in verse nine of the word wicked is plural. He was assigned a grave with the wicked, criminals, plural, and were but, to be translated either way, and or but with the rich. in his death, and the word rich in the Hebrew is singular. And so you remember that, though he was supposed to be thrown into a common grave, a rich man by the name of Joseph of Arimathea begged for Jesus' body. And had Jesus buried in his own new tomb in honor and dignity, one man. You talk about precision. Talk about how God can see into the future, for he is not bound by time. He could see that event taking place, and just to show you how he knows all things. He distinguished not only the detail of the rich and the wicked, but the singular and the plural. And he was also not simply passively obedient as a sacrifice, but he was eligible, you see, because he had done no violence. There was no deceit in his mouth. He was actively obedient. He had kept God's law perfectly. And that record of perfection is transferred to you and to me. Not only has he obliterated your sin so your record is cleared, he gives you his record so you are no longer on probation. That's the idea. But will he be successful? And that is what is addressed by the last stanza. Stanza five is that he is successful. Will he succeed in this outrageous assault on Satan's kingdom of death? And so Stanza 5 begins in that statement of mystery, yet it was the Lord's will to crush him and to cause him to suffer. Actually, stronger was the Lord's pleasure to crush him. And to cause him to suffer, to treat his own son as a guilt offering, his whole life a guilt offering, the essence of his ministry as a guilt offering We'll look more at that when we get to that verse, the mystery of that, that he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But then verse ten of the the end goes on, He will see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. That takes us right back to the first verse again. Remember, we saw how he says he will act wisely, he will succeed phenomenally. It's the same idea He's going to be successful. He will succeed. He will state at the end of his life in his last moments on the cross: It is finished. I have accomplished the work. It is done. The sin is paid for. Recently, Peggy Noonan, columnist, wrote about a husband and a wife who were out swimming in the ocean, and out of nowhere there came up a shark. Who attacked the man's wife? Just as the shark opened its jaws to grab hold of her, the husband rushed over and punched the shark in the nose. Trying to deflect it. Rather drew the shark upon himself. The shark turned from his wife and killed the man She survived because of his sacrifice to tell the story of a husband who tried to deck the shark for her, a husband who gave his life for his bride. And died in the attempt. Telling that story points out how different The biblical God is from the Muslim God. Our God sees us deserving to be sharkbeat because of our sins and becomes a man. In order to deck the shark, Satan, that we can live. Allah would never become man. The thought is blasphemous to a Muslim. But our God has become man to die. And in dying for his bride, he has saved us. But what will happen to him, and Isaiah says, and what is incredible is that he will rise again. I mean, what else could he mean when you look at what he says? Verse 11, after the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life and be satisfied. Not only has he saved his bride, but he who was the lowest and gave his life and sacrifice for that. Will now become the highest. And so Isaiah goes on to describe this. By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many. That's the sprinkling of the nations. He will bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will give him a portion among the great. And he was the bird the spoils with the strong, because he poured out his life unto death and was numbered with the transgressors, for he bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Clear implication that Jesus will rise from the dead, that He will fulfill all of this. Jesus read this And because Jesus read this and knew what was going to happen, we read in Hebrews chapter 12 in verse 2. Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him The satisfaction that Isaiah 53 describes. He endured the cross Scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. And so Jesus knew the outcome. And for the joy that was set before him, the satisfaction of knowing that he had paid for your sin That you, his bride, had been saved and delivered. This one, the hero's servant, has come to sacrifice himself for you, the beloved, and rescue you from death. What a sacred romance that changes everything about your life, doesn't it? When you see it in the light of what Jesus has done and the success. Of his rising as Lord to reign and to rule. And so what are the lessons from this? Let me propose just three for you. Number one, first of all, I pray that this will increase your faith, that it will deepen your repentance And that will enlarge your joy. Those are the last three blanks. Your faith, your repentance, and your joy. First of all, that this will increase your faith, as you see that this was a supernaturally specific prophecy of Jesus that could have never come. By any kind of guesswork or insight or inside knowledge seven hundred and fifty years before the events Answer me in this. Jesus is described here as despised by his peers for no good reason. Does Jesus fit that? What do you say? Say yes. If you believe yes, if you say no, say no. Look at it. He was despised by his peers for no good reason. Does Jesus fit that? Okay. He's described as suffering terribly, as absolutely and uniquely innocent. Does Jesus fit that? He's described here as being killed as a criminal. And yet buried in an honorable grave. Did Jesus fit that? He's described here as fulfilling the Old Testament sacrificial system that his death is not simply a death. without meaning, but it's a death that is a guilt offering to take away the sin of all of his people trusting in him, to wipe your saints clean and give you the record of his own obedience Did Jesus die as a guilt offering? Does he fit that? What do you say? Jesus, it says, rose. This one who died sees the light of life. He is satisfied with what he's accomplished. By his death many are justified, acquitted. And he rules and reigns in the highest place. Does Jesus fit that? Amen, brother and sister. Can you live the same way? As if those things weren't true. What a fool for anybody to not rest all of their life on the commands, the promises, the provisions of this book. And to know whatever is going on in your life right now. However difficult it is for you to make sense of it, however, it doesn't seem to match up with how you think God should be in your life at this moment. If God could give a word that would describe in that much detail, 750 years before the birth of Christ, exactly what Jesus only uniquely could fulfill. Then you can trust him with your life. But it only really makes sense to you and brings that joy. If your statement of sin is not a general vague statement, yes, I'm a sinner and I need a savior. After all, nobody's perfect. But rather as you read through, Jesus took my sin, paid for my iniquity, those things we saw, as you see the substitution. There is in your heart, by God's grace, the kind of honesty that says, I am a sinner. Full of shame as I look back even on this last week. I look at my weaknesses. I look at my cruelty I look at the things for which I have been bitter. I look at my resentments. I look at my unwillingness to love my husband or my wife. or my kids, or my parents, or my friends, or to serve Jesus and have God take his rightful place in my life And I look at those specific things and I'm ashamed. And I think, oh, to be rid of that guilt and that shame. Kathy shared with me this week an insight. She said, you know, as husbands and wives, when we tell each other Something that really bothers us. This is the way you've failed me and hurt me. She says, our immediate response is to say, stop. I don't want to hear any more about that. When she said, we should respond in quite the opposite. Tell me more. Help me to understand that. In order for our relationship to make progress, you know the only thing that frees you to say, tell me more about how I've hurt you, is what I can say, because Jesus has taken it all, I don't bear it. And so I can hear about it. And it doesn't crush me. Because Jesus was crushed for me. And that produces in you a joy Verse 5 says, His peace is yours. The payment has been made for you. By his wounds you've been healed. He was the guilt offering that bore all of your sin, and you bear it no more. And as Hebrews twelve says, For the joy that was set before him he despised the shame and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Then Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful man so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. And when you see Jesus for you, how can you lose heart? For someday soon, you will be with him in that joy. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, open our eyes to see that you are the unique fulfillment of this prophecy. That you have taken our sin, all of our sin, my sin. And I bear it no more. I can hear whatever accusations, I can hear whatever you want to speak to me about my life, because I have been freed from the accusation of God. Lord, that we can know that the blood upon the horns of the altar declare that your power is for us and not against us this week Lord, that you have given us the joy of the anticipation that when Jesus comes again, we will be seated with Him. And know that all of this is true, that he has succeeded perfectly, and his success is our success. And so we rejoice in that and we celebrate it this season in Jesus' name. Amen.