Especially starting there if you flip back to chapter 4, verse 17. I consider preaching from a passage in Colossians 2 that has been pivotal in my life. On the one hand, they really are synonyms, but I think our passage helps us explore an important distinction between the two. after scoring high on her standardized tests, but but he knows the real reason while why he's there. is how we go about imitating one another as we follow Christ. Have you heard this? in a way that tells the story of the characters. He goes to Jamal's disciplinary hearing in order to vouch for him. as he learned and was being mentored by Forster. How they are being made alive in Christ. To imitate him. Today, I've felt that all week for many weeks. It's the passage I preached when I came here on a visit in October of 2015. than I ever could. But do you know the rest of the line? Taking the ball, pretending it's the end of the game, crossing up my invisible opponent, pulling up for the game-winning shot at the buzzer. As we begin today, I want to suggest that there is a difference between impersonation and imitation. that he had written uh years ago. His teacher accuses him of plagiarism. He mentions again later in chapter 2, verse 14, that he is commending them for being imitators of the churches that are in Judea. customs, expectations, outlook on life, and all of them are coming together to say, um for some reason that I can't explain. And gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Walk in love. What do you make for your last final sermon? Rob Brown's character, Jamal, is a young, smart, talented kid from the Bronx. But then the teacher just laughed because he couldn't believe that he would know such a prestigious author that no one knew about anymore, didn't know where he lived nor what he was up to. ooze out his own thoughts, where it was taking shape and impacted in in his own way of telling stories, but how he was being impacted by the person and the writer. In his first letter to the Thessalonians, Paul commends the believers there in chapter 1, verse 6. So you have this multinational global network of people who are unrelated to each other in language, culture, Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love as Christ loved us. Plant itself here in the lives of the people gathered today, but we pray as a church that we might be faithful to you for the years to come. If I made it, just the roars, the the the cheers, the glory. In a similar way, our passage this morning draws our attention to the intersection between believing the content of the gospel That imitation of Christ is an authentic form of living that demonstrates mastery of apprenticeship with Him. For being imitators of Paul, of Paul's entourage, those that were with Paul, but also being imitators of Jesus. Whether we are an infant or whether we are well-aged, I think imitation actually comes quite natural for us. In the movie Finding Forester, Sean Connery's character, Forester, is a critically acclaimed but now reclusive author. Jamal, of course, protested and tried to explain that he he borrowed a piece that was written by Forster, but it was merely to start with, and it really was his own work. Paul has spent the first three chapters reminding the church in Ephesus about the roots of Christian theology, that is, who they are. Paul uses the language of imitation in several places in his letters. Is more than that. These two characters, Forrester and Jamal, meet at some point in the course of the movie, and over time they become friends. Well, Jamal ends up turning in that assignment or taking that writing exercise and presenting it as an assignment to one of his teachers. Put it another way, we are to smell like Jesus as a pleasing aroma to God. Let's pray. Bless this time, O Lord, in Jesus' name. I thought about preaching to you from Mark chapter 10 again, which is part of my favorite section in my favorite gospel. And living the ethic of the gospel. But eventually, as the movie goes on, sorry, the movie's been out a long time, so uh spoiler alert, Forrester comes out of his apartment. Is because Jamal didn't plagiarize Forster's work. Now, these two verses are simple and straightforward, and we're going to just kind of jump in looking at the two main imperatives that Paul anchors these verses in. At one point in the movie, Forster is helping Jamal with his writer's block and he gives him a bit of a manuscript. Sometimes though preachers think we're much more important than we really are. Is behind the text. Have you seen this? I thought about various passages that have been meaningful to me through the course of my Christian life. My deepest insecurity is that if I have something to say, someone else has said it better and briefer. May your word be heard. It's adopting and taking on the beliefs, the behaviors, the attitudes, the habits of another person as your very own. And I would much rather spend time telling you to go there. Father, may your word stand as it is strong and sure. In this way it's it's like actors and how they're imitating the character that they put on. Turn with me in your Bibles to Ephesians. I shared at last week's evening service that time is running out and there's always more to say. Now, sometimes that just is just blanket imitate him, but then other times he says, imitate me as I imitate Christ. I'm much more comfortable preaching within a series going through a book of the Bible or or just a series looking at God's word across a theme or a topic. Who did you imitate as a kid? Have you read that? I believe that this Jesus saves me But I once heard from a preacher, H. It was never published. And the final chapters unpack the fruits of the Christian ethic. Amen. Imitation, however, in the way that I believe our passage suggests These two verses serve as the conclusion to the immediate previous section. The full line, written by Oscar Wilde, reads, Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery that mediocrity can pay to greatness. And he he gives it to Jamal and he tells him to start typing his words until they become his own words. But it also serves as a transitional space between the next whole section of the book, chapters 5 and 6. He had spent so much time with him in person. When I was a kid, uh I loved pretending to be Michael Jordan in my driveway. Or maybe who do you imitate now? The Bible is always holding those two things together. Let me just point you to something much better than I could give you. Not impersonating, but imitating. May your word be digested. Serving as an associate pastor here B. In this way Jamal imitated, not impersonated. Charles, say, if you're going to be a coward, the best place to hide. Now, it's an excellent movie, and the reason I'm telling you this Perhaps you heard the saying, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. So here now from God's Word. It's because he's good at basketball. A couple places in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 16, and chapter 11, verse 1, where he's urging the Christians in Corinth. This morning we'll be looking at chapter five, verses one and two. It rung too close. For today, I was encouraged to just pick any text. Maybe an artist or a comedian? And I actually struggle with the opposite, sin. They present a mask, their bodies, their their faces convey emotions, actions, the the dialogue. He gets accepted to a prestigious private prep school in New York City I struggle that how can I even be a pastor because I have nothing to say? And if I missed, well, I was fouled. For example, impersonation really is more like pretending, it's giving an impression. That is how we are to live empowered to walk in Christ. May your word It's been formational for my walk with Christ. Read it there. This is the word of the Lord. It sounded too much like this other author that he admired by the name of Forrester. And I think the Apostle Paul is telling us He had absorbed so much of his writing that Jamal began to I feel that Maybe your group of friends? Go find it over there. I I sometimes doubt how I can even. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. It is lasting. So what what do I pick? It's terrifying. Be imitators.