Philippians chapter 1, verse 27 to chapter 2, verse 11. Let's hear God's holy word to us. Whatever happens can come. In the manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. Then whether I come and see you or only hear about you in my absence, I will know that you stand firm in one spirit, contain as one man for the faith of the gospel. Without being frightened in any way by those who oppose you. This is a sign to them that they will be destroyed, but that you will be saved in that by God. It has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe on you, but also to you. suffer for him. See if you are going through the same struggle you saw I had, and now fear that I still have. If you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, with any comfort from his love, with any fellowship with the Spirit, With any tenderness and compassion, then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in spirit and purpose. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. But in humility, consider others better than yourselves. Each of you should look not only to your own interest, also to the interest of others. Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, beginning in the very end. Of God did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, and being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man. And he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him a name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Let's bow a moment of prayer. Lord, this is such a rich passage, and it speaks to us in so many ways. Help us to focus our attention upon one truth this morning. That your Spirit might speak to us, might give us convictions that are controlled by your word, and that you would give us hearts and wills to act upon those convictions. We thank you for the work of Jesus Christ for us. And we pray now that you, Holy Spirit, will do a work in us that will make us more like Jesus. We pray for each person and each need represented your life. This morning. Speak to us now. Open our hearts to receive your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Many of you may not be aware of the fact that we as a session Do not vote. Sure, we go through Robert's rules and our decisions, all in favor say aye, all in favour say no. But in fact, in five years of working with this section here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, I I cannot recall a single negative vote on any issue that we have taken in five years. We do things by consensus as a session. We operate by consensus. We will sometimes decide. Discuss a matter, pray about it, table it, consider it later, take it up, discuss it two, three, four times. Until we believe that the Spirit of God has brought us to a place of common agreement. And then when there is the sense that we all know. What we're going to say, we will put the formality of the vote, and we will then by consensus decide what it is that is the matter on the floor at that point. Now we believe that this way, in submission to the scriptures, is that the way the Spirit wants to lead the Church of Christ. And now our church as a whole is based with some major decisions. We're based as a church with the most significant decisions that we have had to make since we have begun as a church nearly five years ago. We have to decide now concerning this whole matter of our facilities, our future purposes, our vision as a church, and where we're headed. After five years of not being able to come to any kind of a consensus, on May the thirty first of This year, the session, as most of you know, came to a consensus that it was now time to leave the meeting house. It was no longer God's purpose for us to stay here to leave. On June the eleventh, we took that decision to the trustees. and the trustees concurred with that. And then just three days after that, without having any direction, any sense of where to go or where to look, Jamie Reeves called me up, having no idea about those decisions, and said, Al is the church at all interested in any property. We had talked back and forth about possibilities, but there was never anything concrete. And I said, Well, yeah, as a matter of fact, now we are. He said, Well I've I found some. He said maybe a little more But he says, I discovered 123 acres out here. And you said it's worth taking a look at it. And so we've pursued that, we've looked at that. And the question for Boris as a church now that We will want to decide on next Sunday evening is should we pursue purchasing that property, not deciding absolutely, but should we pursue purchasing that 123 acres on Centennial Lane? Or should we Should we go a different route? Is God calling us to establishing the beginning of a major Christian center which combines both the practice of the evangelistic mandate and making disciples through the church? For Jesus Christ, along with the cultural mandate given to Christians, to subdue the earth in Christ's name, establishing various ministries that would cluster and share facilities on a major piece of property for Howard County. Now on the other positive possibilities would be an alternative facility or even reconsidering the meeting house. But this is what it before. And so I believe that it's time that we as believers look to the Bible this morning and find out what the Bible says about how we're to make decisions. as a group of his people. How the whole church is to make major decisions. Therefore I want to do that under these three points, our question, our calling, and our example. Our question, our calling and our example. The question before us is how to determine the will of God to our church. Now last week you took a look at Ephesians chapter 1. If we saw there, you recall that Jesus Christ has been seated above all rule and authority. Of every power and dominion and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the age to come, and that God has placed all things under his feet and appointed him as head over everything for the church. Which is his body, the focus of him who fills everything in every way. And therefore, you see, a human organization in coming to this question would ask, how can we get the best data that will enable us to come to the best decision that we can make. But it's a different question for the Church of Christ. Because we, under Jesus Christ, do not ask that question precisely, but our question is rather, since Jesus Christ is The head, he's made the decision. And his and having made that decision, his decision is perfect. So our problem of decision making resolves itself into a problem of communication. How can we understand His perfect will. Now, you might say, well, that's quite simple. You go to the scripture. And that's true. We go to the scripture. And in many cases, the scripture will tell us what his mind is in a particular matter. And we'll see what this Scripture says it'll rule certain things out, it'll tell us to do certain things, and that's clear. But what about the case in which there are two or more alternatives and the scripture is not clear? The scripture doesn't tell you. Choose A instead of B. It allows both. You don't read anywhere in Mark's gospel that Jesus said to the Columbia Presbyterian Church, you shall buy the Mooseburg property. There's no direction that we have precisely to answer that question. an embattlement. How therefore do we decide as a church what is the mind of Christ towards? And it's at that point that I believe that the second question of our calling becomes very relevant. So notice there The second question, our calling to consensus. In Ephesians chapter 1, we said that Jesus Christ is head over the church. He is the head over all things. He is the one that we are under. And then Paul goes on in chapter 4 of Ephesians. Ephesians, verse 3, to say, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Because there's one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, head over the church, you see. One faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who world for all, and through all in it all. It's on that basis that Paul says, therefore, making every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. It's even more clear in Ephesians chapter 2. Take a look at that then. In Ephesians chapter 2, we just read a few minutes ago. Paul begins in verse 1 to say, if you have any encouragement from being united, Christ, with any comfort from his love, with any fellowship with the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, they'd make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being one. In spirit and purpose. In verse 1, he speaks of our union with Christ. Notice there, if there's any encouragements in being united with Christ. And verse 1's union with Christ issues for the world. In verse 2, having four unities in Christ. Four great unities that we're called to as the Church of Jesus Christ. Notice what they are. First of all, he says, make thy prayer complete by Being like-minded. The first unity then is one-minded. Literally, the Greek there says, think the same thing. Now, does that mean that we're supposed to think the same thing about everything? We're all supposed to. Like our hamburgers done the same way. We're all supposed to like the same hobbies, we're all supposed to like the same entertainment, we're supposed to think the same thing in every matter? Well of course it doesn't mean that. gospel and our purpose as a church. And in what Paul's saying there concerning our convictions and our principles, he says, think the same thing. Be in agreement as a church over these major principles, over these issues. Then secondly, you notice he says, having the same love. One love. One mind, first of all, then secondly, one love. The idea there is that we have one object. Of our affection of our love. And then it's not ourselves. If ourselves are the object of our love, then we have as many loves as there are members of the church. But Paul says, no, your attention should not be. That's why he goes on to say in verse three, do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves. Teach of you should look at the same thing. Not only to your own interests, but also the interests of others. One object of your affection, Jesus Christ, and his kingdom. Also have the same love. Be united in that love. love for Jesus Christ in his kingdom. Somebody once said that true love is not two people looking at each other, but two people looking together in the same direction. For if we look simply at each other and at ourselves, seeking to cultivate a some sort of a well being and love and good feeling, uh then we will be fragmented, we will be separated, divided. But when two people look together at the same direction, have the same love that consumes them Above that drawn together. And so Paul says, My desire is that you have the same love. Have a united love for Jesus Christ. Have a love for his church and his kingdom. And may God bind you together in what you do. The third thing he says, the third unity is to be one soul. That's literally what the Greek there says. Make my journey complete by being like-minded or thinking the same thing, having the same love, being one. One soul, literally, in the Greek, so being one in one, one in spirit, as the NIV has it. Spirit or soul in the Bible refers often to the affections and to the emotions, and that's clearly what Paul has in mind. He's saying you should be in harmony concerning your emotions and your affections. He should be excited about the same thing. When you hear about Jesus Christ being glorified in someone's life, when you hear about Jesus, you're glad you're glad you're glad you're glad you're glad you're Kingdom being advanced when you hear someone coming to Jesus and coming to know and love him. He says that ought to excite you. There ought to be the same kinds of things that turn you on. You ought to be excited about the same thing together. You ought to love the Same things. We ought to be lifted up by the same things. We ought to be turned on by those same directions of the honor and the glory of Jesus Christ in our midst. So we ought to be united in our loves and our affections. And then finally, he says, be of one purpose. One in purpose. One will focused in the same direction. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, and the lifting up of history. You notice that in this verse you have the combination of the mind, the emotions, and the will. The union of the mind, the emotions, and the will because of one God. It's the same thing, be of one God. mind. Then he says, love the same thing. He talks about the love, and then he says, in your affection, be inclined toward the same thing. And then have the same purpose, have your will directed in the same direction. Together. What is it that is going to unite sinners like us to have those kinds of unity? People like you and me who were raised from our very childhood, but when we didn't care about the red one or the blue one, and our sister said, I want The blue one. But our immediate reaction was, you know, I always like the blue ones. Everything that is said, there is that tendency to clamor, to bind, to want my way instead of submitting to your. And to always take issue so that I will get my way. What is it possible that could take a group of sinners like us and bring us to one mind, one love, one affection? And one purpose. Well, it's simply what he says here, verse 5, that your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus. Because he was in the very nature of God, he did not consider equality with God. something to be grasped. But Jesus made himself nothing. He took the very nature of a servant. Ken of Kingdom, Lord of Lord, seated above all rule and authority, power and dominion, with every name that Could ever be made in this age and the age to come. He became a servant. He became nothing. He was made in human likeness. And after the appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became Immediate to death, even the rocky, stinking, ignorance death of a Roman cross. And it's because Jesus humbled himself to be Eligible to keep God's law in your place and in my place. Because he humbled himself to be under the law, he was able to keep that law. And because of his keeping that law, he was able to put to your account the credit for having kept God's law perfect. Paul says that you got on to become obedient to the death of a cross, and then to be executed. Your place and in my place for all the times that we've had broken God's commands, for all the times that we've gone our own way and resisted going God's way, for all the times that we thought that our way was. better, and that God didn't really know what he was saying when he put those things in the Bible, and that we could live better than he could tell us to live. Jesus took in his obedience and in his execution all of Your sin and my sin. If you've come to him and given to him your life, if you've come to him offering nothing but to say, Lord, here's my sin. For it only you can take that off. Having done that, and if you've never done that, I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ that you would do that today. But having done that, we are then brought together into one. common life in Jesus Christ. And we are transformed as a group of individuals into one body. We have one mind and one love and one affection and one purpose. Because it all revolves around the cross of Jesus Christ. As James Dennis said, before Christ, you love things and use people. And after Christ, you now love people and use things. Before Christ, all of your affections were centered on yourself. Since Jesus Christ, your affections and the world now center on him. And that binds us as sinners together. That is supernatural. I want to tell you that you take a group of 150 sinners and have them agree on a property and a facility that affects every one of them. And if they all agree on that, that's a government. I can't promise that by consensus you will have an infallible assurance that you will never miss the will of God as a church. We might all together be agreed wrongly. That's Possible. But what I believe the scripture gives to us is a principle here that is for our safety and our security. But it is much less likely that if we come to a consensus on an issue And that issue is by submitting it to Jesus Christ to come to one mind, one love, one affection, and one purpose, that if we come to that, then in the process of that, the Lord will generally protect us unless we are. way off things from going in the wrong direction. Let me give you some examples of that in the Bible itself. For you see that illustrated in the book of Acts. Luke makes a point again and again of our being one And he talks about the church, the early church in the book of Acts, again and again as a church that was characterized as being one-minded, consenting together. In chapter 1, verse 14, don't look at these until I tell you, because I'm just going to zip through them. couple of examples. In chapter one, verse fourteen, after Jesus' ascension, Dick tells us the church was together friend with one mind. After the Spirit of God came at Pentecost, in chapter two, verse forty six, we read that Then the church was together praying, and he speaks them particularly praying in the temple with one mind, joined together with one purpose. Chapter 4, verse 24. You have Peter and John persecuted. And they come back to the church and they hold a premium. And Luke makes a point of the fact that under the persecution the church paid with one mind. Now that text in particular scares me a little bit. Because I know that it's a Principle that there are two things that will join a people who are fragmented: grief and persecution. And if God wants to bring his people together and they refuse to be brought together on their own, he may often in his Gentle chasing hand in about greed for persecution in order for the saints to treasure each other and to see their need for one another, and to come to one mind, one love, one affection, and one purpose. And so this is a principle that we need to be. least aware of. May God not have to do that to us. But He does value our being joined together and of one mind as a church. And he will graciously as we seek him accomplish that in whatever it takes. Are we ready for whatever it will take us for God to bring us together as a church? But then you go on to chapter 6, and you have the first plant of a belief in the early church. In chapter 6, you have the problem remembering. There of the Grecian Jews complaining that their widows were being ignored and overlooked in the daily distribution of food. In Acts chapter 6 and verse 2, what does the church do? We read that the twelve gathered all the disciples together. They got all the church together. The disciples are the church. Every Christian is a disciple. This refers to the whole church thing. All the church, the disciples got together. And they made a proposal to establish a deacony. That's the original origin of the first Yacon, so that the elders and the apostles would be able to continue in the word in prayer. But notice having made that decision, what they do, they take it to the church. Verse 5. Look. This proposal pleased the whole group. They ratified it. As a combination, the elders and the apostles make a decision, they bring it to the whole congregation, and they ratify it. It flees the whole church. Principle again in Chapter 15. Take a look there. In Chapter 15, you have again the threat of a division. Now in Chapter 6, it is on a procedural matter. In Chapter 15, it's on a doctrinal matter. Chapter 15, the question is the relationship. To the Old Testament ceremonial law. And so you have your major issue that threatens to divide the church. Notice again two principles. First of all, government by representation. The church versus Verse 3 of Acts 15, the church sent Paul and Barnabas on their way as delegates, their elders, to represent them from Antioch to the assembly at Jerusalem. The whole church, verse Verse 4 receives them. They distinguish the church and the apostles and elders. So it's not just the apostles and elders, the whole church receives them. And they come together to discuss this matter. But then when they actually sit down to do the discussion, Discussion, notice who it is. Verse 6: it's the apostles and the elders who meet to discuss the question. Again, it's governed by representation of the elders appointed by Jesus Christ. But then, having made that decision, Look what happened. Verse 22. Then the apostles and the elders with the whole church decided to choose some of their own men. And send them to Antioch, Paul, Hip Ball, and Barnabas. The whole church again is involved in it. They hear the decision, they ratify it, they join together and select an elder. Verse 25, you see again that uh we so we all agree to choose some men and send them with to our dear friends. Verse 28, uh it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us, to the to the elders and to the apostles who decided this, to the whole church that has ratified it and consented together, that this is the mind of God. And so you see here that there is both the study of scripture, that's always the basis, that's always the touchstone, no question about it. If every one of us agreed together as a church to go a certain direction, and there's any scripture. That counters that all those are wrong. Everything must be submitted to the scripture. But in a case where the scripture isn't clear between a couple of alternatives, the elders make the decision. It is presented then to the church and the church. Gratifies and consents that us move together with one mind, one love, one affection, and one purpose in this direction. Now we have done that and sought to accomplish that, practice that as a church here in Columbia. You recall that in the last five years there have been times when the church, when they have a session, having come to a consensus, have on occasion brought to you matters. Matters that are recommendations of the session. And when, in fact, do you call the whole church in it? On every issue? No, I don't believe so. I don't believe that every ministry, every question, and every issue is to be decided on the whole church. We are your servants as elders. And you have a Because you believe that Jesus Christ has delegated to us the authority to rule the church. And it saves you vast amounts of time for us as elders to take the leadership and to decide on many, many questions. Sometimes we'll leave it up to you concerning the vacation. Bible school is not raising up anyone with an interest in that. And so sometimes we will simply offer things, other times we will recommend things, sometimes we will decide things and simply act on it because it's something that we believe that it is what God has called us. to do, and it is a simple statement of tearing it through. But there have been some occasions when we have brought you a recommendation. And some of you have been around for a while, can recall a time that we brought you a recommendation to change the Sunday schedule. What happened to it? He turned it down flat. Do you remember that? And we brought to you something? There was no consensus. The church rejected it. What happened to him? He said a heck with you, we're going to do it anyway? No. There was a balance, a protection there by the spirit of God. God. And so we ceased. We did not pursue. On another occasion we brought to you the recommendation to leave the meeting house to our morning worship, to just have morning worship, possibly an open mills school. We brought it to the whole church again. What happened? The day. So we didn't go forward. It stopped right there. Now, what issues then are brought before the whole church? My personal opinion and judgment on this is that issues that are significant enough that they could potentially divide the church. And that's because they include a commitment by the whole church, must always be brought to the whole church so that you are able to be involved in that whole process because it is the body of Christ. Now, let's finally look at some of the effects of what decision by consensus achieves was. You see that on the back there. First of all, decision by consensus, number one, in this process, decisions do not have losers because we're all behind it. It avoids division. That's the most obvious advantage. You don't have 55 winners and 45 losers. Everyone has finally To agree on this, whether vigorously or simply saying, I believe that it is the will of Christ, I'll go along with it. But in every case, the people are joined so there's no losers. Secondly, that leads us to a second first. related factor and that is that all men are committed to the decision because all are part of it. It's our decision. And so you see here that uh this by doing it this way we eliminate people having a you know the the secret hope that says, I really hope this thing goes down the tube so that I can stand up and say, I told you so. You know, uh that's one of the things we most love to say, isn't it? And let's face it. Isn't there a a subtle uh just a uh evil kind of joy when you see something smash and you said back in the beginning it was never gonna work. And it doesn't. You can stand up and say, well, you know, I I hate to tell you, which is a big lie. I hate to tell you, but I told you so. And just avoid that because we are all committed to this decision. We have said we believe that this is the will of Jesus Christ. It's our decision and we're committed to making it succeed. And so there's not some people holding back and saying I'm really not committed to that. Thirdly, decision by consensus guards against hasty decisions through political move maneuvering to get a bare majority. You see it all the time in Congress. You sort of play your odds. Before you want to bring the thing to a vote. And so if you think that maybe by bringing it very quickly, you can sort of run it through and you'll get a bare majority and say, let's do it now because then it'll pass. And by doing that, you're just alienating forty-five percent of the body. I don't see anything in scripture of that kind of a practice of simply seeking to get something through by a majority and then just hoping the rest will come along. Whether it's two-thirds or one-third or any of that, I don't see that in scripture. I see leaders taking clear direction. I see leaders sometimes having to take direction by conviction. And I see that the scripture teaches we are not congregationalists. And that involves a period of time that guards us against simply running something through. Lester DeCosta, in a recent article in the Leadership Journal, had this to say as he was observing putting Who uh practice decision by consensus. He said the process is endlessly vaccinated. Every facet gets looked at. Sometimes one can almost feel the forming of a common mind, the shift in sentiment, the opening of a new perspective. If democracy is long in making up its mind, then quicker democracy is often toward us slow. Small ladder, they say, if the truth is found at last. And that's really our concern, isn't it? We want to know what God wants for us. We don't simply want to push Our will. And to do that means that it may take some time. One of the things that I've noticed in the congregation has been a growing consensus towards something like a Christian center that involves Christian school, holistic health center, or other kinds of ministry. A broad kind of excitement about that sort of possibility. That didn't come by putting something to a vote. That came by discussing, by praying, by thinking about it, and watching God begin to move in our midst of those kinds of concerns and loves. And affections. The fact then is that it allows the Holy Spirit to speak through a minority, even one, to bring the rest to truth. You see, it's an attempt to seriously practice 1 Corinthians 12 and Ephesians 4. It says that every member of the body is important, that every joint has to supply its parts. But even those parts that you don't think so much about are very needed to the body. And many and In fact, even means that the Spirit of God will seek to speak to him. Because it's fruit that matters, not the vehicle that he used. And the Lord will often use a humbling vehicle. Just because he wants to humble us and show us that we're not also humbling. as smart as we think we are. And the Lord will want to raise up one person to speak that gentle voice of concern that we need to listen to. It's just about a year ago that my wife and I heard about pastor speak about deciding on consensus, talking about facilities. At that time after hearing that, he said, that is a neat idea, deciding by consensus. Why don't we do that? Sort of embarrassed out of his mind that we have been doing it for four years, but I guess nobody had known it. But and that's one of the reasons I want you to hear this this morning, to see, test from the scriptures, whether this is a biblical method, and to see whether we're right in operating this way. But the example that was given, uh, Benny Scott was talking from church. of the apostles and he was talking about a situation in which they had to decide the major question on the facility. And they saw the whole group moving toward a consensus. Except he had a suspicion about one guy. So he said he wanted to be able to flush this guy out before the thing got So he thought it over and flush him out and see if he could change his mind so everything would go through smoothly. Continue and concerned in a gentle way to explain. That's why he just couldn't go along with the proposal that was there. He expressed that and he continued to discuss it, and he still wouldn't change his mind. After a long way said, I started to listen to him. As I started to listen to him, began to see that he had a problem. Well, to make a long and worthwhile story short, the effect of it was that that one man finally persuaded the entire leadership of the church to change their minds. And they all moved in a different direction. And they were glad that God had shown them The superiority of what he was pointing up to them, because they hadn't simply shoved it through and forced it on a boat and put him to rest. And so it's a means of letting the Spirit speak by helping us to consider all fast of a question so that we can seek Jesus Christ in his best interest. The then final fifth matter here is that it provides growth and faith, as we see sinners agree, amazing phenomena, whatever you see. Because it's a demonstration of the power of the Spirit. Now, I didn't mention point number four to encourage you to disagree. My point in that was not to say, think if you can think of any kind of reason why you should be that still small voice that will be the prophet to the congregation. Next week. That's not my point. I want you to satisfy your questions during this week. I want you to come, come this afternoon, we'll be discussing and praying. Come Tuesday night, 8:30, we'll be discussing and praying there this afternoon from Tuesday. two to five at our home, Tuesday, eight thirty here at the meeting house. Next Sunday, one o'clock here at the meeting house. Come and discuss it there. And if your questions get satisfied, fine. Don't wait to ask your questions until next Sunday night. That'll be a disaster. The meeting will go very, very quickly. Because just to get minimum of discussion in a meeting like that takes a lot of time. And the best thing we can do is to try and get all the questions that can be asked by one person Asking Dan McQueen, head of the Facilities Committee, Gordon Calvert, head of our trustees, or any of the session members, ask those questions. Come to the meetings that are set aside this week for us to talk about. But then having done that. Let us watch the Spirit of God, bring us through that process to some direction. And that is a supernatural process. We are not like the school board of the PTA or the stockholders of General Motors coming together to simply Discuss business and make a decision. We seek the mind of Christ, and the Spirit of God is in us, and He should make a difference. And that's the exciting thing about doing this. That leads me to point six. It teaches us to pray, since that's the only way consensus is accomplished. At the recent General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in America, it was decided that to have every hour on the hour, the order of the day, to be prayer. The Presbyterian Journal, reporting on that assembly, said that oftentimes that point came. They simply had to stop and pray. He said it had a very obvious effect on the assembly, bringing together consensus. We need to stop and we need to pray. We need to see God work. One of the things that we as Christians, I think, often find Is to grow in our prayer life because we don't see enough needs. We're so self-sufficient. We can do so much on our own that we're not dependent. We don't think of ourselves as dependent. And I'll tell you, you come together in a situation like this. I've mentioned to you many times before. Two things will divide a church more than any doctrinal issue. Buildings and choirs. And you come together and you enter all on a major discussion like this, and you realize we need to pray. We need to come together and seek God. To see him work and to see him do something supernatural in bringing this together. Fire the last thing. Since that it teaches us humility, because eternally I can't simply argue for my desires and hope to win. The focus is on the mind of Christ. And his purpose. I fear sometimes that our church is a kind of thin cement that holds together independent lives and ministries. And if that's true, then this matter of moving into a facility will be something to It will not bind us together but rather fling us apart. If we come to this question simply asking, how does this affect me? And I will vote on the basis of whether I think it's a good idea, whether I gain from it, or whether I lose. And he just simply put the votes on. together and the ones that win the most, that's the direction we'll go. That's a simple go to the majority. We're so you know that's so built into our thinking that I have to try and jar us this morning by the word of God to rethink that. That I come rather to submit myself to Humble myself and say, I am not going to seek my will. Lord, I want to seek your will and your purpose. My love is for you. My affections are wrapped up in you and your church and your kingdom. What is it that you want from this? That by humbling ourselves and seeking the Lord in them, do we then come, by having prayer, by seeking ourselves, submitting ourselves to Him, to a common mind, because it's the mind of Christ. I've been amazed at what the Lord has done in this situation. Uh after we had discussed this the last time, I went out myself and spent a whole day in prayer on that property on Centennial Lane. I went out and I read scripture. My idea was to get a feel for this whole thing and look at the possibilities there, to submit it, bring it before the Lord, and fast and pray for the entire day in order to understand something of how to lead as a as a body of believers, what I should do in my responsibility. I went out there and it was a difficult sort of day. But a strange thing happened. I expected as a result of that that my affection could be drawn to the land by spending time on it and that I would just come to say this is the place it's gotta be and we're just gonna go for it. But the result was in fact the opposite. The result was that I left that land and found in the days ahead I didn't think about it so much. In fact even came to a point where I could say, I don't really care if we have that land. I don't care if we get it and if we don't get it. If we do get it, that's fine. If we don't get it, that's okay too. And I began to realize that there was a freedom that was coming in that. A freedom of being detached from that in a way that God was necessarily humbling and even in some cases humiliating me so that I could evaluate. But I've been also impressed by his timing. This week Gordon Calvert, Dan McPean, Randy Reese and his partner Brad Cooper, and I went down and we visited Mr. Busberg. He talked to him, spent the entire afternoon with him. After about two hours of telling us all about the history of Howard County, about his own life and everything else that pertained to the history of the land, all the neighbors, their backgrounds, and everything else about it. He then got down to his declaration I say declaration because of negotiations. It was simply his declaration. He started off by saying, I've offered the land for $861,000, but that's no longer true. I've hired a realtor. I have to pay the realtor $51,000. But he said, just before I signed that contract, I remembered you guys. And so I wrote at the bottom of the contract and penciled in, except for Dr. Reese and Reverend Harris. He said, if you guys as an organization, if you guys were to get this land, I'll give it to you. You for $800,000. He said, besides that, the realtor is notified that he is to sell the land and that I will finance it for 11%. He said, if you take the land, I'll give it to you for 8%. If you come to settlement, you will not have to come up with a quarter of a million dollars like anybody else would. You come up with forty two thousand dollars, six months from then fifty eight thousand dollars, and a year from then another hundred thousand dollars. For the next five years, my terms are, he said It will simply pay the interest on 8% of $600,000, and at the end of six years the principal becomes due. Now, that is something that we have to win. It's an amazing, it's an unheard of kind of offer. You know, the absolutely unherald. But it still would take a great deal of commitment and sacrifice. And it requires us coming to one mind in Jesus Christ. Are we ready for that? We'll only be ready if we come together and we pray and we humble ourselves before the Lord, not to say what can I get out of this, but what does the Lord want out of it? And how does He want us to go? Will you join us in prayer? Let's pray now. Lord, we come before you astounded at your timing and of your ways. They're so far beyond any Anything that we can think or imagine. Lord, it may very well be that you have simply raised this man up and raised this property up to do something that at this point we couldn't even guess at. Lord, so far we've We've seen everything holding up an openness to it. Lord, we see so many factors. And yet we know, Lord, that what you need to do is to work in your people. To lead us as your people to come to a conviction that this is the way to walk in. For our purpose is not simply evaluate that in carnal terms, but to evaluate in spiritual terms for what it means to you. Lord, I'm scared when I think how Satan could use this. I'm excited when I think of how you could use it. But we know Lord it will not be Neutral, it will either destroy us or it will become a means of untold, unguessed and blessing for Howard County and for the kingdom of Jesus Christ. So, Father, we submit ourselves to you now and we pray that you'll help us to. Evaluate these principles. Lord, if there's anyone here who has never come even to that personal relationship with Jesus, bring that person's heart to submission and freedom and youth. And bring us all, Lord, to come and church to one mind, to one love, to one affection, and to one purpose through Jesus Christ. Amen. Now it suited the Our and Lari.