Well, for most of us, Labor Day marks the end of summer, doesn't it? At least it's the relief this uh weekend of some of the heat Uh I'm gonna get a couple of ninety degree days this next week, but fall is just around the corner. In fact, uh next week we are going to celebrate a fall kickoff of CPC's ministries. I'm going to have some refreshments. Going to have ministry tables set out in the lobby there, and I will be beginning a new series. Well, it's sort of a new series. It's actually going to be highlights from the book of Ephesians. I figured uh after thirty-two years, Ephesians was probably the most popular series that I had done and I preached that from 125 sermons from nineteen ninety-six to two thousand two But there's a lot of you out there who've never heard Ephesians. How many of you have come since the end, since 2002, and never heard from the book of Ephesians at CPC? some of the most significant text because I think it is such a wonderful presentation of the gospel for us. And we'll be doing that through the fall and maybe just a little bit into January. Um we will be of course having the holiday series for part of November and December, and in that series we will actually be finishing the Old Testament messianic prophecies Now, for those of you who stayed home and didn't go away this Labor Day weekend and came to church this morning, I have a special treat for you. I would like to tell to you this the story that is one of my favorite stories in all of the Old Testament: the story of Mephibosheth the cripple. I'd like for us to wrap up this summer with a spectacular picture of grace. The message only has two points and only two blanks, so that you can basically sit back and just soak in the story of the wonder of this moving and dramatic portrayal of grace and love and the gospel. First point, the grace of David to Mephibosheth The story is mainly told to us in the passage that Tim read, 2 Samuel chapter 9. It's a minor incident in the life of David, about fifteen or so years after he ascended the throne to Israel. During that time, David had extended the boundaries of Israel about tenfold from about 6,000 square miles to about 60,000 square miles of territory. Everything he did, God blessed. He succeeded spectacularly. And this is the time before it had gone to his head. One day David is sitting and he's reflecting and he's thinking on the past and he's remembering his good friend Jonathan. Jonathan, who had died in that final battle with Saul. And David is thinking back on the covenant that he had made with Jonathan. It's recorded in 1 Samuel 20, verses 13 to 17. Where David promised that he would show kindness to all of Jonathan's family in the time after God put him on the throne in place of Jonathan's father, Saul. And so David asks the question that you see in 1 Samuel chapter 9 in verse 1. David asked Is there anyone still left in the house of Saul to whom I can show kindness for Jonathan's sake? I want to show kindness to some heir of Jonathan in fulfillment of that covenant that I made with him. So they go and get Zeba, who was one of the high-ranking servants in Saul's household. And you read then in verse 2. Now there was a servant of Saul's household named Zeba. They called him to appear before David, and the king said to him, Are you Zeba? Your servant, he replied. The king asked, Is there no one still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show God's kindness? Zeba answered the king. There was still a son of Jonathan. He's crippled in both feet. Where is he? the king asked. Ziba answered, Oh, he's at the house of Maker, the son of Amiel, in Lodabar. Now, Zeba, of course, is aware that in the ancient Near East, when a king ascended to the throne, one of the first things that he did was to exterminate all the heirs of the rival king who had reigned before him, so that no one would be able to make any kind of claim of legitimacy to his throne and perhaps gather some rebels who would try to overthrow him Ziba's very aware of that, and so he dismisses this fellow Mephibosheth on two points to say, he is no threat to you, David. Don't bother with this guy. First of all, he points out that he's a cripple. He says this guy is not going to lead a charge of an army in battle. We're told why he's a cripple back in 2 Samuel chapter 4 in verse 4. We're told that on that day when Saul went to fight against the Philistine army, that he and his son Jonathan both were killed in that battle. When the news came back to Jerusalem about their death and the terrible defeat that Israel had suffered at the Philistines' hands and that they were on their way into the capital, the nurse of of Jonathan's son, Lephibosheth, who was just an infant at that point, ran away in terror and she tripped, and she dropped the baby on the stone floor. Breaking both of his feet. There was no time to set his feet, and so she just continued to carry him to safety. And the boy grew up a cripple because his bones had never been properly set. So Ziba's saying, don't worry about him. It's over 15 years since that had happened. He's now perhaps a late teenager, and Ziva's saying, nothing to worry about on that account. He is not going to lead a battle against you. But in addition to that, he points out where he lives. David says, where does he live? He says, well, that's the other thing. This guy lives in literally nowheresville. Because he says he lives in Lodabar. And the literal Hebrew translation of Lodabar is no thing, nowhere. No pasture, no people. It is a wilderness outpost east of the Jordan, way up in the desert, in nowhere's ville. That is not a strategic place to try to build some sort of movement. So, David, you can just forget about this guy. He's a cripple living out in the wilderness. He has no interest. In coming here to Jerusalem and trying to get himself some power. Nevertheless, David wants to bring him, and so you read in verse 5, so King David had him brought from Lodabar, from the house of Maker, the son of Amiel. When Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed down to pay him honor. He bowed down in terror. Because he understands the custom of kings at that time, why do you think he's living out in Lodabar? He's living out in someplace nobody will ever find him. And he comes and he's brought in and he prostrates himself before David. And David says, Mephibosheth, your servant. He's in terror. My life is miserable enough as it is. Do you have to take it? The Phibish has absolutely no expectation of any kind of mercy or kindness. But David shows nothing but kindness and grace to him. Look at verse 7. First of all, he says, Don't be afraid. Obviously, he sees the terror in Mephibosheth's eyes. Don't be afraid, David said to him, for I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul. And you will always eat at my table. Not only does he quell his fears and says, I intend kindness for you, Lephibosheth. You don't have anything to fear from me. But he then restores to him all of the inheritance that he had lost when his father had lost the kingdom. He's restored his inheritance, and beyond that, he does something even more staggering. He adopts him as his son. You will always eat at my table. I'm calling you into a relationship with myself. And this idea of eating at his table is so important that the Bible states it four times. Do you have it here in verse 7? And then you see again in verse 10, you see it up there at the bottom, Aphibosheth, grandson of your master, will always eat at my table. Then you go down to verse 11. Zeba said to the king, your servant will do whatever the Lord, my my Lord the King commands to his servant. So Mephibosheth ate at the David's table. Like one of the king's sons. And then verse 13, Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem because he always ate at the king's table. And he was crippled in both feet. Picture it. It's dinner time in the palace in Jerusalem. David comes and he sits at the head of the table. Then in comes his son Amnon, somewhat spoiled, but an engaging fella. Next to Annan comes his lovely, charming, beautiful sister, Tamar. And then over on this side comes in Absalom, vigorous, manly Absalom with a long flowing raven hair. Perhaps at this dinner if there is courageous general Joab, mighty warrior of David's armies And there are some guests. And you're along with those guests, some of the foreign dignitaries who have come to this dinner. David says, wait, because you're looking around and you see all these beautiful people and you're glad to be numbered among them As far as you're concerned, we're ready to eat. But David says, no, wait. I don't believe we're all here. And then you hear out in the hall. Shuffle, thump, shuffle, thump, shuffle, thump. And in hobbles the fibershat and takes his place at the table. And you ask the person next to you, who's that? He says, Oh, that's Mephiboshet. The king's adopted son. Adopted son? Why did he adopt him? For no reason that any of us can see, except kindness and grace. Isn't our King wonderful? When Mephibosheth heard what David said, I'm sure he could not believe his ears. Were you ever brought into a situation where you expected to receive the death sentence and instead were given a million dollars? I don't think there's anybody here ever had that. I've never experienced that. But that's basically what Mefibosheth experienced. Can you imagine his feelings? Coming in, expecting that he has been brought here on a ruse simply to exterminate him And he has all of his inheritance restored to him, and the king says, you are always going to eat at my table. I love Mephibosheth's response. You see it there in verse 8. Mephibosheth bowed down and said What is your servant that you should notice a dead dog like me? A dead dog. You can't get lower than a dead dog. He's saying I'm a piece of roadkill. I'm a rotting, filthy carcass. How could you notice me? Have you ever felt that way to the Lord? Like roadkill. Lord, how do you notice me Why do you take notice of me? I'm like a stinking carcass in your sight. I preached this sermon back in 1982 at Columbia Presbyterian. And there in the congregation was a couple. They had come a couple of months before that for the first time. They were Mormons. And they looked outwardly successful, but they were both alcoholics. And their lives had been a shambles. I began to meet with a husband, began to do Bible study together, and he had a vigorous and inquiring mind. I still remember the day that I read to him Isaiah 53. And he ran to Jesus. He confessed his sin. He confessed how he had screwed up his life That he had tried one religion after another, one self-help scheme, one thing after another, found nothing but an increased thirst And he embraced Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ forgave his sins, and he delivered him from his alcoholism, and he delivered his wife. It was a couple of months later that I preached on Mephibosheth. And ever after that, he referred to himself as the dead dog. Hi Len, nah, I'm a dead dog. He would use that to refer to himself, to remind himself Of the overwhelming grace of Jesus Christ to him. I love also verse twelve, because it's an insight to how Mephibosheth felt about this. Later, Mephibosheth had a young son named Mekah, and all the members of Zeba's household were servants of Mephibosheth. You know what Mika means? It means who is like Yahweh? It's interesting to me that Mephibosheth did not name his son, who is like David. But he shows the spiritual insight to understand this grace was given not simply because David is a gracious person. But David was simply reflecting the grace of Yahweh. And every time Mephibosheth called his son, Mekah, come here. Who is like Yahweh? To show grace and mercy to a dead dog like me, to restore all of my inheritance, to make me a son to eat at his table in fellowship with him, who is like Yahweh. Do you ask yourself, why, Lord? Why have you given me such grace and favor? Or have you begun to take it for granted over the years? Have you become somehow used to it So that it's dull, and in the morning you get up and you think about meeting with God to praise him and thank him and you say to yourself, I hope I can find something interesting in the Bible or some devotional to read because my faith is getting a little boring. Who is like Yahweh? Who restores the inheritance To cripples living in alienation in Nowheresville. Beautiful story. And anytime I've heard this story told, it ends there. But the story in fact does not end there. So let me give to you the epilogue that is rarely told, because I personally find it just as interesting and moving. Part one was the grace of David to Mephibosheth. Point two is the love of Mephibosheth to David. Unfortunately, they all did not live happily ever after. Like Camelot, trouble came into the kingdom. A few chapters later in 2 Samuel 15, you read about how David's son, Absalom, pulls a coup on David. He despises his father, David. He pulls a coup and he gathers a rebel army and he asks David, who has to flee for his life from Jerusalem. Absalom is now in control. David is once again fleeing in the wilderness. In chapter 16, we are told how Ziba The faithful servant of David comes with supplies to help him out. Pick up the story of chapter 16, verse 3 The king then asked, Where is your master's grandson? For here's Zeba with all these supplies, but no Amphibisheth, and Ziba is supposed to take care of Maphibosheth. So David says, Where's Mephibisha? Siva says to him, He's staying in Jerusalem because he thinks today the house of Israel will give me back my grandfather's kingdom. In other words, he's a traitor. He's disloyal to you, David. So much for your grace, your kindness, your favor. The Phibishhet is an opportunist. The Phibishhet says, ah, a new regime's moving in. Maybe now I will get back the power that I lost. When my grandfather was ousted. So then the king says to Ziba, In that case, all that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours. I disown him. I take away everything that I've given to him. It's all yours, Ziba. I humbly bow, Ziva said. May I find favor in your eyes, my Lord, the King. You remember the story how David flees into the wilderness. And some of his loyal, faithful men come to him, and he begins to build an army. And he has a fellow that he plants in Absalom's court to give him some wrong advice To buy David time, and David is able to build his army, and he marches back against Absalom and his army. Many thousands, tens of thousands of soldiers are killed. And Absalom's killed. And David is restored as king over Israel. As David comes back into Jerusalem. In chapter 19, verse 24, who appears but Mephibosheth? So in chapter 19 and verse 24, see the story continue. The Phibosheth, Saul's grandson, also went down to meet the king, returning in victory. He had not taken care of his feet or trimmed his mustache or washed his clothes from the day the king left until the day he returned safely. When he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, the king asked him, Why didn't you go with me, Lephibisheth? Why didn't you come with those that were loyal to me? Verse 26, Mephibosheth said, My lord the king, since I your servant am lame, I said, I will have my donkey saddled and I will ride on it, so can I I can go with the king. But Ziba, my servant, betrayed me. And he was has slandered your servant to my lord the king. My lord the king is like an angel of God, so do whatever pleases you. All my grandfather's descendants deserved nothing but death from my lord the king, but you gave your servant a place among those who eat at your table. So what right do I have to make any more appeals to the king? Somebody's lying. And who is it? Is Ziva lying? Or is the Fibishen lying? How are you gonna tell? In the next verse, I'm never quite able to figure out Whether David says what he does because he simply doesn't know, or whether it's a test. But in verse 29 you read David's response. The king said to him, Why say more Like, you know, forget it. I'm not gonna listen to either of you guys. Why say more? I order you and Zeba to divide the fields I can't tell. Do you have a lying? Or you're lying. So just split it. You get half? He gets half. But I love verse 30 because verse 30 reveals the devotion of a heart that understands grace and proves who's telling the truth and who's lying. In verse 30 you read, Mephibosheth said to the king, let him take everything, now that my lord the king has arrived home safely. What do I care about lands and treasures and all? Did Zeba once it let them take it? You're back. No one ever loved me like you did. No one has ever shown me grace or favor like you did. You are like an angel of the Lord now that you are back safe And I can be in your presence. That's all I care about. What a heart. Isn't that beautiful? What a portrayal of the heart of the disciple to Jesus. I don't care about anything else. You're back. Reminds me of Paul's words in Philippians chapter 3, verses 7 to 11, when he says When I came to know Christ, then I counted everything else that I had, all the esteem, all that I had as garbage, as dung. For the sake of knowing Christ and having his righteousness and knowing him, the power of his resurrection, to have fellowship with him who died for me. That's all I care about. That's what the physicist thing is. The Sibbisheth continued to eat at David's table. What a picture of love. Psalm twenty-three describes the picture of the shepherd king. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the quiet waters. He restores my soul. The first four verses focus on the shepherd. But then when you come to verse five, it moves more toward the idea of the king. And what does he do? He's prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies. He's anointed my head with oil as an honored guest. My cup runs over. So you were a cripple from the fall Living in nowheresville, alienated from God, ashamed, and having nothing to do with him Under his wrath. But you were called by the Father, and you were restored by the covenant that he made with his Son Jesus. And because of that covenant, he has restored to you an inheritance that beggars Eden. And besides all that, he has called you to eat with him at his table. He's called you to eat with him in fellowship. As his son, whether you are a man or woman, to have the privilege of the firstborn son at the table of the king. Do you still limp? Chapter 9 says he ate at the table as one of the king's sons, and then it says, but he was crippled in both feet as a reminder. That you still have nothing to offer to him to gain his favor. You still live every day by grace. And he continues to extend that grace to you. But he anoints your head with oil as an honored guest. Your cup overflows at his table. And next Sunday evening, we're going to celebrate the Lord's Supper. Which Paul calls the Lord's table. And I will develop a little bit more from Psalm 23 About what it means for you and I to eat at his table, as Mephibosheth did, a cripple who lived by grace. What is God saying to your heart this morning? Is he speaking to you of how you have taken grace for granted? Of how you think of yourself as one who is no longer solely dependent May the Lord overwhelm you. Overwhelm you with his kindness and his grace this morning. Let's pray. So, Lord, we come to you in the name of Jesus Christ to thank you for your amazing grace. Your amazing grace to us, cripples from the fall Living alienated in a wilderness of our own making, far from you, having no relationship until you called us By your mercy and your kindness, to restore to us an inheritance that we have not begun to imagine the extent of it. To call us to that feast where we will eat every day in perfect completion, no more cripples, at your table. But you give to us even now, daily, and particularly in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, the invitation to come and eat at your table. To know your fellowship and your favor, to know that we who have nothing to offer are so deeply loved. Give to us, Lord, we pray, the heart of a Mephibisheth who says, Who cares about the treasures of this world and all the things that mean so much that are so temporary? If I can eat again at the table of my Lord the King, if I have your fellowship, if I know that your presence is with me And you call me as one you treasure. What else could I desire? Give to us, we pray. The heart of Mephibishet this week, in Jesus' name. Amen.