Well you turn to your Bible to Deuteronomy, chapter fifteen. Deuteronomy. As you're turning to Deuteronomy chapter 15, I want to tell you about a man that I met some months ago His name was Randolph and some of you probably have seen him because when I first saw him I saw him hitchhiking in Colombia and for well several times I'd seen him along the road hitchhiking and One evening, after leaving the church office, Kim and I were driving home on 108 and I saw this man It was hitchhiking, his thumb hanging out, his arm hanging out, and but he just kept walking along. And I guess he acted as if he really didn't expect to get a ride. But it was raining. And so I stopped. I opened the door and I asked if he wanted a ride, and he said sure. And so he got in. And as I was taking him to the village center, I learned some things about Randolph. I learned that these bundles that he carried with him, these two bags, these two bags had all the possessions that he ever owned. And that he had been looking for a job for months, but couldn't find any work. I learned that he didn't have much money. I learned that he didn't have a home. And he told me these things. I asked, Lord, how should I respond? What could I do for this man? I thought, well, we have an extra bedroom, I'll bring him home But then I thought, well, Kim and I haven't talked about this, that this wouldn't be a very wise thing to do. But again that question plagued me, Lord, what should I do? I wanted to show him the compassion and the love of Christ. I just didn't want to satisfy a guilty conscience. I wanted to meet a real need that he had. But how was I to do that, Lord? Because I knew that I had to talk with Tim about this as I brought Randolph to the village center Before he got out, I gave him my telephone number and a piece of paper and I said, Will you please call me? I want to help. He looked at me. He didn't say a word. He walked out, got out of the car, he left the telephone number there, and went on. Lord, how should I respond? How should I respond to him? But yet this bigger question looms: Lord, how do we respond to the poor and the needy around us? Lord, how do we respond to the poor and the needy right here in CPC? Well the poor and the needy that we see when we go into DC or in Baltimore. These questions become more significant when we think of our world situation with a war raging in the Middle East, with our economy in sad shape. With unemployment rising, people's job security getting thinner and thinner day after day. The temptation for us is to ignore the needy The temptation is to become protective, to become self-absorbed, not just with our activities, our time, and our thinking, but also with our resources, with our possessions. And so this morning I want us to consider what the Lord would say to you and to me about how to respond to those people that we usually don't respond to. In particular, I want us to consider our attitude, our attitude in our response so that we might become more like our Lord Jesus. Follow along as I read from Deuteronomy fifteen verses one through eleven. At the end of every seven years, you must cancel debts. This is how it's to be done. Every creditor shall cancel the loan he has made to his fellow Israelite He shall not require payment from his fellow Israelite or brother, because the Lord's time for canceling debts has been proclaimed. You may require payment from a foreigner, but you must cancel any debt your brother owes you. However, there should be no poor among you, for in the land the Lord your God is giving you to possess as your inheritance, he will richly bless you. If only you fully obey the Lord your God and are careful to follow all these commands I am giving you today. For the Lord your God will bless you as he has promised And you will lend to many nations, but will borrow from none. You will rule over many nations, but none will rule over you. If there is a poor man among your brothers in any of the towns of the land that the Lord your God is giving you, Do not be hard hearted or tight fisted toward your poor brother. Rather be open handed, and freely lend him whatever he needs. Be careful not to harbor this wicked thought The seventh year, the year for canceling debts, is near, so that you do not show ill will toward your needy brother and give him nothing. He may then appeal to the Lord against you, and you will be found guilty of sin. Give generously to him, and do so without a grudging heart. Then because of this, the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in everything you put your hand to. There will always be poor people in the land. Therefore, I command you to be open-handed toward your brothers and toward the poor and needy in your land. Before I get to the specifics of our attitude of responding to the poor, let me make a couple prior observations that form the context, the context. of our response. Just by way of way of background, would have us recall that it's Moses talking to the Israelites here in Deuteronomy fifteen. And the Israelites on the east side of the Jordan River. And they're being prepared to cross the Jordan River and go into the promised land. They're not yet there yet And say and so everything that Moses is speaks to the Israelites here east of the Jordan is to prepare them for how to live rightly in God's land, in the promised land. And so the first thing that I want us to notice is that God's ideal community has no poor. No poor people. We see that in verses four and five. Says there should be no poor among you, for in the land the Lord your God has given you to possess as your inheritance. He says that if you, if the Israelites obey all the commands that the Lord has given, then people will be abundantly blessed. They won't lack anything. And therefore nobody should be poor. Nobody should be in want. The word that's used there poor, the Hebrew word behind it is speaks of poor in a material sense, not somebody who's just spiritually poor, but somebody who is lacking, somebody who would Sometimes find themselves begging. Well, why does the s the Lord say this? Why should there be no poor in his land? Well, as Ed Spider told us last week in his message Because the Lord owns the land. God is the owner of the land. God is the owner of the resources. God is the owner of the produce. It all belongs to Him. It doesn't belong to just one tribe or one family or an individual. It belongs to the Lord. But the same is true with us and all that we possess, is it not? It all belongs to the Lord. And so I believe that even in our Christian community today there should be no poor among us. There should not be any person who is in this continual state of needing. Of wanting food, money, or shelter. Because God has abundantly blessed us, and out of this abundance we should give to those who lack. There should be no core. Consider the early Christians in Acts chapter 4, verses 32. And Luke says about them. No one claimed that any of the any of his possessions was his own, but they shared everything as they had need. There was no needy person among them. Among God's people, among God's people, this is the ideal situation. But the reality is That there are and there always will be poor and needy people around us The Lord saw this. He saw the reality of this. That's why in verse 11, if you look in verse 11 of chapter 15, he says, there will always be poor people in the land. This is what Jesus said in Matthew 26. Jesus, looking back perhaps to Deuteronomy, he says, the poor you will have with you always. Why does he say this? Why, on the one hand, does he have this ideal community, and on the other hand, this reality that the poor you will have with you always? Because of disobedience. Because we forget at times who owns all that we have, that we forget that God is a source of blessing And so we lapse into so ownership. We lapse into thinking this is mine. This is belongs to me. We lapsed into greed, relapse into economic injustice. It's in this context that the Lord talks about how we are to respond to this reality about us, how we are to respond to the needy and the poor person. Not just in the Christian community, but also through the New Testament perspective to the needy and the poor and the world, even to non-believers. So what I want us to consider next is the basis for responding to the pore that we encounter. So point two, if you're following along your outline Point two, the basis for response is that our debts have been canceled. Our debts have been canceled We see that in verses 1 through 3. Look there with me. Look in your Bibles, please. It says, at the end of every seven years you must cancel debts. This is how it's to be done. Every creditor shall cancel the loan he has made to his fellow Israelite. He shall not require payment from his fellow Israelite or brother, because the Lord's time for canceling debt has been proclaimed. You may require payment from a foreigner, but you must cancel any debt your brother owes you. Moses is telling us that every seven years there is a cycle. Every seventh year there is what's called the sabbatical year, or the year of canceling deaths. Other translations the Bible have uh they're called they call it the year of release or the year of remission. And the word behind that literally means a letting go. to drop something. Now if you were to look in Exodus 23, the same word there is translated as to lie fallow. And it referred to the practice of allowing the land, that farmland, to lie fallow on the seventh year. The farmer wasn't to come and till the land, he wasn't to plant anything on that land that seventh year. It was to be let go, it was to lie fallow. So what we see in Deuteronomy 15 is an extension of the principle of lying fallow, of letting go. But in this case, it applied to the man who had incurred personal debts. So the Lord is saying, every seventh year, every creditor must do this, must cancel debts, must forgive all debts of his brethren. Think about that. Incredible to consider. And this is no way of doing business. Ed Spiva, he just cringes under this As a banker, there's no way. You just don't make it in the business world like this. But this is God's field. This is God's land. It's his resources. Let me give you a modern scenario of this principle. Suppose we have a man, a Jewish man by the name of Reuben. And Reuben was a good farmer and he would farm his land year after year, but he had a couple of bad years. Crops weren't so good and so because of needing to care for his family, he borrows some money. He goes to the creditor and he asks the creditor for eight hundred dollars. And he's given that amount. And Ruben goes home and he decides, well, I want to pay this off But here I am, this is the fourth year of this cycle, seven year cycle, and and I just borrowed eight hundred dollars and I want to pay it off, but The least I can do is pay off at least two hundred dollars a year. So year five rows along and he pays off two hundred dollars. Year six comes along two hundred more dollars and so far he's only paid four hundred dollars off. Year seven comes along The year for canceling debts, he still owes four hundred dollars and that debt is canceled. He doesn't have to pay it back Had Reuven borrowed that money in the second year of the seven year cycle, the creditor probably wouldn't have would have got all his money back Before that year of release. Why does the Lord command this? Why? Well, with regard to the land lying fallow, It had the function of helping the poor. Because whatever crops grew in the farm, in the field that particular year Since it wasn't till nothing was planted on it, whatever crops grew up was designated as for the poor and the needy. It was for them. It was their food God was making provision for them. God is clearly demonstrating that He Himself is the one who has compassion for the poor. That he's the one who ultimately provides. He wants his people to see that he's the heavenly farmer, he's the plowman, he's the tiller of the land. It's always that way. Even in years one through six of this cycle, he is the one that produces the crops. But in the seventh year he wants it to be crystal clear to his people. And so he has them cancel deaths. Let go. Not just of money, but also of land. Also through this canceling of debts, God was reminding the Israelites Even before they entered the promised land, that they possess nothing on their own. They were at one time the most needy and the most desperate of all the peoples, of all the nations. As they were oppressed and enslaved in Egypt. And each time this predator would release his brother from debt It was a reminder of how Yahweh had released him or his own forefathers from the bondage of dead and Egypt so that the Israelites, they really couldn't complain. Think of how much God had forgiven them. Think of how much God had delivered them from. They had no reason to complain. No reason to cry. And so, with this thought before them, their only proper response was one of mercy and humility. Should we cancel debts today? I don't know, it might be a boost to our economy. Who knows? But it doesn't apply to us today because we live in a different society. The civil structure here in America with the church is different than what existed with Israel. But from a New Testament perspective, we can see that the canceling of the debts was a picture, a foreshadowing of the canceling of a spiritual debt, even our sin. For like the Israelites, we too were once in bondage. We too were once oppressed by sin in our own Egypt. We owed a debt so huge that there was never any way that we could repay God. Never And so the Lord Himself cancels our debt in Jesus Christ. Do you remember Jesus hanging on the cross between two thieves? In one of his last words In John 19, he cries out on the cross. He says, it is finished. It is finished. And some of you know that the word there is a commercial word that means that the debt has been paid in full. Jesus says, it is finished. The debt has been paid. Your debt of sin, my debt of sin, has been paid in full. All sins have been forgiven. And it's precisely because of the riches of the grace that have been lavished upon us in Christ Jesus Because the immensity, the awesomeness of the sin that we once carried about on our backs and in our hearts that has been forgiven, that ought to move us to respond. to those who are needy, to those who are poor. If you're anything like me, oftentimes you give to the poor and to the needy To appease a guilty conscience. But I suggest to you In light of what the Lord Jesus has done, that the better motivation is not guilt, but it's gratitude. Gratitude for what the Lord Jesus has done. And as a result of this, as a result of his canceling our debt, of being freed in Christ, of having all spiritual blessings in the heavenly places I see two attitudinal implications that I want to bring out. And the first is, you see under point three, the attitude toward the needy. The first is generosity. Which I will describe as open heart, open hand. Look at what is said to the Israelites in verses 8, 10, and 11. Look in verse 8 Lord says, be open-handed and freely lend him whatever he needs. In verse 10, give generously to him and do so without a grudging heart. In verse 11, be open-handed toward your brothers and toward the poor and needy in the land. There shouldn't be any poor among you, the Lord is saying. But even if there is, even if there is after you cancel debt, then go past the command. I want you to go past that command of canceling debt, go past the letter of the law, and go to the spirit of the law. And meet your brother's needs. And that's why he uses these words. Be generous, be open-handed, lend freely. Oh, it's so clear. It's so clear as we look through Scripture that we're called to give generously to those who have need because of the rich love and mercy that's been shown to us. In 2 Corinthians, Paul is writing to the Corinthians about this collection that they've been taking up for the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem. But the collection wasn't moving so fast. It got bogged down, and so Paul writes them and he sets before them this example, this pattern of how to give. In 2 Corinthians 8, verses 8 and 9, he says to them, referring to Christ, I want to test the sincerity of your love. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. So that you through his poverty might become rich. And then even before that, Paul places before them the example of the Macedonians and how they responded to the generously. And he says that they gave as much as they were able, even beyond their ability. Even beyond their ability. Generosity. Not too long ago, I was in DC. I was walking down the street, and I noticed before me, probably about 20 feet before me, was a woman. who was obviously asking people who passed by for money. I saw the people who would pass her by. They would just ignore her. They wouldn't look at her. They ignored her pleas for extra change that they might have. As I approached her, I decided I needed to do something. Lord, I need to figure out how I'm going to respond to this woman. And as I got nearer to her, her words reached my ears. Mister, any spare change? And I found myself reaching into my pocket and pulling out Some change I had and I placed it in her hand. But when I did that, something happened in me that I'll never forget because that incident is replayed in my mind and in my heart time and time again. When I gave her the money, that little bit of money, I looked in her eyes, and I saw a woman I didn't see a beggar. I didn't see a bum. I didn't see a bag lady. I saw a woman made in the image of God. When I saw her I couldn't help but think that it was a mother trying to care for herself, perhaps care for her children. She wasn't unkempt. She didn't smell. She wasn't a whino. She just needed help. She needed. As I think about that, I realize that when I gave, I gave with mixed motives. I gave so little. I realized I wasn't generous. I was miserly. I was a tight wad. If you're anything like me, oh, I have so much to learn about being generous. I have so often to see afresh how generous the Lord has been with me. So that I might be generous toward others. You know, generosity is related to some extent to the amount we give. To people, but more so, I think it's related to our heart attitude. It's related to the motives by which we give what we give. The Lord sees your heart. The Lord sees my heart. He sees our motives. He sees it so clearly and so often he has to say to you and to me, be careful. Be careful with your thoughts about the poor and the needy. And so the second implication is a warning. Look on the back of your outline. Bulletin outline God gives us a warning against what I call a closed heart, a closed hand. And verse nine The Lord says, Be careful not to harbor this wicked thought. Look there in the Bible. And here's a thought that he brings out. A person might have this thought. The seventh year, the year for canceling debts, is near. And so the Lord is saying, be careful, don't have that thought in your mind when somebody comes to ask of you for something. So that you do not show ill will toward your needy brother and give him nothing. You see, depending on how ye how near that year of cancellation, debt cancellation was, The creditor, this man of wealth, might think, well, I can't be too generous. I don't think I want a loan because if this is the sixth year of the cycle, well, I'm not going to get anything back. I might as well be giving this person a gift. But that's precisely it. That's precisely what the Lord wants from you and from me at times. A gift, a generous gift. It seems to me that the Lord is saying, yes, don't harbor wicked thoughts. Don't be so concerned about yourself. Don't be so concerned about your money that it perhaps won't be repaid. Remember that I gave generously to you. I never gave to you thinking that you would ever repay me. People, you could never repay me. Give. Be concerned about the plight of the poor. Don't be so concerned about yourself. Don't be concerned about your money, about your resources. Remember, it all belongs to me anyway. It all belongs to the Lord. Then in verse seven, the Lord says Do not be hard hearted or tight fisted. If you were to look up Those words throughout Scripture, those phrases hardness of heart or hard-heartedness, you would find that it's a stubborn, obstinate refusal to listen to and obey the Word of God. It's a refusal to be moved by God. It's a cold person. A hard-hearted person is cold. Is not moved by God's word, not moved by God's generosity, is not moved by compassion, is not moved by pity And the result is a closed heart, a tight fist. And this is the very opposite of what the Lord requires of us in verse 8, where he says, be open-handed. But hard-hearted people are tight-fisted, closed-handed You know, when we think of Sodom and Gomorrah, we can think of all the reasons, a lot of reasons why God destroyed those cities For their sexual perversity, idolatry, promiscuity. But Ezekiel gives us some more information of why God destroyed Sodom. Ezekiel 16, 49 and 50. He says, now this is a sin of your sister Sodom. She and her daughters were arrogant, overfed, and unconcerned. They did not help the poor and needy. They were haughty and did detestable things before me. Therefore I did away with them as you have seen. Sodom destroyed by God because of being unconcerned, of being hard-hearted toward the poor and the needy. Brothers and sisters, let us not be like Sodom. As I've thought about this I thought, you know, there are some ways that we reflect hard heartedness in our attitude, some ways in which we fall into this trap. of being tight fisted. And there are a couple, if you will, modern hard-hearted things that we fall into that I want to Point out to you. The first is what I call conditional giving. Conditional giving. This is the thought that He says, I'll land, I'll give something, only on the condition that I get something in return. And the Lord says to us in Luke 14, he says, Oh, you will be repaid. But you will be repaid in the resurrection of the righteous. Second is related to the above, to conditional giving, and that is reluctant giving Sometimes we're reluctant when we meet people on the streets, when we meet people that perhaps we know or we know very little, because we think of their character and we think, well, you know, all people that beg. All people who are on the streets are lazy. They should work. They're a bunch of whinos. But more and more, that is less true. The people on the streets are people who once had jobs most likely, who want to work. They're not whinos for the most part. Sometimes I think that we overgeneralize And the character regarding the character of the poor, just to excuse ourselves. Just to hide behind this sense of, well, I'm being a good steward, Lord. I want to be prudent. I think sometimes we hide behind that. I know I do. But the Lord says, no, they're not all lazy. They're not all winos. Thirdly, postpone giving. Postpone giving. It's a thought that, oh, I'll give tomorrow, I'll give next time I'll give at the end of the year so I can get my tax breaks. Or for some of us maybe it's I'll give right before I die. A rich man once asked his friend, why am I criticized for being miserly? Everyone knows I will leave everything to charity when I die. Well, said the friend, let me tell you about the pig who was lamenting to the cow one day about how unpopular he was People are always talking about your gentleness and your kind eyes, referring to the cow. Sure, you give milk and cream, but I give more. I give bacon. I give ham. They even pickle my feet. Still, nobody likes me. Why is this? The cow thought a minute and replied, Well, maybe it's because I give while I'm still living. Think about that. Fourthly, deceitful giving This is giving with motives that you know are deceptive, that you know are wrong. Giving in such a way that you want to appear better in front of other people. And such was the case with Ananias and Sapphira in Acts 5, who sold the piece of property and went to lay before the apostles' feet the money From this property and they told the apostles, they said, Well yeah, this is all the money that we got from the sale of the land, but it wasn't all that money. They kept some of it from the cell for themselves. That was deceitful. And it cost them their lives. Fifthly, compassion fatigue. In early December, the Baltimore Sun reported, had this headline, says, persistent poverty produces compassion fatigue. And it went on to say that people across the nation are giving up on giving. That people are less tolerant of the needy, they're giving less of their time, they're less willing to part with their money. The result is that in places like in West Virginia, Martinsburg, West Virginia, there was an ordinance that was approved that outlawed begging. Nobody was to beg in the community. If you were caught begging, you were fined $500. I can't figure that one out. And if $500 wasn't good enough, then you were put in jail for ten days. But people are getting tired out in the world. They're getting tired of not seeing any change But here is precisely where we as a Church of Jesus Christ can come. Here is our opportunity to share the compassion of Christ that never wears thin, that never fatigues. And sixthly. You see, sometimes we have selective vision. We go into Baltimore City, we go into DC. And we drive around those areas that we don't want to see. We drive around those people that are needy, that beg because we don't know how to respond So we cross the street. We go to the other side. We close our eyes and we see only what we want to see. The parable of the Good Samaritan illustrates this so clearly in Luke ten. Here's this man who's beaten, half dead, lying on the side of the road, and a priest comes by and what does a priest do? He crosses over to the other side of the road. A Levite comes, he does the same thing, but not with the Samaritan. The Samaritan comes, and the scriptures say that when the Samaritan saw him, he took pity on him. And we know it was a Samaritan that took care of him. As followers of Jesus, we need to arrange our lives so that we see the poor and the needy. If you think that there are no poor or needy in your field of vision, then perhaps, just perhaps You have found ways to keep from seeing them. Because they are all around us, even in Colombia. I realize that some of the things I've said are sensitive. Some of you are really sensitive to this. And I haven't really even talked about How to apply this practically in our everyday lives. And so I want to invite you, as many of you as are willing and are able to come this afternoon from 2 to 4. I had to come to our house for an open house. Can I want to deal with this? How would the Lord have you respond in your workplace, in your area of influence? With the needy that you encounter. I want us to be practical in that time. So please come. And you see on the outline there's the address. But please call us. You want directions Our God has been generous to us, and that's all I've been saying. I've been saying things that you guys already know. That God has been generous to us. In Christ Jesus. And it's because of that generosity that He's shown us that we ought to respond to the poor. You know, we are never more like God than when we give. We are never more like God than when we give. Story is told of a little orphan boy who was roaming the streets after the Second World War. An American soldier in London installed this boy, stopped his jeep, and he stood by the boy, and the boy was standing next, right in front of this pastry shop, and he had his nose pressed up against the window. You see the window all fogging up and the boy salivating. He was hungry. He could go for some of those donuts. And the soldier stood beside him and wondered what he could do And he asked the boy, Would you like some? So he went inside and he bought some donuts and he came out and he handed the bag to the boy who said, Oh yes, thank you, thank you. And so the soldier gave the bag to him, and he walked away back to his jeep. And as he was walking away, the boy tugged on his coat. And he said to him quietly, he said, Mister, are you God? Mister, are you God? For we are never more like God than when we give. Remember, for God so loved the world that he gave Jesus. To you and to me freely and generously. Amen. Right, clean off the face of the earth. Now what hope is there for him? So the drama this thing builds, you see. I mean, there is no hope for you guys. Along comes this woman, and of course she is the most beautiful woman on earth, and she is the most virtuous woman on earth, and her name is Judith, which means Jewess. Judah says, guys, pray for me. I got a plan. She goes out with her handmaid and all the, you know, she dresses up, she prays for three days, and it says that God made her more beautiful after the three days of praying. and does her hair all up and I mean she really looks like, you know, it says, I mean the guys when she walks down the street, they're you know and Judith walks out but she's praying and she says, just pray for me guys and I I don't know what she's doing, but boy, pray for her because she's gone to the Assyrian camp. And she arrives, you know, and it's the same scene, you know, everybody, you know, the guys are all hanging out, you know. Wow, look at this woman. Man, what's she doing? And they said, you know, I've come to see your general Hall of Fairness I have left my people. They are foolish. They are trusting in their God to save them. And I know that God's not going to save them because, see, one guy had already told Holoference the way you defeat the Israelites is to just get them on the bad side of their God. Because then he won't protect them. So well, you know, a later with this, I don't need be on their good side or bad side of their God. I'm gonna wipe them out. I don't care which side they're on So Judith comes up and she knows, you know, this guy's got this thinking. She goes up and she says, they're on God's bad side. He's not going to protect them. And I know they are doomed. So I am come to tell you what their plan is. so that you can take them without even losing a single man. So she comes in and boy, you know, he's really interested and he has her and he you know he winds her and dines her and then she you know she says, I want the one thing every night I want to be able to go out and I want to have my quiet time. I ought you know have it outside of camp. Just take my handmaid, but you know, she's she's saying she's still trusting God to him, but she says, I'm gonna go out and I wanna have my quiet time each night. So don't bother me with that. Totally asked because alright, alright, you know everybody's got their thing, all right. I Go ahead, go out and have your quieter. Then come on back in, okay? Okay, she comes along back in, you know. They said, well let's have you know some uh figs and some dates and some wine and some goodies here and she says fine, let's do this, you know. So She gets in drunk, drunk as a loon, you know, the guy can't even see straight. He's passed out cold Of course everybody outside is assuming, you know, this guy's gonna seduce her and you know, it's don't bother Hall of Fernies, you know. Don't don't go in there all night, you know, the pain of death to touch this guy. So she's in there with him, she gets him drunk, stone drunk, chops off his head, gives it to her maid, says, stick it in your bag here. We're making out of here. Walks through the guards and says, I'm going out to have my quiet time, fellas. Of course they let her out, you know. I mean, well, you know, what that's the hall of her and he said let her go when she wants to go, you know. She goes out, makes back for the camp, tells all the people back in Bithulia, okay guys. Tear out of here at dawn, scream and yell like you're on the offensive. Just trust me, it'll work. Well, they figure, you know, Judah says it, what else we got? We're gonna get wiped out, we're out of water, we're out of food. Go ahead So they were running out at dawn. She's got his head, so they know that. You know, you took the general's head, so you must got some credibility. Runs out of the town at dawn. And all the Assyrians are banging on Hall of Fernie's door. Nobody wants to disturb him. You know, who's gonna tell him, hey, we're being attacked, excuse me in there, you know. You know, so Finally, his right hand mad says, I don't care what he's doing in there, we're going in. Fans open the door. There he is laying in blood without a head. Well all of a sudden they realize, hey, I think we've been had. Fin They panic, utter rout. Their general's been killed by this woman. And so they all tear out of there and the Jews tear off with them with a mighty victory, and God has saved Israel. I mean that's the story that was going around that time, you see powerful sense of deliverance. This is what Messiah will do when he comes. He'll deliver his people. The power and the might that they were looking for. See and see another good story. It was a story of three youths. That's an interesting one. It was an appendix to Daniel, because the story of the three youths was about what's the strongest thing in the world? Three suggestions. And the one that won was women. First one said that wine's the strongest thing. Second said kings are the strongest thing. Third one said women, but truth will bear overall. And uh really it's an interesting story because it's he's an early feminist who's saying, you know, you guys really think that blind and and kings are strong, but you know, why do kings conquer for women? Uh who can bring 'em to their knees? Women, you know And he goes on and on and on. He wins. Everybody agrees. Ye won, give him the prize, you know. The Book of Tobit is also uh interesting book back then. Another uh story, Tobias, probably a bestseller of his day, written around 200 BC. Toba was a fellow in Nineveh who sent his son by the same name, Tobit, on an errand, with a fellow who joined him turned out to be an angel in disguise, Raphael. And uh you know, you've got lots of interesting stuff probably would have made a movie out of this if they could have at that time. He battles a monster fish, goes to take a bath in the river, this big monster fish comes out after him and guy kills the f