Well good morning. It was good to be away and it's good to be back. Back with you guys all. It was a wonderful vacation besides a week with Kathy as usual at Cape Cod. Uh this vacation I was um able to fulfill a dream of many, many years. Uh since my son Dean, who's now 25 years old, was a little kid, and we used to hike together and do things, we talked about someday taking a couple of weeks to just go off together into the wilderness or somewhere to hike. And um so this uh past month, Dean and I drove and hiked for 13 days through Nova Scotia And um went on many hikes, he did some paintings, and we just had a fantastic time. Um some dreams do come true And uh that was one certainly for us. Um It's really good, and I feel the privilege of being back to minister with you, my brothers and sisters. I've missed you. Believe me, seeing other churches, I do miss Columbia Presbyterian during the times when I'm gone. Now I had planned when I came back to finish Matthew chapter three this morning on the baptism of the Spirit. But as uh I, like you, probably watch some of the horrific visual images of Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast. I finally decided on Friday that I needed to switch what I was preaching, and it turned out that what I was planning to preach next Sunday between Matthew 3 and 4 was from Psalm 86. So like Tim says, you're not getting the uh fruit of a frustrated pastor who hasn't been able to preach for a number of weeks and therefore I'm going to cram in two this morning. Uh hold on. For the one on the baptism of the Spirit, that will be next week. But I thought that more appropriate in the light of the week's events is Psalm 86, a prayer for when you're desperate. It was just eight months ago that we were numbed by the images of the tsunami on the other side of the world. And then to see very similar kinds of images in our own country was particularly disturbing and so close within a year to see such devastation Uh and so um you see it and you you know our hearts are just broken by some of those graphic images of the suffering and the destruction Now, I want you to know I'm not going to attempt to address why does God allow such suffering or what is the meaning of it or what should be our response to it Rather, what I want to do this morning is I want to draw from an experience that I had at a particular time. When I was uh feeling uh my own heart broken with a sense of um personal turmoil and anguish, and a psalm that God directed me to that he used to powerfully speak to me, to change my perspective, and to encourage me. And so I would like to offer that to you so that uh whether it is your thoughts about the events in the Gulf Coast, uh or whether it is things more personal to you in your own turmoil, anxio, anxiety, or um anguish on certain things that uh you can see how God's word addresses that and speaks to you and to me in our times when we're afraid we'll sink into despair Uh it's interesting that um I didn't choose this psalm. It wasn't like I thought of this psalm when I was going through this particularly difficult time, I simply um meditate on one psalm a week and this was simply the next psalm. So God graciously, kindly, and I've seen that many times, brought to my mind something that was just in the course of my regular study and meditation that uh so powerfully spoke to my heart Now, we've already read it, so you have some clue of what it's about, but look again at the beginning of this psalm. Hear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. I'll tell you, when I was feeling that, and I read just that first verse, I thought, man, I identify with that. You know, do you ever read something like that in Scripture, some psalm? And all of a sudden it it grabs you because there's an emotional connection. You say, That's where I am. And so you're drawn into it. Okay, what do you say? Guard my life, for I'm devoted to you. Okay. You're my hope. You're the one I'm trusting. So you guard my life. You're my God, Savior servant who trusts in you. I'm depending on you, God. Help me. And then notice that in the psalm, the only thing that he pleased is not what he deserves, what he has done. It is simply mercy. You see that highlighted twice in that first section. Have mercy on me, O Lord. For I call to you all day long. Verse 6, hear my prayer, O Lord, listen to my cry for mercy. Now, a number of things will change in the Psalm, but when you come to the very end of the Psalm in verse 16, it's the very same flea. You and I never have any other plea but mercy. The people in the Gulf Coast have no plea except mercy. Now it's easy for us to kind of glibly assent to that and say, well yeah, of course, you know, that's what a Christian does, they plead mercy, without thinking of the implications of that. If in fact the people in the Gulf Coast, like you and I, have only mercy to plead, then we're saying by that we are not owed anything by God. Justice. will always give us something that is painful and difficult. Mercy is always better than we deserve. And sometimes it is most difficult for religious people who feel like, I have tried, I've tried to serve it, I've done this, I deserve better. I don't deserve what I'm getting, or I deserve for you to get me out of this. And not plead, simply mercy. The psalmist says, I'm poor and needy. God, mercy. That's all I have. That's all I can plead. And uh we think of uh New Orleans and that Gulf Coast area and recognize they only have mercy to plead. I mean, the way the place is constructed and the way they've lived, we'd say This has been a long time coming. It's been overdue, right? I mean I remember both my wife and my daughter were in one of my daughters was in New Orleans on different occasions And both remarked at the open depravity of the lifespot. My daughter said I was accosted in the middle of the afternoon in a public street. And they were alarmed at the way things were the the kind of things that were considered normal there Now, is that saying that well they deserve to have a hurricane come and hit them and that's why it happened? No, I'm not saying that. In fact, I'm saying quite the opposite Do you remember in Luke 13, people come to Jesus and they say, Oh, those people that had the Tower of Siloam that fell on them, 18 died, is that because they were more sinful than the rest of us? You remember Jesus' answer? He says, no, absolutely not. In fact, it's a lesson that except you repent, you will all likewise perish. This is an example of God's power, a taste of what he can do in judgment to warn you and me. That we don't stand against a God like this and pretend that He doesn't matter in our lives. And so we plead mercy, and we see a need for mercy. That's our only hope, mercy. And you notice that what he says is in verse four If there's going to be any joy in my life, God, it's because you give it. You see, those circumstances that turn our lives upside down, bring us into turmoil and tragedy, show us how fleeting and ephemeral. Circumstantial happiness are, don't they? Verse 4. Bring joy to your servant. For to you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. If you don't give it to me, it may come and it'll be gone like that. I heard not long ago of a woman who found out that her husband had been unfaithful to her with her best friend. And her response was, oh, if I could only put my life back where it was a week ago, will I ever smile or laugh again? There may be something that will happen in your life, something that has happened, and you say, I wonder if I'll ever be able to smile or laugh again The psalmist says, Lord, if I'm going to smile again, it's going to be because of you. You bring joy to your servants. To you, Lord, that I lift up my soul. I recognize that all the things that I look to for joy can be escapes if it's not really you that it the foundation of my life gives me my joy. And so he turns to God, longing to smile. And over and over and over it goes. Continues to cry out to God. But see, verse 4. I call to you all day long. I remember when I read that I thought, yeah, I need to not just read this song. You know, sometimes we read God's word and then we say, Okay, now I want to remember that as I drive. You know, I keep a Bible, a little Bible. right in my console so that I can pull it out, whether it's at traffic lights or at various times, to remind me of what I had read. And on that day when I was reading this, I felt I need this so much. I need to not just read this. I need this psalm to come and possess me. I need to to chew on each verse and all day long. And so I thought, you know, there's 16 verses here. And if I meditate on one every 15 minutes, just to have my mind, just as much as I can in the other things that I'm doing, think about that. verse for 15 minutes. That means in four hours I'll have covered the verse, the psalm minus one verse, throw it in there somewhere. And so I divided the day. For the whole week, I divide into 6 a. m. to 10 a. m. , 10 to 2, 2 to 6, and 6 to 10. So I would wind up going through the psalm four times, verse by verse, every 15 minutes through the whole day. All week That really makes a difference. Because you begin to go and you go over it the second time and the third time and you begin to notice things and you begin to enter in. And as I did that, I noticed something. I noticed that there is a sharp and unexpected transition at verse 8. When he cries to God, he says all day long, and that probably means more than one day, I'm crying to you constantly all day, you're forgiving. in good, abounding in love to all who call to you. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Listen to my cry for mercy. In the day of my trouble, I will call to you, for you will answer me. On and on and on and on. He's going over and over. And then all of a sudden you come to verse 8 and you hear, Among the God, There is none like you, O Lord. Oh, no deeds can compare with yours. All nations you have made will come and worship before you, O Lord. They will bring glory to your name, for you are great and do marvelous deeds. You alone are God. And all of a sudden you realize the whole tone has switched. What's happened? Point two, you see there, his eyes are off himself to see him. Eyes off myself to see him. After a while, you get simply tired of crying out, don't you? And so after a while you begin to ask yourself, who is it that I'm crying to? I'm I'm exhausted thinking about my situation, about this devastation, about this anxiety, about whatever's going on in my life. Lord, who is it I'm crying to? And then he says, Among the gods, there's none like you. You are unique. No deeds can compare with yours. Now when you read that in the Old Testament, any Old Testament believer would have immediately thought of what? The Exodus. That was the definitive act of God's strength and power and mercy. No deeds can compare with yours. You are the one who brought your people A ragtag group of people with no arms from the mightiest nation on earth that held them in bondage. You rescued us, you brought us out, you delivered us, you gave to us a land that we hadn't cultivated, that we hadn't prepared, you gave it as a gift. You brought us into that land and gave us a treasure. No deeds can compare with yours. You give slaves the land of princes And a Christian reads that, and we look back at the fulfillment of the Exodus, and we realize no deeds can compare with yours, O God. For our God is a God who suffered. Anybody who is in Baloxi or Gulfport or New Orleans that looks and says God, how could you do this? You sit up in heaven far from this, comfortable, and you bring this devastation upon us. How can we think of you as a God of love. I when we were in uh Halifax, there was uh it just came to my mind this moment in the museum of the Great Halifax explosion Of nineteen seventeen. The explosion was five times worse in devastation and cost of life than the San Francisco earthquake, worse than the Chicago fire, not nearly as well known The entire city was the greatest explosion, the greatest sound that had ever been made in the history of mankind up until the atomic bomb. One pastor said, if God has anything to do with this, I'd rip my collar off and renounce him. We look and we say, how can God be a God of love? No deeds compare with yours, O God. For our God came and entered into our world of suffering. And he suffered with us as a human. And he suffered for us, for you, for your sin, for my sin, entering in so that with his own life in crucifixion He paid for your sin and my sin. No deeds compare to yours. For you are great, and you do marvelous deeds. You alone are God And it didn't end there. Three days later, you rose from the dead, you walked out of the tomb. Death doesn't have the last word. You speak goodness and power and victory in the greatest crime in human history No deeds can compare with yours, O God. You see our misery. You come down and enter into it to rescue us, to preserve us from a death that is far worse than drowning. In a flooded street, you've come and you've delivered us from eternal death. And so, verse 9: all nations that you have made. Will come and they will worship before you, O God, O Lord. They will bring glory to your name. And as I read that, I thought, what in the world does that have to do with verses 1 to 7? And the answer is everything. You see, once You switch and see who God is, you realize, you know, this really isn't about me. It really isn't all about my property and my life and my comfort. It's about him. And God, if my suffering can cause someone of the nations To look and consider you and say, well, sure, it's easy for him to call himself a Christian when things are going well in his life. But then when they see me come and worship you and be faithful to you and trust you and cling to you when everything says renounce him. The nations come and they worship. And God, that's okay. You're worth it. You see, what's happening is the psalmist has his eyes off of himself to be transfixed with the wonder. of God. Says John Piper once wrote, when you stand at the edge of the Grand Canyon, you're not thinking about yourself. You're thinking of the wonder that's before you. And the only thing you're thinking about yourself is how small you are. Dean and I climbed a mountain that was 1100 feet over the ocean and was almost a sheardrop into the Atlantic. Believe me, as we stood on the pinnacle of that mountain, we weren't thinking about ourselves. You're transfixed with the wonder of what's before you And that's what the psalmist is saying. All the nations you've made are going to come and they're going to worship before you, O Lord. They're going to bring glory to your name. And so, you see Point three, there's a revised prayer that begins in verse 11. A revised prayer with a new focus. Teach me your way, O Lord, and I will walk in your truth. Lord, in this situation, show me what it means to live in your way. What does it mean to live for you in this pain, in this tragedy, in this difficulty? And then what I think is the very heart of the Psalm, the end of verse 11, give me an undivided heart, that I may fear your name. It's an interesting phrase, isn't it? An undivided heart. What does that mean? It means for me that I recognize my heart is so typically divided. Your heart is so often divided, isn't it? Lord Jesus, I want to serve you, but I don't want it to cost too much. I want to love people, but I don't want to be inconvenienced or have my schedule disrupted. I want my life to count for you. But I don't want to think about sacrifice. I mean, this isn't that the way it is, the way I am. My heart's divided. On the one hand, but on the other hand. Some temptations come and I want to resist, but on the other hand, I want some immediate gratification. Lord, give me an undivided heart, he says. Peter writes about this same kind of thing in 1 Peter chapter 1. Steve's been taking you through 1 Peter. And uh In verse 6, Peter says, In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that your faith of greater worth in gold which perishes, even though refined by fire May be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed, so that your faith is purified. So that the dross is removed. It's like a heart becoming less divided, more whole. And Peter says suffering has a very interesting effect. And he describes the dynamic in chapter 4 in verse 1. I didn't put this on the board. You can look it up. Read it on your own later, but let me read it to you. First Peter chapter four, verse one. Very interesting. Peter says, Therefore, since Christ suffered in his body Arm yourselves with the same attitude, the attitude that says, I will do God's will, I will glorify and honor him, whatever suffering it takes. Now Christ suffered, went to the cross. Arm yourselves with that same attitude, notice, because he who has suffered in his body is done with sin. You see, there's something about suffering that, like the psalmist, produces, Lord, I am poor and needy. I'm crying out to you, Lord, I need to see you, Lord, I grasp you, Lord, you're the only one that's going to give me joy. And you you just try to put your arms around them. You come to his feet and you you cleave to him. And all of a sudden, at some point when you're in that process, you may think about something that's usually an idol in your life, something that grasps you with temptation, and you say, get out of here. I'm not even interested now. He that suffered is done with sin. See all those things that have such power to tempt us, to remove us from Jesus, when you suffer. Perspective changes. So the psalmist says, Lord, Lord, I've seen you. Give me an undivided heart that I may praise your name. With all my heart, transfixed by your glory, seeing you as you really are. And then you see, he goes on, I will praise you with all my heart. I will glorify your name forever, for great is your love for me. You have delivered me from the depths of the grave. That's not talking about the deliverance he's seeking. He's saying you've already delivered me. And of course the Christian looks and they say, Yes, Lord, whatever happens, maybe I've lost all my property. Maybe I've lost family members. We've seen people weeping on TV that I You know, one man said I was holding my wife's hand and the waters ripped her out of my grasp. But you've delivered my soul from the grave. Big issue of my life. Reconciliation with God. Whether I'm under his curse or under his blessing. That issue, he says, you've settled. You're a God of mercy, and you've shown me mercy. You've shown me mercy in the ultimate issues. And so I praise you for you have met my deepest need. Do you remember Tim Floor describing how in that one time when the fire wiped out all of their possessions, took everything, and how had he said, you know, it it gave him a more undivided heart. It changed his perspective. That's what the Psalm's depicting. You see, it's what happens in our suffering when we get our eyes finally off of Brian Williams And Matt, Lauer, and CNN, and we look to see Jesus Christ. And things change. Perspectives change. We see him as unique. You alone are God. And so finally He prays the final prayer where in point four, the uh problems don't disappear, but now there's a new hope That's the last blank. I have hope. Verses 14 to 17. It's in verse 14 that he finally gets to what the problem is. The arrogant are attacking me, O God. A band of ruthless men seeks my life, men without regard for you. That's the problem. In a word, persecution. Life-threatening persecution. I remember when I read that and I thought the arrogant are attacking me, oh God, a band of ruthless men seeks my life, men without regard for you. I thought, well, you know, I got problems, but Nobody's seeking my life right now. And uh, you know, get things get a brip, Al, you know, put things in perspective. You're you're not about to lose your life And yet how many people find that verse to speak right to their situation? And I'm not just talking about devastation of a hurricane, I'm talking about Real life-threatening persecution. Read that verse to Christians who are in Darsra in the Sudan. Mass killings and burnings and lootings. And they say, I understand that verse. Recently A bomb set off in a Christian village in Indonesia, killing 21 Christians and injuring another 49, and they say, yes, we understand that verse Or recently, two Christians beaten to death, murdered in Pakistan because of their faith. Their families say, yes. We understand that verse. And so it gives you and me perspective, but it helps us to see again this this world is a world of pain, turmoil, conflict, and death. And it's in the midst of that, the verse fifteen, but you, O God But you, O Lord, are a compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness. So then the final prayer. Turn to me. Have mercy on me. Again, it's that same plea. Lord, there's nothing else I can plea but mercy. Have mercy on me. Grant your strength to your servant and save the son of your maidservant. Notice the two yours there. Two yours. Your strength, your servant. Grant your unique strength to your servant. What is that strength? Verse 9: all the nations you have made. The strength is the strength of the Creator. And if there's one thing that following some of the footage of this week has done for us in seeing the power and the devastation of Katrina is to give us a tiny glimpse again of the power of our God. The most gripping was a video clip that I saw, watched it twice, two men who are extreme weather videographers. And they chose to hole up in the Holiday Inn right on the beach in Gulfport, Mississippi. Uh idiots, they didn't do that with permission, they simply uh um got there and they filmed the hurricane in action And so you watch as the waves begin to come and sweep across the beach and then they begin to beat against the holiday inn. You see them coming up against the walls and they're coming up against the glass doors and you see the water rising and begins to come through the glass doors. And pretty soon the waves is They pound against the doors, break through the doors, and the doors burst open. You see it taking a car and lifting a car and moving it forward. And the water begins to fill rapidly. Within a minute or two, the entire lobby is filled with water. And as the water's coming up, you see a car coming toward the entrance. This is before the doors had burst in. And you see brake lights going on in the car indicating that someone's in there. And the car crashes through the doors. And then the lobby fills up. They run up the steps and you see in the stairwell as the camera goes down to where he had just been standing and you watch a wave come in and smash against the walls and you think, what would it have been like ten seconds earlier if he had been down on that landing? And then the next clip is him saying, we are now on the fourth floor, and you see the waters all swirling in the courtyard around. Power. Power that makes you and me realize how small and puny and tiny we are. to tremble to think that I would be an enemy of the God of that kind of power. That I would live my life as if he doesn't matter and he can go his way and I'll live my life on my own. Thank you very much. And the psalmist says, grant your power, your strength for your servant. For when you give your life to Jesus Christ and confess your helplessness and your sin and your need of Him, that power becomes a power that is for you. Not against you. Your power for your servant. And you could translate that verse, which is for your servant. It says, and say the son of your maidservant. You could also translate that. It's a parallel in the Hebrew Hebrew, for your son. In other words, I'm not only your servant, but I'm your son. There is that intimate relationship. Do you have that relationship with Jesus Christ this morning? Not only his servant, but his son, his child, his daughter. That's the hope. And that hope gives them a boldness. A boldness in that final request in verse 17. It's an amazing request. After all of this, the hopeless, the the poor, the needy, Lord, I'm crying out to you. Then you come after he's glimpsed God and his faithfulness and his mercy and his power. He says, give me a sign of your goodness. That my enemies may see it and be put to shame. For you, O Lord, have helped me and comforted me. What a statement of faith. But you see what he's saying there He's saying, show me your power. Give me a sign so that I see it. That'll encourage my faith and hope. But also it's objective so that my enemies see it. And they'll be put to shame in seeing your power on behalf of your people. As I thought of that, I remembered an incident in my life back in the early 70s where I was uh supervising a fella. who for whatever reason took an intense disliking to me. Now can you imagine anybody taking an intense disliking to somebody as pleasant as me? Man, this guy didn't like me. He didn't like me at all. In fact, he uh began to vilify me and he wanted to get me fired And I tried uh opportunities to reconcile and we tried that together, and I think he was trying, and things got worse and worse And I cried out to God, this went on for months. Lord, um, what can I do in this situation? And God simply removed him from that job. He was removed. Shortly after that, his wife left him. And his life deteriorated. I actually began to really feel bad for him. But I learned in that the lesson that God here I am fretting, what am I going to do? And you can give me a sign. You can do something that says, I'm safe with you. And you know what? Whatever it is that's in your life that's threatening you right now, that's producing anxiety and turmoil and anguish. God is sufficient to show you his compassion and to show you he can take care of you. He can give you a sign of his mercy and his goodness, and I don't know what it'll be. It may not be to rescue you from the circumstance, but he can give you a sign of his goodness that you can grasp and see. And I expect to see and hear From New Orleans and Gulfport and Baloxi and the areas down there, God's people saying, you know what, in the midst of this devastation, here are signs that God gave of his goodness to show his compassion, to show his mercy And he'll be honored in that. But it centers on that prayer. You see, the transition from I'm simply poor and needy help to give me an undivided heart. And you may need to divide your day into four quadrants and meditate one verse every 15 minutes until this verse enters into your soul and your heart and you can possess it and you've memorized it. And it's in your heart. And at that point, your perspective changes And everything looks different. And it's worth it. Let's pray. Our God, what it means to see you. We say, Lord, if I could only see you, if I could understand something of your goodness, and so often, Lord, that is connected to suffering. And so, Lord, in whatever the situations in each heart, in each life that's represented here in this room this morning, I pray. That you will bring that person to where they turn from crying to you all day long, I am poor, needy, have mercy. To realize that is their only plea, and then to see you as you really are uniquely in the uniqueness of your deeds at the cross and the empty tomb. To see you are a God who has suffered for us. And to then be able to see the nations are going to come and they're going to worship, and it's not about me, oh Lord, give me an undivided heart. That I may praise you and live out in my situation in a way that brings you glory and honor. Lord, only you can do that. But when you do that, there is a beauty and a fragrance of Christ in our lives. We pray that for ourselves, for our congregation, and for our brothers and sisters going through intense suffering and turmoil in the Gulf area, even at this time. In Jesus' name. Amen.