Years passed since the beginning of that holiday series on messianic prophecies, prophecies of the coming of Christ. And so we come to the second part of this 50-year series on the prophecies concerning the coming of the Lord Jesus, and we come to the prophecy of Noah. Let's read the occasion and the prophecy as it's contained in Genesis chapter 9, beginning with verse 18. Genesis chapter 9, beginning with verse 18. The sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Jacob. Ham was the father of Canaan. These were the three sons of Noah, and from them came the people who were scattered over the earth. Noah, a man of the soil, proceeded to plant of the meat. When he drank some of his wine, he became drunk and lay uncovered inside his tent. Ham, the father of Canaan, saw his father's nakedness and called his two brothers outside. But Shem and Jacobs took a garment and laid it across their shoulders. Then they walked in backward and covered their father's nakedness. Their faces were turned the other way so that they would not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from his wine and found out what his younger son had done to him, he said, Cursed be Canaan. Al lowest of slaves will he be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Sem. May Canaan be the slave of Sem. May God extend the territory of Jacob May Jacob live in the tents of sin, and may Cains be his slaves. Let's look to the Lord to give us understanding of this portion of the things Lord, we have here an utterance of grief far surpassing what we often see. Open our eyes. We may behold wonderful things on you and all this morning. Things that could be for love for you, examination of ourselves, and worship for you and God. Open our hearts to understand, capability, laboration The worship and other First of all, in this courting of God's word, let's notice the accusing of that prophecy. Very important in understanding the prophecy. This is one of the first things that happened after the flood that Noah went out and planted a woman see him there in verse 20 But then in verse 21, we read that he drank from some of the fruit of this vineyard and the result was that we got both. Now It may be that Noah was unacquainted with wine. Maybe this was the first wine that had ever been produced. The Greek couldn't, I mean the Hebrew there could imply that But at any rate, uh Noah, whether through a fall of his own or simply through inadvertence, became drunk. And in his drunkenness, he made a spectacle of himself He was there, just laying in his tent, exposed himself, took off his clothes, and was in a rather sloppy, disrespectful condition. Read then in verse 22 that Ham saw him in that condition Saw his father's nakedness and what's his response? Well we read this out with a sort of smirk on his face and a snicker or two Tom went out and told his brothers about it. Boy, you ought to see that. You know, the old patriarchs fellows, such respectability, then look too respectable now. And in doing this, Ham was reflecting the fact that he had lost respect for his father. He was simply here showing that he was had lost that honor that he should have been paying to his father before this event happened. The event simply surfaced what Ham's attitude was toward his father and the kinds of things that um that tickled his mind, the kind of things that uh that he enjoyed. And so in doing this Han showed the tendency of his life. We see here in Han's Prodigy Uh what you might think if you look at this and the purse that included on it could be a rather small thing to walk down. I mean, you know, all he did was What's the bigger deal about that? But you have to realize that this this is the beginning of a new human race And the beginnings in the Bible are very significant. They set the course of our lives. And so what Ham is doing here now is no small thing. Because he now is dishonoring his father as the beginning of a course of his own heritage. And so he's setting the trends to all of the rest of those who will come after him in his own line. And that's very and very important. In contrast that with Sam and Jacob's attitude, when Ham tells them this, they don't laugh along with him. Rather, they're shocked by his attitude. Whether they rebuke him or not, we don't know, but we do know that very immediately then take this cloth, a blanket, something on their shoulders, and they walk in backwards and then cover their father without looking at him Now that's not because Temet and Jacob were proved, because they had never seen their father take a bath, never saw him take a shower, or something like this. They are honoring their father in his face Because he's their father, they honor him. Not because he deserves it. They don't say, well, he's nope, he doesn't deserve to be respected. They say God says to honor him. God says to respect him, and so we honor God by doing this. The common hate and jazic are giving a proper respect for their father. Now when Noah awakes, he knows what happens. And it's based on that that Noah utters what we see in verse 25 to 27. And it's important for us to realize that this is not the outburst of an irritated dad. Noah doesn't just get up and say, curses on you, tamey, you little rascal. This is a prophetic utterance of stagnant proportions. And it's given by the past by the Spirit of God declaring what will be the effect, what is pictured in this event, uh to be typified, to be a citation of what is going to happen. As a result of that, for a whole human race to come. Notice what he is doing here. Holding us, Noah is really giving here a picture of God's grace. And he does that in three ways, the three ways that you see there outlined in the bulletin. And let's take a look at these as you see these in these three verses. First of all, I want you to notice the purity of God's grace in verse 25. Secondly, the depth of God's grace in verse 26. And then thirdly, the breadth of God's grace in verse 27. First of all, then the purity of God's grace, as we see it in verse 25. The first thing you notice about this prophecy, if you take a look at it closely, is that Ham was the one who sinned against his father. But it's Canaan who's cursed. You might ask yourself, that's rather odd. Why is it that Noah skips over Ham and curses Canaan? He seemed to have nothing to do with it Does that seem quite safe? Well, first of all, you need to realize in that that in person paining, ham does not at all escape Scot free. One of the most Powerful punishment for any parent is to see their children cursed because of their own sins. He's taken alcoholic who is always talking about changing his ways. But then he sees what happens to his own children because of that. He watches his son become a teenager. He watches his son begin to I get drunk and watches what this person is son's own life because of what he has done. And there's no angry trader to be payment for his sin than to watch his son's life ruined because of what he's done. Well that's true in the life of Ham, pretending to be cursed with anger to hand. We need to realize as parents that what we do has effects on our children And so we can never say, well, that's just uh it just affected me. Fellow came into my office just uh a couple weeks ago and was talking about him and his wife and how he'd been unfaithful to his wife and this and that to his family And he says, but that's just me. That's not hurting them. I said, don't kid yourself. You're reaping in your family what you saw in yourself. And so we see this in the life of Canaan. God searches Canaan, but that in itself is severe punishment upon hand. But beyond that, I think there's something more. I think that what God enabled Noah to see was to be able to perceive that Canaan was his father's son Notice in verse 18 and verse 21, two times before the prophecy is given, it's noted that Ham was the father of Canaan. Now Ham actually had four kids But it's human who he's noted as being the father of. He is the phrase today. He's his father's son. Which means he's just like his dad And I think that what Noah was doing here was he was seen that in Canaan there was that mood attitude, that wasciviousness, that orientation of a dirty mind that was in his own father's hand And so it's through pain particularly that that sin will be carried. It's through pain, he says, will be the effects of what his father had done carried on most forcefully through the family. Beyond even that, I think the most significant reason why Canaan is safe is because God is enabling Noah inerrantly to be able to see Canaan as a type of hand filling. Han, of course, was an effectual area. Canaan and his descendants, the Canaanites, who settled in the land of Canaan For a people who are noted in all of their history fifth most prominently one particular kind of sin. Even as a byword among the ancient people, the Canaanites were known as people with a dirty mind, people who were obsessed with sex. Who are the most perverted of people, as archaeology will attest to this day, by their perversion and their destruction of sex. To this very day, we speak of a form of sexual perversion as sodomy. named after one of the cities of Canaan, Sodom and Gomorrah. And so you see in this, God looking forward down the line to see the effects and the tendency of what Cam is going to carry out. through Canaan and the Canaanite people. This is a note enhancing on this I think we need to realize that there are some people who abused this passage in order to justify the subjugation of the black race. And they do that because it is uh it is alleged that Ham's descendants were the people who settled in Africa. By and large, that's true. But of course, to use that as an argument to say that because you have here the cursing of Canaan and it is stated by God that he is to be a slave, he's to be a slave to families, a slave to gaze person, therefore we can make slaves out of black people because that's God's uh ordinance in the beginning. You suppose we missed the point of this passage. Because the descendants of Ham that settled in Africa were precisely not Canaan. It's the other three that settled in Africa, but it's Canaan who cursed Nothing is stated about the other three who settled in Africa. So whatever the cursing is here, it is irrelevant to the black race because they're not mentioned in this. It is Canaan, the white race who settled in Canaan. that is really being focused on here. And so that is absolutely irrelevant and it is simply an excuse to racist kind of mentality is used as a means of subjugating another group of people But we do see in this curse something that is very significant. You see the two-fold consequences of sin. First of all, you notice the consequences in this life, the Canaanite people. These people of Canaan who settled in this land of Canaan, the Canaanites were people who through the scriptures became the very epitome of the enemy of God's people. They were the picture of all that stands against the Church of Jesus Christ. And you have in their history the literal precise fulfillment of this prophecy. That is in 1 Kings chapter 9. In 1 Kings chapter 9, after Israel has come back to Egypt, they have come into the land under Joshua, they have defeated the enemies of the cities of Canaan, and there have gone on now hundreds of years of warfare. We use the summation of that in 1 Kings chapter 9 and verse 20 and 21. For all the people left from the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites These are the people who were the heirs of Canaan now. These are his descendants. All these people, these people were not Israelites, God is their descendants remaining in the land. When the Israelites could not exterminate all the ones that they were to kill, these Solomon conscripted for his slave labor force as it is to this day That was written fifteen hundred to two thousand years after Genesis 9, a literal, precise fulfillment of Noah's prophecy. But all the people who are the descendants of Canaan were subjugated and made slaves to the Israelites, as he says to this day. So there is that effect of sin. Its consequences work themselves out in the subjugation, the slavery of sin. slaves to his own sexual lust, and ultimately then a slave to God's people as that is reduced and as that is conquered. But you see, ultimately the consequences in eternity. Because the first word there is curse of between. And that curse, of course, reminds us But what we read last year in Genesis 3:15, the very first messianic prophecy, when God spoke to the person and he said, Cursed you'll be And there's going to come that one who's going to crush your head. And so we have here the real statement of the fact that there is coming the Messiah, who is going to crush the serpent. And Clemen is one who's on the side of the serpent. And he along with that serpent then is going to be crushed and is going to be defeated. You haven't got also the statement about Canaan's own destiny. That those who in fact follow these waves of rebellion against the Lord are going to be cursed There's any quality you see. Either you are going to be blessed with Jesus Christ or you're going to be cursed with Cain and was. And that's the final destiny in all of this. Because you see God's grace, and this is what is so forcefully to be preferred in the science, God's grace never compromises with evil. God's grace always maintains his purity. In for instance in Exodus chapter 34, where Moses asked to see into the very heart of God's nature and what he's like. God shows himself to Noah, Noah to Moses, and we read in Exodus 34, 6, that when God stood there and proclaimed himself to Moses, he said, Jehovah. Jehovah the compassionate and gracious God. Low to anger, abounding in love and patience, maintaining love for thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. Yes. Yes, in the light of this overwhelming picture of claims, yes, he did not leave the guilty unpunished. He punishes the children and their children for the sin of the fathers, for the third and the fourth generation. God's grace is so rich So full and so free that it's never to be presumed upon. And grace rejected is grace that is pushed out of one's life, and the only alternative is person Tonight refused God's grace. And the result was that he was cursed. He was cursed in the consequences in this life and he was cursed for all eternity as he was separated from God. Where do you stand this morning? Have you rejected the grace of God, the gospel to you in Jesus Christ? If you do, don't presume that somehow grace is like Santa Claus, you know, there's a few threats about if you don't do good, you're going to miss out on the goodies. But then when it all comes out in the end, everybody gets the present. That's not the way God's grace offering. But there is a person. There is grace that is offered, but there is also the person for those who refuse the grace. And it's a person that's determined. And that's a man of light oil for us to receive. But in contrast to that, notice the statement of the depth and the breadth of God's grace. Notice that, first of all, in face of them where we see the depth of the grace of God. We'll have in verse 26 this contrasting statement, the curse of became, blessed be the Lord. The God of Sons. Blessed be the Lord. Now, you notice something about that podcast? He doesn't say, blessed be sense. He says, Blessed be the Lord. The God of Sons. Why is that? Well you see it's very clear. What Noah's getting at here is that it is God who is the giver of the grace. And therefore he's the one who is blessed. Sam in his own heart is the same as Satan. Sam doesn't have anything in him inherently that has claim to that grace. Some doesn't say, well boy, same and he he really blew it, but my mind is clean. Uh I don't have those kinds of inclinations in my heart And so I'm on God's side. I can claim God's blessing. He owes them to me. But no one's saying, oh, blessed be the God of sin. Because sin is just like pain, but God has turned his way to sin. God has turned his way from being identified with sin. Notice this phrase, God, blessed be the Lord, the God of sons. That's the first time in the Bible that God identifies himself with any group of people And God here now is identifying himself with one portion of the human race. And he is saying, I am the God of the Semites, the Semitic people. I am the God of STEM. The word tem, the name tem literally means name. A name that can be used to mean to make a name for yourself, to give glory and honor. God says, I am the God who has associated my name with the people of the name. Because the name that they take upon themselves is my name. I'm identified with them. I'm their God. You see in this the greatest kind of sense of sin. God is identifying himself with sin. But blessing if you look at that thing, blessed be the Lord, the God of them. God is then unwilling to be identified with sinners like them. I'm going to be the God of Abraham, who lied against his wife. I'm going to be the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, the wheel grabber, the coniver. I'm going to be the God of Judah. Adudda outdrew the Pam in his sexual things. Adudah went into his own daughter-in-law. As if she were a prostitute, a youth is such a. And Josh of I'm going to be the God of Rahab and the likes of her. Rahab was a prostitute. And I think in my grace I'm identified with prostitute I'm going to be the God of sinners. I'm going to be the God of people like David, who is the king of Israel, goes in and takes another man's wife because of his own life. And then has the husband killed. And I'm the God of David. And the God of our inhalers. And the God of a sinner like him. And the God of a sinner like you, if you know Jesus Christ. And God is identified with you and me. He's not as thing to be our God. You see that in that case. God is our God. Put your name in there. He's the God of you. And that's the statement of grace, the prophetic utterance that now he has given to us, that promise of God, to the God of grace, to be identified with saints If you notice that this identification is an identification with father's selectivity, God isn't just the God of anyone But as we said before, there is that person as well as the blessing. And you want to as you see that diagram trying to give you some sort of an idea of this It's particular selectivity that is beginning to be emergenciated. These are just the dimmest outlines of it now in the early chapters of Genesis. But you have here for the first time a selection within the human race. Because you see the line of ham there. That is being stopped now. God is no longer the God of Ham. God comes down to Jacob and he is no longer identified with this line of Jacob in a distinct way. He comes down to Sem and he says, Now I am the God of Sem. In a unique way, he is the line of redemption. But then you see that tone there coming down through Sam and she proceeds down through the Old Testament. First of all, of course, Wiseman and then heavy descendants, but then down to Abraham and down to the various lines of God delineates as we'll see in the piece of prophecy. He identifies himself with family in that woman. He's the God of one man. There's only one left. He's the God of Jesus Christ. And in the God of Jesus Christ, God says, He is my beloved Son. In him I am well pleased. I'm identified with him. He's the tabernacle. He's the pretemple in which God dwells. And Jesus Christ is the one who God is most intimately identified with, takes our purse, that we're doing just like Cain. So that God can be our God. But through that Jesus Christ God is uh I will God in him. That's the statement of grace that we have with it. Notice not only the breath of us, but it's also the breath of us. Well that God in suspending this grace here tells us how long is his grace. He tells up quite literally. Notice in verse 27. May God extend or enlarge places. The God here is talking about blessings in states. In the Old Testament, the idea of enlarging someone, of putting them in a large place as opposed to a conflicted and narrow place It's a picture of blessing. It means to make somebody prosperous, to put them at ease, to give them safety. You see in the Old Testament. Danger, if you were in a large place, you were in an open place. And you could only be there if you were protected, if you were safe. You say God is saying he's going to enlarge Jesus, not only in security, but also in numbers. He's going to make them a great nation. He's going to be a great number of people that are going to come from Jacob. People that are going to enjoy God's blessing. What's going to happen? Face it's going to live in the template. It's a big deal. What that means. Well I can understand customers being alluded to here. He does a great deal to me. So God's saying here, he's alluding, he's giving us a picture based on the ancient regional custom of hospitality If you were traveling in a distant place and leave the place to stand, and I saw you coming past as Abraham in chapter 18 sees these men going past, he immediately brings them in to a tent And when I bring you into my tent, then I am obliged to offer you all that I have and lay it at your disposal just because it's your You're my guest. And if my guest, though you have no claim upon it, you would never dare say to me, Oh, give me that vessel over there, right? You know, I like that feet over there. How about I could have that? You'd never presume you see. To earn anything from you, but I, as your host, am gracious enough to give it all to you You don't own it, you can't claim it. But I'll give it to you. I want to give you the finest to eat. I want to fill the fatter cap so that you can have a good meal I want to give you something that will show you that I have seen you. And that's a that's a question that that we don't understand totally. How totally people would lay themselves at the disposal of dust in LinkedIn God is saying here that there's going to come another line, a third line, a line that's not curse and payment, a line that is not the line of redemption, but a third group of people Who are going to dwell in the tents of sin, a people who are going to receive through gracious hospitality all the blessings of salvation through sin. Now if you take a look at the passages. that I've lifted there later on. To face down this phrase, the tense of ten, you'll see that in the 50 that phrase refers to the people of Israel. The tents of someone refers to the people themselves. It refers to their blessings and all that they have. In fact when when the Lord Jesus in Matthew talks about salvation, he talks about the Gentiles sitting down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom. What's that talking about? Simply saying he's going to have the hospitality. Of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all of the kingdom blessings. You can see what uh what Noah is saying here, what God's saying to Noah, is it going to be a group of people A group of people who are going to be thrasted into and receive the full benefit of the hospitality of God's own people, the people who are the line of preventation. Isaiah 50 book in Isaiah 55 when we say, For all the nations of the earth, come to me, for I alone am a crazy. And if you want salvation, we've got to come to the God of Jacob. We've got to come to the God of Israel. And then in the New Testament, Paul tells us in Romans 11, he draws out to us in detail how the nations, the Gentiles, are grasped it into the promises that were given to the bodies, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He tells us in Galatians chapter 3, when he's describing what Jesus has done for us. He tells us quite precisely how this prophecy was fulfilled. He tells us in Genesis 3, 13 and 14 that Christ redeemed us from the curse of them all, becoming a curse for us. It's written cursed as everyone who is hung on a tree. Now he redeemed us In order that the blessing given to Abraham, Abraham of course, through the line of stem, might come to the Gentiles, through Jesus Christ. Uh, brother and sister in Christ, realize you and I are the Lion of Jacob. We're the ones pictured in that prophecy of the Lion of Jacob, who are dwelling in the tents of sons. For receiving in a beautiful picture of grace all of the hospitality of the blessings given to Abraham and God's people. All the blessings of the kingdom that God has offered him to us as his people. Not simply to visit those tents, you know. So what's he saying in verse 27? To live in those tents, to dwell in those tents, to abide in those tents, brethren, but not only to abide in those tents And to receive the blessings in some general way, but notice what he says at the end. And may came and be two slaves. How'd you say that? Every time you say it, why? Just as an assurance for you and to me to know just as much as that prophecy of Genesis 3. 15 was for the lion of Sam. To the Israelites, the person who was the line of redemption in Jesus Christ, served us as following the we the Gentiles fear in God's victory over Satan So this fully do we share in that victory and crushing the person that God says he's going to be subjugated to you and to me, just as much as to the lion of sins. God is Tanda. He's identified with us. He's victim of ours because he's dwelling in the place of death Now there's five things I want you to see in response to this. And I want you to make sure that you get these points because they're such a rich lesson. First of all, I hope that you see from this process A renewed sense of the confidence in Scripture. I hope you see that. I hope you see the way the new prophecies Notice the way that then in the unlikelihood. There are three prophecies here. First of all, that Canaan's going to be subdued. Now when this prophecy was uttered, Canaan was simply one little fellow running around as the son of Ham. But through the years and the generations and the centuries to come, Canaan became a line of people, the Canaanites, who settled in the land. And if I mentioned before, 1500 to 2000 years at least after that, the author of the book of Kings could write, that every Canaanite who hasn't been killed Has been subjugated to slavery. Do you know that the nation of Egypt, which is declared to be God's people, enemies With a nation that was cursed in many ways, but was never cursed like Canaan, Egypt still exists as a nation. To this very day, we can't find a canaite on the face of the earth. They were so solemnly subjugated that God exterminated them in his grace. They were such a violation But in the purity of the grace of God he had to wipe them out from the face of the earth. That did not occur until at least two thousand years after this prophecy was given, but it was fulfilled precipitation You know this also. But there is a prophecy here about Sun. The sea will be the line of redemption. God is going to be reaching identified with him. And you see that, as we'll see later on, more and more fully and clearly explicitly. is through Sem that the Lord Jesus came. Sem was Jesus' ancestors. And God literally fulfilled that prophecy in that way. And then finally you have this idea of the gentiles being drafted into those promises, the Q and me being drafted into Jesus Christ. Living in a way that so soundly and totally fulfilled this picture of living in the tent of someone else and receiving from him the blessings that Paul tells us about. Three thousand years at least after this prophecy was written. I ask yourself. Who could have guessed at that kind of prophecy at that stage in history? Who but Almighty God who sees then from the beginning could have written Genesis 9, 25 to 27? And if you see that, I hope it gives you your heart a thrill and a new sense of a confidence in the absolute trustworthiness and the authority and the analogy of sickness. Secondly, in replies to this, I hope that you examine yourself. And it's most important question: are you dwelling in the tense of sin? The only alternative to that has to be outside of those points and outside of God's view, the person. And so that the question is if you have to answer what I please with you in the name of Jesus Christ, if you're not sure that you're a recipient of resting and the blessings that come from God through Jesus Christ That we have received through the preaching of the gospel. If you don't just fear the gospel and say that's enough, go to church, be religious The question is are you dwelling in the paper of time? Are you dwelling in Jesus Christ? Is this your own personality for Jesus? That's the question that's got to be settled. To you, to every one of us here on this room. Then finally first then. In passing, I want you to not miss this point. Romans eleven tells us That we've been grasping in to this line of sin. You and I need to occasionally remind ourselves of our Jewish herity. Salvation was through the Jews. And because of that, it's heretic, not heretic, uh, because of that, we need to remind ourselves of the need for modern evangeli evangelism of Jews. That's that shouldn't be Jesus, but modern evangelism of the Jews. Uh I would I would almost think it's plenty of things that uh but uh I know it was typed before the Plenty of Alice. This is evangelism of the Jews that you and I need to pray for. To make the gospel known to those through whom salvation came. And to not back off, because it's their taste that we dwell in. Thou has brought salvation through Jesus Christ to do. Those of us who know who is sends and labels of them. Let's not back off and be afraid to think, oh, they have no interest in the doctor. And so he's identified the vibration. And we need to be careful. to pray for and speak for the salvation of a good sin. The fourth thing is to again just pass in a take picture of race that we sin. Take pictures race where God is identified with sinner Dwell on that side today. God delights in being identified with you. He's your God. You haven't backed off and said, oh, you've done this or you've done that in your life. I'm going to separate myself from you. I'm embarrassed to be fooled with you. I'm embarrassed to be known by you That's the way we treat people who find themselves in disgrace, who disgrace their name, who came us. What have we done to God? How we reflected his character? What kind of honor do we bring upon the heavenly families? God says, I'm identified with you. I'm your God. I want my main instant human because I love you. Because I've determined to be your God We see also the picture of grace here of our dwelling in tent, the tent of tents. What about a picture of grace that is? He's feeling without any flame upon the host All of the blessings that the host has to offer. So that God says, I give you freely all within my place. I've gone to prepare a place for you within my Father's house. So that ye will dwell in his place, the eternity, in his place of ability. What a picture of this and think about that. Rejoice Blessed the God of Son. How different is our attitude so much today? We hear a person talk about their testimony and they tell you what a derelic life that they live, they tell you how awful they were before they came to Jesus Christ. Then they'll tell you what Jesus Christ did for them. Our response so often today is Oh, how I admire that person. Oh, what a wonderful testimony he has to give. Let's know I said in his concept, some claim And that was an immediate response is, oh blessed be the God of God. Blessed be the Lord who is a God to give that kind of grace. And you and I, when we think about what grace is Let's be careful. That we do not ever just admire the grace. That we don't simply rejoice in the blessing. But as we talked about last week, that we bless the God of the blessing. We bless the God itself, who saved him and who replaced him. And one final last thing to bring to our attention is the hope that this passage gives us The hope that we should have when we read Time and New Zealand and the Daily Newspaper and we read about all the evils prevailing, we read of the advanced humanism, you would be read of the various uh kinds of evil, moral evil, social evil, all kinds of things that can make us shudder in n national affair national affairs and relations The things that people do against people in our own cities. As you read about these things, you begin to despair and say, oh, it seems like evil is overwhelming us. It seems like the curse is having so little effect That was about the genesis lines. Noah he stated the payments going to be subsidies. You think that happened? Well, yeah. 1500, 3,000 or so years later happened exactly as he said. And now I said, Sem, you're going through the line of the dentist. So did Jesus come through the line of some? Well, what 2000 years later, so he did. From there too, there just is no thing. Noah says there's going to be a whole group of people that are going to be grasped into that line of sun. You say, well, does that happen? Well, well, that's exactly what New Testament talks about. These Gentiles are grasped in exactly like Lower said. Well there was something else I said there, I hope you didn't make it. I said that all the containers can be crafted and subjugated and it's going to be right off The spirit of Canaan is not going to prevail on this morning. It's the spirit of sin that's going to prevail. It's the God of Sun who's going to be vindicated one day. And it's God who is going to wipe out all that evil and the whole thing is going to be destroyed. And I hope that when you go from here today, you can go with that hope and that delight in your heart to come no matter what things may seem like that I look at now. God is done, the son of the Lord. And Poland is going to be aggregated when he has done as the Lord. Oh Lord our God. Oh, we want to bless you. Lord God, we bless you because you, who had a perfect right to curse all of us Lord, your purity and your justice require it. And it's because you who had the right and the obligation to pray Put your own son from the line of family, that son in whom you are well seized in your first human space. And because of that, my God. To the God who identifies with sin. To the God who identifies you with the likes of us. We've become to be our God. Bless his sin from Lovers. Oh, blessed be Jehovah, the God of sin. Blessed be the covenant-seeking God who identifies himself with a people and calls himself their God and makes them to be his people. Oh Lord God, how we bless you. We bless you because you have no claim upon your grace. And Lord, we can't complain that you only selected one group of people. How dare we ask that why are you the God of Tam and why did you not also send Ham and Tonan? Am I God to state that is to deny grace itself Or if we have his home upon grace, it's no longer grace, it's something we came to us. But our Lord our God we confess you now. We have no claim upon your grace. You would have been justified in cursing the whole human race. The Lord our God. We see in the the promise and the demonstration. If you have been in the process and continue in the process of creating an innumerable company of posts, of people who are your people, are calling them out of that person into blessings. We bless you for grassing up a people who had no claim upon them into those very blessings, into the very heart of those blessings. Dwell in your heart forevermore. O Lord our God, how we are feeling composed and confident in your world. We praise you and bless you who know the end from the beginning, because you alone could declare what would go on thousands of you from a point in history. Because you are the eternal God who knows the end from the beginning. Lord, give us confidence in your word. Confidence when we tend to doubt and to rationalize and to wonder if your word really does know everything and when you said something whether that's really absolutely such worthy. Oh Father, forgive us. Sometimes it is out of your own Forgive us today times when we've weakened in our view of his authority and trustworthiness. That's what we're going to be responsible The filler father without hope to you who have demonstrated in the fulfillment precisely of these prophecies are adhered He will fulfill the ultimate prophecy of the subjugation, of the cursing, of the elimination, of the spirit of pain, the crossing of the serpent Because Jesus is coming and will be dependent and all evil will be destroyed. Lord, help us to see with the eyes of things what we might miss if we look at circumstances And may we walk without hope to free. May we walk without joy and without thanks of your grace going to us. Through Jesus Christ.