Good morning. It is good to be with you. and the opportunity to preach from God's Word. If you have your Bible, please turn with me to Genesis chapter 21. And if you are a child of the age of four to first grade, please be dismissed. Hello. Please be dismissed to an age-appropriate Bible lesson and children's worship. If you're visiting for the first time, parents, you're very much welcome to go with your child and meet the volunteer teachers in the lobby. Today we will be looking at chapter 21, verses 1 through 7. This summer we have been looking at the topic of by faith. In a few weeks, we will return to our sermon series that we started last January. And we'll finish and conclude the book of Hebrews this fall. When we return in a couple weeks, we'll particularly be coming back to chapter 11. Now, when we started this summer series, we started with Genesis 22 as we discussed a walk with Abraham. And as we've explored these themes of by faith, we've wanted to have uh passages that explicitly talk about but also thematically connect with what's sometimes called the hall of faith, which is where we'll be returning in Hebrews chapter 11. And today's passage comes from chapter 21, which You know, obviously, you know your numbers. It's right before chapter 22, which is where we began this summer. And we see a story of anticipation, a story that is one of hope for God's word, as well as the tension and the concern. For what he says coming to pass. So let's read from chapter 21, verse 1 through 7. The Lord visited Sarah, as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him, Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. And Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. And Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh over me. And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, we ask that you would give us understanding. We ask that you would grow our faith. The faith that that in its best example Is certainly embodied by Abraham and Sarah when they believed. And you counted it to them as righteousness. But likewise, we are also reminded that they. Required and needed your grace. Because though they believed, they were fallen and imperfect. And cause trouble and experience challenge and strife. And they experience challenges of their own making. And so where they are commended for their faith, they likewise are completely dependent on your grace, just as we are. So, Lord, feed us and minister to us through your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a story that I have heard, whether um the details of when and and who, those details uh unfortunately have been forgotten by me, but the point of the story. Stands very vivid. The story goes there was a missionary who was meeting with uh the area that he was spending time in, and in the evenings he would gather together with the local uh members of the the the the the the the village and at night they would tell stories and spend time together in prayer and they would go through the the stories of the Bible, much like we would do as a family or or with your children. And the particular stories that this missionary was telling at the time was going through the book of Genesis. And on one particular evening, he came to Genesis 22. And he was recounting the story. And when the text says, and he took the knife, For some reason, the missionary stopped for the night and said, okay, see you tomorrow. We'll finish the story. And it's odd in some sense, you know, because it's it's it's indeed leaving it hanging. What's going to happen? That's the point of the text in many ways. We are the reader and the listener. How is God going to act? What is going to happen? And the next day, when they all gather together again, the missionary finished the story. And everybody just started clapping and cheering. And at first he was just like, what's going on? And one man said, I knew it. I knew he wouldn't let him kill him Because you see, he's hearing what Moses is saying in this origin account, these beginnings of the people of God. He's hearing the story of God's character. seeing him work in the lives of creation and his people, and he knew something about his character. He knew he would provide. And that story that Moses is telling is a story that is incredibly important to the first audience, the people of Israel. Who are hearing this for the first time, their lineage, their story, how they came to be in the wilderness, how they came out of bondage from the deliverance of the Lord. And it's an important story for us too, because just as the God as the Lord provided in Genesis 22, the whole story of Abraham is asking that question. It really becomes a theological dilemma. What if God fails to do what he had promised to do? And just like Abraham and Sarah, sometimes we doubt how God will fulfill his promises. But the beauty of the story and the beauty of the gospel is where God's promise exists, his provision will come. Where God's promise exists, his provision will come. So we're going to look at these verses, looking at three things, and they're in your bulletin. Looking at what God promises by his word, he fulfills with his action. What God fulfills by his grace, we experience as his blessing. And what is impossible for us is possible only with God. So let's look first at how God's promises that he makes from his word, he brings about, he fulfills with his actions. Verse 1, the Lord visited Sarah as he said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. These verses have poetic repetition. Sometimes in the English we just go on and on and we're like, you know, we could cut out a lot of this stuff if you just got to the point, right? But the the original languages are very beautiful. And they give us clues of what's happening, and we're following along with the story. And here the word visited means paying attention. And when the Lord is the one doing it, when he is the one paying attention, he's visiting with a specific purpose. Sometimes in the scriptures, he's visiting upon the sin of the people. He's visiting with his judgment. But likewise, when the Lord visits, he visits with his grace. And that's what we see in this passage. He's demonstrating his gracious character by fulfilling what he had promised by his word to Abraham and to Sarah. Now, what did God promise in the first place to Abraham and Sarah? Well, for that, we go back to Genesis 12. We first hear God calling Abraham to a task. The Lord God blessed Abraham so that he would be a blessing. Those become incredibly important to link together. He calls Abraham and he blesses Abraham to be a blessing. And then he goes on to say that the families of the earth will be blessed in him. And God cared for Abraham and Sarah along the way. And in Genesis 15, Abraham asks the Lord a question: What will you give me? You see, Abraham began seeing the problem. Abraham wondered, how were the families of the earth to be blessed through him if he had no child? And if his only current heir at the time was another man from his household, he it's quite natural. How is God going to be doing this? He said he would do it. How? So in Genesis 15, verse 4, the Lord said to Abraham, This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. And by showing Abraham the stars of the sky, God declared the multitudes of his offspring to come. And 15 verse 6 says that Abraham believed the Lord, and the Lord counted it to him as righteousness. That is, God regarded him as righteous because of his faith in his promise. So the question becomes, as we're following along the story, did God keep his promise? Well, yes. That's the beauty of this chapter. But even before that, in Genesis 17, the Lord declares that Sarah will give birth, and from her will become nations, and kings will come from her. Then Abraham laughed. Because you see, he was about 99 years old, and Sarah was almost 90. Later in Genesis 18, Sarah laughs. At the thought of her giving birth in her old age. Not only will she give birth to a son, they are to name him Isaac, which they do when he's born. And Isaac is incredibly important to the story because his name means he laughs. And through Isaac, the Lord will establish his covenant to Abraham through Isaac. God will establish his covenant through this laughing, this laughter. We see in verse 2, Sarah conceived indeed, and she gave birth to a son. And they obeyed God and they named him Isaac, and he was then given the sign of the covenant. What we see here in these verses is also the repetition that we'll see in a couple more places in these verses, the highlighting the improbability of this whole situation. The temptation, as it was for Sarah and Abraham, as it is for us, is to think that God will not be able to fulfill his promise. Sometimes we think that he he won't do it again this time. Maybe he's done it in the past, but not this time. As if he's a musician that is only as good as his last concert. In these moments of fear, In these moments where we get impatient, where we might doubt, we are tempted to think that we must take control and forge our own path, just as Sarah and Abraham did with an heir. If you know the story, Sarah sounds like a good idea to her in the beginning. Abraham does have a son, Ishmael. But it's not through Sarah. It's through Hagar. The temptation is to forge our own path. Likewise, the temptation is to laugh and scoff at something God has said. And we write it off as unbelievable. Our laughter as Abraham and Sarah's is sometimes it's like the vent for our skepticism and mistrust. It's gotta go somewhere from deep down, that skepticism, that that mistrust, and it and it comes out as laughter. Other times our laughter is a mask for our fear. For example, we might be afraid that God either won't Want to give, or that he will be unable to supply what we need. Friends, how we live our lives demonstrates our hope that God's word is true. Because he indeed is trustworthy. And if God is trustworthy, we must walk a path of faith, watching, waiting. Expecting, looking for the ways in which God reveals his purposes and the ways he fulfills all that he promises. This response involves our whole being, our minds, what we think about, our bodies, how we engage with our activities, our postures. As well as our emotions. All of these things flow from a joy that our God, who was faithful in the past, He will be faithful again. The God who calmed the storms and the God who provided daily bread, he will remain faithful the next time. The next time the clouds billow, the next time that the waters rise, the next time that your pantry is empty. The God who is faithful in the past is the God who will remain faithful in the present. And if what God promises by his word Is indeed true, and he fulfills that with his actions. And really, that is the testimony of the scriptures, of his demonstration of his faithfulness to his people, time and time and time again. Then we move into the second point of how God fulfills, or rather what God fulfills by his grace, we experience as his blessing. Look at verse 6. After giving birth, Sarah says, God has made laughter for me. Everyone here will laugh over me. There's an old Jewish proverb that says, as soap is to the body, so laughter is to the soul. Comedian John Cleese said this: Laughter connects you with people. It's almost impossible to maintain any kind of distance. or any sense of social hierarchy when you're just howling with laughter. Don't you find that to be true? Laughter can smooth over an uncomfortable situation. Laughter can remind us Of what was painful, but there's distance from that pain, and we have a greater closeness to its importance or its meaning to us. So here we are, a year later from when God said he would come and visit Sarah. And even more than that, perhaps what had been a lifetime of waiting. And grieving, perhaps enduring the whispers of her community. Genesis 16, verse 4 tells us of the contempt that Hagar had for Sarah when she had conceived. And Sarah hadn't. But now, but now Sarah is experiencing God's grace. And good purpose. And his good purpose has been fulfilled. His promise supplied. We see Abraham and Sarah experiencing his blessing. And we can see Sarah and and we join with them. As the psalmist says in Psalm 126, verse 2, then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongues with shouts of joy. Then they said among the nations, the Lord has done great things for them. This laughter of disbelief that they had has been turned into laughter of praise and rejoicing. What might have been an uncomfortable laugh that caused strife and tension among the family has now been turned into celebratory laughter that brings healing and closeness with others. This is something that she is enjoying from God's grace, and she wants others to bask in that, to marvel in what God has done. It is to be shared. It is to be enjoyed. It is to be experienced together. I remember my sister's funeral. I spoke about lamenting her illness, grieving her passing. But I also got to speak about her kindness and her many quirks as the younger uh youngest brother who liked to pick on her They they made us laugh, and they still do today. I also remember my other sister's son. at the funeral. He was only about six months old. He had no clue about the loss and the pain But in the midst of that, watching him smile and laugh We were reminded in the midst of hours, in the midst of our pain, that there is hope of new life. And my nephew represented all of life, that all of life is by God's grace, and we are experiencing his blessing. So this first and foremost showcases God's ways. He gives, and we respond. He supplies and we are satisfied. He provides and we are full. He shows grace and mercy. And our treason is pardoned. Our status is changed. We go from being enemies to family, where we experience God at a distance We no longer do, but rather in closeness and intimacy. We respond by faith and we live by faith with a life full of gratitude for what he fulfills By his grace through his son Jesus Christ. When we accept Jesus Christ, we enter into the story that God has been telling. We participate in his blessing to Abraham to showcase the world of his grace that is then fulfilled in Jesus Christ. There is much more to be said in this larger story arc between Abraham and Isaac and Sarah and Hagar and Ishmael and Isaac. Because at this point in chapter 21, Ishmael and Hagar go away. And not for great reasons. Out of Sarah's rejoicing of Isaac, she gets angry and jealous at Ishmael's laughing. And she's reminded again of that tension of who will be the heir and how is God going to fulfill her his promises. But even in that, we see that God hears, for that is what Ishmael's name means. God hears and God provides for Hagar and Ishmael. Just as he has done for Abraham and Isaac. And we see the story that God is telling. That through Abraham and to Isaac will be the promise of the one who is to come. The one who God establishes the covenant to bring all things back to right. The one who is going to bring all peoples back to fellowship with the one true and living God. And we see this promise that even began in Genesis. Genesis chapter 3. In the midst of their sin, God still provides. He provides a promise that he fulfills, that there will be one who comes, who makes it right, who fixes the problem. Who finishes all that has been undone and brings it back to the way it was meant to be? When we participate in this blessing and we embrace his grace from the heart, we are transformed. We are transformed by him. And then we go and we live our lives in obedience to his will so that we too might be a blessing to others. Telling the world, the Lord has great, has done great things. That is the testimony of each and every one of us who profess the name of Christ. The Lord has done great things. We see that in history, and we can recount that in our lives. And when God's grace fulfills his promises, we are also reminded that what is impossible for us is possible only with God. We've mentioned it already. And the passage repeats the theme several times. Verse 2, in verse 5, and now in verse 7, Sarah asks a rhetorical question. It's kind of like an exclamation, a rejoicing, a poem, a song. She says, who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Again, stressing how unlikely, how improbable Isaac's birth really was. Just as Abraham's guests in chapter 18, they asked the rhetorical question. Is anything too hard for the Lord? And in a similar way, Luke in his gospel tells that something that seemed unbelievable to Mary, except she didn't laugh. She believed, but she wondered how. How will this be since I'm a virgin? And the angel of the Lord told Mary, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called holy, the son of God, and that nothing will be impossible with God Mary responded by faith and rejoicing. She responded with singing, My soul magnifies the Lord. And my spirit, it rejoices in God, my Savior. Again, the Lord has done great things. A God who makes promises, provides, and fulfills them. And as we think about by faith, as we return to Hebrews chapter 5, we'll again see these dynamics. as the author of Hebrews is interacting with Abraham and Sarah a lot of the time, but he goes into the story more. Next week we'll be talking about Rahab, which will also be mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11. We see in Habakkuk chapter 1 that was mentioned last week. Well Habakkuk was. I can't remember if Derek mentioned the specific verse. But Paul picks it up on it in Acts chapter 13. He says, For I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told. Just imagine Abraham being brought out there to be looked to be shown the sky. The number of the stars. This will be your inheritance. This will be those who are blessed through you. Now, there are three great Abrahamic faiths. And in many ways, the Bible certainly acknowledges the multitudes of people who acknowledge Abraham, but the writers of the New Testament are being much more specific. As they interact with what's going on with Abraham's faith. Paul picks up on this in Galatians 3, Galatians 4, and again in Romans. The faith is that through his line, through Isaac, and then later Jacob, and then we see Joseph. And then we see the development of and the growth of the nation of Israel, and we see the covenant with David. So from from Adam to Abraham and Abraham to Isaac. And Isaac to Jacob, all the way to David, and from David to Jesus, we see God fulfilling his promise. And he is doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told. Paul in Ephesians chapter 3 says, God will do more than you can think or imagine. Does this possibility grip your imagination? Does it shape how you see the possibility in your life? Of what God's doing in his church, what God is doing in his creation. Are you mesmerized as Paul is in the riches of Christ? Being the very sustenance for his life, the very provision for his life in God What is impossible for us is only possible with God Our response to that, our faith in obedience, demonstrates the grasp of those promises Now we can misappropriate promises. We can think that it's only for me, or I take what was promised to Abraham, and then I can say that that's for me. I can't claim what was promised to Abraham. I benefit what was provided through Abraham. And again, the mystery of the gospel is that through Abraham, The Gentiles are welcomed into God's ways, God's family. Through Jesus Christ He becomes the way that we experience the blessing that was given to Abraham. It's part of God's redemptive history fulfilled in Christ. God's divine blessing is being channeled through a particular line. And we see it fulfilled in Christ. So, in many ways, we in this life we experience ups and downs, joys and sorrows. We experience waiting. To see how God might move and what He might reveal and what He might have for us. And we experience those times when God shows us or we see glimpses. Of how we benefit from his grace and his mercy. So, brothers and sisters and friends, the the takeaway for us It's to not have faith like Abraham. It's to have the faith in the one who is faithful. To be looking upon the one who gives and who provides. The one who both promises by his word, who fulfills by his grace, and makes fulfillment by his own actions. What in your life are you waiting upon the Lord for? What has he promised? How might you be doubting how he will provide? I don't have the answers for what that might look for your life. But we do that in community, we do that in prayer, we do that in expressing our longings to God, because some of us might experience This a temporary fulfillment of what we're longing for. And others of us may never. But as Abraham trusted in the promise of what was to come, he could never imagine the redemption that God was planning. He could never imagine the atonement that would be made for the sins of the world, for that multitudes The numbers of stars in the sky and the sands of the sea would be called by name to come to Jesus Christ. And so all promises are yes in him. All promises are fulfilled in Christ, and we experience the riches of his glory. And we experience this kindness as we endure. So what was Both a mother's love and a mother's jealousy from Sarah. What was a father's hope and a father's affection? Torn between two sons, and this family tension, we might say it's just the modern family, right? That's what I love about Genesis. It's brokenness. It's disappointment. It's things not going the way you planned, or messing it up because of the plans you made. But we see God's grace. We see God's provision. And where his promise exists, he will provide. So the question that we ask, what if God fails to do what he has promised? It's answered in this. Indeed, his promise does exist. And his provision has come. It has come in Isaac, and it has come in the birth of Christ. God promises in his word God fulfills those promises in his actions. And praise God that he fulfills it by his grace. We cannot do to get He gives and we respond. We experience his blessing. And all things, my friends, are possible in God. Let us pray. Holy Father, we do give you thanks. And we join the psalmist that you have done great things. To be to hear the great things that you have done in Jim's life, the great things you have done in Jeff's life, the great things you have done in my life. And on and on and on for thousands of years, and you will do it again. So Lord, we look to your faithfulness in the past. We we we cling to the cross of what was accomplished through Jesus' death and his resurrection. And our hope and our faith is fulfilled in Christ. And we give you praise. In Jesus' name. Amen.