Has a message for us here and uh it would be very easy to look at this service as kind of a uh lark or you know this is just kind of get through it you know just sort of sit here and bear it until it's over Um, you know, some people said uh I should be preaching on hell this morning might help. Uh you know, but I would really like to believe that God wants to say something to us that's important And so I'd like for us to pray for just a moment. The Holy Spirit will enable us to concentrate and to hear what he has to say. Father, we thank you that for us this is an exception rather than a rule. We thank you, Father, that um you have uh provided for us so fully and abundantly And uh Father, we bow before you who are sovereign in your ways, so that you can cause air currents to move in such a way that warmer air is above and within a span of just a few degrees can bring instead of uh rain or snow, freezing rain. We are very weak. We are very frail. We like to think that we can control our lives, and Lord, how foolish we recognize before you this morning that we're very vulnerable And we thank you that you do take care of us. Now, Father, I believe that you have given from your word something that you want us to hear. Something very important for us at this time in our lives and in our country, and this Sanctity of Human Life Sunday. And so, Father, I pray that you will speak in power and you'll cause us to be able to focus and to concentrate, and that what you want to get through to us, your spirit will give us ears to hear. We pray that now in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Psalm eighty two is actually a very much needed word from God to us, to you and to me this January of nineteen ninety-nine, the twenty-sixth anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion on demand. March this Friday, the 22nd, down in DC. Also as we approach the trial of Dr. Jack Kavorkian, sometimes called Dr. Death, for his physician-assisted suicide and the issues of euthanasia. As we begin the trial, the impeachment trial of our president, William Jefferson Clinton, Psalm 82. Is a sober reminder to you and to me and to everyone in authority, governors, legislators, judges, and presidents That we are all accountable to the God of the Bible, who is the supreme and final judge. The picture of Psalm 82 is of God presiding over his heavenly court. He who is exalted over the nations and could simply speak the word, and the earth would disappear before his final day of judgment when justice will be vindicated. He gives us warning in this psalm to everyone in authority and to you and to me that none of us are autonomous. We do not get away with anything because nobody sees. That we are answerable to God. Let us then hear God's word from Psalm 82. Use your imagination and picture the scene. God presides in the great assembly. He gives judgment among the gods. How long will you defend the unjust and show partiality to the wicked? Defend the cause of the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and the oppressed. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. They know nothing. They understand nothing. They walk about in darkness All the foundations of the earth are shaken. I said, You are gods. You are all sons of the Most High, but you will die like mere men. You will fall like every other ruler. Rise up, O God, judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. Notice in this Psalm that there are five characters, five sets of characters, and then there are four conclusions that I want to draw for our situation in America 1999. First of all, notice the five characters. First of all, you see God, the final judge, who does two things. We see him here that he delegates judgment to rulers on earth. To notice he delegates the authority. and the power to rule. Verse 1. God presides in the great assembly. He gives judgment among the gods. He delegates it. We'll look at this word gods in a moment, but to right now understand that what God is doing is He is giving this power for judgment to those who steward it. One of the great problems of secularism is that it says that oaths and laws are only from man concerning man, human beings. We are not answerable to anyone transcendent. And so oaths and laws lose their meaning. They lose their sacredness if they are secularized. If I have the power, why shouldn't I be a law unto myself? Romans 13 teaches that God has given the authority and power for government. And this psalm is a demonstration of that. God says, I am holding you accountable. I sit in my court. You notice that he also is going to finally judge all the earth, including the government leaders. In verse 8, the prayer is, Rise up, O God, judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. In Psalm 94, in verse 2, we read, Rise up, O judge of the earth, pay back to the proud what they deserve. No one's going to get away with anything. It's very sobering for every judge, everyone in authority, even presidents, to realize that their authority is simply a trust to God to whom they are answerable. But you might ask, well, where do you get that? What is this business of the gods and what's that have to do with judges and presidents? Well, you see that in verse 1 and in verse 6. He gives judgment among the gods. Then in verse 6, he says, I said, You are gods, you are the sons of the Most High. That brings us to the second group of characters, and those are the judges and the government leaders The term gods here is that word Elohim that we've referred to in the past. It's the term that's used for God. It's translated in your Bibles, capital G, small O D. It's the term that we saw when we looked at the names of God that refers to God primarily as creator, as the one who is the ultimate authority, because he's made us and we're accountable to him. But that name God also is used in the Old Testament to refer to two other characters, two other groups of created beings. The first is human authorities Now, because your teeth are beginning to chatter and your limbs get stiff, I'll let you look up when you're warm and comforted the verses in Exodus. To see that three times in the book of Exodus, that term Elohim is used clearly to refer to the judges of Israel. In fact, in the third case, in chapter 22, verse 28, you are to not blaspheme God or to curse the ruler who represents God. The idea, you see, is that judges, human authorities, stand in the place of God. They represent him to execute his justice. That was the idea we saw in that word, Mishpat, about the Messiah who comes to establish his rule. The other way that the word is used is of, secondly, there be two spiritual authorities. In Psalm 8 verse 5, we read that man was made a little lower than the angels. And we know that that's to be translated as angels, because in Hebrews chapter 2, quoting that verse The author of Hebrews uses the word angelos, angels, and it is referring to spiritual beings. Daniel uses that term a number of times, Elohim to refer to angels. In fact, in one case in Daniel 12 It's clear that he does it because angels have authority over certain territories. Now that idea is being abused by many today, but there is a A grain of truth in that that certain angels apparently do have certain territorial authority. And so this word is used either to refer to God or to human judges, authorities, or to angels. Clearly in this case it refers to human authorities and not to angels, because in verse 2 he says to the gods, How long will you defend the unjust and show partiality to the wicked? Then verse 6 I said, you are gods, you were all sons of the Most High. Then verse 7, saying people, but you will die like mere men. You know, you're you're human, you're mortal, you will fall like every other ruler. The idea is that no matter how great you are, you better not believe your own press releases because you're simply mortal. Alexander the Great conquered the known world of his day. And then he died of a cold virus. No matter how great you get, you're still subject to cancer, you're still subject to colds, and you're subject to death. And God is saying, you who think that you're immune, that you're not answerable to anyone else, that you can Execute your power to please yourself. You will one day die like every other man, and you will stand before me. The third group that we should notice in this psalm are the weak and the needy. Those who are the victims of those who abuse power. The weak and the needy who need justice to protect them How long will you defend the unjust, verse 2, and show partiality to the wicked? Defend the cause of the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and the oppressed. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. This is referring, you see, to primarily in that culture, the fatherless, verse 3, to orphans, to widows. It refers to anyone who cannot by their own power defend themselves, to people today who understand that there really isn't equal justice under the law But particularly on the Sanctity of Human Life Sunday, I believe that it's appropriate to apply this also to today what I call the pre-born and the post-useful. I saw an ad this week as I was looking in the yellow pages for something else, and I just happened on the page of abortion services. And there was a drawing of this handsome looking couple, and they're looking at each other, smiling, and there's this mountain scene in the background, and the ad said Helping you find calm after crisis. When I saw that, my stomach literally turned. I felt sick for a moment Because I saw, here's this picture that's being presented in our culture of if you've got an unwanted pregnancy, that's a crisis that's simply a problem for us to take care of. Come on in, and it talks about, you know, professional services and help and understanding. And I thought, but there there's one person who's not being pictured there, and that's the baby in the trash can. Those who are weak, who are helpless, four thousand every year One every 24 seconds being aborted in this country still. During the time it takes to preach a sermon, that's 70 lives. Helpless. Besides that, there's the other end of the spectrum. There's those who are The post useful, those who are seen as people who should be helped to end their lives. The picture emotionally given to us is usually of some person maybe ninety-five years old or older and they're having uh a great deal of suffering, their dying is being prolonged, and why should we not simply end such an unfortunate life And I think it's at this point that we as Christians need to be very clear there is a very radical difference between prolonging dying by artificial means And proactive interference with life by a lethal injection. The issues of prolonging dying are complicated, but I think. That in those issues we as Christians have to exercise compassion and understanding. I don't think the Bible calls us to necessarily prolong the dying process by artificial means. But once you begin to intervene in a life because the suffering is more than you or that person in their judgment says they desire to tolerate You begin a slippery slope where there is no further line that can be drawn that logically makes any sense. We know this because it was done in Nazi Germany in the 1930s, the Third Reich. uh persuaded Germany that it was right to terminate the lives of the sick and the old. And then they sought to proceed beyond that to the mentally ill and to the retarded. Beyond that, to infants with deformities, and then to the undesirables, as they called them, the Jews, the gypsies, Poles, and homosexuals. Then they moved on to political prisoners. Where do you draw the line? That's particularly difficult in our age because we live in an age of creeping pantheism. a kind of a unconscious pantheism, but a a view today that is increasingly exalting animal rights By diminishing and ultimately erasing the line between animals and human beings. Animals are now seen by many explicitly in a lot of writings if you read to have not only equal, but in some cases I've read superior rights to human beings. There is no sanctity, there is no sense that human beings are created in God's image. And so we're seeing within our own culture a movement that is ripening us to accept simply pragmatic and uh economic Decisions for terminating the life of the post useful. The fourth group of people that you see here are those who execute it. So far, that's just those who legalize it. But then the fourth are the wicked who in fact oppress the weak and the helpless with impunity. Verse two How long will you defend the unjust and show partiality to the wicked? Who are they? Well verse four, rescue the weak and the needy, deliver them from the hand of the wicked, those who are in fact taking their lives. Those who are ignoring their Hippocratic oath for the pre-born and the post-useful, made in God's image, for profit or for some other motive. The final character that you see here is the psalmist who writes it. The psalmist who proclaims and prays You may be open to debate which words are those of the psalmist and which are the words of God. I believe I could make a case if you weren't so cold to persuade you that uh The psalmist words are verses one and eight. God's words directly are verses two to seven But I think I will get permission from all of you if you if I don't bother to make the case for that now. You'll take my word for it, right? Right, that's what I thought. You can look it up later. I can talk to you afterwards Asaph, who wrote this psalm, wrote Psalm 7, wrote 50, 75, and 81, and those are parallel, and you can see the same kind of thing there. But the psalmist is here setting the scene, then he gives God's word, and then there's a prayer. So he's doing two things. Number one, he's proclaiming God's truth in verses 1 to 7. He's saying that God's the one who's presiding in his court of justice. And then he quotes God, God's words And in that, what he does is he reminds those who are those in authority and those who are in fact abusing their power He confronts that evil by reminding them how God looks at their values and their behavior. Then, in verse 5, you see, he says, They know nothing, they understand nothing, they walk about in darkness, all the foundations of the earth are shaken. He's seeking to make the case that if you if you take this teaching out of the Bible of Psalm 82, and you function simply on a secular A secularistic worldview where there is no transcendent creator God, then all of all laws and all justice are forfeit You ultimately have nothing left but the law of the jungle that Mike makes right. And as Christians, it's unfortunate too often that we're embarrassed to bring in biblical truth into a discussion. When people talk emotionally about the need for euthanasia, we're the unfortunate mother who simply can't take care of that baby and we're put in a position of you're hard-hearted and compassionless. Brothers and sisters, this psalm is a psalm of compassion because God is a God of mercy and he allows the protection for those who can't protect themselves. And we should not be embarrassed to bring that into the discussion. That's what the psalmist does. This psalmist had courage to speak this to the judges of his day. We don't know who Asaph was in terms of how much power he had, he was in a temple court. But he was risking something to give this message. Jesus Christ is looking for men and women today who will be willing to introduce into the discourse. into the opportunities that we have, this perspective on the laws and on the issues of justice and the protection of the weak in our own day. Not only does he proclaim, but he also prays. You see in verse 8, his prayer is: Rise up, O God, judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. There's two thoughts here. First of all, he's praying, God, set things right right now. Rise up right now and judge the earth. Those who abuse their power, Lord, change their hearts or change their jobs. Either reconcile them or remove them. But he's talking here about what God could do immediately God could do that in our country. These next five years we could see things happen and change that would absolutely astound us. Were you willing to set aside once a week To pray that God would do that in the United States. I realize that it's not something we pray every day and on and on, but would we be willing to say once a week In our family time or my private time with the Lord, I will commit myself to pray. God, remove those who are abusing their power for the weak and the helpless. Not only for those who do not receive equal justice under the law, but particularly for the pre-born and the post-useful Then there's also the issue here where the psalmist is praying, ultimately, for God who will judge the earth to come and return, whose nations, for whom the nations are his inheritance, that he will judge the earth. That's a warning as well as a hope for you and for me. For you like me, and all, he says in verse 7, will die like mere men. We will fall like every other ruler. For you here this morning, I know that within our congregation there are those who have had abortions. And there may be somebody hearing me right now who's in that situation. This psalm thrusts us forward to the Messiah, Jesus, who came, to bear the place of every adulterer, of everyone who's cursed his parents. Of everyone who's lived to himself and cast off God's restraints, that Jesus would bear that sin. You can take your sin, whatever it is, and remove it. So that when God comes to judge the earth, you do not tremble, knowing that you will receive what is due justly for your crimes. But you will stand in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And that righteousness will cover every sin. And you will stand and call the judge, Abba, my Father. That's the hope that's offered here. There is no hope without that. There is no other refuge that you can flee to. Come and take Jesus as your hope, your Savior, and your refuge in that day of judgment. And so in conclusion Four conclusions you see for you and me. First of all, that we recognize that God is the presiding judge, and that's our hope. One day He will vindicate his justice and all injustice. Be utterly destroyed. In heaven, there will be no need for protection against the powerful. We will be with Jesus and all will be safe. Recognize that and be willing to express that hope in discussions that God places you in. And then, secondly, pray for His justice to be established. To set aside some period of time, some frequency, once a week, even once a month, but say I will pray for God to change the values of this culture Toward the pre-born and the post-useful, and that there will be a basis for changing the laws, not by impositions of somebody's value system, a minority against a majority. But that God would change the consensus of this nation to once again see life as sacred. That God would judge the earth. He would establish, he would remove those perpetuate the injustice. Thirdly, that you in the spirit of the psalmist would be willing to confront the judges. That you are given the opportunity to write to Congress, to call, to protest, to go to rallies, to march this Friday in Washington, D. C. That as you take advantage of those, you are able to make your voice heard as a Christian. We continue to need within our congregation a task force A few people who will say, we will take as a particular concern that we have to look for the opportunities that we can seize. And we'll make the congregation aware of those. Here's a rally, here's an issue, here's a law, here's something. Let's all get on it. And if some of you would help us in that, then the rest of us would be able to sleep a little easier because we wouldn't have to keep up on everything. There are so many issues. We can be burdened with that. But if a few people take different issues and say, brothers and sisters, here's one, let's hit it. That will help. If you're interested in that, please see me after the service. And we'll get the those of you together who are interested in doing that kind of thing. It also means that you and I are given the privilege to vote for those who appoint the judges and who make the laws, and we must exercise. that responsibility and privilege. Fourthly, finally, he calls on us here to rescue the perishing. Verse 4. Rescue the weak, the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. There's opportunity in the Crisis Pregnancy Center to get training to be a counselor. That's coming up in the next weeks If you're interested in that, sign up. Find out from the office when that's offered. Laurel Crisis Pregnancy Center I know is offering that. There's also the Baltimore Pregnancy Center. We'll be hearing about that in a couple of weeks. But another thing, there's also the adoption. You know, the Jaegers have Lloyd this morning, and we rejoice with them in that. If there's a couple of other families who are waiting for children that they're seeking to adopt, that's an option for some people. And we need to support those and encourage those that are doing that, and in some cases to pray whether God would have us to do that. But the other thing that we can do on the other end that I think Christians haven't taken advantage of nearly as much as we could is the hospice movement. To spend time with those who have been diagnosed terminally as terminally ill, to spend time helping them with dignity and to alleviate pain in the last weeks and months of their lives. Both my wife and my daughter have served extensively on this and have found great satisfaction in this movement. In fact, my uh daughter chose to go into that as a career for a period of time. And uh it's just a tremendous opportunity for Christians uh to uh be among those who help to shape the values and give value to the dignity of human life. Recently, there were discovered in East Germany some films from the Third Reich in the East German archives. Back in the 1930s, it seems that the Nazis had a PR problem. They wanted to exterminate certain weak and undesirable elements of society. But the Lutheran German church had a strong history of compassion toward those who were old, infirm, and mentally ill. And so the Third Reich knew that in order to carry this out, they would need to change the values of Germany. So they hired some of Germany's best filmmakers and some of their best actors and actresses In order to demonstrate one point that the laws of nature proved that only the strong deserved to live. They filmed in one of these films that they produced, they filmed the patients at Hadamar, which was a facility for the mentally disturbed. They used certain lighting and angle techniques to make the patients look subhuman and grotesque. And then a reasonable man came on as a leader and said It takes 100,000 Deutschmarks to keep one of these defectives alive. Money that is badly needed by the fatherland. It's only following the laws of nature to allow them to die. Other films came pounding home the same message. That the laws of nature and even compassion dictated that abortion, infanticide, euthanasia were right things to do, and sometimes the compassionate thing to do. What Jesus sought in that milieu and what he seeks today are men and women who are willing with Psalm 82 in their hearts to expose the lie of such a message. There's one final footnote to that story that's worth you and me observing. The Nazis, as a result of their propaganda films and other pressure, Turned the tide of German opinion so that they tolerated the killing of the pre-born, Jews, and gypsies, and other undesirables. But the disabled they had to let live. Why was that? Because of one person In Hattamar there was a Christian nurse. And when she saw what was happening, and she began to see the gas chambers erected in that facility. She documented the facts and she took them with great courage to her bishop, presented the facts, the bishop then turned them over to the press and released them to the public. The outcry of the German people, particularly of the church at that time, was so great that the Nazis actually backed down. And allowed those who were mentally retarded and mentally ill to continue undisturbed. I believe that woman serves as a model Of Psalm eighty two in our day for you and for me. Let's pray Well, Lord our God, we pray that you would give to us hearts that are willing to follow you. Even when it's unpopular, even Lord, when we may feel foolish or intimidated to speak for truth. To speak for the sanctity of human life in our day, on both ends of the spectrum, both the pre-born and the post-useful, as our society sees it And Lord, that you would enable us, some here in this congregation, Lord, you may put in strategic positions. Some perhaps even like that nurse. Give us, Lord, courage to stand for you in such a situation. Lead us, Lord, as we each meditate on this psalm and look at its message for us to see what it means for us to stand in the place of that psalmist. In our own lives and in our own world and sphere of influence. Lord, you who will judge the earth, we take refuge in you now. And if there is anyone here, Lord, who needs The provision of the Lord Jesus Christ as their intercessor is the one who would take their sin, that they could stand in that judgment. Without condemnation, we pray that you would speak to that person, that they would embrace Jesus. As Savior and Lord. Thank you for that provision. Thank you, Lord Jesus, and that you are here to receive us. Give us then, Lord, love and courage for you to hear and to obey and to look for your coming when you will set all things right in that great day when you receive us to yourself. In Jesus name. Amen.