An excerpt from a recent letter from a missionary in Amsterdam. Anita is a doctor, the daughter of co-founders of a well-known religious cult. A new Christian and a single mom. Her son, William Jonathan, born on October the tenth, was not breathing on his own. The doctors gave him a slim chance of survival and had proposed to slowly reduce his life support systems so that he would either begin breathing on his own or October the twelfth, a small group from Cornerstone Church went to the hospital to anoint William with oil, according to James 5, and to pray for him and his mother. The spirit within the group changed from one of deep sadness to the joy and rest of knowing God Himself, totally apart from what He would do for William. In fact, the evening ended at a party. And the next day we heard from the hospital that William had begun to breathe on his own. He has now been home with his mother for several months, completely healthy and growing like a weed. During those days in October, Our congregation learned more about what it means to pray in unity and from our hearts. We grieved together, prayed together, waited together, and encouraged each other. The unity and love that we felt for each other was itself a miracle directly from God's Spirit. He goes on to talk then about the effect that this had on the church's evangelism in the following weeks, how there was a greater sense of the conviction that God is with us. that he is a powerful God. The gospel is true. You see, that's the effect of community. That when we are ha when when someone within the body has a problem, a crisis, we join together, we pray, we encourage each other, we're caught up in that together, and we see God work. then as a community of believers, we're encouraged and our faith grows. God works in power in community. The church is meant to live in community. And I must say that I'm encouraged that over the last year I believe that we have made significant progress as a church at Columbia Presbyterian. In living, in community, a sense of our need for one another, caring for one another, what we see happening within the cells and the small groups of people caring for one another and our being felt cared for by our brothers and sisters in those groups. The things that God has been doing in the heart-to-heart relationships of the women. who care for each other in pairs. The kind of thing that Jodea shared a couple of weeks ago that God had done in her life and that many other women could also testify. The thing that the men are seeing is God is using promise-keepers to engender a greater sense of community and our need to live in community. And the fact that our men's ministry, even at Columbia Presbyterian, is developing community with the mainly black men's ministry of Longreach Church of God and how we are forming community more together. In fact, just as you know, on Saturday afternoons I I uh often will run and I'll take my sermon along with me and I will go through it as I'm running along And uh yesterday as I was running through uh the uh parking lot at Long Reach with this, I was thinking about this and praying about it, and all of a sudden I heard, hey Pastor! And I looked in this car I was running past, and there was one of the guys that we had fellowship with in our last uh breakfast a couple of weeks ago from Long Reach. First time I had ever seen him But, you know, there was there was a sense of connection. Reached out, you know, gave each other a high five from the car, you know, and moving on and I said, Yeah, I'm I'm just praying about you guys for tomorrow And that encouraged him because there's a sense, a growing sense of community that we're developing as men, as women, as a congregation. In fact, we're doing that as pastors. This year, 1998, for the first time in a good while, the pastors will be meeting in our facility. Every third Thursday, the pastors of Howard County coming together from 12 to 2 to pray here for each other and to pray for God's work within this area. Developing community within the body of Christ. The New Testament speaks a great deal, of course, about the idea of community. The passages that John read. Of course, in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 16, we have been looking at this idea of the church as the body of Christ. The New Testament speaks a great deal of our community in terms of koininea, sharing together in the common life we have in Christ. The other passage from Ephesians 4, that is probably the other classic passage about the fact that the Church of Christ is an organic body, is in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, in verses 12 and 13, you read: The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts, and though all its parts are many, they form one body. So it is with Christ. For we were all baptized by one Spirit into one body, whether Jews or Greeks or slave or free, and we were all given the one Spirit to drink. Well, what am I getting at? A while back in my own Bible reading, I came across a couple of verses that precede 1 Corinthians chapter 12, that lead up to that. And those verses leaped off the page at me. Their radic rather radical notion of what fellowship is, living as community, and they challenged me right down to my socks. As I thought about those verses, I thought how little I really considered the implications of them. And so on this one Sunday, kind of in between a number of things we're doing, holidays and some other things coming up in the next couple of weeks, before we get back into Ephesians, I would like to offer these verses To you as God used them in my life to challenge me. And I offer them to you as God's word, not simply a suggestion, but God speaking to us. There are the verses that John read from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 23 and 24. Listen to these verses. Everything is permissible, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible, but not everything is constructive. Nobody should seek his own good but the good of others. Now what does that mean? May not be real obvious just at first, what is that talking about? Let me seek to unpack it a bit for you. First of all, need to understand that the context of these two verses is all of chapters 8 to 10 in 1 Corinthians. Chapters 8 to 10 speak about a particular issue. The issue of whether a Christian can eat meat. That has been offered to idols. You see that in chapter 8, the beginning. He starts off now about food sacrificed to idols. We know that we all possess knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. The man who thinks he knows something doesn't know anything yet as he ought to know, but the man who loves God is known by God. Now, then About food, eating food sacrificed to idols. Then he goes on. After the two verses I just read, first Corinthians chapter ten, twenty-three and twenty-four, verses twenty f verse twenty-five goes on. Eat anything sold in the market without raising questions of conscience, for the earth is is the Lord's and everything that is in it. Still talking about this issue of food sacrificed to idols. Now let me say, I'm a little concerned that of all the ethical issues that Steve Green dealt with in his course that he taught this fall, which I understand was a great course, but there was one major omission. He never dealt with the issue of whether you and I should eat food sacrificed to idols. Now, I don't know about you. But that is a rather major ethical issue. I mean, the Bible takes three chapters to deal with that issue. And we held an ethical course that doesn't deal with it at all. I mean, maybe I'm wrong, but I didn't hear that come up this fall And I can't remember the last time somebody came into my office and they sat down and they said, Al, I just got to talk to you. This thing's driving me nuts I'm really wondering, I'm concerned, should I eat those hamburgers that McDonald's has offered to the idols? You know, I just don't know what to do about this. What should I do? And we can wrestle this thing through together Well, obviously, this is not a big issue for you and me, right? But the Bible takes three chapters to deal with it. So what's the issue? First of all, you need to understand that back in the first century, it was very hard to purchase and obtain meat that hadn't at some point in its slaughter and production been offered to an idol. So this is a very common thing. Here you go and you just go down to the safe way and you go pick up, you know, some of ground round or whatever that is, you know, and You don't know exactly what has all happened with it, but what you do know is probably Safeways policy was at some point to have that thing offered to an idol because that was kind of standard procedure in the market. Now, as a Christian, what are you supposed to do with that? Does that make you participating in idolatry if you uh get that food? And if you eat that, it was a major issue in Acts chapter 15, the first general assembly, the first conference that the church had. You remember one of just four things that they decided was don't eat food that's been offered to idols So it's a big deal. Now, what does it mean for us? Well, it is an illustration to you and to me of certain principles. That are basic to Christians in all ages. And the basic question is, how do you handle an area that Scripture is not clear on? You could infer from certain things that it is wrong to do this. And yet it's just not clear. Some Christians do it. Some Christians don't do it. People feel pretty strongly on both sides of the issue. How do you resolve something like that, living within community? Believing that what we do, what each of us does, affects the other person. The basic issue in the context of this is Christian freedom and Christian love. Those are the first two blanks. The issue is that of Christian freedom and Christian love. David Pryor and his excellent commentary in 1 Corinthians Sums up these three chapters in saying that chapter 8 deals with freedom and sensitivity to others. Chapter 9 deals with the freedom to restrict my freedom In chapter 10, freedom and its dangers. There are two principles that Paul holds forth here that are absolutely vital for you and for me. In our Christian living in community, to see the power of Christ. And the first is to live in the freedom of the gospel. You look back again at chapter 8. Verse 4. So then about eating food sacrificed to idols. We know that an idol is nothing at all in the world, and that there's no God but one. Alright? So you're free. Verse 8 Food does not bring us near to God. We're no worse if we do not eat, or better if we do. Yeah, it's no big deal. The thing in itself really doesn't matter. You're free. Chapter 9, verse 1. Am I not free? That's the principle. Chapter 10. I just read verse 25. Eat anything sold in the meat market without raising questions of conscience, for the earth's the Lord's and everything in it. You're free. It's clear. Alright? End of the issue. Why make any more deal? Eat meat without worrying about it? That's somebody else's problem. If they've got a problem with that between them and the Lord, that's for them to resolve. It's no concern of yours You see the freedom that is in the gospel, practice it and live in it. Well, it's not so simple. Living in community does not allow us to live independently. Chapter 8. Look again at verse 4. So then about eating food sacrificed to idols. We know that an idol is nothing in the world. There's no one God but one. For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods, many lords, yet for us there is but one God, the Father. From whom all things come and for whom we live, and there is but one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things came and through whom we live. Then he goes on to verse 7. But not everyone knows this. Some people are still so accustomed to idols that when they eat such food, they think of it as having been sacrificed to an idol, and since their conscience is weak, it is defiled. To them, it's not simply a matter of that's what Safeway does. I used to do it. I used to be in that temple offering that food. And it it it it just produces conflict in me to think of the idolatry and what is intended in that idolatry. It's the kind of thing where even today, you know, people uh will say, oh God, uh they will say, God damn it, they'll say Jesus Christ. And It's blasphemy, it's wrong, but we realize that they're not doing it, uh intending in most cases to blaspheme, especially if you hear a kid in fourth or fifth grade saying it You we know that that is not intentional. It's kind of careless. Nevertheless, it affects different people in different ways, in the way that you do that, what's intended So he says in verse eight, But food does not bring us near to God. We're no worse if we eat, no better if we do. That's not the issue. But then verse nine, be careful, however. That the exercise of your freedom does not become a stumbling block to the weak, the person who has scruples on this thing. Verse 13. Therefore If what I eat causes my brother to fall into sin, I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause him to fall. I am free, Paul says. I can eat it. But if it is going to produce harm to my brother, for the sake of that person, I will never eat meat again. I'll become a vegetarian if that's what it takes. Now it sounds like Paul is in bondage here, doesn't it? That jars us. Wait a minute, just because somebody else has a problem with this, you're never going to do it? This is not bondage, brothers and sisters, but what I call the freedom of voluntary restriction. The freedom of voluntary restriction out of love. Look at chapter 9, verse 19. Verse nineteen, Paul says, Though I am free and belong to no man. I make myself a slave to everyone to win as many as possible Martin Luther once wrote, The Christian is free and the slave to no one. And then he turned around and said, the Christian is a slave of all for the sake of Christ. You see that principle? You see that the juxtaposition? I'm free. I know in my conscience that there are freedoms that I have in Christ. But I will choose to not exercise them if it brings harm to the faith and life of a brother or sister in Christ. That, I suggest to you, is radical Christianity. That is radical community. The threads of these two ideas that run through these three chapters come to a climax in chapter 10, verse 23 and 24. Now we're in a position to understand what that's saying. Paul says there, now listen, this is the Apostle Paul. He says, everything is permissible, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible, but not everything is constructive. Nobody should seek his own good but the good of others. See here then the principle of balance. Second point. In terms, first of all, of freedom, everything is permissible. Everything is permissible. You see that, verse 23? Everything is permissible. Paul is saying that? I can't believe that. Paul's saying everything is permissible. Do whatever you want. I mean he not only says it, he repeats it here. Everything's permissible. Everything's permissible. In fact, he not only repeats it here, he says it two other times. Look back in chapter 6, in verse 12. Paul said, Everything is permissible for me, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. What's going on? Well you notice if you have an NIV, perhaps other translations, that those words, everything is permissible, are in quotes. Paul is probably quoting a popular saying of the Corinthians, a saying that was popular with the Corinthians and is also popular among contemporary Americans. Everything's permissible. And the idea is that it's intended that is intended to be conveyed is that we are no longer under the law. That's The basic point of it, in terms of sacrifices, in terms of the dietary restrictions, of the feasts, all the things which are fulfilled in Christ Everything now is open to us. Everything is permissible. But of course it's not intended as an absolute, as if anything you want to do, you're permitted to do as a Christian. There is no law over you. Paul himself qualifies it in chapter 9 in verse 21. If you look back there, those few verses before, he says, To those not having the law, became like one not having the law. It became like a Gentile to them, you see though I'm not free from God's law, but I'm under God's law, so as to win those not having the law. So he says, I act like a Gentile with those that don't have those Jewish restrictions. That's the particular thing that's in mind. But he makes it clear, but I'm not free from God's law. I'm under Christ's law. God's authority is still over me. What Jesus taught and what Jesus affirmed From the Old Testament as well as what the New Testament interprets and adds to, clearly is still under over me and I am under its authority. So, what is Paul talking about? He's saying that you and I, because you have been forgiven, you are no longer guilty And you are no longer under any obligation to work for God's acceptance. You are free. Jesus' record is your record. His righteousness has been attributed to you before God. You stand before him as one who does not have the minor status, that is, as a child, Galatians 4, who is under certain regulations. You have now entered into adulthood. You are an adult son entering into all the rights and the privileges of the inheritance of the son of the master. You are now God's son, men and women, his son, in terms of the legal status that is conveyed in that. And though you are the vilest person on earth You stand forgiven with clear conscience and free in Jesus Christ. Amen. That is a wonderful, wonderful truth. You are free in Jesus Christ God does not look at you in terms of what you have done and what you are like. He looks at Jesus to see what he is like and what he has done In order to attribute that record in how he treats you, you have his status before God. But the person who has that freedom is so deeply filled with gratitude. That my desire is to know how I can please this one who has loved me so very much. And the law shows me how I can please him. The law is now a guide to direct me in terms of what is pleasing to my Heavenly Father. And so when I come to this issue of eating meat offered to idols, the question is not, am I allowed? The question is, what is going to please my father? In terms of what movies I watch, the question is not what movies am I allowed to watch, but what is going to please him. Or what TV shows I watch, or how I spend my time, or how I spend my money. Now, the second principle here is that of voluntary restriction, not simply freedom. But he says, everything is permissible, but not everything is beneficial. Not everything is beneficial. The Greek word means helpful, useful, profitable. And probably what he means there is not beneficial for me. Alright, that's the next blank. Beneficial for me. The reference here is in terms of yourself. You see, that's the way he uses it in chapter 6, verse 12. Everything's permissible for me, but not everything is beneficial. So the idea is then official for myself. Everything's permissible for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. It's interesting that in chapter six What he goes on to describe in his illustration, verse thirteen, is food for the stomach, the stomach for food, but God will destroy them both. The body's not meant for sexual immorality. but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. So he speaks of appetites. What he's saying is there are certain things that I crave And the Bible doesn't restrict those things. It doesn't forbid those things. It puts bounds around them in terms of their proper use. But it's significant that when he speaks of what's beneficial, he's talking about my cravings and my appetites And so what Paul is saying here is, there are certain TV shows that I may want to watch. And you can't show me a verse that I can't watch them. But in my heart I recognize that if I want to grow in Jesus Christ this year, that is not going to be beneficial, useful, profitable, helpful to me to do that. It's like Hebrews chapter 12. Do you remember in verse 1? Hebrews says, Therefore, since we're surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders And the sin that so easily entangles and run with perseverance, the race marked out for us. He's picturing the Christian life as a race there. And he says there's two things to take note of. There's sin that you know you need to avoid because God forbids it. But then he says there's those weights They're not sin. They're not things that the Bible forbids. They're not things that you can say, this is wrong, or that we can say to one another, that's wrong, you ought not to do it It's of the person's conscience before God. But if in fact I am looking for what is beneficial, the Christian does not ask the question, how close can I get to this sin? And still not. Actually, sin. The Christian asks, what can I do that will be most beneficial for my growth in grace in the Lord Jesus and my usefulness to Him? And so when I look at that TV show or I question that movie, should I go see that movie and I say, well what's wrong with it? The movie isn't that bad and you know, so there's some foul language and there's some nudity and people are all shot in blood and all over the place. That's okay. I can take it, but is it beneficial? See, is it really going to help me in my walk with the Lord? Now, those kinds of questions are not asked by the church a whole lot today But the Bible says right here, everything's permissible. Paul says, I'm not going to get into that discussion with you. The question is: is it really beneficial? Is it useful? In your own walk with Jesus Christ and usefulness to him. But that's not the only question he asks. Look, he goes on. Everything's permissible, but not everything's beneficial for me in my walk with the Lord. Growth in Christ-likeness. Everything's permissible, but not everything's constructive. And the word constructive is the word edify. It's that same word. Not everything is constructive, not everything builds up or edifies. Almost always that word is used in the New Testament with reference to others. So this has to do with what is constructive for others. So believe it or not, Paul is saying here. That for you and for me as American Christians who value and prize our independence, when we're asking, should I involve myself in this activity? The question that I ask is not simply, is it beneficial for me, but what will be the effect on you if I do that? You see, is it going to help you in your walk with Jesus, or will it possibly be a stumbling block, a hindrance to you? And so consider the commandment and its implications finally, for you and for me as part of the body of Christ here, Columbia Presbyterian. Everything that you and I do. You should do to seek what is beneficial for your growth in Christ and what will build up your brothers and sisters Two final conclusions. Number one, I am free in Christ, but not autonomous. You and I are free in Christ. Everything is permissible. You are not under the law. You are not under its obligations for your acceptance before God. Jesus Christ has taken your place He has suffered on your behalf. The law cannot condemn you if you are in Jesus Christ this morning. But that does not mean that you are autonomous. Autonomous means a law to yourself, literally. You are free, not under the bondage of condemnation and rule keeping. But your choices are not just between you and the Lord. You think that the way that you live is just your business, it's just between you and God. But the Bible says it's between you and the rest of us and God. You say, oh, wait a minute. No, I'm not in for that You see, when you're part of a community, then you and I need to factor in what TV we watch, what movies we go to How we live our moral life, how we spend our time, the choices and convictions that we make with our money. With how we school our children, whether homeschooling, Christian schooling, public schooling, the whole issue of drinking And all the rest of these things are to be examined in terms of not only its effect on me, but its effect on you. And so be. The effect on others should guide my every decision. Ask yourself the question. Will my behavior cause someone with a weaker conscience, that is, honest scruples, that are not as free as they could be? Let's even acknowledge that. In the matter of meat offered to idols, Paul is saying, I know that I can do this with a clear conscience. But someone else has honest scruples about it, and therefore they're not as free as I am in it, but if I do this, it's going to cause them to stumble. Look how Paul works that out 10 25. Eat anything he says sold in the meat market without raising questions of conscience, for the earth is the Lord's and everything in it. Verse 27. If some unbeliever invites you to a meal and you want to go, eat whatever is put before you without raising questions of conscience. It's not issue. But if anyone says to you, Oh, uh, by the way, this has been offered in sacrifice to an idol, then What's he say? So what? Amazing. He says, then do not eat it. Built for the sake of the man who told you, because it's an issue to him, otherwise, he wouldn't have raised it. And For the sake of the man who told you, and the other man's, and for conscience' sake. The other man's conscience, I mean, not yours. For why should my freedom be judged by another's conscience? If I take part in a meal with thankfulness, why am I denounced because something I thank God for? I'm free. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God. It's for him, not just for yourself. Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews, Greeks, or the Church of God, even as I try to please everybody in every way. For I'm not seeking my own good, but the good of many, so that they may be saved. Follow my example in this as I follow the example of Christ. Secondly Will my behavior bless and strengthen the faith of my brothers and sisters? Am I concerned to build them up in their following Christ? Do I seek their good? Am I willing out of love for Jesus and his people to reorient my thinking to this tighter community perspective? Brothers and sisters, this is not a commune. I'm not talking about control. I'm talking about community. I remember back just after Kathy and I were married, was 1967, we were invited over to an elder's house in a church that we were attending at that time. Kathy and I had both grown up in homes that had abused alcohol. And at that point, we were in looking at the scripture, coming to the conviction that the scripture does not forbid alcohol. But we had had some bad experiences in our families. And as we were wrestling with this whole thing, this elder and his family invited us over and they offered us wine. And we politely demurred and just said, no thanks, that's okay. And he pressed it. He said, What's the matter? The Bible doesn't restrict this. Don't you feel free? And because we were at that point wrestling with it, we weren't really sure, should we, should we not, what does scripture say, what is good for other people. We felt intimidated, and we both said, well, we don't have a defense against it, and so we each had a glass of wine. We went home that night and felt miserable. We had compromised our conscience. He had demonstrated his freedom, but it had hurt us. Brothers and sisters, there's a lot of things you and I can do in our convictions within this body that we can feel this is fine before the Lord. But the question is not simply that. The question is, what's the effect I have on you? Will it help you? Or will it in any way bring any stumbling block in your life? Let's pray Lord our God, as Americans, it is difficult for us to begin to enter in to that kind of sense of community That kind of sense of how we as a body affect one another in our choices, whether I go to church this week, whether I skip, whether I skip my group. All the freedoms that we have that we can say, but I'm not under the law, I can do this. But all those things send messages out to other people about my priorities, about my heart, about my concern for them. Lord, help us this year. As we live under the freedom that the Lord Jesus Christ has purchased for us, to remember, Lord Jesus, you did not use your freedom for yourself. You gave up all of your freedom and went to the cross for us Help us, Lord, in those areas now where we are honest to say, I can do this, but it's not beneficial to me, and it's not helpful to somebody else. To give those things over to you right now. This afternoon, as we come before you, before we come to take the Lord's Supper, which in itself For us, it does not involve alcohol because, Lord, we would not offend. And we would live together in community, in peace To honor Jesus and to love one another. Amen.