Uh it's very appropriate because the message this morning has to do with darkness and light. So you think of last week, the darkness when we were without power, and the cold and now the light. We are back to the book of Ephesians. And uh that's alright, you can quell the cheering. We're back to Ephesians now, where we left off. Thank you Good, good. Well we left off back uh in November with an overview of chapter five, verses eight to fourteen. about darkness and light. And I'm now going to, this week and the next two weeks, break this into two parts this morning dealing with chapter 5, verses 8 to 10, and then the next two weeks on verses 11 to 14. Now let me state the point of it right up front so you get it clear. The point of these three verses, I believe, is that we tend to greatly underestimate The radical change that takes place in a person when they become a Christian, a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. We greatly underestimate that change. Some of us may not be exactly sure when we became Christians. Some of you may feel like, well, I think I've been a Christian most all of my life. Or maybe it was 10 or 20 years ago. I'm not really sure when. Spiritual things have come to mean more to me maybe in the last five years. Was I a Christian before that? I don't know. I know a lot of people who say they're Christians, who seem to live like I did What's big change? What's the difference? Well in America it seems like many times there isn't much difference. People call themselves Christians, and they don't seem to live a whole lot differently from those who don't call themselves Christians. In fact, uh George Barna has a uh their research group doing a lot of surveying, said that in a recent survey they conducted they found out that Less than one out of every ten people who call themselves Christians have a biblical worldview That significantly impacts their decisions and choices. Less than one in ten, in other words, they say live noticeably different. In fact, let me quote from Barna in a periodical I received just this week commenting on that. He says, if we were to be truly honest We might admit that the problem with Christianity in America is not the content of the faith, but the failure of its adherents to integrate the principles of the faith into their lifestyles. For example, a recent study we conducted showed that those who call themselves born-again Christians substantially differed from non-Christians on just nine out of sixty-six variables in which we compared the two groups Even more significant was the finding that Christians were virtually indistinguishable from non-believers on all 65 of the non-religious variables that we examined. matters of core values, defining attitudes, and central behavioral tendencies. Do you get that? Because I mean to look at the difference in attitudes and values, there wasn't much difference between those that call themselves Christians and those that don't There's something wrong with that. Because as I read my Bible and you read your Bible in Ephesians 5, Paul says something very, very different. Did you get it? As John read it? Look at it again. Ephesians 5, verse 8. Paul says For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. See the contrast. Live then. The word is walk. One more. appearance of that word in chapters four, five, and six. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness and truth. That is, in whatever is good, whatever is right, whatever is true. And find out what pleases the Lord. Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret But everything exposed by the light becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. This is why it is said, Wake up, O sleeper! Rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Now look again at verses 8 to 10. I want to look at the what this says, why, and then the so what. What is it that the Bible says about you if you are a Christian? If you are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ to go to heaven? What does the Bible say is true about every person who belongs to Jesus Christ? He says you are radically different from before you belonged to Christ. You were darkness, but now you're light. Now you might expect that Paul would say, for you were once in darkness, but now you are in the light. That would make sense, and it would be true. It's interesting that that's not what he says. He puts it in even stronger terms. He says, you were once darkness. But now you are light. Reminds us of the words of the Lord Jesus. Remember where he said to his followers, you are the light of the world. Or do you remember when Paul said in Philippians chapter 2 and verses 15 and 16, he said, you are to shine as stars. as lights, luminaries in the heavens, in the midst of a dark and perverse world. The picture is of a dark black sky, and in that sky you see pinpoints of light. And those pinpoints of light that you see can give you direction. If you look up in that sky, no matter what the season And you can identify the Big Dipper. You trace that Big Dipper and you look at the cup and then the front end of that cup and look at the bottom of the cup, get that star and get the top edge of that cup and draw a line in your imagination from the top to the from the bottom to the top and go right on to the next bright star you see, that's what Polaris, the North Star, right? No matter what season, winter, summer, spring, fall, that star is always in the same place and it's always north. The lights will point you to give you direction. Now Paul's saying something here even more dramatic, not just that you and I point to the Lord Jesus as lights in a dark world. But he says, you were darkness and now you are light. And we don't have to guess at what he means by that, as John said, there's just dozens and dozens of scripture that contrast darkness and light and the meaning of that. But in Ephesians chapter 4, you see those images summed up in chapter 4, and they have three ideas. You see them in your bullet and outline, so that you can follow them. Darkness versus light has three ideas. The contrast of the darkness of ignorance, we talk about being in the dark about something, mean you don't understand it. versus the light of truth. Ah, the light dawns. I understand it, you see that idea. Or the darkness of death, the grave, versus the light of life Or the darkness of depravity versus the light of goodness. Those three ideas. And you see them all in Ephesians, for instance. Paul says you were once darkness. He means in that that you were once ignorant. In chapter 4, in verse 18 He said, They, speaking of those without Christ, they are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts. So you see two ideas. They're darkened in their understanding, and they're ignorant because of the hardness of their hearts. That's the idea of the darkness. What are they ignorant of? Well, they're ignorant about God. What's God like? 95% of Americans surveyed say that they believe in God or some ultimate force, but if you ask them to define or to describe what God is like. There's no agreement. There seems to be little understanding. In fact, recently I asked a fellow who was very secular. I asked him uh question I find, by the way, very helpful talking to people. I said, Do you ever pray? He said, oh yes, I pray almost every day, which surprised me a little bit. But then I said, uh, well, what is the God like that you pray to? And without batting an eye or hesitating, pausing a moment, he said, I have absolutely no idea. He's honest. I pray almost every day to a God that I have absolutely no idea what he's like. I'm in the dark. Many Americans are superstitious about God. You know, there's something about it, some for sort of force and you kinda try and get on the right side of that force and do the right stuff. Maybe go to church, do some stuff, you know, give to your offering or do something. Where a lot of people today have this idea of angels as kind of like semi deities, you know, and they have powers and you wanna, you know, get on the good side of the angels and they'll help you out, you know. A lot of superstition. But very little understanding, because without the Bible we don't understand who God is, what he's like. I was struck this morning as we were singing that hymn that John had us sing. Holy, holy, holy. That one phrase there just really caught me this morning for some reason. Perfect in power, in love. And purity. Did you catch that? Well, you can meditate on that for the next week, couldn't you? Here is a being who is perfect In his power, in his love, and in his purity. A God is totally holy and just and yet merciful and kind to us. You can't guess at a God like that. You're in the dark, apart from what the Bible says, and the enlightening of the Holy Spirit to help you to understand that. But these people are not only dark, you and I were not only dark in our understanding of God, but even about ourselves. We don't know who we are. There's no idea that I'm a distinct creature made in the image of God, an infinite and personal God with a responsibility to honor Him, to serve Him. I'm ignorant about my life. What's life about? A friend dies. You go to the funeral. Last week you were talking to him or her. Now that person's in a casket And you look down and you say, Where is that person now? Is there life after death? Are they somewhere now What's the purpose of my life? One day I'll be laying in that casket. Casket just like that. What will it have all been? What does it amount to? Am I different from animals? Or am I just like the animals? What's life all about? Paul says you were once darkness. He didn't understand the answers to those questions. But now you're light. God has caused the light of the gospel and of his truth to shine in your heart. You now understand that you were made by a creator. Who defines purpose and right from wrong. The God who is true and right and good, as he says in verse 9, which is the reflection of his character to us. And you look and you say, now I understand why I feel guilty, why there's pain, why there's death He comes in a consequence of sin and rebellion against God. I understand now that He's done something to solve that problem. He didn't just leave us and abandon us. But he sent his own son to come as a human being, just like you and me, to keep his perfect law. of goodness, righteousness, and truth, to die in the place of everyone who comes to look and to trust that He is their hope for salvation. Because of that He has brought me from death to life. And that's that second idea, you see. Darkness has the idea of death versus life. You see that in chapter 4 and verse 18. Where he says they are darkened in their understanding, and they were separated from the life of God. Apart from Jesus Christ, you're separated from the life of God. And there is no life apart from the life of God. There's no alternative. The Bible's clear from Genesis to Revelation. Life is defined as union with God. Separation from God is what defines death. Physical separation of the soul from the body is death. Spiritual separation of the soul from God is spiritual death. And so you and I look at separation from God, the consequence of our rebellion, of our saying, I'll live my own way. Thank you very much. God, you can keep in your own spear. We're dead spiritually. But do you remember chapter two? Paul said that because of his great love for us, in his mercy Chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. God made us alive in Christ. His sacrifice on the cross was sufficient to pay for the penalty of your sin, my sin. So that by trusting him you are made alive from the dead. That could happen to you this morning if it's never happened to this point. And as a result of that, entering, passing from the darkness of the grave to the light of life. Your life then becomes changed. And that's the third meaning. The darkness of depravity to the light of goodness. John chapter 3, verses 19 to 21. John had told us that when you were living in the darkness, you refused to come to the light, lest your deeds be exposed. If this morning you're living without Jesus Christ in your life, you don't want to have your sin exposed. You want to rationalize it. You want to shift the blame on other people. It was their fault. You're a victim of circumstances. But the Bible says that they refuse to come to the light lest their deeds be exposed. But if you and I are willing to acknowledge I'm suffering for things that are the consequence, at least in part, of my own wrong choices Then Jesus Christ offers Himself to you. If you come to the light, He's able to bring you out of the darkness of death and to change your nature. For our hearts cannot be changed by ourselves. I think of the cynical comment that John Kenneth Galbraith once wrote, where he said, Under communism, man exploits man. Under capitalism, the situation is exactly the reverse. Think about that. We see the sordid revelations of the human heart being displayed to us in the impeachment trials and the things that are going on in high places. And we see almost a savage attempt of people to expose any hypocrisy in others. We see that Ken Starr exposes all the dirt about President Clinton, and then Larry Flint wants to step forward and expose the dirt and everybody he can find And the only lesson that we learn from it is there is none righteous. No, not one. All walk in darkness apart from Jesus Christ. What a demonstration of what the human heart is really like. Think of an incident that occurred back in New York City. I believe it was on a July night back in 1977. Well we had a power problem last week. Back in July of 1977, New York City, all the power went out in all five barrows. Can you imagine that? No light whatsoever Within seconds, in less than a minute, after the darkness had descended, there were the sounds of bricks and stones smashing windows of storefronts And a rampage of looting was on. People said afterwards, it was the poor and the hungry who were desperate. And then somebody did a survey and they found out that of 145 stores that were looted, only 12 were food stores. The rest were electronic stores, jewelry stores, furniture stores, clothing stores. These weren't people who were so much needy as greedy. The demonstration was in the dark I can get away with it. Have you ever thought of what you might do if you knew that nobody else would ever know? Integrity is doing the right thing in the dark. And that takes the Spirit of Jesus Christ entering our life to cause us to be those kind of people. To produce what he says in verse 9 is the fruit of light, consisting in goodness, righteousness, and truth. That is, in doing what is good, what is right, and what is true. That is a radical new nature. And where does it come from? You see it there in verse 8. Point 2, the why. He says in verse 8, For you were once darkness, but now you are light He doesn't simply end it there. He doesn't say because of what you have learned. He doesn't say because of your decision to walk in a different way What does he say? You are light in the Lord. You are light simply by virtue of the relationship that you have with Jesus Christ. Because of the union that you have with him by faith in his finished work, and by your daily communion, walking with him, deciding that A non-negotiable part of every day in your life would be to spend time with Jesus Christ, to open your Bible, to learn about Him, to learn what He's done for you. To learn how he wants you to live and walk and how he can guide you. When you're driving in the car to work, to imagine Jesus in the seat there beside you so that you can talk with him and share your life with him. And that you can hear and imagine the words of Scripture as He comes to speak his comfort to you, His direction to you, the gospel of forgiveness and acceptance, that you're a son and a daughter. It is by virtue of the fact that you are in the Lord that you are a new and radically different person. Now kids, let me tell you something that um is an admission or I don't know what it is, but I wanna tell you, you know those glow in the dark toys that you see come in cereal boxes or games or all these kind of things, you see them a lot of it. Do you know I predate glow-in-the-dark toys? I lived before there were glow-in-the-dark toys, kids. And I remember when they first came out It was a big deal. And I remember some cereal companies really majored on this and they would send in their cereal boxes these little figures and things and they would say this thing will glow in the dark I thought that was so neat and whatever the cereal was post hosties or something. We had to go out and we had to get that thing and I remember I opened that cereal Stuffed my fist right down through all that stuff, grabbed that toy out, and I ran to the bathroom, shut out all the lights, and I held that thing up and you know what happened? Nothing. I couldn't see it. Fraud. I was so mad I wanted to tromp on a cereal box. What is it? I've been cheated. This thing doesn't glow in the dark And then it went back and before we trashed the box I read on it that said, you gotta hold it up to the light. And then it'll blow in the dark. So I thought, oh, okay. I took that thing and I jammed it right up against the light bulb. I stuck it up against it, then I went back into the bathroom, turned the lights out, and then what happened? Nothing, no, not nothing. He glows, that's what happened. I looked at him, wow, it works I remember I went back and I stood that thing right up against the light bulb for five minutes. I wanted to see how glowing I could get it to be. You know, and I took it back. Wow, look at that thing go. You see, that's the way your life and my life is If you're next to Jesus, you're light. If Jesus is in you, he makes you light. But in order for you to bear the fruit of the light, which is simply the parallel statement of Galatians 5. 22, the fruit of the Spirit, you've got to spend time next to the light. And as you get next to him, and every day you're sharing your life with him and you're reading your Bible to find out about him, and you're learning about his love for you, and you're expressing your love to him. As you do that, and then when you walk in the darkness, you are light. You are light. The life of Jesus is visible in you. Because you're bearing that goodness and that rightness and that truth by his power, not by yours. It's what you've received, that toy, absorbing the light. Demonstrated in him. So, final point. So what? So the command you see on the back. So walk as children of light. Walk as children of light. Verse 8. You were once darkness, but now you're a light in the Lord. That's the fact. In terms of Ephesians, that's the indicative. Then comes the imperative, the command. Therefore, walk as children of light. It's the same basic principle that you see again. Walk as children of the light. Two things I want to say about that. Number one, you need to decide that that is your new course. It's not something that simply automatically happens. Paul commands here. He doesn't simply say, you are darkness, now you're light in the Lord, so you will live. As children in light. He commands them. Based on that, he says, walk as children of light. Some of you need to decide that that is the way you're going to live. You're going to live out your new identity in Jesus Christ. I remember many years ago when I used to work with Interbarsenia. I was on a campus in uh upstate New York, right near Canada, actually, St. Lawrence University. And it was a student there, it wasn't a particularly vibrant Christian. He was kind of, you know, one of those guys came to meetings, but nothing particularly noticeable about him. One day I came on campus, I was talking to him, and I noticed this guy was really up. And there was a new joy about him and I I asked him what what's been going on. He said, Well yeah, how he said in the last week I realized that my whole life I'm always trying to fit in with whoever I'm with. When I'm with Christians, so I act like a Christian. But he said when I'm with my with my non-Christian friends I try to fit in with them. And this last week I decided the pressure was getting to me, was killing me. I'm, you know, more who am I? I'm this kind of person here, I'm that kind of person there. I finally decided I'm going to live who I am. I'm a Christian. If anybody's going to know me, they're going to know me as a Christian. That's the way I'm going to live. He said, man, what freedom? Now I don't have to decide who I am based on who I'm with Now I'm me. I'm a Christian. And there was a freedom in his life. Some of you need to make that same kind of decision. You need to say in your heart this morning, I'm tired of trying to fit in with who I'm with. The people at work, the kids at school The gossipers, whoever it is, I am light. I'm going to start walking as a child of light. I'm going to ask God by his Spirit to bear the fruit of good and right and true. And as you make that decision, this could mark The turning point in your walk with Jesus Christ and seeing his power operative in you, the decision to walk as a child of the light. But now let me say the second thing. And that is that you need to also expect that your growth will be a gradual process. The decision will bear certain consequences. If you decide to come out of the cave and leave the vermin and then walk in the light, you're going to need help. And that means that you may decide, I need to get the training that's offered here in the middle hour. I'm going to take one of the courses, reform theology or postmodernism or uh some course on the overview of the Bible or these kinds of things or whatever it is. I'm going to take a course that will help me to walk as a child of the light Maybe I'll decide that on February 20th there's this conference, the gospel in the heart. I need that. I need that help to walk as a child of the light. I'm going to sign up and I'm going to go to that course. I'm going to learn. how to live the gospel out in my heart rather than just external expectations and behaviors. I may decide that because of that I need help from my brothers and sisters. I'm gonna seek out and join up with a cell or a small group and I'm gonna get to know my brothers and sisters and I'm gonna share with them the honest areas that I want to see God work more powerfully in my life. And I want to see that. That's a decision. But the process will be a gradual process. Now, some of you need to make those decisions. But as you do, notice that the word he uses here in verse 8 is the word walk. He says walk as a child of life. He doesn't say fly. He doesn't say leap. He doesn't even say run. It's a simple word that everybody here who has the capacities of your legs to be able to do, to walk. Walking is a gradual step-by-step process. And he emphasizes that in verse 10. If you take out the parenthesis in verse 9 and read what he says in verse 8, literally in the Greek, it would read like this. Walk as children of the light, learning what pleases the Lord. says in the NIV, and find out what pleases the Lord. The idea is that that whole thing is a continuous process. I am walking while I am finding out, while I am learning what's pleasing to the Lord. So, in my time in the word, I read something. He says here above, verse 3, Among you there must not even be a hint of sexual immorality. And I say, therefore, sexual immorality is not pleasing to the Lord. And as I see that, I ask for the fruit of the light, the Spirit, to enable me to obey what pleases him, to walk in the light. And as I do that, what happens? Not only is there a sense of God's power in my life, but my mind and my conscience become further sensitized to what pleases Him. I was just meeting with somebody a little over a week ago who has just in the last months, last summer, given her life to the Lord Jesus. And as we were meeting, she was sharing, I spent a half hour in the morning now meeting with God and his word, and she said, I'm finding something strange is happening. I'm finding that things now bother me that I never even thought about six, eight, nine months, or a year ago. I'm now concerned about things that never bothered me at all before. Is that the way it's supposed to be? I said, yes, it is, but that's why you need to keep speaking the gospel to yourself. As you're aware of those things, you're learning now what is pleasing to the Lord. He's sensitizing you to that. So you're seeing darkness you never noticed before. It's like Dirty clothes and you don't notice they're dirty in the darkness, but you come into the light and you begin to see the smudges and the and the stains You need the gospel, but you need to be following what you know is pleasing to the Lord, and as you do, he gives you more power in the areas that he continues to reveal to you. You see, the direction of your life is not so much made up of major events as it is of little daily choices. I think of basketball coach Cleveland Stroud. I don't know if you've ever heard of him. He was the coach of the Bulldogs. You ever heard of the Bulldogs? Basketball team of Rockdale County High School in Conyers, Georgia. The only person, people that have ever heard of that here are Tim and Dana Flora. This Rockland County high school basketball team had a tremendous season. 21 wins, five losses. They were headed to the state championship. In the final playoffs, they came from behind to a dramatic turnabout victory. And yet they did not get the trophy. Why didn't they? Because the Georgia High School Association determined that a player on their team was scholastically ineligible, And he had played 45 seconds of the first postseason of five postseason games. Let me quote to you from Coach Stroud. He says, we didn't know he was ineligible at the time. In fact, we didn't know it until a few weeks ago. Some people have said that we should have just kept quiet about it. It was just 45 seconds and he was hardly an impact player. But you've got to do what's honest and right and what the rules say. I told my team, people forget the scores of basketball games, but they don't ever forget what you're made of. Or who you belong to. What's the issue in your life this morning? Maybe you need to come out of the cave of darkness Grasp a hold of Jesus who is the light, to forgive your sins and give you a new life. Or maybe it's you need to decide. You're going to begin to walk as a child of the light. And let the difference begin to be worked out in your life, that new identity you have in Jesus Christ. You're going to get training. You're going to be in fellowship. Or maybe there's an area in your life that you know is not pleasing to the Lord, and you've been unwilling to this point to face up to that and to give it over to Him. Now, brothers and sisters, now's the time. You are light. Walk as light. Let's pray Father, how we thank you for the gospel. It says that we who were once darkness and had no ability whatsoever to change that. Have been changed by Jesus Christ. You've entered our lives and you have taken that darkness and you have made us light. You haven't just put us in the light. You've made us light. Our hearts are different. Things we before loved, we now see as destructive. Those things we could care less about before, we now see as precious. We see you as precious. We want to walk as children of light. Because it pleases you, and because, Lord, that's the kind of heart you've given to us now. The fruit of light, bearing, good, right, true in us. And so, Lord, for any of us who haven't experienced that, we pray your Spirit would work in us now to run to Jesus. To embrace him by faith, trust him, give our lives to him. For those of us, Lord, who need to make the decision to walk in that, to get the training, the fellowship, the help. Give us grace to follow through on that. For those of us who look at an area of our lives that's darkness We've been trying to ignore it. We've been trying to work our way around it to rationalize it, justify it, minimize it. Pray, Lord, that you would open our eyes. We would now see darkness for what it is, call sin what it is. We'd forsake it. We'd experience your power in overcoming it. The freedom that you intend to give us. Do that work of power, I pray, Lord God, in those people here, right now. In Jesus' name. Amen.