Well, if you have a copy of the scripture, uh we're going to look at the first eleven verses of Psalm twenty-five tonight. Our uh summer series in the songs I was drawn to this one with the supper in view, and I hope that becomes clear why maybe as we go. Let me read from Psalm 25, the first eleven verses. I think maybe it's going to be projected. Yep, there it is. God's word for us. Psalm of David. To you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies exalt over me. Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame. They shall be ashamed. Who are wantonly treacherous. Make me to know your ways, O Lord. Teach me your paths. Lead me in your truth and teach me. For you are the God of my salvation. For you I wait all the day long. Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions, according to To your steadfast love, remember me. For the sake of your goodness, O Lord. Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore, he instructs Sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right and teaches the humble his way. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness. For those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. God's word for us. Perhaps uh you're familiar with the TV show Hee-Hall. This is the crowd for that, right? Ran from I found this out. It ran from 1969 to 1992. I lost track about the early 80s. But there was a song that Hee-Hall featured frequently, written by Buck Owens and Roy Clark. Gloom, despair, agony on me. Oh, deep dark depression, excessive misery If it weren't for bad luck, I'd have no luck at all. Gloom, despair, and agony on me. Uh right So maybe you're familiar with that, maybe not. But if you're not, yeah, I guarantee you're gonna go Google it tonight or whatever. But you're Googling it now, you're in trouble. Stop Sometimes it feels like that, doesn't it? Sometimes life feels like gloom, despair, agony on me, deep, dark depression, excessive misery. It feels like that. The Psalms give our hearts voice. This is a song of lament. There's several in the 150 Psalms that are inspired and enscripturated for us, and this is one of them. David crying out to the Lord, honestly, openly, raw, real. Lord I lift up my soul to you. I bear myself to you. Oh God, in you I trust. This is one of those, and in fact they're all this way. It's real. This is what we're supposed to be. You have pain and misery, confusion, doubt, discouragement. Let's sit to the Lord, right? Open it up and let him hear. You have joy, exaltation, praise. Lift it to the Lord. This is what we're called to. This is a psalm of lament. Sometimes it feels as if the psalmist knew the hee-haw chorus 4,000 years before it was penned. In reality, that's simply our initial reaction to adversity. Man, life is tough. This is hard. And David gives our hearts an opportunity for an outlet here. We'll, I hope, see, that we have that same outlet. David is dealing with some real adversaries. He's in real need of real rescue. Real need and real rescue. Tonight, I want to ask us the question, me included, with you. How about us? Tonight, as we encounter God's word, what are the great adversaries that you're facing? Notice I said what, not who. If you insert someone's name in there, I guess you're gonna deal with that too. But what are those adversaries? What are those enemies? What is coming against you? What causes you to cry out for rescue? Put that in your head, put that in your mind, let that be right here as you think. And now let's look at this psalm. I want to point out five things. David sees the need for rescue. He sees the source of rescue. He sees the way of rescue. He sees the real rescue for what it is. And he sees the results of the rescue. So David sees his need. He's crying out. These are real enemies, and they're confronting him. And they're aggressive, and we see in verse 1 and verse 2, they are treacherous. They want David's demise. They want him down. They want him out of the way. They're real, and they're not going to stop until they have their way and David is destroyed. He sees his need, and he sees that his need can only be addressed outside himself. So he sees the need for a rescue, and then he sees the source of the rescue. David sees the source of the rescue and he cries out to the Lord. You see that again? It's uh there it is. Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. He cries out to the covenant-making, covenant-keeping God, the faithful one. He cries out to the God who already knows David's situation. He cries out to the Lord. He cries out to my God. You see that? It's a personal relationship, and David knows the source of his rescue is with this personal relating God. In verse 2 and 3, David cries out to the Lord over shame. He's crying out to the one who is over shame. This is important for us because we're sinners. Our first parents, when they were naked, I can't pronounce that word right, when they were naked in the garden before sin entered in, they were unashamed. There was no shame. Sin had not tainted anything about their relationship with God or with one another. But as soon as they disobeyed, the scriptures record that shame came in. Shame clothed them. Shame took over their thoughts. They went and hid. They covered themselves. Shame is what we deal with. And David cries out to the Lord who is the God over shame. Read some of verse 2 and verse 3, is what my notes say. I guess I should do that. David says, O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies exult over me. Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame. But they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous. Now that's because God is the one who covers shame and removes shame, and God is the one who ultimately judges and causes that. Ultimate destruction, as his wrath is experienced without the forgiving shed blood covering sin. So David cries out to the one who's overshamed. But look at the source of rescue as it continues. In verses four and eight, David cries out to the wise God, the one who's capable of teaching. David cries out in verse 4 to the gracious God. He's willing to guide his people. In verse 5, we see David crying out: the source of his rescue is the powerful God. He's the God of salvation. In verse 5, we also see David crying out: the source of rescue is the personal God. He's the God of my salvation. David cries out to the source of his rescue, the merciful God in verse 6, the loving God in verse 6. In verse 8, we see David crying out to the good God and the upright God, the righteous one. See, David recognizes that the source of his rescue is this kind of God. All these characteristics That's who he cries out to. Oh Lord, to you I lift up my soul. Oh my God, in you I trust. So he recognizes his need for a rescue, and he recognizes the source of that rescue. And then David recognizes the way of rescue. As David says, I lift up my soul. I've already alluded to this, but this is a posture of openness. David is saying, I'm open and bare before you. To you, O Lord, is my soul exposed. You know my thoughts. You know my inner way. You know my motivation for things. You know my fears. You know what plagues me. You know my distress probably better than I do. Know probably about it. You do. And so David says, I'm open to you. The way of rescue is through a humble submission. A receptive heart. In verse 3 and 4, David recognizes that the way of rescue is a teachable, submissive posture. He says, Make me to know. Teach me thy ways. Lead me in your truth. Teach me. Now that's a heart that says, I don't know all things. Right? That's someone who actually recognizes, wow, I got a lot to learn. I got a lot to learn about God's ways and God's will. And David says, the way of rescue is to be humble. In verse 9, you see this twice. He leads the humble in what is right. He teaches the humble his way. We heard that this morning. My eyes are not lifted up. My heart is not haughty. That's the posture of all who come to God on God's terms. That's our posture here tonight. We're sinners in need of a substitutionary sacrifice. We need to have our sins covered by someone else's blood. And Christ has done that. That's a posture of humility. We recognize that, we confess that, we acknowledge it, we stand before the assembly and we shout it again. I'm saved because of Christ alone. David recognizes that. And the way of rescue is for the ones who keep the covenant. Now, this sounds like a law-abiding citizen. But as we look back on the cross, what we recognize is this. That those who keep the covenant are those who exercise faith in Christ. They continue steadfast in the faith. They don't forsake the assembling together of the saints. They are humble and submissive and teachable and they're correctable, and that is the way of the covenant. So God sa uh David says the way of rescue. The way of rescue is all those characteristics. And then before we get to this fourth point, the real rescue. I just want to point out, I think something happens to David as he's crying out. I think something occurs to him as he's calling upon the Lord to deal with the treacherous. He realizes that a cry for justice is a reminder to plead for mercy. How often has this happened in my life? Has it happened for you? God, get them. God be merciful to me, a sinner. It happens like that if we're open to the Spirit's leadership because that's what goes on in David God get them becomes, whoops, God be merciful to me a sinner. The intensity with which we cry out for help is directly proportional to the severity of the calamity that we're facing. So these treacherous, wantonly treacherous enemies, David was crying out, but as he cries out, what he realizes is this: Make me to know your ways, O Lord, teach me your paths, lead me in your truth, teach me. For you are the God of my salvation. For you I wait all day long. And then, you see Remember your mercy, O Lord, your steadfast love, for they've been of old. You're the covenant-making God. You've done these things. In fact, those Hebrew phrases in verse 6, remember your mercy, remember your steadfast love, can actually be translated, remember your acts of mercy, remember your acts of love. Remember your acts of mercy and love as you've demonstrated that to your people so faithfully, so often, for so many centuries. And David's crying out to the covenant God. God have mercy, because I'm a sinner. See in verse 7. Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions. According to your steadfast love, remember me. The intensity with which we cry out for help is directly proportional to the severity of the calamity we face. And David realizes: if I'm crying out for justice, I don't want justice to be delivered to my heart. And so he's caught up immediately in a pleading of mercy, a plead for mercy. And the persistence with which we cry out is related to our understanding of the character and the ability of the one upon whom we call to remedy our distress. You see how many times David persists in calling upon the mercy of God. Remember your mercy. Remember your steadfast love. Remember not the sins of my youth. According to your steadfast love, remember me. For the sake of your goodness, Lord, O Lord, implied there is remember. That's persistence, and David knows the biggest thing that he will face as a human being before a holy God is the judgment of that holy God in the final day. And David says, that's the greatest calamity that any of us can face. So cry out with an intensity that's directly proportional to the severity. Tragically, we've uh heard the devastation of tornadoes too often in recent news. And I want to use an illustration with a tornado, but I'm not trying to be flippant. But if a tornado was called for in this area at this time And we know that the and we knew that the basement here was a tornado safe shelter area. I can imagine the intensity with which we would make our way to the basement would be Fairly exaggerated. Right? Intense movement that way. Organized, hopefully. We wouldn't trample over, you know, little old ladies or anything But we get there because we recognize that the tornado is coming However, if somebody just mentioned casually that there's some leftover cookies available to anybody who wants them, downstairs, same basement. From the Pesha's farewell reception. We might meander that way. The intensity with which cookies call our name may dictate some of that But probably not a lot. You you get the picture, I hope, and that is that if God is simply there to, I don't know, be called upon every so often and enjoy the air-conditioned room of a loving fellowship or so whatever the thing is that we've got in our heads that's not Pure, basic wrath of God redeeming Christ Crucified blood justifying salvation, then we need to probably think more intensely about what it is that we're about to partake of. This really matters. And that's It's a reminder for my heart as I respectfully offer it to your heart. So we see David understood the real rescue That's all this remembering stuff. He sees his sin before him, and he sees how God remembers, and he calls upon the covenant-keeping nature of God. Remember your acts of mercy. He calls upon the personal God Remember not the sins of my youth according to your steadfast love. David doesn't put a record up there. Remember all the good things I've done for Israel, Lord. Because it's a lot of 'em. You know that. He says, man, what I've done, I don't even want to remember. But God, please, please, not you, don't remember, please. And remember me, Lord, remember my sins, not according to what I've done, but according to your steadfast love, according to your loving kindness. And then verse eleven, he really hits this. Says, remember me, Lord, according to your name. For your namesake, for the honor of your name. See, God, when he put the covenant into uh action When he instituted the covenant, he says, I am the Lord, I will do this. And he proclaimed that to the world. And so his reputation is on the line. And David knows that. And he cries out to the Lord, Lord, for your namesake, for your namesake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. I was in a fairly intense prayer meeting this past week with several uh brothers, and we were praying for a family that's in the midst of a fairly severe crisis. And one of the brothers was so encouraging in his prayer, he kept praying for the reputation and the honor of Christ. In this marriage that we had in view, he wanted Christ to be honored because he knew that the husband and the wife were a picture to the world of Christ and the church. And he kept crying out to God, Lord, for your namesake. Lord, honor yourself. Bring them to repentance. Over and over, he cried And it was an encouragement to me, and I reminded him as we prayed even of this verse that I've been looking at for this talk tonight. I said, that's just a psalmist prayer right there. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. And so the results of the rescue is the fifth point. The results are for us. This is why we're here. We're here to be fed spiritually, to be nourished, to be nourished with the gospel message, the good news. The results are found in verse 8. He instructs sinners in the way that they should walk. In verse 9, he leads the humble in what is right. In verse 9, he teaches the humble his way. And it's a specific and narrow way, Jesus reminds us in Matthew 7. In verse 10, he puts us Us on the paths of steadfast love and faithfulness. Those are the paths that lead all the way home. All the way home, those paths lead. The paths of steadfast love and faithfulness. They'll lead us to what this meal tonight is simply a promissory note representing. They lead us to that banquet table. They lead us to that wedding feast. They lead us, those paths of steadfast love and faithfulness, to that time when we get to see. This covenant keeping God face to face and rejoice eternally that He's taken sinners and He's saved them He's taken us and saved them. So when gloom and misery and despair and destruction threaten you Remember this, we're going to sing in just a second. Remember the man of sorrows who was acquainted with grief, who was stricken, smitten, and afflicted, not because of sins that he had committed. But for every one of our sins, all the thoughts that are running right now in our heads, all the things that we've done this week The things we know not of that we're going to do this coming week. Jesus Christ paid it all.