He says, brothers speaking to pastors, we must be very careful with respect to the loyalties we cultivate. When the crop is ripe and the weather agrees, if that perfect time to bring the crop in happens to be at 2 a. In the earliest church, it was still the practice for people to be sent two by two or in groups. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into whose harvest? And I don't know this man's name, and it could be something that has passed through many, many elders over many, many generations, even centuries. I'm glad you're here. And kids, if you learned something or you heard something, or you have a question about the sermon that I'm about to preach, I'd love for you to come and talk to me later. You are the true and living God, and you have not left us wondering who we are, who you are, how we may know you. That you be glorified, we be encouraged, and others be blessed. and greet no one on the road. Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you. And I've always enjoyed the beginning of New Year's because I can look back at all of the resolutions I failed at. When I was a kid, I used to love September. And the other disciples had been unable to do that which they had been commissioned to do in chapter 9. and spend the summer with him, uh, most summers during those years, and I would help him. My older brother and I were privileged to do this. tended to have fewer kernels on the head. Whatever house you enter, first say, peace be to this house, and if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him, but if not, it will return to you. Don't think you need to go get a special pair of hiking shoes or a second pair of sandals. Stranger, guest, welcome. And to start thinking that we're the best thing since sliced bread, or the cat's meow, or fill in your metaphor. And what he's saying in that passage of that work is that we need to be sure that we always remember that it's not our church. You see, there's something something humbling about being sent on a mission and not being entrusted, having that mission is not entrusted to you alone. We need to recognize the humility with which we must pursue them. You will be canceled in ways that you could never imagine. Whether you want it to be true or not, the kingdom of God is near And then they start talking to you about periodontal disease. When Jesus sent out twelve, he was clearly rec he's clearly demonstrating this sense that the twelve sent out was to be representative in some ways of the twelve tribes of Israel, and that this message was for all of God's people. That there's 72 princes of the world, and that there were 72 nations in the world. And he said to them, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. The living God doesn't cast aside those who trip and fall and forget to write their name on the paper. All of your failures, despite your sketchy track record, despite your weaknesses and needs, we are on a mission that is urgent. Today, if you were to go to an implement dealer up in Des Moines, Iowa, or in Grand Forks, North Dakota, you'll see the combines. You can program those things to go out and do the work. That urgency is highlighted again. For some of you know it says the action verb is make disciples. Make disciples. He's simply gathering these 72 and saying, go, just like you are. uh there wasn't necessarily a hotel, there wasn't necessarily uh an inn. You know, that sense of urgency is lost today in a world where we're so focused on our comforts on the road, our popularity and travel. I love Dwight Moody. Dwight Moody, who ministered during the time of the American Civil War and after, was a hugely successful evangelist. This pulpit Bible of Charles Spurgeon needs to go to someone Charles Spurgeon believes would preach the gospel, and guess who she sent his Bible to? Dwight Moody. One person to know Jesus or a million, your God is worthy to be praised, and you are blessed to be his tool in his hand. We are not called to be like those Old Testament prophets and priests who had to have the best and the greatest and be the same. I am encouraged mightily to floss. With all that it says about heaven and hell, all that it says about grace and the law, all that it says about holiness and mercy. Will we go with a sense of urgency? And when Jesus sends out 72, after he sent out 12, we're getting this hint that's going to be developed further in Luke's second book, the book of Acts. Well, welcome CPC and Merry Christmas. They now make the combines that have the different headers to harvest the different crops completely programmable so that if that window of opportunity They are God's gifts that he is using you to pass on beneficially to God's people. It'll be better for them than for you. If you're sensing God's call to go, will you go? Most clearly through Christ and His ministry. Go your way. And I can remember being very scatterbrained as a kid. And that city refuses to welcome Jesus. and seeing their effective ministry changing people, perhaps towns, whole villages. Because as a harvest, especially if you're they didn't have corn in ancient Palestine. And if you leave it in the field, it will do what God intended it to do in the wild. This is it. Don't stress yourself out preparing. And greet no one on the road. Jesus will send you no place that he is not himself determined to reach. He was a close, dear friend of Charles Spurgeon. Who many of you would imagine more predictably one of my favorite figures from church history, he once said, Show someone their faults, and they will show you their teeth. That the kingdom of God has come near. Some people will reject you. Good no, you got a good set. Part of that dentist's excellence in doing his job is to encourage me to do the right thing, but to be very clear about what might happen if I don't. And it will be more bearable for Sodom, a notoriously wicked city that would not receive a messenger. as we diligently sought to reach our town, our communities, our neighborhoods, our state. One more piece of travel equipment. And Almighty God, we pray that as your word is read, we would be mindful of that high and holy privilege that it is to have these words. After this, the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go. I tell you, it would be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. Write down what my homework was and remember to do it and write my name on the top of the paper. And here, when we get to chapter 10, we find that several things have transpired They come down from that high peak and they come down into the low valleys and the agricultural areas and there's a big crowd. How long must I put up with these people? Completely misunderstanding. That show us something about the nature of our calling as Christians, the nature that we have as this people on a mission from God in which we are directing others to the Savior. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. You have this window of opportunity in which to get out there with your scythe and harvest the grain. And the very first house that will welcome you, you found your home base, get started. And I've observed just from church history as I've watched it play out over almost 30 years of ministry now that there would be a tremendous advantage to that. Mark Dever, I think he's still pastoring in the D. You see, he was humble. That apart from the Lord Jesus Christ and his death for them, they are hellbound and without hope of heaven. I can have nothing to do with this. But if the gospel is rejected, it is absolutely essential that the significance of that rejection be stated. That the Church of Jesus Christ declares the gospel as if you have a value-neutral outcome awaiting you after death. courageous calling to declare the entirety of the gospel that that some might be saved. You might think these numbers are just sort of haphazard and random, but they were not considered to be haphazard or random in that day. Let's pray. But Lord, just as you said, let there be light, and there was light, you spoke to us through prophets and apostles. Go into its streets and say, Even the dust of your town that clings to your feet we wipe off against you. It's a clean start, isn't it? Luke chapter 10, as I read it, is in many ways a remarkable clean start. The ringleaders of the disciples, Peter, James, and John, had misunderstood what the intent of the transfiguration of Jesus on the mount was. And Jesus has to quiet their foolishness. You see, what we've seen in chapter 9 is after a pinnacle ministry experience being sent out two by two The rest of chapter 9 is one failure after another on the part of the disciples. I want you to think about this harvest ministry. Threshing that grain, bringing the crop into the barn. There are people ready to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Jesus is saying, go. And Jesus is saying, you don't have time for that. It looks like you things are a little tight here, and I saw there were some better houses on the other side of the square. It's always interesting to me that Jesus sends people out two by two. We see not only in going two by two an emphasis on humility, but notice how careful Jesus is to say this. The only one who is given a mission like that is Jesus. Dwight Moody, towards the end of his life, was once asked to speculate on how many people he had led to the Lord. Or will be angered by a message that says that they are a sinner who desperately needs to repent, that they need salvation And to preach such a message, to call out the sins of a world that has chosen to delight in things that are abominable to God and contrary to his holiness. Odds are pretty good that you're going to get lung cancer. That is not the only reason people come to Jesus in Scripture. Some people are motivated by a great recognition, like Jonathan Edwards himself, that unless their sins are forgiven, they are hellbound. But also, how do you know that their mockery or rejection of that message, if met with your word, nevertheless, it is true? And the emphasis on humility in going wherever you are sent and in residing wherever he provides housing, what a picture of humility. Pentecost day, crowds of people came up to Peter and the disciples saying, what must we do to be saved? And how do you know whether or not your warm and welcoming declaration, peace be upon this house, might be used to bring that family to Christ, bring that friend to know the Savior? Or the rains will come and these top-heavy stalks will get knocked down and trampled and eaten by everything that wants to. And when the workers are few, that means they better get cracking. What if I said, that's a good idea? I hear some chuckles. That's how I came to Christ. Inner city of a town in Zimbabwe, and be a part of this urgent, humble Because he will finish that which he began. And this new mission is described slightly differently than the first one in ways that highlight three things This mission of declaring that the kingdom has come near in Christ. We simply say thank you, Lord, for using someone like me to do something like what you just did. Courage is the last thing we need for this year as we're called to a renewed sense of mission. Jesus never lies. We're called to minister to wolves. He says, even if they don't, even if they don't receive you Who are we going to send next year? Infallibly, without error, in the Holy Scriptures preserved by you for our eternal blessedness. Bless them to us, we ask. And yet we have Jesus saying at the beginning of chapter 10, after this, after this, after all of this confusion and failure and bickering and arrogance and anger. Jesus is in effect saying the first person that says, hey, welcome, that's your place. He says, go into every town and place where I am about to go. His harvest. That question makes my skin creep all over. And it is not something that is going to leave you untouched. To fail to do that is to fail to deliver the entire gospel. Will we this year pray for laborers in the Lord's field? The Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go, and he said to them, Whatever is provided will be sufficient. That would be more difficult if we were out two by two, wouldn't it? It's hard for me to open my mouth wide. And how often is that the result of our ministries today? The action verb here in this command of Jesus is go. The process by which strangers meeting on the road would greet each other in the ancient Near East was lengthy, elaborate, and involved eating. And our contentment in our living situations. And this year we have a chance to start afresh and anew, to go out into the fields, whether they be our living rooms or the Our text for this morning is going to be from the Gospel of Luke from chapter 10. You see, Jesus is not deterred by his disciples' failures. That's why not only do we have to go with a sense of urgency, but we need to go with humility and courage. And praise God that he uses us that way. Leading with peace is what the disciples are called to do. Last time you went into a dentist's office, did they not encourage you to floss? And that's a difficult thing to do. Go into its streets and say, Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet we wipe off against you. To a co-worker? I love it. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 10, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. And if you're ever wondering why Charles Spurgeon's Bible is located in the special collections of the Louisville Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, that's why. Think about how carefully your doctors, regardless of their specialty, encourage you to embrace healthy habits and are very careful to say if you don't, this is a potential outcome if you keep smoking. And I would love to hear from you after the service. Here, I'll put you up for the night. Whatever they give you, take it as God's provision for your ministry. He appointed 72. Some might think, well, that's a strange thing for a Reformed Presbyterian to admit to, but I encourage you to read a good biography on him. That's part of their faithful execution of ministry. Behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. As Anthony said earlier, we are at the end of the Christmas season. And Jesus has to rebuke them. It's game day. That's something that agricultural scientists have managed to increase through carefully breeding their plants. Can I can I get a yes? They're given a mission, and it's a new mission, and it's a bigger mission. Now that might strike you as strange. He knew that the harvest belonged to the Lord. Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this house. Yep. You either got a good dentist or good teeth. Even the dust on my feet here is unholy. Some towns will reject you. After the very first Holy Spirit-inspired sermon that's described for us in Acts chapter 1 and 2. And they fall to arguing these disciples who had just gone out two by two. How do we know that that is not what the Lord will use? Anybody? And one thing we learned is that when the harvest is ready to come in, there is a narrow window of opportunity in which to bring that harvest in. Or will there always be one more thing we have to do before we can go? Jesus says to them, Go your way. That's the action verb there. Thank you, Lord. Not many of us grew up on farms. You know, I'd like to do that. Not because I liked going back to school, but because it represented a new start. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And dentists always notice that's very hard to floss, but I'm always exhorted mightily. Not yours, not mine. One more gadget for the road. And to whom will we go? This is the whistleblowing. Don't think, oh, I've got to get my whole itinerary planned out. To do such things you will discover that you are among wolves. And Almighty God, in the preaching that follows, we pray that in as much as the sermon is faithful to your word, that it would be helpful to us, useful in every way. And after that, he foretells his death, Jesus does. And then do they take that like feeler gauge, like the one you used to use to measure the gap in your spark plugs, and they slip it down between your tooth and your gum? And what a blessing that we have that recorded clearly. And I take a look at their house and I think, well, you know, I'm going to hold out for a better house. I probably would have been diagnosed with different letters at the time if they did that back then. He is the way, the truth, and the life. They encourage you to floss. Thank you, Lord. My name is Bob Bjerkis. Do you feel like you have a clean start? And we know from what happens later in chapter 10 that this included the 12 And two of the disciples think, well now we finally understand, we got it right. And the subordinate clause would be as you are going, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. We need to recognize the need for courage. To your neighbor? Or a bad dentist and bad teeth. I'll be standing at the welcome desk for kids of all ages. The year after that? We ask these things in Jesus' name. I know I didn't. And where are you to go? And then they start giving you all of these doomsday scenarios about how all your teeth are gonna fall out? If you keep drinking the way you're drinking, you're going to have liver failure. You see, an old elder one time said Then they come to a city in Samaria. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. They're told to declare the kingdom of God, that it is near. You need to get to your destination. Go. Some places will give you no place at all. That's how things operated. C. But nonetheless, look at what Jesus tells them. Wouldn't that take courage? But how easy it is for us to forget It's not a numbers game. You will be rejected. Heal the sick in it, and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near to you. This isn't a situation like we find in Matthew chapter 28. area, a Baptist minister, very fine scholar and a careful man, he wrote a book called Brothers We Are Not Professionals, in which he offers this. We are called to minister to people who will scratch us and bite us if they don't get their way. I would just go to the main square and it would be the obligation of that community for somebody to say, hey, uh So close that when Charles Spurgeon died, his widow said Jeff Brown is going to go and he's going to be on the mission field in Japan after years of training. That number 72 is interesting. Behold, I'm sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Don't think you need to get a knapsack or get your luggage or a bag But Jesus says, go. The first message we bring is peace be upon this house. And Jesus tells them about the high cost of following him. And this is something that I believe the church has gotten away from. They always encourage me to floss. Lord, we thank you that you are the God who has spoken. He will never leave you or forsake you. In Israel they had a form of wheat that was a lot like the wheat that we have today, only it I'm the pastor here. My grandpa Birkis had a farm, and when I was in middle school, I would go up. Get moving. And I struggled with those things, but I remember feeling at the beginning of every year in September, this is a new year. m. Some people fly to Jesus because they recognize that He is alone the hope for salvation. We have an urgent mission. I am absolutely delighted that this year, and I hope I'm not letting a cat out of the bag, Jeff Brown will be going to Japan. They had been unable to deal with a child that was possessed by a demon. So thank you for your offer, but I think I'll wait. If right from the very beginning we shared both the burden and the joys of ministry You see, that number had great significance to them. It's one homework assignment after another where they forgot to write their name and got zero credit. Imagine your coach ready, set, go. Remember, Jesus had sent out twelve two by two at the beginning of chapter 9. How shameful is it His harvest. Some of you might know and be surprised to learn if you don't already know that I'm a huge fan of Dwight Moody I don't know. The 12 days of Christmas aren't over, but we are also fast approaching the beginning of a new year. , you don't even have to wake up at 2 a. So if you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10. Go right now. Not you, not me. Which one of them is the greatest? I'm sending you to the towns and the villages. You know, in the ancient world, if I were visiting a town, let's say I was to go and and visit Dundalk. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Numbers had more significance in those days than they do today. And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him, but if not, it will return to you. And that includes some places that are pretty desperate, indeed, that are full of wolves. To your estranged sibling? And kids, I just want to add my special welcome to those of you who are here because there's no children's church Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. John Calvin Maybe you're the same way. I've got to pack my luggage. What if we were ascending church that every year sent someone somewhere? Amen. And don't be focusing on trading up. Even in the post-apostolic early church, people were often sent out in pairs. And I love his response. It's not something for us to boast in or to brag about. I want you to think about the last time you went into a dentist's office. And the disciples, no, no, you don't need to do that. The wind will shake loose the kernels and they'll germinate in the ground. And the first thing that they are impressed upon is that despite, keep in mind, all of this is despite. They better be out there as soon as that crop harvests at the break of dawn, swinging those sickles. The whole point is You are to go wherever the Lord Jesus will himself go. And it's very hard to do because I've got big ears but a small mouth. We want people to come to Jesus because they are loved. I hope you do. And your ministry, whatever it may be, is not easy And he's basically saying If you are rejected by a community and God calls you to say, And how will we go? And whether God uses us to bring We need to recognize the urgency of our ministries. Carry no money bag, no knapsack, no sandals. Do not go from house to house But nevertheless, know this Notice that some towns will not receive someone who declares the kingdom of God. He is constantly doubling down on us And I learned a lot. Now This ends the reading of God's word. It involves more people, and it builds upon the previous mission of the twelve. Your ministry is not your ministry, whatever your gifts are, however you exercise them. It takes courage to declare the entire truth of the gospel. I have to be ready. Let's look first at humility. However, as that plant ripens, the head gets heavier and heavier. Even today, this is an issue Dentists would make great preachers. Lord Jesus, should we call down thunder and destroy this whole city and the people in it? The harvest is ready You are going as sheep among wolves. And he says, and don't talk to anyone while you're traveling. Carry no money bag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one on the road. That Christ is the only way to God, that there are many ways to Christ. And they wanted to just stay there. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has come near. The field is ripe for harvest. Lyle Dorset, scholar at Wheaton, wrote one that I particularly recommend. But wouldn't it be nice to go to heaven? m. But back in the 1970s, I struggled to They're like Teslas Get there and execute your calling. Church is for you, and you are a part of this church. No podium, no pulpit. Peace be upon you. Wherever you get invited to stay, that's where you stay. Nevertheless, know this Consider this for a moment. You see, when that head ripens. Yeah? But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, It's not something in which we take credit. And Jesus had to rebuke the disciples. So the action verb in that case is It's his harvest. Anybody else? That's what makes me a halfway decent pastor, I think. He says Amen.