Okay, uh, would you please turn with me to Zechariah chapter 8? Zechariah is the second to the last book in the Old Testament, just before Malachi. Zechariah Chapter Eight. It's December five eighteen B C Twenty years before, Cyrus, the king of Persia, had permitted the exiled Jews who were held captive in Babylonia to go back to their native Palestine. Only about 50,000 out of several million chose to do so. Eighteen years ago in 536 BC, they have laid the foundations to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem. But the Samaritans and other hostile neighbors have halted that work. The people are discouraged. The work has ceased. Now, in 518, Darius is king of Persia, and he too supports that work. But the people have no will to continue it. They have no expectation, no hope, no vision for the kingdom of God. They've been caught in their daily routines, and other priorities have taken its place. One of the people who went back from Babylonia to Persia. Those 20 years before was a young priest from a line of priests. His father had died young when he was young, and so he'd inherited a lot of responsibility. He was a man who dearly loved the Lord, and the Lord had called him to be a prophet. His name is Zachariah. He's the man who wrote this book, that hopefully you have before you now. Gave you a long introduction, give you time to find Zachariah, you know. Now that you have Zechariah 8 before you, I want to call attention to one portion of his message. Because in chapter 8, Zechariah gives a message of hope which was addressed to his people. But which, strange as it may seem, is a message that is also profoundly relevant to our own day, and is a most hopeful message for us As we think about celebrating the 213th anniversary of the founding of our nation this next Tuesday And so in consideration of the fact that at this time of year, perhaps more than any other, we stop and we think, where is our nation going? What hope is there? How do we as Christians look at the civil celebrations of the Fourth of July? I would like to share with you the message of Zechariah and its hope, I think an exciting hope, for us today. Zechariah chapter 8, I'm going to read just as just verses 20 to 23, because that's what I want to focus on, and I want that to stand out in your thinking. Zechariah 8, 20 to 23. This is God's holy word, God Himself addressing us through this word. This is what the Lord Almighty says. Many peoples, and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come. And the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say, Let us go at once to entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. I myself am going. And many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him. This is what the Lord Almighty says. In those days, ten men from all languages and nations will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say, Let us go with you. Because we have heard that God is with you. Now these verses have been used as a basis for the concert of prayer movement Since before 1750, when Jonathan Edwards wrote a whole book based on this text, that book was calling people to pray. Based on the message of Zechariah 8, 20-23. Let us go and entreat the Lord. Is this then a call to prayer? I don't think so. I don't think that although it is profoundly relevant to that, as I'll try to show, I don't think it really is a call to prayer so much As it is a description of the fulfillment of the covenant made to Abraham, when God said that you would be a blessing to the nations. More specifically, that the Messiah, the descendant of Abraham, would be a blessing to the nations. And so I think that as we look at this and we consider uh our own situation, what I want you to see, what I'm really excited about. Is that as you read the news and hear the news about the AIDS plague, for instance, as you read and hear about increasing teen violence, As you read and hear about government corruption, about drug violence, about uh the pornography plague About the breakdown of the family unit and even the very fabric of ethical commitment and loyalty within our society. As you look at Zechariah chapter 8, you see that God is doing a new thing. That God is doing a work, I believe, a new work in our day, in our community, our nation, and in the entire world. It is staggering to contemplate. And I believe that we can on the basis of this Perhaps in our day, we expect to see an unprecedented worldwide revival in the gospel. I want to show you that from this passage in Zechariah 8, you and I can be extremely hopeful and expectant as Christians. In what God is doing in our day. I'm really excited about this. And so I I hope you'll follow this and I just pray, been praying, that God would enable you to pick up Some of the excitement that I feel in this, and that you'll see it from God's Word Himself, so that as you take it home, it's not just based on my excitement, but you'll be able to see we have a tremendous hope. Now, let's look at this passage a little more closely and see what it is that we can expect. Follow along with your bulletin outline. First of all, I want to look at who it is that comes to the Lord in this text. Notice that first of all, he says uh he puts it three different ways, tells us about who's coming to the Lord. Firstly, you see that it's many people, particularly from cities. Particularly from the cities. Verse 20. This is what the Lord Almighty says. Many people and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come. Verse 21, the inhabitants of one city will go to another. And say, let us go at once and entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. I myself am going. I think that's relevant because there's today particularly a concern for the breakdown of the cities. People are concerned about the crisis of life in the cities. Christians have, by and large, in the past, abandoned the cities. And yet God, in His Word, focuses on cities. You see the focus on cities here. As you read Paul's strategy in the book of Acts, he focused on planting churches into cities and urban networks of establishing the kingdom of God. And it's significant, I believe, that in the end of the 20th century, missiologists have once again focused on the cities, reaching cities for Jesus Christ. We found out that in fact God had not abandoned the cities, that all along there's been his church and his people in the cities. And that church is beginning to network more than ever before, and there's an expectation of impacting cities. and reaching cities for Jesus Christ. And we have this hope here that Zachariah says that in that time This time that he's speaking of, of hope, he says, the inhabitants of many cities are going to come and turn to the Lord. He also describes these people as many peoples, secondly, and powerful nations, whereas the Hebrew word could perhaps more accurately be translated, many peoples groups. Not necessarily geographical boundaries. Verse 22. He says, many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him. Now, these people groups may not necessarily be bounded geographically. People groups, as the word is used today by myssiologists, refers to cultural units. People that have something in common that binds them together, whether it's within a geographical boundary or across a geographical boundary. But it's a group that if you can penetrate that group with the gospel, it will reach itself because those people share common values. And today, we see a whole new movement toward reaching people groups for Jesus Christ. Niceologists today have identified the various people groups. The estimates go from 12,000 to 16,000 unreached people groups within the world. But now there are whole missions agencies. That have been raised up, such as Dawn, Discipling a Whole Nation, one of the prominent missions agencies today, designed to reach people groups as groups for Jesus Christ. To plant churches within these groups, and we're seeing an astounding progress in this whole matter. Zacharias said way back in 518 BC that many peoples and powerful people groups. Are going to come to Jerusalem. Jerusalem, that Old Testament picture of God's people and God in the midst of his people, the picture of the church to seek the Lord Almighty. You notice verse 22 says many peoples and powerful people groups. We're not talking about just a few. You notice also it says powerful nations. This is not a backwater movement. This is something that's shaking the structures of the nations. Do you realize that something absolutely unheard of a few years ago? The demonstrators and the revolt of Kinan Square in China just recently The Church of Jesus Christ in China spoke out on that issue. They overtly supported the demonstrators And the church was saying this is a movement of God. Can you imagine the church in China speaking out on its political future? I urge you to pray for our brothers and sisters in China now. Tremendous fear of reprisal and revenge and repression as a result of that bold stand that they took in the last few weeks. But you see, it's part of what Zechariah was talking about. That there's going to be many peoples and powerful people groups are going to come to Jerusalem. They're going to come to the Church of Jesus Christ and they're going to say, we need to entreat the Lord. This is a movement of God. Thirdly, Zechariah describes this as all languages and nations. All languages and nations. Notice, look at verse 23. This is what the Lord Almighty says in those days. Ten men from all languages and nations. Will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe. And they'll say, Let us go with you, because we've heard that God is with you. All these languages and nations. Ten, of course, in Scripture is the number of completion, and so he speaks of ten men from these complete representation. Of all the tribes and languages and tongues of the world. This is the strongest possible language of worldwide revival. It's a global climax to what Zechariah has spoken of in the last couple of verses. Isn't it amazing how you and I can read these kind of verses and some Old Testament prophets and say, you know, ho hum, I don't really understand. And you begin to think about what it's saying. Look how relevant that is to our day Zachariah is building here a spine-tingling climax of a picture of worldwide revival. And to see just how strong the language is, that this is something we have not yet, I believe, seen in history. Look at the language about how they come to the Lord. I would sum up how they come to the Lord is by saying that they're coming passionately and persistently. And that's in contrast to normally the way you see evangelism done, particularly in Western culture. Look at how they're coming. First of all, they entreat the Lord. That's the first word for A. They entreat him. Verse 21, the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say, Let us go at once and entreat the Lord. Verse 22: many peoples, powerful nations, will come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him. That word entreat is a strong word, which means to cry out with urgency as a woman giving birth, or someone who's deathly sick crying for help. Very strong, urgent word, perhaps the kind of word that you mothers can identify with a little bit more than some of us men, you know Your mother's what how you felt in labor and you were just getting to that point and your husband was saying, hang on hun, you can make it. Keep going Just keep breathing right, you'll make it. And you said, Shut up and get out of here. And you cried out to him, Give me that uh that epidural, or you know, your life is Nothing. And you began to cry out, you see where there's a certain urgency there. And uh maybe communication broke down a little bit, but You husband saw that there was uh a part to your wife that you hadn't known in aggressiveness quite the same way before. You see, that's the word that's used here It's that urgent crying out in desperation, showing a forcefulness that surprises the one that hears it. See, that's the word. People that are seeing sin. And all of a sudden they realize with desperation that they need a Savior. And they're entreating the Lord. Lord, come! Lord, more than that expectant mother needed that epidural or demeral or whatever it was she was shouting for. Lord, I need my sin forgiven. And there's a crying out there. And then the second word that he uses is the word seek. You see that also twice in those same two verses. Again, verse 21. Let us go at once and entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. Verse 22: they'll come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord Almighty. That word seek means to search for something, to strive after it intensely, to remember your own heart. That time when you first saw your own sin, that you saw that you were lost without a savior And that your own need for Jesus Christ first became apparent to you. That all the spiritual realities, those eternal issues that had been before seemed so irrelevant to you. All of a sudden became the most pressing thing in your life. Because the Spirit of God had opened up to you reality as it is. And at that point, you sought the Lord. Nothing could keep you from Him. Do you remember that time? I remember once talking to a fellow about Jesus Christ and We had gotten to the point where he was asking, what does it mean to believe? But he was kind of touring around with it. You know, he wanted to kind of philosophically analyze the nature of biblical faith. And I said, that's not the way to approach it at all. I said, think of yourself as drowning in the ocean. And as you've fallen off this ship, and I'm on the deck of that ship. And you saw me holding a life preserver, how would you look at that life preserver? What would be your response to it? And you'd say, I just yell, give me the blip thing. And I said, that's just the way. Saving faith functions. And Charles Spurgeon, when, after all his months of searching and striving to find peace from a guilty conscience Saw that simple sign, look to me. And he said, all of a sudden it all came clear. All I had to do was look to Jesus. And perhaps there's one or a few of you here this morning that have been touring around with spiritual things. You've known about the gospel, but you've never really sought the Lord Almighty. Eternal issues have never really been clear to you that you are lost without one who can throw you himself as that life preserver. That you would have life in Jesus Christ. And so I ask you: if you're in that position this morning, I beg and plead with you that you will look at this passage and you will see, I am one. It needs to seek and to entreat the Lord for my own life. But I won't go another day without the peace that can be obtained through a clear conscience. And a new life given through Jesus Christ, who alone can give you that if you seek him, look to the cross and what he's done. But that's the picture that's given here, you see. It's a picture where eternal issues have become clear, and people entreat and they seek the Lord. You notice thirdly the way he describes it, he says that they go at once. You see there in verse 21 he says, Let us go at once to entreat the Lord. Can't wait. Reminds me of the picture of Pilgrim in John Bunyan's classic Pilgrim's Progress, who must leave at once the city of destruction To go onto that celestial city. He says, I must go right now. If you're going to stay, I wish he'd come with me But I can't stay with you if you're not going to go. I must go at once. You see, that's the point there, verse 21. Let's go at once and entreat the Lord. Seek the Lord my the Almighty. I myself am going. Whether you go or not, I must go. I cannot hold off. You see, this this whole thing is an evangelist dream, you see. It's uh the kind of thing that uh Steve Green, working with our evangelism explosion program, would dream about. You see, uh next uh fall that uh people are saying uh you at Columbia Presbyterian I want to go at once tell me how do I come to Jesus Christ It's the picture of that kind of urgency, and that's reinforced, you see, in the fourth picture that he gives. The picture of taking firm hold of his robe. Verse 23. You see, in those days, ten men from all languages of the nations will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe, and they'll say, Let us go with you, because we've heard that God is with you. You see, this is a picture of the seekers who grasp the Christian. They say, tell us how we can know God. And you say, Well, I don't see that in my culture. I don't see that where I work. I don't see that in my neighborhood. My neighbors aren't beating down my door, asking to have a Bible study. I don't see that where I work. But I'll tell you, it's happening. There are places where God's doing that. It said that today, in China Red China, if people find out that you're a believer in Jesus Christ in many areas, they will come to you and they will take hold of you and they say, What does it mean to be a Christian? Tell us about that. I mean Christians can't even function in underground churches there very effectively anymore because the movement of the Spirit of God is spreading so rapidly, I'm told, that it's becoming public whether they want it or not Because people are spiritually hungry. That's not true in a lot of places, but we're seeing that in various areas, in unprecedented ways, in some areas of Muslim culture, not all. Rob Craig says that he's not seeing that particularly where he is, but other people are. But this is the picture that God sent Is going to come to take place. There's going to be that global movement of the Spirit of God where people will come and they will grasp a hold of Christians and they will say, Tell us about your Savior. And then that leads us to the third question, which is when we can expect all this to happen. When should this come to take place? When will they come? I said before, it was written in 518 BC. It was written then, of course, about a future time. Will yet come. Will yet go. This is all in the future. But when is it to be fulfilled Well, we have some pretty clear clues, I think, about that in the Old Testament compared with the New. For instance, Zechariah himself had back in chapter 2. In verse 11, talked about the same kind of thing when he said that many nations will be joined with the Lord in that day. And will become my people. I will live among you, and you will know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you. That's again a global thing, because verse 13 says, Be still before the Lord all mankind. Because he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. So Zachariah says it's going to happen in that day. Or what day? Well, you look at passages like Isaiah chapter 2, and Isaiah says in chapter 2, don't bother to turn to these, but they're there for you to look up later. Isaiah chapter 2, verses 2 and 3, Isaiah says, in the last days. The mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as chief among the mountains. Sounds like Zechariah 8. It will be raised above the hills, and all nations will stream to it Many peoples, people groups, will come and say, come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God and of Jacob. He will teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths. The law will go out from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Sounds pretty much like Zechariah 8, doesn't it? When's it going to happen? In the last days. What about Micah? Micah chapter 4, verses 1 and 2. Micah says, in the last days. The mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as chief among the mountains. It will be raised above the hills, and peoples, people groups will stream to it. Many nations will come and they'll say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths. The law will go out from Zion, the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Sounds pretty similar, doesn't it? And so you see that Isaiah and Micah and Zechariah 8 are all speaking about this same thing, this global revival. And they're all speaking of it as coming in the last days. Well, when is that Well, if you look in the New Testament, in Hebrews chapter 1, the author of Hebrews says, in the past, speaking of the Old Testament times, God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets. Like Isaiah, Micah, Zechariah, in many times and in various ways. But in these last days, He has spoken to us by His Son. Whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the universe. So the last days are the days since Jesus has come That's very clear, because on the day of Pentecost, if you remember when the disciples were assembled together and the Spirit came upon them, and they began to speak in other tongues. That we read in Acts 2, just after that, the very next verse, after they began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them, says, Now there were staying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven. And then Luke begins to describe all these different nations. If you have an NIV study Bible, they're all there on a map, just to show you how the whole civilized world was represented there on that day of Pentecost. And then Peter says that this is in fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. And in Acts 2. 17, he quotes from Joel 2, and he says That this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy, and your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams. You see what that's saying? Now Peter, that same day, preached Christ, and 3,000 people came and bowed the knee to Jesus Christ. By the end of the chapter, you've got 5,000 people assembled together. And as you read through the book of Acts, is at our concert of prayer we did this last Thursday and just looked at Again and again and again that phrase, the church grew, the church grew in numbers. Many believed, the spirit worked, and the church grew. And you see that movement that God was beginning there as the first fruits That's Pentecost. Remember, we've talked about that in the past. Pentecost was the first fruits of the wheat harvest, the wheat harvest of the nations coming to Jesus Christ. And so since the New Testament time, God has begun that work. By the end of the first century, every civilized nation in the Western world had a gospel witness within it. And the church grew under persecution. And then there were those grim times, the time when the light seemed to fade and flicker and almost seemed like it would go out. But God preserved a remnant and a witness, and then two further centuries the light grew brighter, and then there was uh the Reformation in our own culture, the great awakenings of the last couple of centuries Have been a taste of the fulfillment of Zechariah 8 to give us a longing for what God is ultimately going to do in the fulfillment of this verse. After years of praying in the 17th century, in the early 17th, in the 17th century, the 1600s, in the early 18th century, the 1700 A great awakening spontaneously burst forth in the British Isles, England, Scotland, America. In that time, Jonathan Edwards, who is one of the leaders, perhaps the foremost in all of that, working together with Whitfield and Wesley and others, but Jonathan Edwards in our own country Wrote a book that was based on these verses in Zechariah 8, 20-23, seeing what God was doing as explicit fulfillment of that prophecy. The title of that book was a humble attempt to promote explicit agreement and visible union. among God's people for the revival of religion and the advancement of Christ's kingdom on earth. That's the title of the book, not the preface or the first chapter. Sometimes simply called a humble attempt. It's based on these three verses, these four verses in Zechariah 8. And it was a call to God's people. In expectation that within the next couple of generations the entire world would be evangelized. That was Edward's full expectation. You read his writings and your spine tingles to see the expectation of the people of God. And then things dimmed by the end of that century. In an amazing way, there was reversal. But at the end of that century, at the end of the 1700s. There was a second Great Awakening, and it grew in the beginning of the 19th century and spawned the worldwide missions movement. And so the gospel went forth a new new wave of missions, so that by the end of last century, Christians were talking about reaching the world for Christ by the year 1900. They backed off of that. They didn't commit themselves to it. And again, in the beginning of the 20th century, there's been great reversals In many ways, the liberalism controversies and the retrenchment out of society by the Church of Christ. But we're seeing a reversal of that now, the end of the 20th century. But I think of at least three different movements that we're seeing right now that to me are direct fulfillment of what Zechariah 8 is speaking of here. I think, for instance, of the concert of prayer movement that we're seeing in our own nation. All over this nation, there are groups of people that are joining together to pray. I read just a couple of days ago about a group of people in a couple of cities in Canada. They met for seven years in regular concerts of prayer. For a good period of that time they met daily from 7 to 8 a. m. to pray for renewal and revival in their cities. They began to pray for God to move in that. They began to hold all night concerts of prayer. And just last month, well it was actually May, so just uh before last month. Of this year, they held a major evangelistic thrust, tried some new ideas. The Spirit of God brought hundreds. To saving faith in Christ and many, many more, to interest in pursuing further the gospel. What's unique about that is that their attempt was to reach secularized, unchurched people. And God did it. We're seeing uh this go all over this nation. In Minneapolis recently, the concert of prayer movement grew to the proportion where they had to run a stadium. 10,000 Christians gathered, not for a rock concert, not for some major speaker, but to pray. You believe that? We're seeing along with that a new movement of Christians uh reinvolving themselves in the political and civil life of our country We're seeing that uh perhaps spearheaded by the pro-life movement in which Christians who would have never thought of becoming politically active, marching, demonstrating Even civil disobedience who are involving themselves in the life of our country out of convictions that Christians can make a difference. We're seeing this as part of that movement of what God is doing, as part of renewal and revival. We're seeing also the third movement I see as the global evangelization movement. That expectation that it's possible for us to reach every unreached people group by the year 2000 Do you know that in terms of sheer statistics, that our odds are better than they were in the first century? There are less non-Christians per Christian and less unreached people groups per Christian or congregation. right now than there were at the end of the first century. There are more resources available to complete the job of evangelization at the end of this century than there have been at any other time since Jesus Christ left this earth. Right now, as I speak to you, there is a missions team that was invited by the Soviet Union through Intervarsity Christian Fellowship to be able to meet this summer within the Soviet Union. I told you about uh Red China. Incredible things going on there. Right now, Rob Craig, one of our own people, is in a missions group in a Mideast country that is close to the gospel. But is being penetrated aggressively by Christians. We have one of our own members of our congregation who has been in a closed country for years, can't be publicized openly. But is seeing a spiritual hunger and something that God is doing there, whether the seeds are being planted, you see, for something that God's going to do in an unprecedented way. In the fulfillment of what Zechariah spoke of 518 BC, over 2,500 years ago Could it be that God is bringing this to pass now? And even in our own community, what do we see? I have uh right here a letter from Leighton Ford. I'm on the steering committee for us as uh Howard County Churches back in May. We gather together in uh a meeting of Howard County churches to pray for renewal and for revival, the same exact kind of thing that Edwards was speaking of. And we gathered together to pray that God would do a new thing in our midst. He would renew and revive the church, and then he would reach Howard County Region. For Jesus Christ in an unprecedented way. Over a hundred people from 20 different churches turned out for that meeting. The next one's going to be held on July the 13th. Please note that. That the first Presbyterian. That's right there on your bulletin. There's a whole page there. It tells you the details of that. Just yesterday, no, Friday. I received this letter from Leighton Ford Ministries. We've been in contact with them as the primary ministry because they're the most creative biblical ministries doing evangelism, wide-scale evangelism that we know about right now. This letter from Leighton Ford saying, I would like to put together a conference and pull together seven or eight nationally known Christians Who are known for both their evangelistic expertise and the fact that they understand the culture on the cutting edge and how to reach it. I would like to bring together a group of pastors and lay people and like to have a conference to talk about how to reach the city for Jesus Christ. Guess where he's suggesting having that conference? Columbia, Maryland. What is God doing in our own midst? What is God doing here in the United States? Come pray. As you read your magazines and your newspapers and you think about the 4th of July coming up in a couple of days, you may be discouraged about what you read. But then turn to Zechariah 8. And see what God is doing. Then ask yourself, Lord, what part do you want me to play in this final chapter?