Ah, there's my Bible, but I need that. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 8. Gospel of Luke chapter 8. I'll begin reading in verse 40 and read through the end of the chapter. Let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you, Lord, that you have spoken and you've given us your word and how precious it is to us. Lord, we pray that we would see it as a firm place to stand, a reliable guide to order our lives. A means by which we can know you and know ourselves. And so, Father, we pray that you bless the reading of your word to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, we ask your blessing as well. As much as it is a faithful echo of what you have said, Lord. Lord, help it to ring not only in my ears, but to find a place in my heart. I pray that for all of us in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 40, the Word of God. Now, when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him. And there came a man named Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue, and falling at Jesus' feet, he implored him to come to his house. For he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. As Jesus went, the people pressed around him, and there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years. And though she had spent all her living on physicians, she could not be healed by any one. She came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, and immediately her discharge of blood ceased. And Jesus said, Who is it that touched me? When all denied it, Peter said, Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you. But Jesus said, Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him, declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed. And he said to her, daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace. While he was still speaking, someone from the ruler's house came and said, Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble the teacher anymore. But Jesus, on hearing this, answered him, Do not fear, only believe, and she will be well. And when he came to the house he allowed no one to enter with him except Peter and John and James. And the father and mother of the child. And all were weeping and mourning for her, but he said, Do not weep, for she is not dead, but sleeping. And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead. But taking her by the hand, he called, saying, Child, arise. And her spirit returned, and she got up at once, and he directed that something should be given her to eat, and her parents were amazed, but he charged them to tell no one what had happened. This ends the reading of God's Word. As we've been looking at Luke chapter 8, we've noted that this Last half of Luke chapter 8 gives us four accounts that ooze the language of the mission field that Luke uses when he describes the missionary journeys in the book of Acts. Starting out with one day he got in a boat and said, Let us go. The language is such to evoke the idea of the beginning of journey. In fact, this series of four accounts, these last two kind of nested within one another, culminate in the verse that follows what I've read this morning, chapter 9, verse 1. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. And he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. A new chapter of the ministry of Jesus Christ has really begun with chapter 8, where the sense of who he is has been established and the disciples understand that he is the one that was to come. He is the Messiah. And now he is preparing them to be sent out. And beginning with him calming the storm, moving on through his dealing with the Gadderene or Garasene, depending on uh which gospel you're reading. Word could be said differently. We have them now dealing with the last two events that the gospel writer believes are important to understand something of the mission field. Something of the needs and challenges that they'll deal with. So we're going to look at this text through that lens and notice a couple very significant things. Jesus shows us By being relationally faithful, he shows us how to deal with opposite kinds of people, how to handle competing agendas and how to keep himself focused on one grace, one gospel All three of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, that contain either of these accounts, the accounts of the healing of the woman with the issue of blood, or the account of the raising of Jairus's daughter. All of them, notably, present these two stories in precisely the manner they're presented here. An introduction to Jairus' situation, the interruption of the woman who was bleeding, and then a return to find the daughter dead. If you've done a lot of work in reading the Gospels, especially of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, that are called the Synoptic Gospels. synoptic meaning uh with the same view. Those gospels kind of have a very shared perspective. The Gospel of John or what we call the fourth gospel That's a gospel that is sort of cut from a different cloth. And all four of those gospel accounts give us one glorious picture of the life of Christ. But those first three, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, the synoptic gospels, even though they are very similar in so many ways. Each of those gospel writers, for thematic purposes, sort of recollects the different accounts of Jesus' healing and sometimes orders them a little differently. And for those of us who are trained historians, I know I was a history major at University of Maryland and One of my master's degrees is basically historical theology, so I'm very much about chronological continuity and ordering. I want you to think for a moment if you have a family picture album. Now I know I'm dating myself. Now in the digital world, we don't have picture albums per se. But imagine that you have at your grandma's house, you go and you notice the picture albums, and one of them has all kinds of pictures about weddings. And then all of a sudden you find a different picture album, and it might be focused on uh a different aspect of the family's life together, and there might be pictures in that album, not only from before the wedding, but many years after. Or again, when when our kids were small, we started picture albums for each of the babies. And then they were all put together chronologically. So you've got our oldest son, Christopher, goes by the nickname Cubby, and his picture album starts and he was born in he was born in the last century. He was born in 1999, which I'm led to believe was a great partying year. And he His picture album, it goes forward year by year. And then we have Maggie's picture album after that one. But it goes back to when Christopher J. was a year and a half year old. And so the different accounts, the different threads of the narrative of the Birkis family sort of recapitulate and recover certain ground. All of the gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke do that. The reason I'm going on this little bunny trail is to show you that There's a sense in which the gospel writers, led by the Holy Spirit, felt the freedom to put the accounts in different orders to surface different issues. Now, why am I saying that? Because it's remarkable that in this case, not a single one of the gospel writers deviated from nesting these accounts together. None of the gospel writers were led by the Spirit of God to pull out this account of the healing of the bleeding woman and deal with it separately. None of them felt it important to take a look at what God did through Christ and the family of Jairus the synagogue ruler separately. These two accounts go together and they are wedded together in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And that gives us a clue as interpreters of the Bible, whether we're in a pastor's office or at our kitchen table, these have to be understood as intimately connected, as unified in what the Bible is teaching us here. And what is it teaching us? It's teaching us that Jesus cared for radically different kinds of people at the same time and in the same place. We live in a day and age that wants to separate out types of people. Everything's about categories and our particular sects or clans. Back in the 19, late 1980s, the the idea of uh affinity groups. We're going to be in ministry for this or for that, whether it's an ethnicity or a marital status or an age group. And this has for for about twenty years was all the rage in Christian ministry. And so we have ministries of this and ministries of that ministries of the next thing and and the objective of Christian leadership is often just to sort people into the right category. As if we can't minister to all with the same gospel, or all cannot be ministered to by one another by the same Spirit. I believe the Bible doesn't invite us to be nearly as rigorous as we are in such things. Here we have Jesus. In the space of one day, literally rubbing shoulders with the worst specimen specimen of humanity that gathered on the crowds of the the the shore of Galilee waiting for Jesus to return from the garrisons. The worst specimen of humanity present there, the most untouchable, the least welcome. And he is also glad-handing, as it were, with probably the most respected He is in this one day touching the most deplorable And going to the house of the most beloved. Think about Jairus. A man named Jairus who was a ruler of the synagogue. In the towns of Galilee and even Judea Unless you were a member of the Sanhedrin itself, in which case you wouldn't be living in the towns of Galilee, you'd be in Judea, in Jerusalem. This is the highest social rank you could attain. To be a ruler of the synagogue. This man had attained as much respect and as much demonstration of respect and affection by his peers and his community as one could possess at that time and in that place. And here is a man who is pleading, he's imploring, he's begging Jesus to come to his house because he has one daughter, and she's 12 years old, and she's dying. And so what does Jesus do? He immediately sets out. And while he's on the way, something happens. We read that the crowds were pressing in on Jesus. You can picture walking through an ancient Galilean town with narrow streets. They didn't have two lanes. And the word used for pressing against is the same word used for pressing olives in a press to create the Jews. So there's there's a lot of jostling going on. And Jesus is making his way through those crowds, kind of like you're trying to get to your seats in time for the handouts and the free giveaways at Camden Park. And you're getting bumped and jostled, and all of a sudden Jesus senses great power leaving him. And he stops and he says, Who touched me? And everybody says, not me, not me, not me. And Jesus says, I know someone touched me because I felt power go out from me. And we read that a woman, seeing that she was not hidden, came trembling and falling down before him, and declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him and how she had been immediately healed. Now, let's follow our narrator back to why this woman touched him. She touched him because for twelve years. As long as that sweet little girl had been alive, the daughter of Jairus, for twelve years she had had an issue of blood. And why is that significant? Go back to Leviticus chapter 15. May I begin reading in verse 25 and read three verses? If a woman has a discharge of blood for many days, not at the time of her menstrual impurity, so it's not normal, Or if she had a discharge beyond the time of her impurity, all the days of the discharge she shall continue in uncleanness, as in the days of her impurity she shall be unclean. Every bed on which she lies all the days of her discharge shall be to her as the bed of her impurity, and everything on which she sits shall be unclean, as in the uncleanness of her menstrual impurity And whoever touches these things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. A lot of debates go back and forth about whether that was a ceremonial uncleanness or whether it was an uncleanness. suggestive of the recognition that somehow people that had weeping or bleeding sores were contagious in different ways. All of that's beside the point for the discussions of this morning and Luke chapter 8. What we need to notice, relevant to Luke chapter 8, that this woman and everything that she touched Was unclean for twelve years. We read in this that she'd spent her whole living seeing physicians Every, every penny of what she had for twelve years went to trying to get a cure so that she could be clean again, welcomed in society. How scandalous would it have been for this woman to be in a crowd jostling with people? How scandalous that she would have the temerity, the courage, the boldness. to reach out and touch this man from Nazareth, the Galilean. You see, she had come to a point of desperation where she had nothing to lose and everything to gain. And she had faith that this one, who had performed so many miracles in that part of Galilee, from Capernaum to all the towns and cities around it, even raising the dead on one occasion. Surely if she just touched the hem of his garment, she would be healed. How long it took? Her to explain that to the crowd, who would have immediately, undoubtedly, recoiled in horror at the recognition that it was that unclean woman that was there. We don't know. The Bible doesn't give us much about the timeline, other than to say that the next thing that happens Right while Jesus says, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace. Some come from the ruler's house and say, your daughter's dead. Do not trouble the teacher anymore. Opposite people. And Jesus makes time for them both As soon as he got off the boat, though he might have wanted to rest for a while, he hears about Jarus' daughter, and he starts going to Jarus' house. He's interrupted by the worst specimen of humanity by the standards of that day while he's walking through the town, and he stops and tenderly addresses her, calling her daughter. And then he hears that the daughter of Jairus has died. And he goes. assuring them that she is merely asleep, a euphemism for death, indicating that death is no barrier to the Lord of life, the author of life, Jesus. And Jesus tells them not to fear but to believe, and he walks into that room, and despite being laughed at, he says to that little girl, as the Gospel of Mark tells us in Aramaic, Talitha Kum. Child, arise. The girl gets up. Jesus says, feed her He says, don't tell other people about this. Contrary to what he told the Gatherene demoniac, who'd been healed of that demon legion that was thousands in number, and he was told to go tell everybody. In an area further removed and distant from. But now as he comes closer to Jerusalem, where people already want to make him king, he is interested. In rolling out the reality of what his messianic kingdom and rule will be on his terms, through his methods. Thus, what we call the messianic secret. But what do we make of this? Opposite people in one day being reached out and touched, and competing agendas? I want you to think about how with the Lord Jesus, he can do things we can't do. Have you ever wished you could be two places at once? I wish that many times. Have you ever wished that other people had more concern and compassion for your schedule? I wish that a time or two. I want you to think about Jesus for a minute. And I want you to think not only about Jesus, but about Jairus. I remember one time I was in a hurry. This is when I was still driving, so it would have been in my twenties. And I was driving. I was late for class. Trying to pull into lot uh one, the University of Maryland, College Park. This would have been 1989 or 90 And a car in front of me had stopped and was the driver was in a conversation with someone walking through the parking lot and I couldn't go get my my parking lot and get you know hoofing it off the class. What do you think what do you think your pastor at the age of uh, oh, let's say 20, was thinking at that time? Godly thoughts You see, I had an agenda. I had a pretty deep need. I had to get to my class. The campus is a big campus. And this yo-yo, are pastors allowed to call people yo-yos? This yo-yo was talking about the latest sitcom that was on the night before, or whatever they were talking about, uh, and holding me up. Have you ever been in a hurry at the Target of the Walmart and the person in front of you has like four items on the desk and they're debating with cashier about one price and want to talk to a manager? All you want to do is check out and go home. Imagine if you have a daughter who's dying, and the one person you believe can heal her stops to talk. to that person. What would you be thinking? You see, Jesus was in a situation where he is undoubtedly being pulled in many directions at once. And consistently throughout the Gospels, we see a picture of Jesus in which Jesus greatly values the person in front of him. And people are of immense importance to Jesus Christ, individuals, whether they are kings or beggars. The most righteous person in town, or the most unclean. Jesus has got to be the most interruptible person, the most authentically present person I've ever encountered in any book. And I've read a lot. Jesus shows us someone who, in the midst of all of the agendas pressing in on him, makes time for the person who is there. And never looks past them or discard them. Never says, stop bothering me. I'm busy. I'm on my way. And if we would be effective in executing our mission, the same kind of mission that the 12 gets sent to us on, these are lessons we need to learn, aren't they? We have to be concerned about the untouchable, the least respected, the most despised in the community, as well as the most dignified, the most noble, the most socially attractive. We have to be willing to give our time and attention and our sympathetic listen to the entire spectrum of humanity. Whatever others might think of us for doing so. And our culture, I was going to say for better and worse, but I'll say for bad and for worse. Puts great value in the ability to judge you based upon the kinds of people you will talk to with a kind tone. Not so for you, Christian. You are called to love even your enemies. And you are called to speak with kindness and respect to everyone. Even dare I say people who have hurt you. Even people who distract you from an opportunity to do a great thing for a great person That by the world standards would mean more to more. In both of these situations, we see Jesus showing the same grace To both Jairus and the anonymous woman with the dreadful bleeding condition. He makes time for them both, and he gives life to both of them. There's something I've told people that uh I have had, I think I've had six interns now over the course of my ministry, maybe seven. I always tell them, God is in the bunny trails. When you have distractions arise in ministry, remember that God is sovereign. When you get interruptions, remember there's a plan that's bigger than your agenda. And if you dare to ask yourself a question often mocked by some theologians, what would Jesus do? You might find the answer is different from the answer, what would I do? Jesus offers life. Irregardless of the condition. Notice that even by association with the unclean woman, Jesus would have been declared unclean in the eyes of his world. Even at great cost and reputational risk, Jesus reaches out to and speaks to and verbally embraces that woman who touched him. An unclean woman whose touch would have communicated uncleanliness, were it not for the fact that Jesus Christ is holiness incarnate. And all that is unclean must flee at his presence. Jesus offers life to her, naming her daughter. Jesus offers life to the dead girl, saying, child, arise. Jesus would offer life through his gospel ambassadors, Christians like me and like you. As often as you rub shoulders with and are touched by people that you would rather have keep their distance from you? People whose association with you might lead to all kinds of suspicions. People who are at the top of the pile of power and influence in today's world. All of them need to hear the words. Son or daughter, arise. Your faith has healed you. All of them need to be invited to have repentance towards sin and faith in the Lord Jesus. That they might be adopted into that eternal family. And walk, run, live, be forgiven. When we think about a text like this, there are many, many more things that could be said about all of these texts we're reading. But when I read this one, I always pause and I think, where do I see myself? John Calvin was asked during one Easter season when he was pastoring in Geneva and the end of the first third of the uh fifteen hundreds in Switzerland, he was asked by the town council to preach a specifically evangelistic series of of messages. And pardon me, it wasn't the Easter season, it was the Christmas season. And what he did was very interesting. He preached a series of sermons dealing with the Christmas narrative, and he invited his congregants to see themselves as being in the different roles of the different characters in the nativity account. And I will sometimes do that with myself as I read the Bible. I will see myself as the unclean woman. hopelessly unclean, by human standards, unforgivable because of the sins I've committed. And I, when I repented and put my faith in Christ as it were, I reached out from the crowd and I touched Christ. And despite how horrifically unclean I was and how everything I touched was sullied, Jesus forgave me. And I see myself in the position of gyrus with dreadful concern, sometimes for my own children, saying, Lord, touch, heal. And find myself looking at the other things God is doing and saying, why are you doing that, but won't do this? And oh, Bob Birkus of little faith. Jesus stops and he interviews and he heals and touches many people on his way to doing the things that I've asked him to do. And he has a reason for that as well. You see, there's a sense in which we can put ourselves in the position of these people and recognize in these texts to call for us in light of our missionary calling, to have complete confidence in the fact that Christ has and can and does forgive us and that he is not ignoring us while he's doing other things. It's easy to think that. Do you trust that God is being faithful even in those delays? That's a high calling and a difficult one, isn't it? God is being faithful. And one day you and I will see all of the Glory of his plan. But now we live by faith, not by sight. 2 Corinthians And I lastly have a word for those of you who are here today who have perhaps never reached out and touched Jesus, as it were. Never acknowledged the uncleanness within your soul. Never accepted the fact that there's nothing you can do, no amount of life savings you can spend to get free of guilt. That your conscience is correct when it condemns you. I want to invite you to acknowledge that before Christ. Notice this woman comes trembling, falls down before him, and declares why she touched him. I touched you because I was unclean, longing to be healed. And it is an easy thing. But also the most difficult thing in the world for you or for me to come before the living God and say, God, I'm unclean. I need to be healed. I want to be healed. And I've heard preachers say, and your Bible say, and Christians around me say, That if I acknowledge my sin before you and turn from it and put my faith in you, I will be healed. And you, dear friend, may find the echoes of the Spirit's words in your life. Arise, child. God Himself owning you as a son or a daughter, and inviting you to stop being broken and begin to walk This church exists to glorify God and spread that gospel. If you would like to have that conversation with Jesus Christ, And put your faith in the one who touches the cool kids and the untouchables. I would invite you following the service to come for prayer in the front corner and pray with members of our prayer team that you might rise. and be healed. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Father, we pray that you would help us to remember the power and the love of Jesus our Savior. Who loves all of us, no matter where we're coming from, and all the different ways that we sort ourselves in this fallen world, and how he makes time for each and every. Lord, help us to have faith and confidence in living. Help us not to be frustrated by the delays we perceive or setbacks we experience. Help us to have confidence that you are the God in heaven who does what pleases you, and that you are the God in heaven who works all things for the good of those who love you and are called according to your purpose. You are the God who has invested all power and authority in Christ and given Christ to the church for the church. Embolden us, Lord, to be confident and live with courage in light of such truths. And Lord, if there are any here this morning, Who have not given their lives to you and have not acknowledged themselves before you and have received and are resting upon, accepting the offer of life that is made in Christ, O Spirit. Fall upon them and fill them, urge them and compel them to reach out by faith and lay hold of Jesus Christ. These are our prayers, and we will pray these things, O living God, until the day of our Lord's return. In his name. Amen.