This morning I'm going to begin a new series that will last approximately forty-five to fifty years. Now uh before you panic, let me say that uh I plan for this series to run three to four weeks per year Uh what I am planning to do, you see, is to each Christmas season take one of the Old Testament messianic prophecies concerning the coming of Jesus. And to consider that for a week or two. And then for the Sunday just before Christmas, then to take a look at a New Testament passage concerning the incarnation, seeing the fulfillment of what God did Because this year I want for us to have the opportunity to put ourselves back into the mind of a person who lived just before Jesus Christ came For us to be able to think of what it was like to await the coming of the Messiah, with the promises that God had given. And now, what was the hope? What was the longing Uh I want to pursue uh simply the major processes, uh which as I say would lead us to maybe just forty-five or fifty of them But to be overcome look at this, to develop the increasing clarity as we see the proceeds through the Old Testament To find out what was the longing, what was the hope that they were given? How did they understand that? And then more importantly, how do we, as Christians, now looking back on these promises, fulfill How do we look at these promises? And what do they teach us of Jesus, of what he came to do and what he's returning to complete? Before we're going to be looking at these with a hope that they'll excite us. to stand on tiptoe and look with greater expectation to the coming of the Lord Jesus again. But if you enter into that expectation of the first Christmas I first will be developed and vetted for looking for Jesus to be coming again. And to come again, even before this Christmas So we're going to begin at the beginning of these. We're still going to take a look this week and next week at the very first. of the Messianic prophecies, Genesis 3. 15. We could spend four weeks easily on just this one verse, but we're going to hate through this one verse in just two weeks But we want to take a look at that as the first one, the foundation of the Messianic prophecies of God's Word. Let's consider then that one verse in its context Genesis chapter 3. Follow along in the scriptures as I read. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals that the Lord God had made He said to the woman, did that really say that you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the servant, We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did say, you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die You will not really die, the serpent said to the woman. But God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for seed and pleasing to the eye, was also desirable for gaining wisdom. She took some, and she ate it. She also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate it. And then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized that they were naked. And so they throwed figures together and made coverings for themselves. Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God, and he was walking in the garden in the cool of the bed. And they heard from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man, Where are you? He answered, I heard you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. And he said, We told you that you were naked. Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from? The man said, and the woman that you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree and I ate it And the Lord God said to the woman, The witness that you have done. The woman said, The circle to see thee, and I eat For the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all the livestock and all the wild animals You will crawl on your belly and you will eat suck all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers He will crush your head and you will spread to shield. For the woman who said, our great will increase the pains in childbearing. With pains will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you listened to your wife and ate from the tree, about which I commanded you, you must not eat of it Cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. It will produce storms and thistles for you. And you will eat the plants of the field by the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food, until you return to the ground since from it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you will return. Adam named his wife Eve, because he had become the mother of all the living. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife, who clothed them. And the Lord God said, Man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat it and live forever So the Lord God banished him from the Garden of Eden to walk the ground from which he had been taken. After he drove the man out, he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden a keradan and a flaming sword flashing back and forth. To guard the way to the tree of life. Again, the verse that we're considering this morning, verse 15, I will put enmity between you and the woman. And it's your offspring hers. He will crush your head, and you will slice your heel Now if you and I were a Jew in Palestine three weeks before Jesus was born, how might we understand that? We might listen to a rabbi discourse on that verse. He would point to it as a promise of the deliverer who is to come for our people. But there's strong evidence that the Jews did in fact understand this to be a messianic prophecy, claiming to the one who was to deliver God's people. But what does it mean? What does it teach? This is an amazing statement. If you stop to consider it, it is given at the very dawn of human history, thousands of years before the coming of Jesus Christ. I think we often pass over this verse very quickly and we look at it and see that it says that uh there's going to come one who will crush the serpent, and that's a new promise about the coming of Jesus, and then move on to something else. I want for us to consider it a little more closely and see all that is really there, at least begin to see all that is there in that one verse Luther said that the whole Bible was packed. It is yearned in that one verse. We want to see now why he would make such a strong Satan. This verse is primarily a verse of hope. But the birth of hope, both in its promise, and then as we look back on its fulfillment. The promise of hope then is the first thing we want to look at. When we're looking at that, we want to see the fact of the hope, which you see in the bulletin outline, follow along. The fact of the hope and the God of hope who gave it And then the certainty of that hope in the fact that it was a sovereign God who did it. And then the basis of the hope in the fact that it was a God of grace who did it. And then we want to look at the fulfillment of that hope. In the one who has come and the one who will come. First of all, then the promise of hope. It's the God of hope to David Consider for a minute the predicament, the predicament of man without that one verse. This is the second darkest hour in all of human history Second only to that time when the Son of God himself was crucified at the hands of sinners. All that was good and lovely had been disrupted. All had been violated when man violated that one restriction that God had placed on him in all of paradise Nothing was kept from him, except one thing, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Before man had violated that commandment And now, because of that, there is no expectation left for him except curse and destruction. Never before in all eternity had anyone ever been forgiven. Did you realize that? The angel had fallen. God never forgave an angel Then the angels fell, they were cursed, and they simply await the destruction which finally will come upon them Never had God before declared himself to be a God of forgiveness, a God of justice, but not a God of forgiveness. The so now man who stands under the wrath and the curse of this God has no grounds whatsoever for any hope. He curse. is only justice which will produce wrath and destruction. Is the only try to live without hope? People who live without hope can't long continue in such a state. We don't live without faith. We don't live without love. But we can't live without hope. If you have absolutely no hope, there is nothing but despair, and a despair which will ultimately lead you to take your life. If we can uh be persuaded to do that uh by uh overcoming simply the fear of death. So many people without hope don't take their lives simply because they fear death more than they hate life. To live hopelessly is an awesome situation that few of us have ever really experienced. To live without hope is despair. And man deserves no hope in this situation. And yet, God declares himself as the God of hope But if you ask the man the question, why did you eat? The man of course blames it on his wife, a practice that has been known to exist to this very day After then having determined that, he goes on to the woman and says, Now why did you leave? And the woman, knowing that she's run out of resources on the demon level, turns to the serpent and says, It was the serpent who deceives him And you notice that's where the questioning ends. God doesn't ask the person anything. God asks questions, not to get information, but to help people to understand themselves The serpent knew what he was doing. There was no need for a question. Before immediately after God has asked the woman the question, God curses the serpent. And he begins his cursing in the reverse order of the questioning. As he begins to curse the serpent, before he comes to the curse necessarily placed upon the woman and the man, he gives hope You notice that order? He gives hope even before he gives the curse upon mankind. That's the kind of God our God is. The servant says, even before he has pronounced the curse upon man, he says to the serpent, verse 16, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers, and who across your head. or you will strike a feel. You're going to inflict a wound upon the human race. You're going to inflict a wound upon the feed of the woman But he will inflict a mortal blow upon you. You notice the word there, he will crush your head. And the only place you can kill a snake is in his head You uh cut off his tail and the rest of them will start kicking around. Uh including the tail. As any of you kids have done that, you know what it's like and you uh find out that instead of having one snake to contend with, you have two or three snakes to contend with. And you keep dividing them up that way. Only when you crush the hand have you finally done it in. That is the only mortal blow that can be inflicted But a blow to the heal is relatively harmless in comparison. It's not a mortal blow. And so God is saying here But concerning this eminence in this warfare is going to be a blow that you'll inflict upon the feet of the woman, but you will be crushed in Jesus. And that's the hope that God gives. You see what that's saying, Christian Remai? God is telling you and sin is abnormal and temporary. What a beautiful comment. Shh But often I think we look at sin as something that always did exist and always will exist because we're so immersed in it. Sin is all we know. We just know uh a world that is fallen in sin. What God is telling us here is that there was a time when there was no sin, but it did not exist, and there will be a time again when sin will exist no longer Here I need to remind ourselves, let that sink in. The Satan's days are numbers. There's going to come a time it may be very soon Then there will no longer for all eternity ever be sinned again. Becoming a hero is going to deliver the human race It's a vague hope, but it's enough. First, and secondly, that it's not only that he's the God of hope, but he's the sovereign God, and so the hope is a certain hope that we see in this verse You see, if he's not a sovereign God, there isn't any hope. But God speaks as the sovereign God when he pronounces his promise. Now you and I speak of hope in two ways. You may say, I hope it's not going to snow here like a Diddy Buffalo. Uh hope it's not going to snow. And we mean by that that uh my uh hopes are in what possibly may be, and that's what I'm hoping will happen They also speak of hope in terms of something which is certain but that I don't yet possess. I have the hope When you're engaged, you see, to that uh wonderful person that God brought into your life, you have the hope of marriage. You pledged yourself to one another, but you haven't consummated that yet Well, in this case, in the alternate sense of certainty, God speaks of hope to you. It's not what we hope will happen, but it's the certainty that we haven't yet present. So notice the two statements that he made to develop this. First of all he says, I will put and repeat, and then he says, he will crush your head. Notice concerning that first statement, I will put That's not a command. It's not an encouragement. It's not an exhortation of a woman to stir up an enmity between her and the purpose. That is not a command for you and me to be enemies with Satan. It's the indicative, not the imperative. That is to say, it's a statement. It's a declaration. In fact, it's a sovereign declaration of war. What God is saying here, literally the Hebrew says, Enmity I will place between you and the Satan. Because at this very moment all of human history hung in the balance. At this point, human the human race had refected the Satan And the human race would have followed Satan forever after at this point, if God had not intervened sovereignly and placed amenities where none had before existed. You see that? There was no enmity between man and Satan to this point. God placed that enmity there in this verse. He didn't stir it up. He created it. You see, before the fall, man was the friend of God and he was totally unaware of Satan. After the fall, man was aware of Satan, but he was his friend and God's enemy. God says now But for redemption to take place, for there to be any hope in the human race, it must begin by God placing an enmity between man and Satan. That is the very beginning of redemption. But God makes an enmity. Without that it's not possible. No redemption is possible. It's like Germany back in the 1930s And the Christians in Germany back in the 30s heard Hitler's speeches, they heard his promises, they heard what he had for the glory of Germany, and they smell the rest, some of them Uh but they they although they knew that there was something wrong, uh they weren't sufficiently aware of the problem to in any way stand against Hitler's leadership. And so by and large the Christians followed Hitler that he led them to their destruction. What they needed, you see, is not somebody simply to try to persuade persuade them to see the truth, they needed someone who would place an enmity between them and Hitler. And there was no such person Before they followed Hitler to their destruction. But God, our God, has placed an enmity between us and our enemies. Note secondly that he says in here that I will that he will crush the enemy's head. Because the outcome is already known That means that for you and for me at this Christian time, the outcome of all human history is known to us as much as the victory of Christ was known in the days of Adam. It's the same thing. We know that the one of the come of the woman will crush the circumstances. The victory's short And this of course refers to Jesus, promised, as the Messiah who had crushed the serpent, who had crushed Satan, who had crossed the death and the resurrection of Jesus. The outcome is already known concerning the final act of human history now. Jesus' history is sure because it depends on the sovereign God who's made the promise Notice also what Satan says in response to this. Notice it? Nothing. Those who doesn't utter a word. If this promise is made, why not? Because it's the confirmation of the sovereign God who pronounces the curse Because Satan is forced to listen to his own dooms being pronounced, to the curse being pronounced upon him And that is the indication to you and to me that Satan is helpless under God's sovereignty. Sometimes I think that we as Christians I seem to get the impression that uh God uh that Satan somehow is a match for God. Uh that uh things are sort of going in a way that God is hopeless. That uh things may be just a little bit out of control in the world. We need to remind ourselves that from the very beginning, Satan stood use under the pronouncement of the curse that was upon him. Because it was the sovereign God who declared it, and Satan could not answer a word. Finally see here that it's the God of grace Who pronounces this. And that's the basis of our hope. Remember again, there was no revelation of forgiveness in all of the history of the world or any time past before this point. Now we have a whole new understanding of God from this very verse on, that God is also a God of forgiveness. That God is a God of grace, of undeserved mercy. Notice God did not command there to be enmity. Rather, he placed it, as we said before. Why? Because man had no capacity For their for him to spell up an enmity. That man had no capacity to obey. But for a command, though it would have been just, it had been hopeless It would have been a command that we would have been hopeless to respond to, and therefore would have simply meant confirmed destruction to us. But God neither destroyed man nor did he command him to be an enmity. But rather what God did was to place the enmity He places the enemy between man and between Satan. Then he enables man to realize who his real enemy is. So often we as Christians, I think, somehow get the impression that God's jealous of our good times. Isn't that impressive? Do you think that maybe what uh God is looking down and he's seeing what good time humans can have in the things that they do? And uh God wants us to cut it out Because he's not entering into that. Uh God doesn't appreciate us having all that fun. And Satan is really the guy who's the big time followers The person is the one who really wants us to have the fun. But although we don't say those things so explicitly and outright Nevertheless, isn't it true that every time you and I disobey a command of God, what we really say is that God is the enemy and Satan is the friend. What we're really saying is if we follow the ways that are counter to God, we'll be happier. And if that's not your reason, then we're rather irrational. Because if we do something that we know is destructive, uh, then we really have no hope for reason. But what we do is those things which we believe are going to make us happen. And what God has said is we need to recognize who the real enemy is The real enemy is Satan, and God in his grace has enabled us to see that. See that Satan's way is alive. To see that Satan is in fact perverting our happiness. But that we obey God in every command He's given is really the happiness, the chief happiness that we can enjoy. Because grace not only places the enemies, grace conquers the enemies and man's the hand. We see the cost of it, begin to be pictured there in verse 21. The Lord God made garments of sin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. You see in this what God was doing. The God was Himself clothing man in his righteousness. Now at that very first point in which man saw that, possibly that was the first time they had ever seen blood flow. Imagine what that would have been like Do you remember the first time that you as a child ever saw somebody badly cut and saw their blood flow? It's an awful experience And here now admin who have never seen violence, who have never seen any destruction, watch as an animal He is slaughtered. Right as his blood flows, as his sin is ripped from its high, and then that sin sprints upon them But they realize that that's the picture of what grace is. That grace is costing God because he's placing that skin on them, not them. God himself is placing the skin upon them. God himself is picturing in this that he is going to clothe them with his own righteousness in the bonds of Jesus' righteousness as we've considered in the months past. We saw what Adam here in verse responds and says, We read in verse 20 that Adam named his wife Eve. You see, Adam got the point. Very called Eve because you're the mother of all the living. Shh. Because he hadn't had that one verse, verse 15, he had no basis to do that. But because of that one precious verse, Adam says is hope There's going to be light. There's going to come a seed from you, one who will crush the serpent once and for all. Before through the prophecies of the Old Testament This prophecy gradually becomes clearer. And so we come to the New Testament and we see the fulfillment of the hope. This we see is why Jesus, when he became man, went through in his ministry casting out demons. Why was it? Because he's demonstrating that deer is the one now, the seed, the king. He's going to crush the Satan's head. He's going to crush Satan. And he does this, he's declaring the coming of this by overcoming and showing his power over the demons. Some has power over Satan, that Satan is helpless before him. You can read in verses like Matthew 12, 28, John 12, 31, that Satan's been judged. He's been defeated. He's a defeated soul. John 3, 1 John 3, 8, the second part of that verse tells us that for this purpose Jesus came, that he might destroy the works of the devil. The time has come, and Satan is helpless. Because the son who has come to defeat the serpent, the serpent was part of the curse placed upon man, redeemed man from the curse by taking the curse on himself. So how does God in fact solve the problem of the enemy, enmity between that is between us and himself? It's by God making his son his own enemy. It's because Jesus became the enemy of God and taking upon himself sin That he then defeated the enemy, that he took the punishment and the wrath of destruction that you and I deserve. And because of that then God says that you can be his friends And now the enemy, Satan, has been defeated. Not only has the hero come then and gained this victory But the hero will come again and complete the victory. There's one place in the New Testament where explicit reference is made to this Prophecy of Jesus. But that's in Romans chapter 16. Take a look at that one verse. Romans 16, verse 20. In that one verse, you see here the promise, Paul says, the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you. So we see that promise in that we realize that the victory not only has been won, but that's a promise for you and me that still pertains to the future. Because it's like in World War II, when the Allies landed in Normandy and Dave and made the great invasion into York, it was still seen that World War II had been decided. And the war really had met had come to its climax, and the war had been won by the Allies. And yet, after that time, toward the very end of the war, the Battle of the Bulge. That infamous battle, one of the bloodiest battles of World War II, was so fierce a battle because it was the raging, frustrated, lashing out of the Nazi forces in one mad last med dash because of the realization of their own destruction And what's the Paul saying here? That we're in that case. The hero, this one that was promised in Genesis 3. 15, has come and he's crushed the serpent's head. And although the the battle has been decided, the victim's been won, we're still in a raging battle. You and I have a real keen sense that Satan is not a soul who is inactive But we're in the battle of the balls, friends. We're in that last raising in which Satan is seeking with all his force and might to destroy the church But what do we read in this verse? Notice two things about, that it's the God of peace, first of all, who's going to crush them peace. You see that word that Paul uses to point out that it's in contrast to the conflict that you and I now feel in our struggle against sin. It's the God of peace to the end of that conflict. And notice when it's going to end. You believe it's going to be seen? You tell you it's going to be seen. Because you don't know that time. It could be any time. That conflict could be over before Christians. You have a standing thought. The whole conflict, the consternation Of the war of the ages could be over before this Christmas, as Jesus would come again and would put an end to it And so we read in Revelation chapter 12. The identity of this and the scenario of it, looking at human history from God's perspective, and we read in verse 7 that there was war in heaven The Revelation 12, 7. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But he was not strong enough and they lost their place in heaven. See the Satan here, referring to Satan. He lost his place in heaven. And again, dragon, you see the serpent, was hurled down. That ancient serpent called the devil or Satan the whole world astray He is hurled to the earth and his angel given. And then I heard a voice in heaven say, Now has come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ. To the accuser of our brothers, who accuses them before our God day and night. He's been hurled down. He's been destroyed. Did they overcame him? How did they overcome him? By the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony, that they did not love their lives so much as to shrink from death. Therefore, rejoice, you heaven Rejoice who dwell in them, but woe to the earth and to the free, because the devil has gone down to you. And he's filled with fury because he knows his time is short. You and I are living in the last days of that battle. Living in the very last days before Jesus comes to finish the victory that he began on the cross at Calvary. Before in applying this to our lives, let's realize again that this hope is still for us. When we look at Genesis 3. 16, that's not something that's just for the past. That's a very present and very precious hope as it's been used to us in Romans 1620. That as Zechariah and Elizabeth and Mary and Joseph and Anna and Simeon Waited with breathless anticipation for the Messiah to come and ask again and again, When will he come? When will he arrive to deliver the people? And Jesus came for that time, 2,000 years ago. So we, to realize that we stand in the wake of that victory. So 1 John 4. 4, and he's voting for 14, but it should be 1 John 4. 4, tell us to say, Greater is he that's in us. And Jesus in the world so that you and I fight from the victory that Jesus accomplished, not for a victory. The victory is secured for us. This we've been accomplished. So in fighting that we long for Jesus to return, so that we can see the consternation of it, so that we can see the illness of all things We say secondly to that. Jesus is our only hope. The fact that he is a hope, he is the only hope possible There is helpless under Satan. Satan is a powerful fellow, too powerful for any of us to think that you can overcome it. We stand in Jesus alone to accomplish that victory. And if you stand this morning outside of Jesus Christ, think that you can live your life on your own apart from the work that Jesus accomplished. You are in a hopeless situation. You are in a situation that is absolutely without hopeless. If you're trusting in religion, if you're trusting in coming to church and doing religious things, if you're trusting in secular philosophy If you trust them in your good works, in the self-help psychology books that you read, in anything else besides Jesus, you're in a hopeless situation God is the God of hope, but that hope is united only in the person of Jesus. And then finally, and I only want to deal with this third application, we're going to deal with the fourth one next week But finally, the third application we need to realize that the time is short and therefore we can expect a greater vision of the enemy. I think we as Christians have to be very clear on this. Revelation twelve twelve tells us that he is filled with fury because he knows that his time is short. Reminds me of John Cosby's new book, The Best of Times, The Worst of Times. The thing we see today, the day that we live in, an increasing secularism An increasing hedonism, an increasing rejection of authority, an increasing rejection of morality, an increasing disintegration and decay of our society. And these things seem to accelerate before our eyes so that Shriva says that what was unthinkable ten years ago is thinkable now, and what is unthinkable now will be thinkable ten years from now as our society progresses toward its destruction. But on the other hand, we look at the church and what do we see? We see great progress in the church. We see perhaps 6,000 churches being formed every week throughout the world. We see great progress in Asia and Africa particularly. But it's the gospel of Jesus Christ who's making great progress, and the church is being built up. And the question that comes before us is which one's going to prevail? I'd like to suggest that I think both. I think that it's not a matter of either or. I think in the years to come we're going to see both an increase of persecution of the church An increase of difficult times for Christians throughout the world, and an increase of the church being built up in a stronger way than perhaps we have ever seen before I think the gospel's going to go forward in power in the next 10 or 20 years, but could be good and not be able to guess at at this point. But there's also going to come the raging of the enemy such as we have never seen before. But the promise remained to me is in the midst of such an awesome picture that lies before us. Jesus has crushed the enemy. And the hope is that that will soon be finished. And there will be no more enemies against the church. Let's go. Our Lord our God, hallelujah, how we praise you. And Jesus is the cloud cross. But the hero has come, and he has come and he has crushed the head of the serpent. But these were absolutely helpless I have been placed among your people, as those who have one to stand in our place, to stood on our setting in our behalf, and he crushed the serpent. Ah Lord our God, how we praise you. And for the strength and for the majesty of Jesus. Lord Jesus, how we praise you, the evil, the righteous ones, alone were able to take the curse that was due for us I encraise you that you became the enemy of your father, before that we could become the father's friends, friends and even his sons and daughters. Before that the enemy would be defeated, who is our enemy. Help us toward God to recognize who our enemy is. We profess that even this past week, again and again, we have been deceived We have thought that you were the enemy. We have thought that your word was that which is sought to restrict us and to bind us But it's a liberating one with Satan, who sought to allure us away from your word and to our own self-desires, our selfishness, our own uh passions and our own uh compelling desires that overtook us. Fair God, how you confess before you are spiritually. And pray that you'd help us to see this week and clear our eyes what the spiritual battle really is We might recognize the enemy for healing. And then the the fear and the awesome dread of the combat that's performed, it increases day by day and month by month Even if you see uh even as a particular instance the resources of Islam and we see the uh vast opportunities of the gospel in Islamic countries as well as And the persecution and the difficulties. Father, how we claim you. Will you know the outcome of all of this? And that the outcome is through Jesus, his crust the serpent And it is coming a time, very soon, is his promise, that he shall crush the serpent under our feet. And the enemy will be no more. And if there will be no more struggle, that there is the only peace And sin will no longer exist. How we long for that and wait for that and struggle against him even this week without hope, without anticipation, soon before us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's praise God then with a hymn that's so appropriate to this 149. Joy to the world. And notice in this wind, this peril of Christmas, that watchers really capture what's going on here in Genesis 3. 15. Because in the first stanza that the earth receives the community all things. Now why? In Stanza 2, it's because the Savior reigns. Now what has he done? Native changes through. No more let sins and sorrows grow, nor thorns, the symbol of the curse, insust the ground. He comes to make his blessings flow as far as the curse is found. Wait for you. The Jesus' blessings are as expensive as the curse and they're continually overcoming the curse. And that's the hope of Christmas. Listen then to God's praise to number 149. L