Blessed is she who has believed what the Lord has said to her, will be accomplished. And Mary said My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. His mercy extends to those who fear him from generation to generation. He has performed mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who are proud in their inmost thoughts. He has brought down rulers from their thrones, but has lifted up the humble. He has filled the hungry with good things, but has sent the rich away empty. He has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants forever. Even as he said to our fathers. A sense we need to come and ask God to minister to us, particularly this morning, is to speak from this. Let's pause in just a moment. Lord, we need to have you focus our attention on you. You may be distracted. I sense, Lord, that we're not fully focused together here this morning. And I pray that your spirit would now enable us to be receptive to your word. Holy Spirit, you know how inadequate I am for this task. And so each of us depend upon you that we would receive from you. Not from my poor attempts, but rather from you to speak through your word. Speak to us now. Give us hearts that hear. Break away Satan's attempt to distract. Or to cause us to think of this as applying to someone else and not ourselves. In Jesus' name. Well you recall, we've as I said, we've looked at this thing since eighty-seven, so I don't know uh How fresh it is in your mind. It's been a year since we looked at Mary's song before, the last time, but just by way of you review you recall that Mary begins the song by magnifying or glorifying the Lord. It's from that word magnify in the King James uh and the Latin word magnifnificat that we get that uh reference to this song as the magnificat. But she's glorifying the Lord, you remember, in verse 46, because he's been so wonderful in his mighty mercy to a nobody like her, who's simply his servant in verse 48. And then she elaborates the principle in this song. God exalts the humble, and she says that four times. And he humbles the proud. She says that three times for a total of seven statements of God's dealings with people. The ultimate example of this, of course, is the exalted one. Who, though he was God for our sins, became poor and became born a human baby, the son of a nobody, Mary And living nowhere, Nazareth, a town that was so insignificant that it's not even once mentioned in the Old Testament. And so Mary is elaborating here the principle of God's dealing in salvation. He exalts the humble, and he humbles the proud. And so it's after all of this, calling yourself a servant, one who is humble, and a demonstration of this principle that God did not choose some great personage to be the mother of Messiah because that would be inconsistent with the very nature of Messiah. After calling herself servant in verse 48 We come to the end of that song, and after seven messages, I assure you we are almost at the end of this song. In verse 54 and 55 to say, He has helped his servant Israel. Remembering to be merciful to Abraham and his descendants forever, even as he said to our fathers. Now this phrase, his servant Israel, is a very key phrase in understanding this psalm. I think it's a very needed phrase for you and for me to understand in our day. I think that one of the greatest misconceptions that current-day Christianity has is that God is a doting parent whose main job description is to shield us from anything unpleasant. Mary says, his servant Israel. She puts the relationship that we have with the Father in a wholly different light. He's the master. We're the servants. And it's a message you and I need to hear in a very practical way. Here at the end of the 20th century. And so I'd like to explore that one phrase with you. He's helped his servant Israel. Who is his servant, Israel? I believe there's a threefold reference that Mary has in mind there, or whether how much she had it in mind, the Holy Spirit, I believe, had in mind, as he spoke through her to put this down. Threefold reference, the second and third reference, telescoping out of the first and second. And so I'd like to look at these references and what that phrase means, his servant Israel. And what it means that God has helped his servant Israel. Look in your bulletin outline, follow along as we try to pursue this in scripture here now. The first is the most obvious reference. The first reference is to the nation, Israel, who were called to be God's servants, and of course failed. For example, in the laws of God, often there is a reference, whenever there are laws about servants, to the fact that Israel was God's servant. For instance, in Leviticus chapter 25, you have a number of ways that a slave could be redeemed. That is, there could be a payment be made for him to deliver him out of his bondage, called redemption. And a number of ways are stated how this could be done. And then at the end of Leviticus chapter 25, God says in verse 54, even if he's not redeemed in any of these ways, he and his children are to be released in the year of Jubilee. Every 50 years, every slave was to go free in Israel. Why? For the Israelites belonged to me as servants. They are my servants whom I brought out of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. So you can't hold anyone in bondage. for more than forty-nine years, because everyone must be freed on that fiftieth year so that they remember that they're all my servants. You're not to enslave one another as if somehow any of you have escaped that relationship. In fact, that relationship in the covenant bond of Israel with his people, of Israel being God's servants, was central to their whole identity. Throughout the book of Deuteronomy, over and over, Israel is called on to love and serve the Lord their God. But of course, we know from Scripture that they did not do that. Israel's sort of like you and me at that point, aren't they? We want to serve the Lord. As Israel said at Sinai, Lord, we want to serve you and do all that you have said. The problem is that his commands come at such inconvenient times. We're preoccupied. And so when he comes and calls on us to serve him in a particular way, it's kind of in our hearts, well, I'd like to do that, but I've got some other things on my mind right now And that's the very point, isn't it? A servant is never preoccupied. For the very center of a servant's desire is simply to be available to do the master's bidding. Can you imagine a master coming into the servant back in those days and saying, I want you to get up, and I want you to get out and cut the grass? And the servant says, uh, well, I'm kind of busy right now. Can you get somebody else to do it? You know? Got some things on my mind. I'm working on a project here. Maybe I could wait. For the master comes in and he says, Some of my friends have come, and I want you to get up and I want you to feed them and I want you to meet all their needs. And the servant says, well, you know, I've been doing a lot of dishwashing and cooking this week. Get somebody else to do it. Or tell them to go out to a McDonald's or something. You know, I got other things I've got to do. We'd say that person has no concept of what it means to be a servant. A servant doesn't negotiate. A servant simply responds in obedience. And like you and me, Israel served themselves. They served God when it was convenient, but all too often they were preoccupied and it was inconvenient. And so God said to them in Deuteronomy chapter 28, verses 47 and 48, Because you did not serve the Lord your God joyfully and gladly in the time of prosperity. Therefore, in hunger and thirst, in nakedness and dire poverty, you will serve the enemies of the Lord who he sends against you. He will put an iron yoke on your neck until he has destroyed you. What a horrible statement. And God is saying, you don't want to be my servants, okay? I'll have you serve human masters. Everybody's got to serve somebody. Even Bob Dylan said that. And if you're not going to serve me, I'll give you other masters that you'll serve. Hard taskmasters. Until they have destroyed you. And yet God did not leave them to be utterly destroyed. But even though Israel was under his wrath as you and I, as unprofitable servants, self-centered people, Yet God promised help. That's the other blank there. Yet there was a promise of help And that leads us then to the second meaning of this phrase in Luke chapter 1, verse 54. He has helped his servant Israel. The second reference then is to the person, Israel, who will be the perfect servant. The person Israel. God promised Israel that even though he had called them to be servants, And they had disobeyed and served themselves. Nevertheless, he was going to send help of his own mercy. For instance, look at Isaiah chapter 41, Isaiah 40 to 53, that whole series of messianic prophecies. Which Isaiah looks at the one who was to come. He begins by a promise in Isaiah chapter 41. Where he says in verse 8, but you owe Israel my servant. There it is again, you see. God's calling Israel his people. He's saying, You my people are my servant. My servant Jacob, whom I have chosen, you descendants of Abraham, my friend, I took you from the ends of the earth, and from its farthest corners I called you. I said, You are my servant. I have chosen you, and I have not rejected you. So do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Do you see the comparison? Whether consciously or not, But Mary in Luke 1. 54 was reflecting precisely this idea of Isaiah 41, verses 8 to 10. You're my servant, I will help you. So Mary says in Luke 1. 54 in her song, he has helped his servant Israel. But how did he do it? Well, you see, now you see in Isaiah's prophecy an amazing twist. Because even though he has said here in chapter 41, you my people, you who are all the descendants of Abraham, who are my servants, I'm going to help you how. Now we see that the servant It's not simply the nation, but the servant becomes a person. Israel, the nation, becomes Israel a person. The embodiment of all that Israel, the nation, was to be in one person. And so you look over at Isaiah chapter 42. And in Isaiah 42, God goes on about the servant. But now notice the twist. He says, here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one. In whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him, a person. He will bring justice to the nations. He will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. In faithfulness he will bring forth justice. Does that sound familiar? See, if there's any doubt about whether that's a person or not, all doubt is excluded by the statement in Matthew chapter 12. For in Matthew 12, in verses 18 to 21, Matthew tells us explicitly that that prophecy refers to Jesus Christ. The one who is the servant, who would not break a bruised reed or quench a smoking flax in his tenderness with his people. And so the nation has now become a person. The nation has failed. And God has called out of that nation a person. And so Isaiah 52, 42 to 53 goes on to describe, moving back and forth, this idea of Israel the servant as a nation, Israel the servant who's a person, and describes him And you think, for instance, of the passage that Tita read earlier from Isaiah 49. You see some of the descriptions of this servant that God has chosen For instance, in Isaiah 49. 3, you remember Tito read, He said to me, You are my servant, Israel, in whom I will display my glory. And so this servant is going to show the glory of the Lord. Or in verse 6, this servant's going to bring salvation to all the ends of the earth. He says, Too small a thing to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob. And bring back those of Israel that I have kept, I will also make you a light for the Gentiles, that you'll bring my salvation to the ends of the earth. And he says that the servant is going to be exalted above kings. Verse 7. Notice the contradiction. This is what the Lord says, the Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, him who was despised and abhorred by the nation, to the servant of rulers. Kings will see you and rise up. Princes will see you and they will bow down and prostrate themselves because of the Lord who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. Now imagine a Jew at the time of Mary hearing her song. And thinking back to these prophecies of Isaiah. And in his mind are these two ideas, these two pictures, and they're very confusing, aren't they? You cannot put them together On the one hand you have a servant, this one who is going to be utterly obedient and servile to the Lord. Who is going to do his bidding instantly and implicitly, everything that he says. Now you see a servant is somebody who does ordinary things. The servant is somebody who washes the dishes, takes care of the kids, changes diapers, meets daily needs. All those mundane things we'd like to avoid. That's what a servant does. But on the other hand This servant is going to be exalted to the degree that he will display God's splendor. He's going to be walking in the room and the kings will all rise up to greet him and princes will bow and prostrate themselves before him. Because this one is going to bring his rule and his salvation to the very ends of the earth. Now how do you put that together? You know, it refers to Jesus. Well, think about that though. Before Jesus, how could you have ever put together those images? And so you have here a miraculous, inspired prefigurement of God Himself, who has come as a servant for his people. Isn't that amazing? Can you grasp what God had in mind in saying that because you and I have served ourselves and have ignored the Heavenly Father? that he has sent his own son, the very essence of his own being, to become a servant for you and for me To remove our sin. And so because Jesus was perfectly obedient as a servant, Doing the Father's bidding at every point so that at the age of 30 the Father said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He has served me perfectly. He thus became eligible to take the sins of his people and, here's the next blank, to remove them. He has removed your sin and mine. And so you consider the promise of Isaiah chapter 44, speaking of his servants. In Isaiah chapter 44, he says in verse 21, Remember these things, O Jacob, for you are my servant, O Israel. I have made you. You are my servant. I've made you. You owe your life to me. The very breath that you're breathing now comes because God is giving it to you, even as you sit here in this auditorium. Everything of the functioning of your body depends on the God who has made you and sustained you and uphold you moment by moment. I made you. You are my servant. O Israel. I will not forget you. I have swept away your offenses like a cloud. Your sins like the morning mist, return to me, for I have redeemed you. So God has taken this servant, and he's laid on him all of your sin, all of those offenses. And you sit here this morning if you've given your life to by faith Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord. The one who has come, God in the flesh, to take your sin and my sin, so that your offenses are removed away When your sins have become Isaiah says like the morning mist, like a fog, that when the sun comes out, it burns it off. And by noon it's totally clear, and there's no trace of it left to be seen. God says, that's the way it is with your sin, if you've given your life to Jesus Christ this morning. So he offers that to you. In order that he might constitute a third servant. Here's the third reference: the new Israel. The new Israel, including Alan Harris, insert your name. See Not just me, including Ken Williams, you know, Tito Padilla, Matt Tyson Mary Ryan Devereaux. Put your name in those blanks, including my name. I am part of this new body of his servants. who are now supernaturally constituted as willing servants by his grace. I can't serve him in my own desires. But the Holy Spirit comes in and he transforms me by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And so Mary says. That he has helped his servant Israel, remembering to be merciful Because he's been merciful to you and to me by his substitutionary sacrifice, he has transformed your thinking. You remember last week I told you about that terrible incident during World War II, the Burmese Railroad constructed by the Japanese, 230 miles of railroad that costs 16,000 lives to construct it. Basis of the movie, the River, The Bridge Over the River Kwai. It was also a book by Ernest Gordon called Miracle on the River Kwai. In that book, Gordon talks about an incident in the construction of that railroad. He describes how those who were building the railroad had been reduced to barbarians. They were only trying to survive, and they treated one another like animals because they were being treated like animals. And it was every man for himself. And then one day, during a tool check, a shovel was missing. The guard who was in charge was absolutely enraged. He commanded that the one who had taken the shovel turn it in and turn himself in. No one moved. They all stood there in a line. And then he shouted, If no one comes forward, I will shoot the whole lot of you. And they knew that he meant exactly what he said, for they had seen too much bloodshed to ever doubt it. And in that dramatic silence, one man stepped forward. And he said, I did it. The guard put down his gun, picked up a shovel, and he beat the man to death in front of the rest of them. As they carried away his bloodied corpse, they went back to the tool shed and did another check. And they found that somebody had miscounted. There wasn't a shovel missing after all. Immediately through the camp the word spread like wildfire. One of them had been willing, though innocent, to lay down his life so that the others could live. And that transformed the camp, Gordon says. He says that then people began to treat each other with dignity, for they'd been forgiven. They began to serve one another. They began to help one another. So dramatic, he says, was the change that when the Allies came in and took over that camp and freed them, The prisoners sought for their rescuers to not kill their captors. For they said, enough blood has been shed. We need to forgive. Now that's totally apart from the Holy Spirit. That's simply psychological transformation. How much more then? If you and I grasp the fact that Jesus Christ has become a servant for us, the innocent becoming the victim of God's wrath in our place. To bear the curse. Why? So that you and I can become a new generation of servant sons, the sons of God who serve one another. Transformed by the Holy Spirit. Not serving because we think it's a good thing to do, because we agree that we ought to do it. But serving supernaturally, because the Spirit of God has moved in us. Moved in us with such power, the same power that transformed a proud Saul. Into a Paul who typically signed his letters Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. Or James, the very brother of the Lord. Who could have written this letter, James, a brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, but chose rather to write, James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ? In the spirit of Mary, who said in verse 46 and 47, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state. Of his servant. You know why I believe that Mary was chosen of all the young girls in Israel then to be the mother of Messiah? Because I believe that by the grace of God, Mary saw herself a servant. Do you ever stop to think that when the angel came to her with that announcement? And she was just a young teenager, engaged to her boyfriend to be married shortly. Had her plans laid out. Marrying Joseph, raising a family in Nazareth, and all the other particular dreams that young Jewish girls had of those days. She had her plans. She had things scoped out what she was going to do. And God interrupted her plans. I mean the angel came and he said, well, we gotta switch here because uh God's calling you to be the mother of his Messiah. Now, Mary had no concept of what all that could mean. But surely she must have grasped this is an utter setting aside of a lot of the things that I've hoped to do. And so now all of a sudden I'm going to be a different person and everything's going to change. And then he goes on to say that Joseph isn't going to be the father. Yet this one is going to be the Son of God, and what's that going to mean about her relationship with Joseph and all the rest of that? And her mind must have been filled with questions. But how does she respond in Luke 138? One simple statement. She says, I am the Lord's what? Servant. May it be to me, as you have said. Now again, we tend to think of God as a doting parent whose main job description is to shield us from anything unpleasant. But that's not how it worked out in Mary's life. For to call herself the servant of the Lord meant that she was going to be shamed and humiliated as a pregnant unwed girl in Nazareth. People knowing that Joseph wasn't the father, she wasn't married to him, must have speculated about her promiscuity. It meant that she had to leave home with Joseph to go to Bethlehem, 80 miles down the road, to have her baby in the equivalent of a garage. Alone. No family. No friends. Just this man that she has come with on this trip who will become her husband. And what's he know about delivering babies? What kind of a help would if he had been in that manger that night? Cold, dark, friendless. And then a couple years later, as she's beginning to settle and make what kind of a home she can out of this new place, Bethlehem. And Jesus is a toddler. Again, the angel comes and says, You've got to move. Your life is in danger here, and they become refugees and take off to Egypt, and again they're uprooted. And then shortly after that, they move from Egypt and back to Nazareth again. And in Nazareth, she begins to try to raise a home. And sometime not long after that, it seems that Joseph died. God took away her husband, leaves her to raise her children all by herself, and you think, well, it must have been a perfect family to have Jesus as a son. Well, the Bible tells it didn't work out that way. His brothers and his sisters didn't accept him. They mocked him. They rejected him. There must have been a lot of squabbling. There must have been tension. Difficulty. As a mother who is essentially a single mother raising this family. And even as she sees him come into popularity and becomes famous among the In Palestine in that area, so famous that he's so busy he can't even stop to eat. Which he thinks that he's going to go mad because of the zeal with which he's healing and preaching. And then she watches her son fall into disfavor. And from disfavor, she sees him in Jerusalem on trial, beaten, mocked, scourged. And then watches her own son led away to a cross. Watches the soldiers pound spikes into the hands and the feet of her son. Till like Simeon says, a sword pierces through her own soul. And she watches her son crucified. Why? Because when she had said back in the announcement of the angel, I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said She relinquished control. She relinquished her agenda, and she was saying, I'm but your servant, Lord. It's up to you what you designed for me to go through. It's not for me to choose. I'm simply to serve. Because you've transformed my heart. My spirit rejoices, she says, in God my Savior. And so with that transformed heart, she leaves it to him. But what about you and me? Teenagers today have a saying, get real. They also say get a life, but I like get real a little better. So let's get real. What does this mean for us? First of all, what does it mean about your attitude toward Jesus' commands and desires in your life? Ephesians 5. 10 has a very helpful verse to guide us in all our decisions. Ephesians 5. 10 says that you and I should be learning what is pleasing to the Lord. That's in the context of very specific commands that he says were to keep. But he says, as you know what God says in his word for you, and know that to do that is what's pleasing to him. Then you learn what it means to be a servant who pleases your master. And so when he speaks to you about sexual purity Not only in your practice, but in your mind, the things you feed your mind and what you look at, the kinds of shows that you look at on TV, the movies that you go to, and the rest of that, do you say, Lord, that's not convenient? Lord, it interferes with what I want to do. It's not practical for today. Or do you say like Mary, I'm the Lord's servant. May it be to me, as you have said. When he opens up to you the things that he's doing throughout the world today, the opening up of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and Red China and opportunities that are abounding all over. So that we see that in North America there seems to be fewer opportunities in responsiveness relative to what God is doing in other parts of the world. Do you look and do you say, what does that mean to me, Lord? What does it mean to be a partner? Well, those who are taking the gospel in strategic places in the world now. And what could that mean to me even in the changing of my plans in the years ahead? Or do you say, Lord, I've got my plan set? It's not convenient to even consider that. For I've got my life laid out. But the servant says, I'm the Lord's servant. May it be to me whatever it is that you say. For you've helped your servant Israel. And I'm part of that. By your mercy, my heart's been transformed to simply want to do whatever you want. Or what is your attitude toward those who treat you like a servant? What does it mean? When Jesus says in Mark 10, 45, that even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. Someone has said that the true test of a servant is how he reacts when someone treats him like one. How do you react when somebody treads on your rights? Do you react to defend the rights? Or do you react with the heart of a servant? What about your Christmas plans? Will they revolve around you or around others in your family? And how you might make the holidays more pleasant for others that you're in contact with. But finally, what does it mean about our attitude toward the needs in our community? Frank Tilipa said, this culture is amazingly easy to reach by creative Christians because it is so obviously needy. And you look at the needs, the overwhelming needs that swamp the social services of Howard County in Maryland. Abused kids, abused spouses Single parents struggling with kids, stress in homes, AIDS, people who are struggling with all kinds of tensions, difficulties People who desperately need someone who can creatively band together with others, not alone, probably can't do it alone, but with others in the body to design ministries. In order to meet needs, felt needs in the community, and to bring into that the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're even starting right here on Sunday mornings What does it mean as a servant to go out of this worship? When you hear the benediction, is it that when I which of my friends do I want to check up on, or what do I want to do, who do I want to see? How can I be comfortable during the coffee time? Or is it rather we have people that God is bringing here from the community? We don't know whether they have Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord or whether they're seeking and looking for reality or Some relationship with him? What do I do to extend myself to other people who are here? How can I aggressively go up to someone and And find out where they're from and what they do and maybe invite them to come with my group. Now they don't be all so aggressive this morning and any of you who are visitors visitors get a little nervous now, I think They're gonna get aggressive on me, huh? Gotta watch you after a sermon like that. But just our mindset. Do we think as servants? Toward those that God is bringing to us in the parking lot to help them to find the nursery, to help them around. Where do we serve ourselves? Joseph Tsan, who was a leader of the church in Romania, was imprisoned, suffered again and again for the gospel of Jesus Christ. His church became one of the largest Baptist churches in Romania. This was before Czechescu was overthrown. He used to come around and speak in places in the United States, and whenever he'd come, he'd say, I would tell people, simply introduce me, Joseph Tan, a slave of Jesus Christ. But he said inevitably I would be introduced, Josephson, a servant, worker, minister, anything else, but never a slave. He said, something about you Americans don't like the idea of slaves, do you? You don't like to think that you're under the control of another person. But he said, until I settle that issue in my life. That my Jesus who has suffered for me has the right to do with me as his slave whatever he wants. I'll never really know what it means to be his disciple. For he has helped his servant Israel. He's been merciful. He's been merciful to you and to me. Let's respond as servants. Let's pray Lord, give to us, we pray this morning, hearts of servants. In Jesus' name. Amen.