It's a worthwhile exercise, some time to go through your New Testament and check out Paul's Songs of Praises. Times when Paul, out of the fullness of his heart and whatever he's writing, just simply bursts into praise and thanksgiving to God for his wonders, the wonders of his ways, of his character. To Paul, doctrine was anything but a dry matter. And sometimes when Paul speaks of the doctrine of God or how to live, It just so fills him with a sense of awe and wonder that the doc the doctrine leads right into a doxology. Well, we're really getting the spot I feel like I should uh pick up a cane and do a little soft shoe here. Back to the subject. Is that okay? You just disappeared, but I'm probably in better light for you, okay? Uh anyway, um someday we're gonna work the balance of these things, you know. I mean it's either I see you or you see me. Somehow there ought to be a balance we can see each other But what I'm trying to get at here and what Paul's saying is that when Paul sometimes gives some of his most difficult doctrines, he doesn't defend them. He simply issues forth in praise. Now, this week's Thanksgiving, and although this isn't officially our Thanksgiving service, we have our Thanksgiving service jointly with our Mother and Grandmother Church down at Knox on Thursday at ten o'clock and certainly invite any of you to participate. There's directions in the bulletin to come on down and join us over the river for Tuxent through the woods down there and over to grandmother's house to worship as we do each Thanksgiving. But because this week is Thanksgiving, I want to offer to you a classic example of where Paul issues forth a word of praise, a burst of praise. Simply for you to meditate upon this week, to jumpstart your cold heart, as my cold heart needs to be jumpstarted from time to time. And enable us simply to praise and to worship Him and to thank Him this week. I'm talking about the end of Romans chapter 11, which if you have your bulletin outline there, you already know If you haven't turned to it, please do so now. Romans 9-11, you may recall, is a very difficult passage. You don't hear it preached on very much. It's about God's sovereignty in election. Jacob have I loved and Esau I hated even before they were born and did anything. Then he speaks about setting aside Israel and grafting the Gentiles into those promises, that by mercy and by grace we would receive the promises that were really for Israel. and then how all of us are guilty and none of us have a claim to God's mercy. So if he's merciful to anyone, that's a wonder and not something to be expected. And he finishes that whole thing in chapter 11. Let's begin at verse 28 to see how he concludes this whole argument. He says, as far as the gospel is concerned, now as I'm reading this, try to follow his thought and see if you can get the drift and the point of what he's saying. As far as the gospel is concerned, Paul says, they, the Israelites, are enemies on your account. But as far as election is concerned, they're loved on account of the patriarchs. For God's gifts and his call are irrevocable. Just as you who were at one time disobedient to God have now received mercy as a result of their disobedience, So they too have now become disobedient in order that they too may now receive mercy as a result of God's mercy to you. For God has bound all men over to disobedience so that he may have mercy on them all. Okay, did you get that? Do you understand what he's saying there? Yeah, sure, I understand. That's heavy, isn't it? I mean, you know, think of the truths that Paul is is articulating there. Now, here's a man with a brilliant mind. So He's not sloppily stating things. You know, he didn't put that too well. You know, Paul, why couldn't you put it a little clearer? Paul's saying, no, it's clear if you understand the drift of the argument of who God is and what he's like. You know, books could be written. In fact, I thought, you know, if I were to do a series of messages on the verses I just read, I figured it'd be good for about 27 messages, you know. I mean, there's a lot of stuff there. Right? But now the interesting thing is Paul doesn't back off from this and say, you know, gee, I I know that's really kind of hard and it's really sort of difficult for you to grasp it. His response is, look what he does in verse 33. Immediately after that he says, oh, the depth of the riches, of the wisdom, and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable his judgments and his paths beyond tracing out. Who has known the mind of the Lord or who has been his counselor? Who has ever given to God that God should repay him? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Now, what's he saying there? Paul's saying, look, I understand that to you, in your natural mind That what I've just said here is could sound like God is an arbitrary manipulator of history And that he is a capricious selector of who goes to heaven and who goes to hell. But I don't back off of his sovereignty. Rather, I call you to place yourself with Job prostrate at his feet in wonder and amazement at his infinite wisdom. To recognize that it is utter folly and arrogance for you to think that possibly you would be fairer than God. In fact, to realize that we give God nothing, our notions of fairness, our reasoning, everything comes from Him. And the depth of His wisdom is infinite. You see, Paul's response to this is simply to praise God for the infinite wisdom and the wonder of who he is. 4 verse 36, from him and through him and to him are all things. So to him be the glory forever. Paul saying that you can no more easily trace the paths of God's understanding Then you could trace the Mariana Trench, seven miles below the surface of the Pacific Ocean, sitting in a dinghy out there on the Pacific. You could no more easily trace the paths of his understanding than you could trace the paths of the galaxies standing out on your deck with a pair of binoculars. On our way to Japan a few weeks ago, we stopped off at Niagara Falls. Dean had never seen that. We went down under the falls there, and I thought as I was standing under those falls and the water is pouring over rushing over it, the you know, the spray goes out hundreds of feet and the water's coming over there at over two hundred and twelve thousand cubic feet per second. And I thought if I were to stand under here with a Dixie cup And say, okay, fill her up. I can take it. That is like my saying to God, go ahead, explain the way you run the universe. I can take it Explain how you run history. Explain how it is that you work in sinners who are dead in their sin to draw them to yourself. I can understand that. You see why Paul's response when he comes to the end of this is simply to praise him for the infinite, unsearchable depths of his wisdom. And then to conclude with this verse: from him and through him and to him are all things. What I'd like to do this morning is to focus on just that verse. With having laid a little bit of the context, to just simply focus on verse 36. You notice that after all of this weighty reasoning, verse 36 is almost entirely monosyllables. The simplest of words. And yet, as we consider verse 36, we realize that only God Himself can fathom the depths of the truth is contained in there. From him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. I'd like to break it into simply two points, as you see in the verse. First of all, a doctrine to observe. From him, through him, to him are all things. And then, secondly, a devotion to imitate. To him be the glory forever. First of all, notice the doctrine that Paul teaches here. It's true of both creation and redemption. Let's consider this, and you'll see in your meditation this week that if you choose to use that for thanksgiving, it will take you through this point by point in terms of creation and redemption. Just to help you to praise the Lord and to thank him this week for what he's done. Notice first of all in creation. From him are all things. He is the source of all. There was a time, in fact, it was an eternity of time, when God existed in three persons all alone, without you and me. Yeah, hard to believe. There was a time when there was no universe, there was no space There were no creatures, not even angels, and God, in the fullness of the glory of his three persons, was totally content. He needed nothing, he lacked nothing. One of our primary characteristics is not humility. And it's difficult for us to believe that God didn't need the universe, particularly us, to cap it off. I don't know if any of you saw the little Calvin and Hobbes cartoon a week or two ago, you know. The whole universe has come together finally so that I could exist. You see. And this is kind of the view that um we often have Only God, perfect, in the fullness of his glorious existence. No heavens And yet his glory unbounded was contained in his self-contained greatness. Now, where did the idea of the universe come from? Who was around to suggest to God, yeah, I think it'd be a neat idea if you put together a universe. Yeah, it'd be kind of nice. It would give you some glory and people could worship you. Obviously, as verse 34 says, who's been his counselor? Who was there to give to God the idea to bring the universe into existence? Every law, every creature was thought up by God Himself. He thought up spiders and hamsters and kitty cats and puppy dogs He thought up water and food and all kinds of food. He thought up music and sex. He thought up all the things that you and I enjoy. Everything came from him. Nothing came from any other source, either in idea or execution, except from the mind of God. He's the one who decided to make camels different from horses and adapt the camel perfectly to its environment in the desert. He's the one that decided to put the hump on the camel. We call a hammel a horse designed by a committee. But God knew exactly what he was doing when he put together the camel. 80 pounds of fat in that hump so that the camel can go through the desert and exist for many days without food. In fact, a camel can go for eight days without water. It can lose 225 pounds of water that carries within itself. And then when it comes to an o an oasis, it can drink 27 gallons in 10 minutes and refill. Camel's design so it can withstand sandstorms. If you and I were to be in a desert sandstorm, we'd hardly breathe and think we're going to suffocate. The camel's designed with particular muscles in its nostrils so that it can shut out all the sand and still allow just enough air in to breathe. A camel has a windshield wiper on its eyeball, so that if a sand particle gets through those long eyelashes, the windshield wiper takes off the grain of sand. Perfectly designed from the Creator. He thought it up and he executed it in his wisdom. He thought up insects. I think sometimes when God thought up insects, the primary purpose was just to simply show the proliferation of life. You're somewhere between four and five billion human beings on this earth. How many insects do you think there are? Let me put it to you this way. For every single human being walking the face of the earth, there are 200 million insects. So if we parceled them all out, you'd have 200 million for your own. And I'm not sure which is reproducing faster, the humans or the insects, but I think it's the insects. From him are all things. And he thought up you. He made you exactly as he intended to make you. With your height, your nose, you have some control on the width. But various other things he has designed that make you precisely who you are, your gifts, your abilities, your limitations. When's the last time that you said to God, from you comes my being? I thank you for how you've made me. In your infinite wisdom, the knowledge, unsearchable are your judgments, your paths beyond tracing out. And you made me just as you intended to make me apart from the sin. But all the rest of who I am reflects your wisdom. Through him are all things. Not only did he think all these things up, not only did he speak, and the heavens leaped into existence at his word. But through him are all things. He is the sustainer of all things. He's the one who upholds them with his power. It's through him that things continue. Colossians 1. 17 says that in him all things hold together. He maintains the stars in their courses, the earth on its axis. Did you ever stop to think that God could have created the earth so it simply spins around in a vertical axis from north pole to south pole around the sun if he did? Things would be an awful lot different. There'd be no seasons, and part of the earth would be scorched, and part of it would remain frigid But God decided to tilt the earth exactly 23 degrees and 27 minutes from north to south so that in the winter the north pole is tilted away from the sun, and in the summer it's tilted toward the sun. It never varies from 23 degrees in 27 minutes. It's not kind of moving down to stabilize. It's not wobbling further. It continues year after year, century after century. Through him. One of the things that has fascinated me through the years, possibly I guess because well no doubt because of our going to Cape Cod every year, is the tides And how God designed the tides, so essential to so much of the food chain on the earth. It's through him. That the moon in its phases produces the changes of the tides, the ebb and the flow. The tides are much more complex than that. They're fascinating. You realize that there's neap tides and spring tides according to the phase of the moon. In the neep tides, the change is minimal from high to low. In the spring tides that have nothing to do with spring, it's simply that they spring forth, but it happens every month. In the spring tides, the highs are higher and the lows are lower And that has a big effect on the salt marshes and on the food chain, as well as the fun that you have finding things that are down there at low tide when it's exceptionally low. And the difference in various parts of the earth varies dramatically. Where we go at Cape Cod, on a springtide, the differential may be 13 to 14 feet from high to low tide. Just a few miles away in Nantucket, the differential is about two feet. And that's all because of the designer's purpose. Through him are all things. Exactly as he intended them, for our enjoyment and to bring praise and glory to him. The third thing he says is, to him are all things. They're not only from him in conception and through him in creation and sustenance, but they are to him. He is the end of all things. Revelation 4. 11 says, all exist for his pleasure. It says, by your will, but it also could be translated for your pleasure. From the chirp of a cricket in the garden to the chorus of the archangels in heaven, all exists for him. From the song of a sparrow to the song of the redeemed, we all exist for him. From the first stammerings of Adam awakening in the Garden of Eden as he watched God paint the wings of a butterfly in the first sunset. To the hallelujah choruses of the angels down through eternity, including you and me. We all exist to him. That our appreciation of his creation would be reflected in praise and thanksgiving to the Creator for His glory. But we recognize that there would be no praise. There would only be the abuse and the misuse of his creation, because sin has separated us from our God. And so Paul particularly has in mind in this verse that all things are from him and through him and to him in terms of redemption, not simply creation. And so, in terms of redemption, this is also true. From him are all things. He is the source of redemption. What human being could have ever conceived of the plan of salvation? What human being could have ever thought of a plan whereby God would create a covenant? A covenant that would execute his justice, a covenant that you and I found impossible to keep, and then that God Himself would take upon Himself flesh and become a man to keep that covenant and all its stipulations. And then to suffer the curses of that covenant, so that upon those curses bearing your sin and my sin, he would fulfill all of the fullness of God's wrath. And then at his death, he would laugh at its hold upon him and walk triumphantly out of that tomb with you and me in his train. What a conception of a plan of salvation. So honoring to God, so safe and secure for you and for me. From him is that plan. Not only is it from him, but of course it's through him. Our redemption is through him. He is the means of our salvation. He executed that plan perfectly. From the preset preservation of Israel, from destruction by its enemies, and from its own self-destruction and its sin and disobedience, God preserved a remnant. And then from that remnant he brought forth the one true Israelite, Jesus. And he preserved him from Herod in his wrath and destruction. He preserved him from the crowds who would seek to drive him over a cliff or to stone him or to destroy him in one way or another. Through him, Jesus came to the Garden of Gethsemane to face the horror of hell. And it was through him. That Jesus did not flinch from facing the cross for you and for me. Perfectly, without once sinning through his entire life, Jesus executed all that was required. of him for you and for me. Through him our life has been gained as we turn from ourselves and recognize not for me, not through me. But only from Jesus and through Jesus is my forgiveness and new life possible. And it's all to him. The plan gives honor to God because we realize that we have nothing to contribute to our salvation except the sin to be redeemed. And it's all to him that the glory is given. It's all to him when you and I recognize what it is that he has done for us. Now the first part of that verse, from him and through him and to him are all things, is simply a statement of truth. Our response to that statement is in the last part of verse 36. To him be the glory forever. This is a devotion for you and for me to imitate. Notice first the God awareness of that verse. To him be the glory forever and ever. Let me observe at this point a subtle temptation that many of us, including myself, fall prey to each Thanksgiving. The temptation is to think that as you sit around the table on Thursday and people ask, what are you thankful for? To at that moment go around the table that's groaning with food, and to simply share something that you feel good about at that moment. And after having stated that, to think that that's an expression of thanksgiving, okay, lay two, let's have at it. You see what I'm saying? We can sometimes with only the vaguest understanding of God consciousness, of devotion and thanksgiving to Him, state things that we feel good about and think that that's being thankful. It's interesting that at the beginning of this letter, Paul says that ingratitude was the root sin of the human race. They were not thankful, Paul says. And that led to all the perversions and the outworking of sin within the human race in Romans 1. And this is the counterpoint to that. To him, consciously, not just thinking, what do I feel good about today? What is it that I recognize that it was from him and through him and to him that I owe my gratitude? For what? And to think in terms of creation and redemption. Hopefully, I've given enough to start for a week of productive praise and meditation and thanksgiving for you and me. Notice secondly the God desire in this verse: to Him be the glory forever. To him be the glory forever. This is beyond words. It is not simply a matter of saying, thank you, God. From you and through you and to you are all things. And to have a passing recognition of that before we carve the white meat. This is speaking about an attitude of life. A constant moment-by-moment recognition that my life exists to be a glory to God forever. To recognize that that is my highest priority. And that if God chooses to remove part or a good bit of my health, And to put me in weakness, so that by my recognition of him in a particular way he gets more glory, and so be it. For from him and through him and to him are all things. Who am I to be his counselor? And if he chooses not to give me the prosperity that I desire, Or the mate in life that I think would make me happy? Or any other thing that I think, if only It's beyond my control, but if only I will scheme and manipulate in order to get the happiness that I demand. And we place that above the desire to Him be the glory forever. Then we've missed the whole point of this verse. To him be the glory forever is a doxology not simply to be the reflection of a moment's kind of sentimental thought on Thanksgiving. It's the critical question that guides our priorities and our attitudes, both in what we plan and in what we receive. To him be the glory forever. Why? Because from him and through him and to him Will be the glory forever, not only from you and from me, but from all the nations of the earth, as God brings the people to Himself to worship. Let's spend a little time now. I particularly ended a little early, just so that we can have expressions of praise and worship To God in conclusion and response to him from this verse. Anyone who wants to Better to stand and turn toward the middle, but just as long as you project loudly brief expressions, let's praise and worship our God. But thank you crazy for your word. And although your wisdom is so deep. Well I just want to thank you that for it. If you heard my cry for help, then you do the out. Heavenly Father, I praise you and thank you for what you've given me. I do not deserve Your love and grace that you have given to me fully. I thank you for my family. I thank you for the resources that you have given me. I worship you and thank you, Father. Closely, you know, you need to think S F, error than L. Cl