I bring you greetings in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ from the Committee on Foreign Missions of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Pleasure to be with you here this morning, to share God's word with you and to see what He is doing around the world. Our scripture lesson this morning is from Acts chapter Chapter 4, Acts 4, verses 1 through 22. And you'll see we're picking up a story in the middle of it. Don't worry about it. We'll go back and get the beginning of the story as well. But we'll start reading at Acts 4, chapter 1. I'll be reading from the New American Standard Version. If you've got a slightly different version in your few Bible there, don't worry about it. Acts 4 Before we read, let us look to the Lord in prayer. Lord, you reveal yourself to us through your word. And yet we know that unless your spirit opens us. The eyes of our hearts to see what is there. These words might as well be in Japanese for all the good they would do us. And yet, when your spirit is in our hearts and opens Opens it to see what is in your word. We behold you in your glory and your majesty. Be with us now this morning as we read your word. May it find fertile soil in our hearts that we might bear fruit to your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts 4. 1. And as they, that's Peter and John, were speaking to the people, the priests and the capitalists of the temple guard and the Sadducees came upon them being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus The resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the message believed, and the number of the men came to be about five thousand. And it came about And when they had placed them in the center, they began to inquire, by what power or in what name have you done this? Then Peter filled With the Holy Spirit said to them, Rulers and elders of the people, if we are on trial today for a benefit done to a sick man, as to how this man has been made well, Then let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene Whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name, this man stands here before you in good health. He is a stone which was rejected by you, the builder, but which became the very cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is No other name in heaven, even among men, by which we must be saved. Now, as they observe the consequences Of Peter and John, and understood that they were uneducated and untrained men, they be marveling. And began to recognized them as having been with Jesus. And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say in reply. But when When they had ordered them to go outside of the council, they began to confer with one another, saying, What shall we do with these men? For the fact that a noteworthy miracle has taken place through them is apparent to all who live in Jerusalem. And we cannot deny it. But in order that it may not spread any further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to any man. in this name. And when they had summoned them, they commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you Rather than to die, you be the judge. For we cannot stop seeking what we have seen. And when they had threatened them further, they let them go, finding no basis on which they might punish them on account of the people, because they were all glorifying God for what had happened. For the man was more than forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing had been performed. Amen. Our Bibles tell us that the underlying motivation for everything that we do Including missions work, is God's glory. That is why we live, that is why we breathe. That is why we come to morning worship. That is why we send missions Missionaries, that is why we go as missionaries. That God may be glorified. Our Bibles tell us that God has most perfect Revealed himself and his plan of salvation in the person of his Son, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Our Bibles tell us that those who have been redeemed by the Savior's work have redeemed Received a commission. And we're all very familiar with that great commission, as we call it in Matthew 28, to go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. And the Son and the Holy Spirit teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And in Luke 24, we see that it is part of God's own. Overall plan that repentance or forgiveness of sins shall be proclaimed in the Lord's name to all the nations But today, as we focus on our calling, I want us to remember again Our underlying motivation. And that is that God may be glorified. And God is glorified when the excellencies of his character are revealed to and acknowledged by his creature. It's who he is that brings Glory to God. It's what he has done that brings glory to God. It's what he continues to do that brings glory to God. He has promised to do in the future, we know he certainly will do. That brings glory to God. God is glorified when the excellencies of his character Are revealed to and acknowledged by his creatures. Now, this is not a new idea in the New Testament. Testament. The idea of God calling to Himself a people. And he gives that people his name, and he entrusts them with his oracles of truth. He tells them they are gathered and created for his glory, and he charges them to be his witnesses. That's not a new idea. in the New Testament. Turn with me, please, in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 43. Isaiah forty-three, I'm going to read the first thirteen verses. And listen to this. With the ears of your heart. But now, thus says the Lord your creator, O Jacob, and he who formed you, O Israel, do not fear, for I have redeemed you I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the river. They will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire you will not be scorched, nor will the flame burn you. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I have given Egypt as your ransom. Cush and Siva in your place. Since you are precious in my sight, since you are honored and I love you, I will give other men in your place, and other peoples in exchange for your life. Do not fear, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and gather you from the west. I I will say to the north, give them up, and to the south, do not hold them back. Bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the ends of the earth, everyone. who is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory whom I have formed, even whom I have made. Bring out the people who are blind, even though they have eyes, And the deaf, even though they have ears. All the nations have gathered together in order that the peoples may be assembled. Who among them can declare this and proclaim to us the former things. Let them present their witnesses that they may be justified. Or let them Hear and say it is true. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord And my servant, whom I have chosen, in order that you may know and believe me, and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, and there will be none after me. I, even I, am the Lord, and there is no Savior besides me. It is I who have declared and saved and proclaimed, and there was no strange God among you, so you are my witnesses, declares the Lord. And I am God. Even from eternity I am He, and there is none who can deliver out of my hand. I act and who can reverse it. Look at this passage for a minute with me. Verse 7. Everyone who is called by my name, that's you, Christian. Why have we been called by his name why have we been gathered together look on whom I created for my glory that is why we are That's why we exist for God's glory. Now, what is the work that we have been called to do? Verse ten, so you are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and I am God Verse twelve, it is I who have saved, declared, and proclaimed. So You are my witnesses, declares the Lord. That is the background that I want us to look at our text this morning. And as we look at missionary work this morning and through this coming month as part of your missions conference month, keep your Your eyes focused on what is God doing. It seems that, particularly in missionary work where we are beyond our own resources and abilities, And often we see God working most clearly because we can't do it. Only God can do it. And we see Him at work. In this context. But that is our motive. God's glory. Now let's go back to Acts chapter Actually, let's pick up our story at the beginning in Acts chapter 3. Because at the beginning of Acts chapter 3, we see Peter and John on their way up to the temple for the evening. Hour of prayer. And on the way up to the temple, they meet a beggar. He's been lame since birth. He's 40 years old And he's begging alms. When I was in Taiwan with Steve Hake, he took me to the Suk, the marketplace. And it's in this crowded, jammed-in alley, and you kind of walk me around way through with one hand on your pocket to protect your wallet and you kind of bounce off shoulders. And you wonder, you know, how could you possibly squeeze another s human being into this area and all of a sudden the crowd parts. And there sitting right in the middle of the street with his trouser legs rolled up so that you can see the sword on his legs in the bottom of his feet is a man begging alms. There's some change What do Peter and John do? Look at verse six. Peter identifies the man's real And he says, I do not possess silver and gold, but what I do have, I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazarene, walk. And in verse eight we read, and with a leap he stood upright and began to walk. And now picture this. And he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping, and praising God. When was the last time an adult came walking and leaping and praising God into your church? Kids do it all the time, an adult. And the response of the people we are told, verse 10, and they were filled with wonder. And amazement at what had happened to him. And so Peter uses this occasion to preach and look at the message that he preaches. Verse 19: repent! Therefore, and return, that your sins may be wiped away, verse 20, and that he may send Jesus the Christ appointed for you. 15 and 16, the one whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are witnesses. And on the basis of faith in his name, it is the name of Jesus which has strengthened this man whom you see and know That sounded like a familiar sermon to you? That's the message of Luke 24, all over again. Repentance for forgiveness of sins is being proclaimed in being proclaimed In Jesus' name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And that brings us up then to where we read just a couple minutes ago There we're told that as they were speaking to the people, the priest and the captain of the temple guard, the Sadducees came upon them, being greatly disturbed, because they were teaching the children. people in proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. Now put yourself in their shoes for a minute. The Pharisees Think about the frustration they must have felt. I mean, after all It had taken a lot of work to get rid of Jesus. He had been a troublemaker. He'd had a large following. He'd gathered disciples. He'd gone around working miracles. People were wondering if Jesus And finally they had engineered something, so they thought to where they finally Gotten a crowd whipped up, and they've been able to arrest him and drag him down to the Roman occupying government, turn him over, and have him executed as a common criminal. Things are quiet again in Jerusalem. Disciples are scattered. And another troublemaker. Goes away. Our place is safe. And now they look out and they see out there Some of these disciples talking about Jesus Christ doing miracles. And for the Sadducees, it's even worse because these disciples are talking about the resurrection. And the Sadducees are the Sudes. Sadducees deny that there's a resurrection. So we go on. It says, and they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day, for it was already evening. Many of those who heard the message believe. Now Luke here is being delicate They laid hands on him. They grabbed him, they dragged him off, and they threw him into the dungeon overnight. This isn't a nice, clean American constitutional text. Dungeon. This is a pit. This is a hole with vermin and rats and disease. And you know that the longer you stay there, the less likely it will be that you'll ever come out healthy or alive. But already the Holy Spirit was at work, because many of those who heard the message believed. Now the next day, it's kind of a who's who of who's ever important in Jerusalem gathers together. The council convenes. And we're told that Annas is there in Caiaphas and John and Alicia. Alexander and anybody who's got a pedigree. And they convene a council and they bring in Peter and John out of the dungeon and they stand them down there in the center, and the first thing they want to know What's their authority for what they did? Look at verse 7. By what power or in what name have you done this? Now, put yourself in Peter and John's shoes for a minute. You've just spent a night in the dungeon. You don't want to Want to spend any more nights in the desert. You know the longer you spend there, the worse it will get. And now they're asking you for your authority. Now I have to confess, if I look at my own heart, and if I had just spent the night in the dungeon, I I might be tempted to temper my response a little bit. You know, uh I'm sorry guys. Uh didn't mean to create a disturbance. Uh I'll get a permit before we do a miracle next time Uh and and the stuff about the resurrection, well, if that's so offensive, we won't talk about it, we'll just hand it out on tracks. Is that what Peter and John's response is that we have to do that? Was? Oh, look at verse 10. You want to know our authority? Verse 10. By the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene Whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name, this man stands here before you in good health. Jesus Christ is the stone that you, the builders, rejected. And there is salvation in no other name under heaven. What's he doing? He's preaching the gospel to them, and it begins with a call to repentance. Whom you crucified, whom you rejected. But it doesn't leave them there. It doesn't just condemn. Alt repentance. It points them to Jesus Christ. There is salvation in Jesus Christ and no one else. Now the council has a dilemma. Look at verse thirteen Now, as they observed the confidence of Peter and John and understood that they were uneducated and untrained men, they were marveling. Where did these guys get the moxie to speak with us like this? They have no formal education. They're fishermen. They probably still smell like fishermen. And as I finish the verse, I'm convicted. Because we're told they began to recognize them as having been with Jesus. And I have to ask myself, how often does someone recognize me as having been They look, they see the man who has been healed standing there, and they put them all out of the council. They kind of huddle together now. They ask themselves, look at verse sixteen. What shall we do with these men? For the fact that a noteworthy miracle has taken place through them is apparent to all who live in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. As much as they wanted to, they could not impeach the evidence. A miracle They would have loved to have been able to expose it for a fraud. They certainly were motivated to find a way to expose it for a fraud, and they couldn't do it. It. They had to concede the miracle took place. In fact, if you look at all the miracles recorded in Scripture, particularly that our Lord did and his disciples did, almost all of them are done publicly. in the presence of people who would love to impeach them. And they couldn't. You must deal with that. You cannot deny it anyway. More than they can deny a miracle took place. So, what do they decide to do? They decide to run a bluff Here's how the bluff goes. But in order, verse 17, in order that it may not spread any further among the people, let us look Warn them to speak no more to any man in this name. They see that they don't have a crowd outside whipped up, ready to go down to the the Roman governor for these people. In fact, the crowd outside is what? They're glorifying and praising God for the miracle that just took place. So they run the Look. In verse 18, and when they had summoned them, bring them back in, they commanded them not to speak or to Teach it all in the name of Jesus. You know that's exactly what the evil one continues to do today. The sinful world does not want to hear the name of Jesus. Oh, yeah, you Christians can do good works. You can take care of the homeless and the unwed mothers and the drug abusers and on and on. But why do you always have to drag in the name of Jesus? The evil one tries as hard as he can to prevent us from revealing to the world what God is. doing in us and through us. If you must do good works, well, okay. Just don't attribute them to the Lord Lord. Or in other words, don't glorify God. That's simple. Everything that you do, you either do it for God's glory or for some other purpose that is sinful. Because unless it is done For God's glory, it is simple. The bluff is out on the table. How do Peter and John respond? Praise God for his grace. Look at this response, verse 19 and 20. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. Judge, for we cannot stop speaking what we have seen and heard. By God's grace, the bluff of the council falls flat. As Peter and John identify this command for exactly what it is. It's a pronouncement contrary to God's will. And they go on and they put the council on notice that they will not cease from performing their commission. And we'll come back to this last clause of their response in a minute. Let's finish our story, verse 21. And when they had threatened them further, they let them go, finding no basis on which they might punish them on account of the people, because they were all glorifying and praising God. In this case, it pleased God to deliver his servants. But that is not always the case. And the history of God's people is decorated with the lives of those who placed God's glory even above their very own life. Today in many parts of the world the child The Moslem world. Being a Moslem and converting, and then turning around and attempting to convert other Muslims carries with it a death penalty. And men and women are dying for sharing their faith. Let's go back Back to this last clause in Peter and John's response. For we cannot stop speaking what we have seen and heard. That is what witnesses do. They testify to that of which they have personal knowledge. Knowledge. What is it that you and I have been called to bear witness to? What God has accomplished in Jesus Christ. Repentance for forgiveness of sins in his name. And he didn't just do this in a vacuum. This isn't some abstract concept. He did it in your life, and he did it in my life. And so how then should we live as witnesses Hebrews chapter twelve, verses one to three, the Holy Spirit tells us how we should live. He says, Let us lay aside every And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus Christ the author, and perhaps Perfector of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down At the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you May not grow weary and lose heart. If this describes our lives, we too will not be able to stop speaking what we have seen and heard. Today in the United States, by God's grace, and I must add, exceeding We have not yet had to resist to the point of, as the writer of Hebrews puts it, to the point of shedding blood. But who knows what tomorrow may be may bring. In his book for a testimony, the Reverend Bruce Hunt, one of our early missionaries to China, gave an account Of his imprisonment by the Japanese for preaching the gospel. It was in 1941. And he describes in his book one of his many I'd like to share with you one account this morning. The first question put to me by the interrogator almost pulled me over. Do you want to go back to America? I was asked. Of course, he added, we cannot promise that we shall let you. But if you could, he emphasized, would you like to go to America? It was not The first time Americans had been offered this choice. Two young missionaries from the town in Korea where we used to live had been imprisoned during the previous February. They had been subjected to many indignities, wearing bags. Over their heads when going to court, walking barefoot through the streets, wearing convict uniforms and the like. Trial in which they were found guilty. They were given a suspended sentence on condition that they left the country. And there seemed to be little else they could do. Now here I was being made the same offer. My mind was working fast. The mattress outside the door loomed before my mind's eye. That was the choice. America or back to the cell with a mattress for an indefinite stay. The sun did not seem very bright at that moment, though its slanting rays were still shining into the room. A cold dread gripped my stomach. And I was speaking. And my voice seemed far away and unreal, but my mind was made up. As far as my own personal comfort was concerned, I I began. And once the words had started to come, it was easier. I would like to return to the United States. But as a missionary, I believe that God sent me to this country, and I want to be Where I am supposed to be. No, I do not want to go back to America. The interpreter Shot a glance at me and began to translate. My interrogator was irate and looked at me angrily. But you can't stay in this country and preach as you've been preaching that there is only one God. We believe our emperor is God and he made everything that you see. He spoke quickly and emphatically. The Korean interpreter was noticeably uncomfortable, but relayed the word Be impossible for you to put me out. Then I went on to tell him of Christ standing before Pilate and how he had said, Is it have no power over me? At all, except it were given me from above. He tossed his head as though to say such talk meant nothing to him. It was a language of dupes And fools, but still noticeably irritated. And as though girding himself for a showdown, he snapped back. But you can't preach that way. So now, do you want to go? Stubbornly I clung to my point and again stated that I both rejected his premise and that I did not wish to leave Manchuria. His account goes on He stayed in prison for many more months. Near the end of his first prison term, because the diet was so meager, he began to starve to death. Death. He got very sick. In fact, he lay down with the idea that he may not get up again. Then he noticed one morning in his bowl of thin watery grease. Roll one piece. The next day there were two pieces As his God had not produced. The diet improved, the Lord restored his health He was released from prison only to be re-arrested again within 48 hours as Pearl Harbor was bombed. Back to prison, off to concentration camp, and finally he did come home as a traded prisoner of war. Our Savior warned us in Matthew 10. He said, Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be shrewd as serpents. And innocent as doves. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the courts and scourge you in their synagogues, and you shall even be brought before governors and kings for my sake. as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. For when they deliver you up, do not become anxious about how or what you will speak, for it shall be given you In that hour which you are to speak. For it is not you who speak, but it is the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you. In Eritrea in the highlands, we worked with a man before we had to leave the country and it slid into civil war. We worked with a man by the name of Name of Ariah Hilut. He was a shepherd. He lived in a small, simple stone house. This is the stones just stacked on top of each other. Not stones like we have them here. Dirt floor, grass roof, way up on the side of a hill in the highlands of Eritrea. The village learned that the Derg, the communist army, was coming to their village from the other side of the hill. And he and the four other men lagged back to make sure everybody got out of their village. And then they were going to follow behind, making sure he went out safely. And on the way out of his door, he grabbed his Bible and he tucked it under his arm and he ran out It was too late. He and the four other men were caught by the dird. They were lined up against the wall. Bang! Bang! Bang! Back. Three men dead. One man severely injured. And as they turned and pointed their guns at Ariah, he He stood there with his Bible in his hand and he said, Two thousand years ago, wicked men executed Jesus. Christ. Woe unto you for the innocent blood you have shed here today. And the soldiers looked at each other and said, We better leave this one alone. They told him to attend to the wounded man and bury his dead friends. Today that man is now has a tremendous ministry in his village and in the villages around. His son is preparing for the gospel ministry. And we see how God supplies in time. What about us? I'm afraid that all too often if we're really honest with ourselves We will see that our problem is not that somehow someone is trying to prevent us from speaking about what we have seen. and hurt. No, sadly to say, if we're honest with ourselves, we'll see that our problem is we haven't begun to start Speaking about what we have seen and heard. God forgive us. And may these words of these two disciples ring in our ears our whole lives long. For we cannot stop speaking what we have seen and heard. Let us pray. Lord, you work all things for your glory. As you reveal yourself for who you are and what you have done and what you continue to do, each day we see you. As a great and a marvelous and a wonderful and a just and a righteous and a loving and a merciful God, they overflow Lord, may we ever keep our eyes fixed upon Jesus Christ. May our lives be a testimony to your grace that is at work in us. For your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.