Well that was that was beautiful. Thank you, choir. And John, thank you for your your leadership of that. That was uh what a help to worship If you have your Bibles with you this morning, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. This morning we'll be looking at Luke chapter 5, beginning with verse 27. Almighty God, we thank you for your word, for its truth and its beauty. And Lord, again we come before you, and we ask you to bless the reading of Scripture. Father, in the reading of Scripture, we we hear your voice most clearly. And so give us ears to hear, eyes to see, beautiful things in your word, things that will encourage us in our walk with you, that we might know you better. That our hearts might be enlarged, full of hope, that you might change the intents of our mind, Lord, that we might go forth with wills transformed, desiring to serve you and others. And Father, in the preaching that follows this reading, Lord, we ask that you would bless it. And in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, Lord, lend it your power that it might do some good. For we depend upon you. We ask these things in the name of Jesus, our holy Savior. Amen. Luke chapter 5, beginning with verse 27, the Word of God. After this He went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, Follow me. And leaving everything, he rose and followed him. Levi made him a great feast in his house, and there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them. And the Pharisees and their scribes grumbled at his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? And Jesus answered them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. This ends the reading of God's Word. So it was probably a day like any other. Levi wakes up. puts on his working clothes and heads outside the city, probably Capernaum. We know that it is on the Sea of Galilee or Lake Tiberias. And he goes to his tax booth and he ignores, as always, the scornful look of the people who hate him as a collaborator with the Roman Imperium. He is a tax collector. probably collecting merchant tolls for those who have either been recently catching fish in the lake or transporting goods across across it trying to escape customs He had a job that no self-respecting Roman would accept because you were equated with a thief. If you were a publican or a public man or one who collected the tolls and the fees for the public wheel or monies The tax farming system entrusted to Herod, oh, they were even worse. And so Levi leaves his house. Walks outside of the town where his booth is, and sets up in his booth. I wonder how often Levi contemplated his status and the nature of his name. Why did mom and dad name him Levi? After the father of the priests, those called to be consecrated to the service of God? Why couldn't they have named him something else? Didn't stand as an ironic mockery of the fact that he acted on behalf of the enemies of God's people, even those who had desecrated the temple itself. He preferred to hear Matthew to Levi. In fact, for Bible scholars, if you're one of them, This is really the only place he has ever called Levi. And Levi's sitting there. And the whole countryside has been abuzz with news of this Jesus of Nazareth And Capernaum, that city located in the cities where Jesus has been ministering most. In fact, Capernaum If that is indeed the site of this tax booth, is the place where Jesus had the most profound and deepest ministry of his early career. How many people had been healed? Demons cast out? How many people had been assured of forgiveness of sins? What a thought. How many people had been overwhelmed not only by the gracious words of the Savior as in Nazareth, but the authority? that was delivered from the synagogue in Capernaum. And Matthew would have heard all of this Ideally located by the gates of the city or on the docks in the, according to the Gospel of Mark, right near where the fishermen would come in. It would have been rattling around in his mind, perhaps in his heart, for weeks. And he is not following Jesus. He is not one of those who is trailing behind, hoping to see a spectacle, hoping to hear a proverb, hoping some parable might open up a new look on life for him. He's sitting at his tax booth when this one, a man from Galilee, Jesus of Nazareth, walking by, sees him and calls him by his name. He says, Follow me. What a thought. despite the fact that he is a hated man and a despicable trade Despite the fact that he would have been an outcast nearly anywhere he went, that he would never have been invited, despite the name Levi, to any dinner party hosted by a Pharisee. Or a Sadducee. And here this one who has set the ears of everyone in Galilee ablaze has invited him to become a disciple. To follow him, to learn from him, to become like him. This man, Matthew, Levi, the tax collector, who would have been ashamed to his clan. is going to follow the miracle worker who speaks the very words of God. And so what does he do? In the ancient world, if something spectacular happened in my life, I would throw a party and I would declare in the town square with as loud a voice as I could muster up, come! Eat and drink for free, for the Lord has done good things. We celebrate our birthdays by inviting people over and they give us gifts. That's not the way of the ancient Semitic world. They celebrated, come celebrate with me, for God has given me another year, and they give you gifts. It's a different way of thinking, isn't it? So when you read in places like Isaiah, come, eat and drink, the idea is that I have celebrated this amazing thing. I have gone to the marketplace. I have dropped my coinage on the barrel head, as it were, and said, I'm getting around for everybody. This one's on me. I'm happy today So Levi takes it even a step further. He opens up his own house and he invites everybody. I am going to not simply celebrate The fact that good has been done me today, but I'm going to honor the one who has done it Levi made him a great feast at his house. And he invited all his friends. And oh, they were they were terrible people. Because only terrible people would associate with a tax collector. And so they were other fellow tax collectors. And they were sinners. They were friends in low places, because that's the only place Matthew had any friends. It's doubtful that any of his well-respected family or clan would have even come. But Jesus comes. Jesus comes and he sits with the people that were deemed unworthy of polite society. And Jesus eats with them. That sign of fellowship, solidarity, camaraderie, and social love in the ancient world Jesus makes good on the fact that he will come in and eat with any who open up the door for him. Even Levi. When the Lord knocked on his door, Levi said yes. And a banquet ensued. But not everybody likes the banquet. We were introduced to the Pharisees and their scribes, the Pharisees and the teachers of the law. Last week, when we looked at the healing of the paralytic who was let down through the roof, it's the first reference in the public ministry of Jesus recorded in the Gospel of Luke of the Pharisees. And we're not told how they responded at all. We are told that They grumbled at the fact that Jesus could say, I forgive sins, but then at the end of that short account, it says everyone there was astonished and marveled and said, We have seen great things. And we can only conclude, if we are just reading the words of Scripture, that that would include the Pharisees, because they're not exempted from that statement. So they have been confronted with a Jesus who declares himself to be the messianic Son of Man, just hours perhaps before this calling of Levi, and they watched him then Take this man who is paralyzed, put him back on his feet, leave the house rejoicing. They heard him say he had authority to forgive sins in this world. They watched everybody marvel and rejoice. They didn't respond. But now they do. And we begin to see where their hearts are. They grumble. How many of you have ever had kids? Show of hands? How many of you know any kids? How many of you were a kid? You know what grumbling is. Grumbling is An audibly expressed dissatisfaction with the way things are. And they're dissatisfied. And they grumble. But they don't grumble to Jesus. They grumble at his disciples. These guys who have been following Jesus for perhaps weeks, months at most, they say, why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? It's kind of a passive-aggressive, weird, non-confrontational, but yet very confrontational way to try to accuse the man from Galilee, Jesus of Nazareth. Why would you do such a thing? We have to enter into the world of the Pharisees. Because believe it or not Before Jesus came, the Pharisees were the good guys in many respects. They are the ones who believed in the resurrection and the life to come. They were the ones who believed. And all of the good old-fashioned doctrines that had been handed down from the fathers. They were the ones who studied their scriptures assiduously, in fact, applied them to a fault. And what I mean by that is that if they said, you can't touch a tomb lest you become unclean, They would pass a law saying a tomb had to be whitewashed regularly so that nobody could miss it. They engaged regularly in a practice they called fencing the law. regularly saying, well, if God said that I can't walk on 108 because there's no sidewalk, Just to be sure, we're going to pass a law that you cannot walk if you're within 100 yards of 108. So they created of the law an idol. They identified their obedience with their righteousness. And they did everything, including excluding fellow people from their communities, from any semblance of fellowship with themselves, lest they become by association unclean. In the same way, if you touched a dead body in the Mosaic Code, you then became unclean and had to be ritually purified, they would say that if you sat and ate with a sinner, you'd become unclean. And so they, out of concern for their self-righteousness and out of their indignation that this Jesus who does amazing things isn't living up to our standards, they grumble. And Jesus always takes the bull by the horns. He doesn't leave it to his disciples to try to come up with an answer or a solution or a response. Perhaps he heard it. Perhaps it's because, as Luke points out in four other places, he knows the hearts of men and their thoughts. Jesus intervenes. And he says to those self-righteous, he says, those who are well have no need of a physician but the sick. The sick need a physician. What in the world kind of physician would say, oh dear, okay, you got sick. I I can no longer have you on my list of clients. Because I'm only a physician for healthy people. And if you want to come to my clinic, you better not be sick. What in the world kind of doctor would that be? He wouldn't be very busy. But he'd probably get pretty wealthy. And Jesus is saying the same thing. He's saying, I'm the same as that, only I have come to call the not righteous But the sinners to repentance. Jesus did not come for righteous people. And there's two things we need to observe about that statement. First, there are no righteous people. Second, if you think you are righteous, you are further from the reach of the ministry of Jesus than any other human being alive. Because his invitation to repent and be forgiven can do nothing but fall upon dead ears. Ah, but if you are a sinner, You're called to repentance. I was asked many years ago, what was my favorite word in the Bible The women at the church I was pastoring in California were doing word studies and they wanted to know people's favorite words and then they were going to do studies on those words. And I didn't even have to think twice. I said my favorite word in the Bible is repentance. And they said, what, not like beauty or hope or forever or love. I said, no, no, no, it's repentance. Because there is no more beautiful word. Than the word repentance to a sinner. Because it says that acknowledging the truth about myself does not condemn me. I have an option. I have an option. I can turn from my sin And look to my Savior. If there were no such thing as repentance, you would be lost for all eternity. you would be without any hope at all, categorically, infinitely removed from any prospect that there might be any any conceivable way you could have a life in the presence of the living God. But because of this word repentance, you can. Many people have commented that Luke gives us what's been called the most social gospel. If you were to look at Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Luke, who is a physician by training, he talks more about children and women. He talks more about aliens and displaced people. He talks more about people with disabilities and diseases. than any other gospel writer. He talks more about slaves and masters in the socioeconomic context than any other. And I tell you, something tragic has been done to the Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts, both written by the same Luke. We have gotten this idea and it's been pushed down through kind of you think of within the mainstream of Christendom in the West, this idea that Luke has this social message that is overwhelmingly positive, transformative, restorative, and it's really, he cares about social issues. And there's something that is missed in all of that. Did you know that there is no writer in the New Testament moved by the Spirit of God to talk more about repentance than Luke? How many of you would have guessed that? In both Matthew and Mark, when this account of the calling of Levi is described, we get the crib notes, the shorthand. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick I have not come to call the righteous but sinners. Period. Luke Adds the clarification, but sinners to repentance. Some notes here I want to read because I want to be sure I get these numbers exactly right. In its noun form, the word repentance occurs 22 times in the New Testament. Eleven of those occurrences are from the pen of Luke. The verb form, to repent, as a summons to repent, occurs 34 times in the New Testament. Fourteen of those times from Luke's pen, twelve in the book of Revelation, and only eight in the entire rest of the New Testament. Paul summons people to repentance about a third of the amount of times that Luke does. How many of you would have guessed that? You see, Luke is the apostle of repentance because the love of Jesus extends to every single human. When Jesus, at the end of his ministry, tops that last hill and sees Jerusalem, says, oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. I would have comforted you, I would have held you in my arms, but you would not. Jesus' love is for every person, from every category, from every conceivable corner of this world. And the proclamation of the gospel must go forward with urgency and passion to all of them. But the gospel goes forward nowhere that the word repentance is left out. Because apart from repentance, you cannot have life with God Apart from an acknowledgement that you're a sinner, just like Levi sitting at his booth, enduring the scorn of people that perceived themselves to be his betters. receiving the scorn of even those who hated his people. Even if you think you are on the very, very bottom rung of the lowest ladder in all of the ways humans categorize them. themselves. You have an invitation to follow Jesus, and in order to do so You, like Levi, have to leave everything and follow him Leaving everything is repenting. Renouncing all of your conceptions of your own righteousness, your own goodness, your own merit, your own worth. Saying, Lord Jesus, I have nothing to offer you. But here I am like a beggar holding out my hand, asking to receive God's riches at your expense. Grace. That I might be forgiven of my sins and adopted into your family. That I might go from being an object of hatred and scorn to being someone who ultimately before being martyred for the sake of your name, lead thousands to join that heavenward-bound band of believers in Jesus Christ. Well, this has been a narrative sermon, if you're wondering. I wanted to tell you a story, and I just tried to. About a man named Levi. And about a remarkable transformation. I want to end by inviting you to participate in that story Because that story iterates itself over and over and over again in the lives of people like me and like many of you. We are minding our business, perhaps eavesdropping in on religious conversations, perhaps hearing a little bit about Jesus, perhaps seeing and noting how he transformed a life over there. And we seem to be a little bit unaware of the fact that in the preaching of the gospel, even from guys like me, that expression, follow me, from the mouth of Jesus, is re-promulgated. It is stated anew for your benefit. Jesus would have you follow him to get up from your lifestyle lived in pursuit of ill-gotten gains Used for ill-conceived reasons that cannot be kept one second beyond your mortal passing, he calls you to get up from the booth of your life at the gate of the city and follow him. And recognize that you have nothing to offer, but he is giving you everything. And you will receive back from him so much more than you ever forsook. But it begins with repentance. And if I love you as a member of my society, I am never going to make little of your sin. I'm never going to try not to mention your sin. I am never going to fail to confess my own. But I'll tell you what I am going to do. I'm going to humbly try to model repentance. And as a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ, standing in the line of those who would follow Luke in loving society, I am going to call people to repentance in the name of Jesus, that they might start a new life and not be captured by the sins that chain them to the booths. Of life in a way that God never intended. Are you in a booth today? Are you feeling that you're not living up to your name or your calling? Are you feeling that by virtue of your upbringing or your parentage you had a certain endowment that you have squandered? Are you a prodigal? Are you a failure in the eyes of family, friends, society? You are exactly Who Jesus longs to embrace. You are exactly the person Jesus wants to walk up to and say, follow me. And you will be led from these dirt roads to gold-paved paradise. You will be led from a place of mourning and misery to a place of joy where the oil of gladness will flow down upon your head and shoulders. You will be led from a place of fear to a place of peace. Because you will know the Savior's love and you will know peace with your Maker I would invite any of you who have any interest in learning more about this gospel We will have members of a prayer team in the back corner of the sanctuary. You can always find me. I'm one of those pastors that works in my office. We are a dying breed. Come by any time. If I'm not meeting with someone or in prayer, I can give ten minutes to anybody. I'm an interruptible human being. Talk to people you know that follow Jesus. Only do not let another day pass in which you are walking your own way. Towards a destination you really don't want to arrive at. Because the alternative of repentance in life with God is self-righteousness in an eternity without Him. And that means an eternity without love, without peace, without joy, without comfort, without rest. It means hell itself. And you were designed for heaven Dear Krishna, when you encounter a text like this, be encouraged. to attend the banquets of sinners who celebrate, rather than question whether or not you should be present there. Not sure what just happened. But maybe you needed to hear that. Never look sideways at the sorts of people Jesus calls and the people Jesus uses. Rub shoulders with them. Sit down to eat with them. Love them, because these are your siblings for eternity. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day Lord, we thank you for your word and the fact that from it familiar treasures and unfamiliar treasures alike can be had for the asking. Lord Jesus, we come regular to your Bible, your words, and we say, Lord, teach us that we may know you. Guide us that we might serve you. Comfort us that we might love you. And Father, we thank you for your faithfulness to us over and over again. And Lord, it is the prayer of the saints here at Columbia Presbyterian Church that many might hear the call to follow you and leave everything and do just that. And oh, how much we receive in exchange. You give us back our lives, multiplied by infinity, as we anticipate the life to come. Bless us, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Please, Dad.