If you have your Bibles with you today, I'd invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 4. This morning I'll be reading for us, beginning with verse 31. Let's pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word, for its truth and its beauty. And Lord, we come asking your assistance by your Spirit, O God, open our eyes. Lord, give us yielded hearts so that we might hear your word read and accept it as your word. Lord, that we might learn from it, be encouraged by it, strengthened by it. Lord, corrected, even rebuked. Lord, these are the things that your word, your scriptures do And Lord, we pray that we would humbly receive, that we might know you better, come to a fuller understanding of all that you've done for us in Christ. and everything that is ours because of the glorious inheritance he offers his children. Lord bless not only the reading of your word, but the preaching that follows. Lord, inasmuch as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, Lord, we pray that you would lend it your own power. Lord, I would pray that you would convict me, the preacher. And all who listen, that you are a good God and greatly to be feared, deeply to be loved, and to be trusted in every circumstance of life. We ask these blessings on the reading and preaching of your word in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Luke chapter 4, beginning with verse 31, the Word of God. And he, Jesus, went down to Copernicus. For he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out. And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region. And he arose and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf. And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she rose and began to serve them. Now, when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them. And demons also came out of many, crying, You are the Son of God. But he rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. And when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate place. And the people saw him and came to him, and would have kept him from leaving them. But he said to them, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well, for I was sent for this purpose. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Judea This ends the reading of God's Word. Now I want to ask a technical question. Are we good with the microphone? Okay. Because something happened, but I couldn't tell what. As long as you can hear me, we're we're good to go. Do you need to see something, Mark? You better dad. Oh, but I must do the podium for a second, so we'll get that fixed real quick here. Okay. Okay. All right. That's a uh that was like a pit stop in a in a NASCAR race So we're where we were right at the beginning of the sermon, weren't we? When we think about texts like this, we might think, well, I don't know what Pastor Birkus is up to. He must be in some kind of hurry because he preached four separate sections at three separate sections all at once. You know, if you have a translation of the Bible like mine and we're following along, you see that this text is generally broken up into three parts. Verses 31 to 37 is Jesus heals a man with an unclean demon. Then verses 38 through 41, Jesus heals many. Then verses 42 to the end of the chapter, Jesus preaches in synagogues. You might think, well, why aren't we getting one sermon on each of those sections? Is Pastor trying to short us of our due? No, I'm not. But I really want to be careful to recognize how this entire text, verses 31 through the end of the chapter, verse 44, function within Luke chapter 4 as a whole. If you have your Bible, and I really encourage folks to bring their Bibles to church and look at them. There have been studies that show that if you're looking at something and it's tactile in your hands and you're following along as it's read, you actually remember it better. That's partly true for screens as well, but uh some of you will remember your Bible and where things are on the page better than on a screen. So if you're looking at your Bible, you'll notice that Luke chapter 4 begins with the temptation of Jesus Christ. He's led by the Spirit in the wilderness after he's been baptized, and the voice from heaven confirms that this is my son with whom I am well pleased. He's led into the wilderness. He's 40 days and 40 nights fasting, preparatory to great ministry, just like Moses of old and Elijah himself. Then he's tempted by the devil, even as we are, in every way, and he resists the temptations. And Satan flees from him. And then Jesus begins his public ministry. And he begins his public ministry not in Jerusalem, but in Galilee. That region around what we call today the Sea of Galilee or the Lake of Gennesaret, depending on whose map you're looking at. Up in the northern part of the land of Israel, historically understood, kind of the backwater. The place where the true Hebrew of Hebrews blood had been diluted by a lot of Samaritans and other foreigners. He goes back to the place where he had grown up as a teenager and perhaps labored during his twenties as a home builder or a carpenter. To the fields and hills that he had explored as a kid. And he's preaching, we read, in the towns and villages of Galilee. That's how chapter 4, the preaching ministry of Jesus, is presented to us. But Luke, inspired by the Holy Spirit, only gives us two examples of what his preaching ministry at that time looked like. Nazareth, And Capernaum. We looked at Nazareth last week. He went to Nazareth and he opened up this scroll that had been given him by the attendant at the synagogue, and he found the place in Isaiah. And he said, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim the good news to the poor, to proclaim liberty to the captives. And he rolled the scroll up, gave it back to the attendant, sat down, and said, Today This scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. And the people marveled. Look at what the people say. All spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And they thought, isn't this Joseph's son? Now I'm not going to re-preach last week's sermon, but from that point on, it gets bad at Nazareth. The people in Nazareth and Jesus can see directly into the hearts of these folks. Five times in the Gospel of Luke, we're told Jesus knows the hearts of men. He knows that they are thinking about the fact that one of their own is incredibly gifted and powerful, and now we're going to get a lot of blessings because we're his own people. And so Jesus rebukes them. He says, Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. And then he says, In truth I tell you, and he talks about a time Elijah and Elisha met the needs of a widow and a leper who were not from Israel, were not from the hometown of the prophet. But we're outside of the covenanted community, and we're what we would think of as the worst sort of pagans. And the people in Nazareth it says, were filled with wrath, and they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built so that they could throw him down the cliff. Their hearts are full of rage and their mind is set on murder because they got called out by Jesus, the gracious preacher. That's what happened in Nazareth. What happens in Capernaum? Just as the events described in Nazareth all comprise the events of one day, One Sabbath day. Everything that I read to you from verse 31 on comprises the events of one day. And Luke goes out of his way to make the point. He says, and he went down to Capernaum and was teaching them on the Sabbath. And we read then in verse 38, after the Sabbath, the synagogue ministry is described. Read and he arose and he left the synagogue and went to Simon's house. In verse 40, now, as the sun was setting, all those who had anyone who was ill brought them to Jesus, and he healed them. And we read in verse 42, and when it was day. The next morning he got up to go. So both Nazareth and Capernaum are described as these one-day events in which Opposite things took place. And we can't get away from the fact that Luke, throughout his gospel, has been setting up contrasts, juxtapositions between this and that. And the second is always better. The birth of John the Baptist is foretold by one angel. The birth of Jesus is foretold by one angel with a deeper, more profound message. There is a song from Elizabeth. There is a song from Mary that is not only longer. But more glorious in every way, the magnificant. And you could go through the first three chapters of Luke and see this pattern of A, B, A, B, A, B. And B is always superior to A. And we find that carried on right here. Nazareth, the hometown where we would expect Jesus to have an incredibly fruitful ministry. is an absolute bomb. But Capernaum, a very worldly city by the standards of the Jewish world at that time, Capernaum It sat at the crossroads. There were three roads that left Capernaum. One went to the northeast towards Damascus. One went to the northwest towards Tyron Sidon. One went to the north pretty much straight south to Jerusalem. It was a uh a larger city for that area at that time, nothing compared to Jerusalem, of course, but it was a place where all sorts of strange ideas could come and gather together, not at all like a nice parochial town like Nazareth. It's not the place you would have expected Jesus to receive the welcome he did. Now as we consider the fact that these two CDs are so very different, there's three questions that I think this text, read as it as an entire text, one text, not three, Three questions suggested by the words that come up again and again in this text that are absent from Nazareth. And the first word is authority. Are the words of Jesus merely gracious, like they are in Nazareth? Or do they have authority? The people in Capernaum are astonished at his teaching, for his word possessed authority. Jesus demonstrates authority. Over demon and disease alike. The people are amazed and they say, what is this word for with authority and power he commands? The authority of Jesus is what is noted in Capernaum. The exact same response, very carefully noted by the Holy Spirit speaking through Luke. In Nazareth, the people's responses all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. I want you to think about that. Gracious words. That doesn't necessarily mean that he was preaching the doctrines of grace, although of course he was. That word that's translated gracious could just mean that. He was eloquent of speech. He had kissed the Blarney stone, as it were, for you Irish folk. He had the gift of gab. He was easy to listen to. It was pleasant. All these words are subsumed within this idea of gracious speech coming from his mouth. And what do we know about what's in the heart of these people in Nazareth? In Mark chapter 6, verse 6 We have a description. I'll start with verse 5. And this is the same instance of Jesus' visit to Nazareth as it's recorded by uh Mark in the Gospel of Mark. We read that when Jesus was in Nazareth, he could do no mighty work there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them, and he marveled because of their unbelief. Whatever the graciousness that they attributed to Jesus' speech was It was not a function of any great belief or faith in Jesus. It was simply the curated assessment of people that could recognize someone with the gift of speaking from someone who didn't And Jesus calls them out on this, doesn't he? They did not recognize his authority. When he said something to them that they didn't like, they decided they'd kill him rather than submit Nazareth saw Christ as someone who spoke well and was great to listen to. Capernaum. They heard the very voice of God and recognized authority from heaven. That's significant. I didn't finish this sermon outline until this morning. As said earlier, I'd been sick. And uh you can thank Vicky for the handout you got if you got it separately, because she this morning photocopied them, cut them in half, and we got them right. But you might look at this and think Well, why does Pastor have antinomianism and legalism written down there as a subpoint? That's uh words that don't necessarily need to make it into a sermon. And they don't necessarily need to, and we can just chalk it up to me being sick this week if you'd like. However, it's a very real problem in the church today. For those of you kids, you know that we're coming up on the time of year when you have to be sure that your radiator has anti-freeze in it. Anti-against freeze, freezing. Keeps your radiator fluid from turning into a block of ice that your car can run in sub-zero temperatures Well, antinomianism is anti-anamos is the Greek word for the law. Antinomianism is that stream that has challenged the teaching of the church within the church since the founding of the church. It's this species of False faith that says the law is not important, in fact, we're against it. The law is bad. And there have been Christians in every generation and pastors in every generation who have taught people that obedience to God is not necessarily a virtue. And that the law is something that we ought not to focus on, because if we do, then we're legalists. Now, if you have on the one hand, if there's think about two ways to fall off the cart. You can fall off the cart on the side of antinomianism, and you can fall off the cart on the side of legalism. Legalism is that set of doctrines that say you're saved by what you do. Legalism would say that, no, no, no, you're not saved because Jesus Christ lived a perfect life and died in your place. You're saved because he did those things, but ultimately you're saved because By faith in him, you now have the ability to live a perfect life. That's also false. Both are equally false. But I'll tell you something I've noticed. I took my first formal theology classes in the fall of 1991. I had graduated from University of Maryland with a history degree in December. I had taken an extra semester. Because of too many major changes. But in any event, I went off to RTS Orlando and I heard for the first time a statement that I've probably heard a hundred times since. And the statement goes like this, if you never sound like an antinomian, you're not preaching grace. Has anybody ever heard that, just out of curiosity? If you never sound like an antinomia and you're not preaching grace, I began to hear that. And I've heard that, I've seen it in blogs, I've heard it in pastors' meetings. Now I want you to think about what that means for a minute. If I never sound like I'm against the law, I'm not really preaching the gospel. God forbid. Is it also true that if I never sound like a legalist? I'm never preaching the gospel? Or do we favor errors in one theological direction over against another for some reason I have yet to determine? This is important. In twenty fifteen The Navigators sponsored with the Barna Company this report on the state of discipleship in America. And I picked this up. There's not since 2015 been a similar study done of the same scope and size. And on Table 1. 4, the goal of discipleship, they listed a whole lot of different things. that are generally considered a part of the Christian life, like growing in spiritual maturity, knowing Christ more deeply, learning to live a more consistent life, mentoring and being mentored. And they had one attribute of what possibly a mature discipled Christian life looks like that said, um, becoming more obedient to God. And respondents, thousands of them, were asked to say, which of these do you think are descriptors, are a part of what it means to be discipled? Fifty-five percent of Christians in 2015 in America were willing to say that spiritual growth involves becoming more obedient to God. 55%. That means that 45% saw that on a form and said, yeah, no, that's not a part of it. That's what startles me. Forty-five percent of our brothers and sisters in Christ, and they are brothers and sisters in Christ, I believe have been taught by preachers like me That obedience to God is not at the end of the day that important. Do we believe what Jesus said? In John chapter 14, verse 21. He says, Whoever has my commands and keeps them, he is the one who loves me. Do we believe and take to heart what Jesus commanded the church in Matthew chapter 28, the Great Commission? As you're going make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. and teaching them to obey all that I have commanded. The authority of Jesus Christ extends to every square inch of this universe. It extends to every thought and feeling of your head or heart. It has a claim upon every decision you make And that is for God's eternal glory and your eternal blessedness. We live in a world where some of the great problems we face are loneliness and boredom. If you were to pick up your telephone and call the Surgeon General, he'd talk about how we have a crisis of loneliness. You talk up, talk to anybody young today, and they'll talk to you about how they're bored. And I want you to entertain for just a brief moment with me this vision of a life in which every single thing you do matters because it is done in dialogue with the creator of the universe. You are never alone. And everything has meaning and purpose and value. Because Jesus is the Son of God who has authority And do we love that? Because it is the recognition that he has authority. that begins the decision tree of blessedness that blossoms in Capernaum that died On a shallow, cheap assessment of graciousness in Nazareth. The first word that distinguishes these two is authority. The second word would be rebuke. You might think, wow, Pastor really was sick this week. He's hitting all the good words. And think about authority. You love authority until authority does one of two things. Until authority says yes when you would say no. Or when authority says no, when you would say yes. Up until one of those two points gets crossed, you're good with authority. But authority authority wants to call you to do something you'd rather not do or forbids you from doing something you would prefer to do. That's when you want to run Jesus out of town. And that's when rebukes come into play. You see, Jesus is acclaimed for his authority in Capernaum, and the first thing that happens is the man possessed by a demon shouts out, Ha! I know who you are. And it's been a real exciting thing to read through my 20 commentaries on Luke. preparing for this message because all of them pick up on all of these wonderful little bunny trails, and I don't think any of them really dwell on the fact that this is a juxtaposition between Nazareth and Capernaum. And they all pick up on the fact that in that ancient world and culture, that demon is playing his part in a trope in which if you name someone, you have power over them. And so this demon is saying, ha, what have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are. the Holy One of God, as if to say, you don't have authority over me, I know your name. That's the connection there. And look at Jesus' response. He doubles down and asserts his authority in ways that stun the audience in that congregation. Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him. And the demon is compelled to leave without even harming the person whose soul he had intended to destroy for eternity. And the people are left marveling, what is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits and they come out. And that's not the first time. That is the first time, but it's the first of three times this word rebuke shows up in this one half of a chapter. And the second time it shows up is really remarkable. It's a one-of-a-kind in the four gospels. You see, in the Gospels, Jesus heals people. But I want you to notice what happens in verses 38 and uh and 39. And this, by the way, underscores the fact that Luke is very concerned with presenting topics in a certain order. And he does that sometimes contrary to our expectation and sensibilities. For example, we're really introduced here to Simon's mother-in-law. Before we even really have a sense of who Simon is. That doesn't come till the next chapter. Look at what we read. And Jesus arose and left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Now Simon's mother-in-law, and we're like, who's Simon? We'll find out. Now, Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf, and he stood over her, and we don't read that he healed her, we read that he rebuked the fever. Nowhere else in the Gospels does Jesus rebuke the fever or rebuke the paralysis or rebuke the blindness, but here he does. Because he's underscoring not so much in this one instance his compassion for the sick, but his authority over all that is wrong with this world. He is the one who is able to rebuke disease and demon alike. His authority is such that everything in this universe has to pay attention to and heed the will of the one by whom and through whom all was created. And so Jesus rebukes the fever. The sun is setting. People are bringing folks to Jesus. full of this deep, transcendent awareness of the authority of this one who comes with a word. And they bring all to him that are sick. And again we read that he laid hands on every one of them and healed them. And demons also came out of many, crying, You are the Son of God. Now, three times we find Jesus rebuking when his authority is recognized and then immediately challenged. But if we go back and look at the previous panel in Nazareth, without the word being used, Jesus also rebuked the folks there. He rebuked them for their desire, their entitled sense of expecting preferential privileged treatment, because they were, after all, the town where he grew up. The demon and the disease respond to the authority of Jesus. But the hardened human heart Would prefer to kill the Lord of glory, and would take him to the brow of a hill and cast him down to his ruin Does Jesus rebuke his churches today? This Lord of glory who is authority? I want you to think about Revelation chapter 2 and 3. Jesus gives his last seven great sermons. His messages to the churches. And does he not say to the churches again and again and again, I see you? Yet I have this against you. And he offers rebukes. Why does he offer rebukes? Well, we see that in Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 12. We read that the discipline of the Lord should not cause us weariness or discouragement, because he disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. When the Lord disciplines or chastises or rebukes me, either through one of you or in my own conscience, My daddy is raising me up. And isn't that what it says right here in verses 11? Starting in verse 10, chapter 12 of Hebrews. Our parents disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he, the Lord, disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment, All discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. There are many times in our lives when the rebuke of the Lord is applied to the ears and the hearts of people like you and me for the purpose of disciplining us. Calling us to lay aside our entitlement. Calling us to not be unyielding like the Nazarite people. To be like those from Capernaum and acknowledge his authority and submit to it in every area. Jesus has authority. Jesus is able to rebuke. And Jesus' presence is to be delighted in, because that's the third distinguishing mark. that creates a hard distinction between Nazareth and Capernaum in these texts. Nazareth ends with this. painful description of how the people are filled with wrath and they want to take Jesus and they take him to the top of a hill and they're going to throw him down the cliff to his death. And we read that Jesus passed through their midst and he went away. And at the end of this text, We read that when it was day, the next morning, Jesus departed and went into a desolate place, and the people sought him and came to him. He stopped for breakfast just outside of town in the McDonald's, as it were. And the people discovered that, oh, he's not here, he went out. Well, let's catch him before he's gone too far. And it says, and they would have kept him from leaving them. But he said to them, I must preach the gospel everywhere. What a difference. They delighted in the presence of the one with authority. They delighted in the presence of the one Who could reign in every evil, ill, and harmful thing that could ever, ever cross them or break them. They delighted in the presence of the one who spoke the very gospel of God. None of that could have happened if they had not recognized and responded to his authority. What about us? I just have one question that I'd encourage you to ponder in your community groups. Your discussions around the coffee, if you discuss sermons right away. Where do you live? Nazareth or Capernaum? Are there areas in your life where you would sooner drive Jesus away because you don't like his rebuke? You don't like his challenge? Or do you accept the fact that Jesus is God Himself in the flesh? And what he says Is divine, not merely gracious. It is truer than the simplest mathematical axiom It is eternal and unchanging. You may utterly rely upon the fact that what Jesus has said Is a foundation for a life. Your life. But that means turning your back on a lot of worldly wisdom, a lot of popular opinions. A lot of short-term gains, illicit pleasures, and committing yourself to living as if you have a king. Because brothers and sisters, We have a king. And he died for us, and he reigns for us. And yes, his words are sweet with grace, indescribable, but they have authority and power. to change a person like me, and even to call you to a renewed repentance and commitment to live for him Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Father, forgive us for the many times that we have discounted in big ways or small what obedience to you would look like. Forgive us for the times we have tried so hard to nuance and parse our lives so that we can please the world as much as possible and yet not be Caught explicitly contradicting you. Lord, we pray that you would make us a people wholly committed to who you are and what you've said, utterly dependent upon your word. absolutely persuaded of the authority of Jesus Christ, who came not to abolish the law and prophets, but to fulfill them, who preached them as his sermon texts, and who taught his disciples to obey them. Lord, make us a people who, because of your great love for us, because of your gracious invitation, to forgive us, to adopt us, to claim us, to keep us forever, have set us free to run in the path of your commands. Teach our stubborn hearts that therein lies freedom and beauty and joy. You, O God, are the authority in our life. And we bless your name for it. Be so more and more. We humbly ask. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.