See how long that lasts. Looks pretty precarious. Oh With tunnel vision, I didn't see the person, I just saw the bowl starting to move. Who did that? That was sneaky, Micah. Goodness gracious Glad we got a defibrillator in this building. Oh my goodness. Calm down, Birchus. Well, if you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. The Gospel of Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 43, is our text for this morning. Heavenly Father, we ask that you bless us with the reading of your word. Lord, we pray that it would pierce to the very marrow of our bones, that it would dive to the bottom of our hearts, Lord, that it would powerfully impact us, Lord, with your truth, with your glory and your majesty, that we might fall down before you in awe and with reverence. And Father, we pray that the preaching that follows, in as much as it is faithful to what you have said, Lord, I pray that you would make it useful. Make it helpful. Help it to remove some of those hindrances that clutter up the road to the Savior, that we all might draw closer to Him. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 43, the Word of God. For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit. For each tree is known by its own fruit For figs are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. This ends the reading of God's Word. Jesus on many occasions in his ministry makes references to trees and fruits. Whether it's the fig tree he withers in the last week of his life leading up to his crucifixion, or whether it's in the Sermon on the Mount or here or elsewhere, he's making a lot of agricultural references throughout his ministry because The vast majority of people living in his day were agriculturalists. They lived very close to the peels. They were all very mindful of the reality that if you want a fig or a grape, you don't go to the giant, you go to the field. And when you go to the field, you don't just randomly pick from any bush you want. You go to the type of plant that corresponds with the And Jesus uses this bit of common knowledge to make a point that's a little difficult for us to appreciate with Now, it might be easy for us to appreciate, well yeah, I know for a fact that if I, for example, want to catch uh a a bass, I go to a deep lake. If I want to catch a trout, I go to a fast river, if I want to catch a pike, I go north. These are things that are common sense to us in some respects, whatever our pursuits are. We know where to go to get what. But that's not just what Jesus is saying. Jesus is making a point regarding his disciples, his apostles, and the crowds that have come to hear his public ministry. That deals with their identity, their values, their futures, their actions. And it does so in a way that's a little bit startling. I want to tell you a funny story. Y you might chuckle. I know I laughed when I first heard this. I was in a doctor's office. My doctor, I was doing a follow-up visit in California. This is probably ten or twelve years ago. I just had my uh second cataract surgery. Part of my eye condition is you get cataracts young, and so I know I'm I every time I've gotten a cataract, well both times I've had cataracts done, I've my doctor said one in Vermont, one in California, you're the youngest patient I've ever had. Which I'm getting to the age where you brag about that sort of thing. Now, the doctor told me a funny story in my follow-up visit because he was kind of chuckling when I walked in and I said You heard a good joke you want to share? And he he had just had a patient come in and threatened to sue him. And the patient was an older, older lady. Who basically said to him, look, I'm talking to my lawyer, and you're gonna get papers in the mail. Because before you did that cataract surgery, my face and hands didn't have wrinkles. This is a true story. And the doctor said, Well, are you sure? And she evidently said, and I have this from my eye surgeon. She said, I asked all my friends and they told me. Now, we sort of get a chuckle at that, and we can well imagine that somebody somewhere actually believed that. But when I heard that story, it reminded me of a text that we don't think about often enough. It is in some respects one of the scarier, darker moments in the book of Psalms that we don't think about often. The NIV translated Psalm 36 in the beginning verses like this. There is an oracle in my heart concerning the wickedness of man. So, full stop. You want a definition of what wickedness is? Go to Psalm 36. This is a prophetic utterance by the Spirit of God through a prophet, King David, functioning as a prophet and declaring the word of God in this psalm, and he's saying, this oracle, this psalm is about the wickedness of man. And he says three things. He says, four, there is no fear of God before their eyes. For this is the scary part, they flatter themselves too much to detect or to hate. Their sin. Now I'll tell you why that's a little bit unsettling It's unsettling to think that it's possible that humans have such a capacity for flattering ourselves that we can neither detect nor hate our sin. And yet it's all too true. How many times have you come under some conviction that something you said maybe a year ago was sinful? But at the time it didn't bother you at all? Is there not some element in which we flatter ourselves? Is there not some sense in which we all think deep down that we are good trees and our fruit is naturally good? Let me give you an example of what I mean by that. As a pastor, I have on many, many occasions, whether I was a youth minister here at CPC back in the early 90s, mid-90s, doing youth ministry work. uh whether it was pastoring a little church in in Vermont, whether it was outside of LA. A couple will come in and talk to me and they've been involved in a terrible fight and one of the spouses will accuse the other of Doing something that is pretty boldly sinful. Very difficult to square the action that crops up in the pastor's office with anything biblical. And the response from saints who sometimes know their Bible better than me is this. Well, perhaps I could have been more circumspect. I've heard that phrase. Well that wasn't my best day. Or you have to take responsibility for the fact that you made me do it. That's a good one. I'm no longer responsible for the fruit that comes out of me. You are. The world is. My fruit's not bad, it's just a little less than perfect. I could do better. I could have done better, I'm sorry And we completely miss the point Jesus is saying, because one of the things Jesus is saying here is contradictory to the received theology and wisdom of the world he lived in. In that world, the culture said, you are made unclean by things that come into you from outside. You were made clean by touching a tomb. One of the reasons all the tombs were whitewashed in ancient Israel was because if you accidentally touched a tomb, you were uh ceremonial, you were you were richly unclean. And had to go outside of the camp for a week and present yourself to the Levites and go through all so they they whitewashed them bright white so everybody would know, don't touch Kind of like a flashing light in our culture. They believe that, well, you can't eat with a Samaritan. You can't even share a cup with them. You can't associate with them. If you see people that aren't quite right, shake the dust off your feet. If you come in contact with an unclean animal, or you eat something coming into you by accident, you're unclean. All of their concepts were that we are basically good. And it's bad things that come from without that make us unclean. And when Jesus says, both in the Sermon on the Mount and in this Sermon on the Plain, When he says his punchline here, out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks, he's basically inverting that picture. He's saying that if you want to be my disciple to the crowds, and if you want to be an apostle, you need to master this one concept. You are responsible for your sin. And it's a shocking thing that a tree has good and bad fruit. It's abhorrent to nature. It's not reasonable to expect. It's not reasonable to expect That we as followers of Christ engage in bad works. The New Testament elsewhere puts it, how can it be that one spring gives forth both salt and fresh water? Our identity is something Jesus draws our attention to. And notice when he does this. He draws our attention to this right after declaiming on the plank in our own eye, the beam in our own eye. And I promised my brother-in-law I wouldn't make him come up here. And I won't. Besides, I don't know what happened to the beam. But think of how much you and I react against the notion that we really have that much wrong with us. Do you really think you have a beam in your eye that's 78,000 times worse or should be 78,000 times more significant to you? than the toothpick in the eye of your neighbor, your spouse, your kids. You see, we resist that And so Jesus is immediately pivoting then to a parable teaching in which he looks at trees and he says, no, the fruit that trees bear is according to the nature of the tree. Not how much rain came down. It's not like if you give a bramble enough rain and sunshine, you're going to get grapes. It is in the DNA. Of the bramble to produce a thorn, and of a grapevine to produce a grape. And we have to recognize that as fallen creatures, as sinful men and women who are struggling with applying grace in our life, When we sin, that's an expression of our flesh. That's why we mortify the sins of our flesh according to Romans chapter 8. That's why we are engaged in this spiritual struggle and contest in our own lives, Romans chapter 7. We cannot think that the fruit that comes from our life is not ours. We have to accept that our hands and face are very wrinkly indeed. And as we grow in grace and our vision gets perfected, we can expect that we will more and more see them. John Calvin once said that the saint that walks the closest to Christ in his brightness best sees his own spots. And there's truth there. It's a hard truth. That my sin is my own. And I need to give it to Christ anew. And I need to repent of it myself. And I dare not ever blame anyone else for what I do. Because it's not their fault And when you have sinned, whether it's having a fit of anger, or whether it's jealousy or rage, or whether it's something like drunkenness, or whatever it might be, that was listed in the Galatians text that Dick Sum read for us. Own your fruit. Recognize the tree that you are. What must we do? If that's who we are, we have to recognize that we are responsible for the fruit we bear, and that we can't blame bad fruit in our lives on anyone but ourselves. What do we do? Well, we must acknowledge the quality of our fruit. This begins by Jesus talking not about species of fruit, figs, and grapes, but by talking about good and bad fruit. He's making a moral judgment. And we are called upon to be self-reflective. The educators call it metacognizant. We are aware of what we are doing and who we are and what we are doing badly and what we are doing well. We are called as children of the living God to test ourselves, to put ourselves to the test. This is biblical language. To examine, to live a reflective life, to say, wow, you know, I I didn't really do that good this past week in this area, in this area. I need to, by the grace of God, uh you see Christ and his spirit and guidance from his word to to produce better fruit. Do we ever think that way? Well, we should. I should. Wouldn't you like it if I did that? Someone should say amen there We have to take our fruit very seriously, and we have to be willing to evaluate it in light of Scripture. And in evaluating our fruit, there's something else we have to do that Jesus gets at here that is profoundly important in our day and age, especially. The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. Jesus is talking here about what we value. Older translations put it this way. The good person out of the treasury of his heart produces good. The idea is that the things that you treasure reside in your heart And drive your actions and inform your fruit. So whenever I find an area in my life where I am bearing bad fruit, Whatever it is. And I hope and pray that each one of us here is mature enough to know the areas in which we are bearing bad fruit We need to do the hard work of finding out what is it that I am treasuring that is creating the soil condition for this bad fruit to crop up. What is it that I have made an idol that allows me to justify a fit of anger? Or jealousy, or dissension, or drunkenness, or sex outside of a marriage. What is it that I need to repent of in here? Not just the action out here, but how do I need to be Putting something off, coming to Christ, being renewed in my mind, and putting on. Ephesians chapter 4. That's how spiritual transformation works. It involves a recognition and an ownership. And then there has to be some level of repudiation of the treasure. that undergirds the decisions and the actions we make that do not glorify God. And that's important for a disciple of Christ to know. You know, if you had if you if you talk to my kids, and they all live out west right now, but there's two Bible verses that I taught them when they were very, very young. One Bible verse, and as a good parent, I recommend this one. Well, I don't know how good a parent I am, I guess that's uh to be seen, but I made them memorize do everything without complaining and arguing. And every parent should impress that truth upon their kids. But you have to be prepared to try to not complain and argue yourself. That's the hard part. But i it got to the point where I could say to my kids when they were having a particularly off day, do everything without complaining and arguing. But they know that scripture. And they know how important it is that if you want to live like a star shining in the universe, holding forth the word of life, well, stop complaining and arguing. Life becomes different. But the other scripture that's connected to it, but a little deeper and a little more basic comes from the book of Proverbs. It says, guard your heart, for it is the wellspring of life. And similarly, I could say to my kids, guard your heart, and they say, for it is the wellspring of life. You know, the things that you allow to reside in your heart, your life flows out of who you are on the inside. And your heart isn't just what you feel. Your heart, in the biblical sense, is the entire internal aspect of who you are. The lived experience of your soul. It's your thoughts, your feelings, your aspirations, your fears. And we need to guard that. We need to guard our inner life. Because out of that inner life comes our life. It is our wellspring. It is out of the abundance of that heart That our mouth speaks, and our hands move, and our feet carry us. And are we guarding our hearts such that things that we ought not to treasure? Are excluded? Are we guarding our heart in such a way that those things that we are to treasure are welcomed and cherished? You see, there's a sense in which we have to recognize ourselves. We have to be willing to evaluate ourselves on a regular basis, humbly and gratefully, that God doesn't leave us in particular states and mannerisms. Rather, he he restores and renovates us and grows us into the image of Christ and into his affections and conduct and thought as well. And are we careful in curating our loves? Are we careful in curating our loves? When I was in high school, I was determined to become a jazz musician. And I realized that if I wanted to become a great jazz musician, I had to be careful who I listened to And so there are some albums from some I'd come up with some I'd gotten some because they were cheap. Some albums of uh Avant-garde jazz musicians that were out of Montreal, Tom, I can't even remember Blues Experiment or something was it. I was listening to those records like it and I realized A If I listen to those guys, that's how I'm going to play. But if I really want to play, if I really want to play like Michael Brecker someday, which I never got there I need to listen to Michael Brecker. If I really want to play like Stanley Tarantine, and I did get to sit next to him once and play with him, I need to listen to Stanley Tarantine. You see, I curated the inputs into my life based upon the results I wanted. What kind of movies do you watch? What kind of books do you read? What kind of people do you associate with most closely? Bad company corrupts good character. Do not be deceived. You have that from the Holy Spirit in 1 Corinthians. We have to be very careful that we are opening up our heart to treasuring the right things. That we are evaluating our lives in light of Scripture and in fellowship with the saints and in guidance by the Spirit in such a way that the fruit we're bearing is good. And we have to be willing. to acknowledge that the tree of our life needs constant reconforming and new grafts that we might be like Christ as we abide in Him. Personal responsibility, personal integrity. And personal delighting in what is good. Those are marks of the disciple. Those are things I want to be more true of me day by day. Aren't they things you would like to be more true of you? In Luke chapter 3, we have the ministry of John the Baptist. Which is a beautiful, beautiful verse for trees like ours that are weirdly capable of producing stink fruit and the sweetest peaches. Think about what John the Baptist says here. John the Baptist says, even now, the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. You might think, oh dear, that's it for me. But look at what he says in verse 8. Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. Do you hear the invitation there? You and I are invited in Jesus' glorious Sermon on the Plain to actually look in the mirror with our glasses on, with our cataracts removed. And be honest with ourselves. And we are able to do this glorious thing called repent, which paves the way for bearing good fruit. We are able to say, Lord Jesus, when I take a spiritual inventory of myself, I see things that are just dishonoring to you and harmful to my family. destructive of my very soul. I recognize that there are things that I treasure right now that are fueling desires and habits and behaviors. That are just destructive in every way. Oh, God Almighty, forgive me. Grant to me a willing spirit to sustain me in some new obedience. You see, this is the glorious invitation of the gospel. It is where truth and mercy meet so beautifully. Not only can you not deny reality if you come face to face with the Word of God and Christ who is in it everywhere, but you don't need to. You can just say, yes, it's all true. I'm a sinner. Only help me And the Bible is so clear. God delights in delivering his people from the most desperate of circumstances. And he delights to help us improve our production as an orchard of trees, whose taproots go to the very heart of Christ because we have been born again. And we who struggle with sin are more than conquerors because the Spirit God gave us will not leave us be. And his word is sufficient to guide us. So, dear friend, think about your faith. And think about the fruit that you bear. Where does it match? Where does it not? Are there things you need to stop treasuring? Are there things you need to stop thinking? Do you need to stop blaming your sin on other people? Never do that again. That never ends well in Scripture, folks. Ever. Always stand before the face of God, laying bare your soul. Saying, forgive and bless, heal and grow, lead and guard. And you will find God is faithful to do all of those things. Amen. Almighty God, we come before you, and Lord, we are humbled by some texts of Scripture more than others. Lord, I know this humbles me. Because I read it and I think, how can it be that I produce fruit that's bad? How can it be? It is out of character to the children of the living God. And yet here we are. Acting petty, small-minded, narrow-hearted, in all these ways, Lord. Not good. Father, help us to grow in repentance as you gently Sometimes abruptly, but always with the very best and most tenderest of intentions, Lord, show us our sin. Search us and try us. See if there be any wicked way in us that we might Lord, acknowledge it, that we might utterly renounce it, and replace what we treasure with you, that we might go forth and sin no more. Father, bless us, and Lord, we will give you with joy all of our good fruit, giving thanks to Christ, in whom and by whom we are able to do anything good. What a blessed Savior and a great salvation. Amen