Let's turn this morning together to God's Word. If you have your Bibles, please open to the Gospel of John, chapter 17. If you do not have them, you will see posted in front of you. the verses uh that we will be covering uh this morning. Last week we began the series of looking at specifically the church on a mission. And I believed that the best way to understand what is the mission of the church is to first get the grounding in what was Jesus' mission. I shared with you last week. What we've been sharing in regard to our new vision statement as a church, which is to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Columbia, the region, and the world. That the two things, experiencing and extending the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, are never mutually exclusive. And so last week we began with, what does it mean then to experience grace? It begins by looking at what the mission of Jesus was and is. And as I preached that sermon last week, looking at that, Jesus came to glorify his Father by making known the salvation that he has, but that also that his to glorify the Father, but also to make holy those who believe. And that holiness is not about, first and foremost, what you do and don't do. It's about being set apart for a purpose. To find your ultimate purpose and who God is in Jesus Christ. So as I continued in preparing for this series of messages, I was also aware that we used to be in 1 Peter in August, and some of you have wisely asked, what happened to 1 Peter? We're coming back to First Peter. That's an excellent question. I recognize that we should have said that last week, but we did not. I did not. And so therefore I want to tell you, we're coming back to First Peter, but for the month of September. We're unpacking what does it mean to be a church on a mission. So as I continued preparing, I intended originally that this week we would turn to the church on a mission. But as I continued to spend time with this prayer, I was somewhat embarrassed, but also excited. I was embarrassed that I didn't share more of this last week, but I was excited that I get to do so this week. And so as we continue to unpack, okay, what does it mean to experience grace? It is all over this passage And it is to see a very special bond. A bond of Jesus with his Father and Jesus with those who believe. So let's look together, John chapter 17, beginning verses 17 through 26. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. That all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one, I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them, even as you have loved me Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am, to see my glory, the glory you have given me, because you loved me before the creation of the world. Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you, and they know you, and they know that you have sent me. I have made you known to them and will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them, and that I myself may be in them. And then after he, this is his prayer, after this, Jesus then goes to a grove of olive trees, which was his habit with his disciples. And of course Judas knew this is where he would be. Judas prepared by taking a group of soldiers with him, along with the high priest, to go and to have Jesus arrested. This is the encounter that comes after this prayer. This is towards the end of the encounter, and this is what Jesus says. Again he asked them, this is now Jesus asking. Again he asked the guards, who is it that you want? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth, I told you that I am He. Jesus answered, If you are looking for me, then let these men go This happened so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled. I have not lost one of those you gave me. Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. Jesus commanded Peter, put your sword away. Shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me? This is the Word of God. Let's pray together. Come, Holy Spirit, give us ears to hear, minds to understand, and hearts to embrace The incredible, wonderful, deep, and profound grace that we have through your Son Jesus That is given to us because of his bond with you and his bond with those who believe. Teach us, we pray, by your Spirit, and help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I stated last week, I will continue to unpack the reality that this is the longest prayer of Jesus that we have recorded in Scripture. He was praying these things in the midst of his disciples. They could hear him. John heard it and he recorded it. And it is interesting, I believe, because it is the prayer that he prays prior to giving himself over to being arrested, which he knew would lead to the cross. The words that he prays here are both profound as they are intimate. And they are for our hope. So together this morning I want you to see in these verses, in this prayer, we will see this special bond. But the bond goes in two directions. First, the bond that Jesus has with his Father, and secondly, the bond that Jesus has and offers to those who believe. And those who this morning do not, and they come to belief, this bond is for you. So let's begin then with the bond that Jesus has with his Father. You see the three descriptive words that I've used there in the outline that describes the bond that has with Jesus. One, he is confident. Two, he is resolute. Three, he is productive. So, together, let's look at these d ways in which I think the bond of Jesus and his fathers described. First, confident. We see it very quickly all over the prayer, but we see it particularly in verses two, verse five, verse twenty-six. Let me recount those to you. Verse Two begins with these words, Father, the time has come, glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you, for you. granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those who you have given him. Jesus's confidence in his father is the first way we can see the bond that the very special bond that he has. We see that confidence first in this verse, the confidence in authority. But notice that it was the confidence that the authority that God had given Jesus. And as I said last week, it may not be very electrifying, it may not be shocking, you may not get up out of your seat. And say, Amen, Pastor, that's an amazing point. But I will tell you, the mere fact that Jesus says here, Father, you have given me authority Then he says that that authority over all people, and that you give me the ability to give eternal life to all who you have given me. Jesus has just stated a very important point that would lead him directly to the cross, and that is he's claiming and showing himself to be God. Do you remember that I said last week? What sent Jesus to the cross was not that he said, I love you, or I have compassion, or I love the Father. He said those things. But that is, he said those things as well as he said, the Father has given me authority. That was blasphemous to the religious leaders of Jesus' day. But do you notice Jesus' confidence is not in how he's being received or heard? He's praying in the quiet confidence that he has with his father. You, Father, have given me authority His confidence is also expressed, we see in verse five, in these words. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I have given you. I'm sorry. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Jesus has confidence in the glory that He shares with His Father. But notice he has confidence in that glory because it's a glory not defined by the world standards, but by God Himself, His Father. Do you remember as I stated last week that the high point of the glory of Jesus Christ, isn't it beautiful that he's praying these words? Because he says and knows that the high point of his glory is what he's going to do on the cross. He takes the understanding of the world and its description of glory, power. confidence, ability, status, and says, My glory is not in those things. In fact, Jesus says the world understands glory to that which means going up. I'm showing that glory is most seen by going down. Jesus has confidence in the bond that he has with his Father. Because he sees the glory that he shares. The glory that he shares with his father. But it's also this, and this is what is so profoundly intimate. He has confidence in the Father's love. Verse 26. I have made known to them and will continue to make you known in order that So what Jesus is telling us is that I have made you known, Father, to all those who you have put me before, to all those you have given me, I have made you known to them for what reason? Here's what he says. So that the love you have for me may be in them Jesus' confidence is not in the horizontal love of other people. He's not waiting the success of his mission based on how people respond. His confidence is in the love that the Father has for him. And he goes even further and says, not only the love you have for me. but that they may know the love you have for me, and that same love would be in them. I don't know if you know this But that means that what Jesus has just prayed for every person who will ever believe that your world be turned upside down. Because no longer is love defined by what others think of you It's by primarily understanding the freedom, the radical freedom that comes from knowing that what makes most sense, what makes most What is most important is that the Father loves you regardless. And that if Jesus, if God has loved Jesus, And Jesus is doing this for us by going to the cross to dying for sin. How much more then, through Christ, do we not experience the Father's love? Jesus. has confidence in the Father. He has confidence in the authority, the glory shared, and the Father's love. Now I'm going to press this home in just a minute, so stick with me. We also see the bond that Jesus has with his father because he is resolute Listen again to what Jesus does in regard to Peter's response to those who would assault Jesus and take him as a prisoner. You've heard it, Simon Peter, who had a sword, he took it out, he drew it, and he struck the high priest servant's ear. Name Malchus removes the ear. Jesus. Commanded Peter, put your sword away, shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me? Jesus is resolute not only to fulfilling and achieving the purpose, the end to which the Father has sent him to die on a cross He also is resolute about the means by which it will happen. Do you see? Jesus says, I will not do my Father's will according to the means of the world. I will not do so by how the world defines power, that is, the sword. I will not do so by how the world defines success, by showing a strong victory. It is an amazing thing if you see this passage from beginning to end and just spend time with it, what you will see is that as Jesus Praise. He knows the closer he gets to the event of the cross, he is doing what? He's showing us more and more of his glory. But do you see what his glory is about? He's resolute about what the Father has sent him to do, but he will have nothing to do with the means of the world to achieve it. And I take great comfort though in the fact that it's Peter. I get it. But Jesus says, what is natural to your heart, Peter, what is natural to the human heart is not native to the divine heart of God. Jesus, you remember, has authority. He willingly gives himself over to the end and the means Then we also see that the bond that Jesus has with his Father is not only confident, it's not only resolute, it is also productive. Hear these words, chapter 18, verses 8 and 9. He says, I told you that I am he, Jesus answered. If you are looking for me, then let these men go. This happened so that the words He had spoken would be fulfilled. I have not lost one of those you gave me. Jesus is saying What I have set out to do, what I have set out to fulfill, will not be thwarted. It will not be overturned by any human being. It can never be taken back. It can never be deconstructed. I have achieved what I've come to do, and that is to give myself and in authority, he says, let these men go. And they were let go. What Jesus is telling us, and I believe what we can see in this bond that he has with his Father. In its confidence, in its resolution, and its productivity is this. We need this this morning Morning, because we so often do not look to God or to Jesus and the bond that is offered there. as the source for our confidence, as the source for our resolution, or as the basis for our productivity. I was reminded of this as I've been reading through the Psalms, one of my favorite Psalms is Psalm 73. And in it we hear a profound prayer, a profound struggle by a human being And as the psalmist writes, he begins as one who believes in God, but he's struggling. In fact, he tells us he's about to stumble because what he's doing is he's taken his eyes off the Father as the source for confidence, resolution, and productivity. Because of what God has done, and he begins to look horizontally at the people around him. And what he sees are those who don't believe. And here's what he says. He says, they have no struggles. Their bodies are healthy and strong. They are free from the burdens of common to man. They are not plagued by human ills. Therefore, pride is their necklace. They clothe themselves with violence. From their callous hearts comes iniquity. Their evil conceit con The evil conceits of their minds know no limits. They scoff and speak with malice. In their arrogance they threaten oppression. Their mouths lay claim to heaven, and their tongues take possession of the earth. Therefore, their people turn to them and drink up waters in abundance. They say, How can God know? Does the Most High have knowledge? The psalmist is looking around at those who don't believe, and he says, Have I wasted my life? Because in life, on this earth, the sword seems to be victorious. Wealth and power and status seems to be that which attracts, because that's what he says when he says, their people. Look to them to drink up water in abundance. What he's saying is, these people aren't just powerful. These people aren't just wealthy and healthy. They have influence. So much so that they can wag the finger at those who believe and say, who is God? Look at me. And he says, Surely in vain have I kept my heart pure, in vain have I washed my hands in innocence. All day long I have been plagued. I have been punished every morning. I'm so thankful that this psalm is in the Bible Because it shows me that the Bible is true. It doesn't cover up human doubt But it meets it face to face. And right there in that moment, brought to the end of himself. Tempted to walk away from the God who has declared his love, looking at the way the world defines things and says, I need me some of that. God meets him. And this is what he says. If I had said these things, I will speak thus I would have betrayed your children. Then, when I tried to understand all this, it was oppressive to me. Till I entered the sanctuary of God, then I understood their final destiny. He says, Surely you place them on slippery ground, you cast them down to ruin. How suddenly are they destroyed? Have completely swept away by terrors, as a dream when one wakes So when you arise, Lord, you will despise them as fantasies. When my heart was grieved and my spirit embittered, I was senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you. Yet I am always with you. You hold me by my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will take me into glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? The earth has nothing I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Now I will tell you. What he has just prayed is a profound thing. But I will tell you, my heart is very slow to pray that. I can't pray this unless I realize that it was Jesus who prayed just like this. In other words, my hope is not in the world. My hope, my confidence is not In what the world does, because unless they find hope in you, they are on slippery ground. And Jesus Jesus, as he prays, in the midst of what is getting ready to happen to him, calls into order the bond that he has. The question is this: Is this your confidence? As I asked last week, let me ask again. If you are trying to find your success and your power and your meaning, Outside of God, then I will tell you, you will find something that may satisfy you in this earth. But you are no less a slave, you are no less imprisoned, because you are only going to do as well as your dreams can take you. Because at the end of the day, at the end of the day, you're living by the world's understanding. Power is the sword. Power is wealth. But as we've heard earlier this morning, death becomes us. It's coming. And what of all these things? For you, the Christian. Do you believe this, or has Jesus become Simply an accessory to your already Christian professed life. We must come again to see this bond. But the offer to you this morning is not just to see the bond that Jesus has with his Father. It is the bond that he offers to you. The bond that Jesus offers to all of us this morning Is in this prayer. It is in this prayer because what Jesus prays for is he says these words. Verse 26 of chapter 17. I have made you known to them and will continue to make you known, in order that the love you have for me may be in them. That I myself may be in them. What Jesus is saying is that I'm going, but I'm praying that they will have my life. How is that possible? If Jesus is going to the cross, and we know on this side of Good Friday that in fact he was raised from the dead according to the Scriptures. And that Jesus we cannot see, then how do we have his presence? It is the great gift of life itself. It is the Holy Spirit. In John chapter 15, Jesus says these words, I am the vine, you are the branches. If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. Those words are enveloped by chapter 14 and by chapter 16, both of which are the most detailed teaching that Jesus ever gives on the person and gift of life that is the Holy Spirit. He says, it is better that I go, otherwise the holy counselor will never come to you. The bond that Jesus offers to you this morning is one that gives life. He is the vine, and there's only the only way that the Christian can grow is by being intact with, connected to. Bonded with Jesus Himself, and there's only one way that can happen according to Jesus, and that is the person, the gift of the Holy Spirit. Calvin, as I prepared for this sermon, John Calvin, theologian, wrote this about this bond. He said these words. He said The gospel and the use, uh Paul's use of the gospel, the way he defines the gospel, he says that we are called to be partakers of our Lord Jesus Christ. And to be made one with him, and to dwell in him, and he in us, that we may be joined together in an inseparable bond. That bond, Calvin would go on to teach, is itself the Holy Spirit. And hear these words. This is Calvin writing about all those who would hear the words of Jesus. I do not see how anyone can trust that he can have redemption and righteousness from the cross. and life in the death of Jesus, unless he relies chiefly upon a true participation in Christ himself for those benefits Would not come to us unless Christ first made himself ours. And that principally is through the Holy Spirit. As one writer would say, union with Christ, this bond with Jesus, therefore, is nothing less than a matter of spiritual life and death. So Jesus offers his spirit. He gives his presence with all those who believe. And we then, along with the Spirit, Who then gives the gift of trust, the gift of faith. So by Jesus' presence, by his spirit, and the gift of trusting We can lay hold of everything that ever belonged to Jesus and does belong to Jesus. All the blessings that are his become yours as you believe by faith through the Holy Spirit. Stick with me. It is a bond that gives life. It is also a bond that gives blessing. This blessing, this blessing is that God gives two things in this blessing and he prays for it here in this prayer when he says, For them I sanctify myself that they too may be truly sanctified. Last week we looked at what sanctified means, that Jesus literally sets himself apart as a sacrifice. Well, what's happening there are two things. Jesus, in offering himself as a sacrifice, takes on God's wrath. Now watch. That wrath is a cup, is referred to as a metaphor of a cup to drink. Jesus says it here as the last verse that I read earlier. Put your sword away, shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me? You see, what Jesus does is he on the cross takes the cup of God's wrath to make us right. So that by trusting by the Spirit, by faith, we trust in what Jesus has done. So therefore, His righteousness, His goodness, His glory are then given to those who believe. What does that mean? Let me tell you. We're getting ready to celebrate the Lord's Supper. We're going to pass out these nice little thimbles, right? I kind of sometimes wish we could just do a big old glass, but here we go. So thimbles. In these thimbles, you're going to taste something that's sweet. There's a reason. Because Jesus first took the cup that were the dregs of God's wrath. What was for him a cup of wrath becomes for us a cup of sweetness. That is the blessing. He gives us what belonged to him, his righteousness becomes ours. And he not only justifies, he also sanctifies. Jesus doesn't just set us apart, he gives us the power. So the sweetness of this drink, which represents the blood of Jesus Christ. And by the presence of his Spirit, by the Spirit, by faith, we drink this cup, and that cup is pointing us not just to what Jesus has done, he also points us to the power. He doesn't just say, I've sanctified you, so good luck with that. No, he gives you the power to walk with him. The blessing is not just that, he gives you his righteousness His goodness, he gives you the power by his spirit to walk with him. He gives life. He gives blessing. But he also gives joy. He gives utterly profound joy In a sentence of Jesus' prayer, he says these words. He says, I have given them, or rather, I am coming to you now. But I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy in them. Jesus intends. Jesus intends that what he is going to do will then enable him by his resurrection and by his power to give you a joy. A joy that is so profound and deep that it is not contingent on your circumstances. It is a deep and profound joy that can be experienced in the midst of difficult circumstances, but it is not stolen from you because of them. I was reminded as I was preparing for this morning of Jonathan Edwards' quote on what just kind of joy this is. Jonathan Edwards, a preacher, writes these words. He says, Christian holiness is above all the highest virtue of a more bright and pure nature, more serene, calm, peaceful, and delightsome. What a sweet calmness, what a calm ecstasy does it bring to the soul Of what a meek and humble nature is true holiness, how peaceful and quiet, how it changes the soul and makes it more pure, more bright, and more excellent than other beings. Let me read just that middle part. The joy that Jesus gives you when you believe in him and that he offers to everyone who can hear my voice this morning. Is a joy that is calm, that is serene, that is peaceful, that is delightful. It is a calm ecstasy Do you know why? It is because of this. It is what Jesus experienced the moment when he was being arrested. Jesus was not angry, he was not protesting, he was in utter calm, serene control. Because he knew that the confidence that he has in his father, resolute about the means, And productive about what he was going to do. He was set free. Set free. Hear me now. Set free from the world telling him that he was valuable, of what could be meant as success. or power. He was set free from it so that he could die on a cross. Here's the reality. If that was Jesus, he also offers that same calm ecstasy to you. Isn't it amazing that the closer that Jesus gets to the cross, the more of his glory is revealed? And people respond. Now I I I read this in closing. I didn't want to pass over it. But what is interesting about this is that the closer that Jesus gets to the cross, the more his glory is revealed, and there is our hope. Okay, so you remember that Judas knew where Jesus would be with his disciples. Judas brings a group of soldiers and the high priest with him along with his servant, so therefore. He comes, but it's not the soldiers who first ask Jesus who he is. Jesus It tells us, knowing all that was going to happen to him, went out and asked them, asked the soldiers, Who is it you want? Jesus of Nazareth, they replied. I am he, Jesus said. And Judas the traitor was standing there with them. When Jesus said, I am he, they drew back and fell to the ground. It's an amazing verse. Because Jesus, all he said was, I am He Jesus' glory is being more revealed. And he says, again I asked him, who is it you want? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth, I told you that I am he, Jesus answered. I, if you are looking for me, then let these men go. This happened, so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled. I have lost no one that you gave me. Jesus is saying, at the moment when his circumstances should have been erupting in worry and anxiety, what elicited from him from our Savior is one of calm joy. Calm, resolute, peaceful intent. Let me say to you, I don't know what it is you I know some, as I look out at the faces this morning, I know some of what you're going through. I know some of you face an uncertain week. Some of you are experiencing very broken relationships. Some of you are facing losing your job. Some of you have not found a job. Some of you are profoundly lonely. I cannot tell you that God is just going to wrap all that up and make it a nice little gift and everything's going to be okay when you exit these doors. That is not so. But there is a promise That the bond that Jesus has with the Father and all that comes from it is offered to you. To you as a gift. And while your circumstances will not change, God intends by Christ to change your soul. So that wherever you are, the sweetness of the bitterness of Jesus will be poured out for you. May we prepare our hearts to celebrate, to celebrate the supper. For it is a gift to us because of Jesus. Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your word, and I thank you for the patience of my hearers. But Father, what you have for us in these words are volumes of truth. And beauty. But only by your spirit can you make them effective. So come, Holy Spirit Remake our souls, that they would be grounded in the bond that we have with Jesus because of the bond he had with the Father. That we would experience the sweetness of your grace. In Jesus' name. Amen.