The fall is truly here. We had the section uh opened up again on both sides. Kids are back to school, graduated from children's church. Come to that time where we look again in some sense to a new year. Some months ago, T. M. Moore, president of Chesapeake Theological Seminary, Wrote these words in consensus, which is the seminary's publication. It's about the power of vision. Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev continues to demonstrate the truth of one basic element of human psychology. That is, that people respond to meaningful visions. As the editors of the New Republic put it, Gorbachev, more than any other presidential candidate, has the vision thing. a clearly articulated view of where his nation and the world should be headed. Consider the impact that Mr. Gorbachev's vision, summarized by Glasnost and Perestroika, has been able to make thus far. It has enabled Mr. Gorbachev to restructure key parts of the Soviet government. It has made withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan a matter of national celebration rather than humiliation. It has endeared him to national leaders in Western Europe. It has kindled the hopes of peoples in the Balkans and Eastern Europe. And it has made Mr. Gorbachev the darling of the Western press. When people are exposed to an intellectually stimulating, personally compelling, and far-reaching vision, they begin to get excited and they begin to respond. Which makes me wonder, says T. M. Moore, why church leaders seem to have so little penchant for projecting a vision to their people. After all, throughout the Bible, and especially in the person of Jesus Himself, God continually led and inspired his people with a vision of what he would do in and through them, and the impact that that would make. On the watching world. I think that's a good observation. Why is it that uh we look to the world to set the agenda and construct vision? I believe one of the saddest things about the current state of the evangelical church in America is that most people going to church have no sense of their church's purpose. Their church's vision, or what their church's direction is. And so we fall into a kind of a maintenance mentality of ministry. And that's why it becomes hard to get people to serve, whether it's in children's church or nursery or anything else. There's no sense of where we're going, what it's about, and what Jesus is doing in our midst. I personally believe that one of the most important tasks that I perform as pastor of you, this congregation, is to with the other elders sense the direction of the Holy Spirit, to sense what Jesus is doing and wants to do through us as a body. And then seek as forcefully as possible to present that vision before you so that we are mobilized together as one people, going one direction, following Jesus Christ and excited about what He's doing in our midst. Amen? And so that's why every September at this time I take a little bit of time, this time two weeks To present to you, both from the Word of God as well as from our own thoughts, what we see God doing in our midst. I begin with the Word of God and then uh both Sundays, uh the second hour, you uh who are in high school and you who are adults will not be going yet for the laugh groups, not into your particular laugh group. But this will be your last brief. Only uh we won't be doing a whole lot of uh interacting together, going around and sharing and that kind of thing. But during the second hour of this week and next week, I will be presenting to you a paper. And in that paper, I hope to articulate a vision of where I see the Lord leading us as a church, both long term, and then in particular, what are some of the Particular specific thrusts of this next year, 1988 and 89. We're entering into a new decade, the last decade of this millennium. And it's a time for us to think about what God is doing and how we're a part of it. So what I'd like to do is to begin with the word of God and a vision that a young priest prophet, Zechariah, had back in 518 BC Now if you s feel as we go through Zechariah 8 a sense of deja vu, uh that somehow you've heard this before, some of it. then uh you are not imagining that. That's because I preached on Zechariah eight back on July the second But I believe that the message here, the vision that God presents of what he is doing and what he's going to do, is so important that I need to call our attention again to some of these principles. So that we will be able to see them as the foundation for our hope, both in when we get discouraged and see what's going on about us, to see what God is promising to do As well as then to look at Columbia Presbyterian Church and see how what we are doing this year fits into the larger scheme of what God is doing and what he promises to do. How many of you remember that message on July the second? That's the other reason why I thought I would preach this. Because I picked up after that message. That um you ever get the feeling that you said something and didn't get heard? Yeah, I see some people nodding, yeah Well I get that feeling around the house all the time, but sometimes I get it here too, you know. And uh so I sort of felt like it was There was that message really had me excited. I remember telling you, Boy, I hope you get as excited about this as I was excited, you know, and then I went out and I was still praying you might get as excited about as I was excited about I'm still praying that now and I thought well I'll take one more shot at this passage because this is an exciting passage if we see what's going on. You know, this passage was the basis of an entire book written during the second grade aw first great awakening by Jonathan Edwards. And um it's a powerful passage. Think about what God is saying and what He's promising to do here in this passage Zechariah chapter 8, you should read in the bulletin there, verses 20 to 23. Why in the world I wrote 8 to 23? I can't tell you. Probably couldn't tell you. I do half the things I do, but I don't remember anything about that. Zechariah chapter 8, verses 20 to 23. This is what the Lord Almighty says. Many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come. And the inhabitants of one city will go to another and say, Let us go at once. To entreat the Lord and seek the Lord Almighty. I myself am going. And many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem and seek the Lord Almighty and to entreat him. This is what the Lord Almighty says. In those days, ten men from all languages and nations will take firm hold of one Jew by the hem of his robe and say, Let us go with you. Because we have heard that God is with you. Now that's God's word. Let's consider what he wants us to understand from this. Remember the situation. As we saw the situation that we have here. God's people had returned from exile. And about 50,000 of them had gone back to Palestine in order to rebuild Jerusalem and to rebuild the temple. But as they got to work, they got weary, and the work no longer held the fascination for them that it once did, and so they became stagnant. It became drudgery, and they quit. Let me suggest to you that whenever your ministry for Jesus Christ Whether it's working in children's church, or nursery, or Sunday school, or setup, or usher, leading a Bible study. Whether it's serving your neighbors, seeking to lead one of them, praying for him to come to Jesus Christ, serving Jesus at the office or in the home or in any place, when that becomes to you drudgery. I suggest that you've probably lost the vision of what God's purpose in that is. We tend so easily to lose the bigger picture of what God is doing. And that's what these people had lost. They forgot why it was important in God's greater work to rebuild Jerusalem. Why it was important to the Lord that they rebuild that temple and what the temple was all about. And so Zachariah comes on the scene and he reminds them of the bigger thing God's doing, and he presents a vision to them. And the vision that he presents culminates here in what God is going to do when that true temple, of which this temple that they're building, is simply a shadow, when that true temple, Jesus, comes. What God is in fact going to do in the world at that point. In order for them to see how what their little bit of bricklaying and gathering of various tools and implements and all of whatever it is that they're part of in that how that fits into a great global work that their God is doing. And so I want you to see three things from this passage. First of all, I want us to see the universal scope of the promise. Universal scope of the promise. You notice the universals that are in these verses. First of all, he says, many peoples, and the inhabitants of many cities, in verse 20. Many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities will yet come. We Christians tend to see cities as rather overwhelming and hopeless, don't we? We're overwhelmed by the size and the needs in cities. For example, do you realize that it took 150 years for New York City to reach a population of eight million people by nineteen fifty? Get Sao Paulo, Brazil, Mexico City will add 8 million people in less than the next 15 years. They'll add more people in 15 years than were built into and finally populated New York City by the year 1950. It's said that many African nations today are doubling their population every twelve years. Cities are overwhelming. And we look at them as something that is just impenetrable. But God says, many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities Are going to come to Jesus. That's his promise. He's given to us a promise of many people, the cities as cities, coming to Jesus Christ and being transformed. Then he says, many peoples and powerful nations. You see there in verse 22. See that? Many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem and seek the Lord Almighty and entreat him. Even nations recently closed to the gospel. Do you realize that the nation of Indonesia, Muslim nation, which is closed to Christianity officially? Has so many Christians in it right now the government refuses to publish the population and the percent? They're embarrassed. You know that in one country today it is said that there are 23,000 new Christians every single day. That's not the United States. That's Red China. 23,000 new Christians every single day. The Lord says, many peoples and powerful nations Are going to come to Jerusalem and seek the Lord Almighty. God is going to do a work in the world that's going to bring powerful nations to recognize that Jesus is Lord. In fact, he goes on to say in verse 23 that all languages and nations, a universal, you see. In those days ten men from all languages and nations will take firm hold of a Jew. And say, let's go with you because we've heard that God is with you. We're going to grasp a hold of God's people and say we've heard that you've got a message that we need. And so this is speaking of a worldwide explosion of revival. I want you to see that this is something unprecedented Something that we have not yet seen in history. This is something that we are still looking forward to And yet God doesn't exaggerate. And yet, even as He gives these universals, look at the second thing: the uncommon zeal of the people as they come. Not only are we speaking of uncommon numbers and percentages, but we're speaking of an uncommon response, of an uncommon zeal, an urgent and persistent, an urgent and insistent response. A passionate and persistent response to the gospel. Look at the picture in verse 20 and 21 This is what the Lord Almighty says. He says, Now look, there's going to be many peoples and the inhabitants of many cities that are going to come, and the inhabitants of one city are going to say to another city, telefax or phone them or whatever, and they're going to Say, hey, we're going. Let's go at once to entreat the Lord and to seek the Lord Almighty. And whether you go or not, I myself am going. You see the language of insistence there. Go at once. There's here no delaying. There's nothing to distract them. They're not saying uh it's rather inconvenient at this point in my life to consider getting serious with Jesus Christ. I've got a lot of things that I want to do, and I'm not sure I want Jesus messing with my plan. Perhaps some of you feel like that. You're willing to get involved to a certain degree with Jesus In his life, in his agenda, in his kingdom. But you're not sure that you want to get too serious. You want to hold things off a little bit. It's not an at-once situation for you Just last night, 11. 30 at night, I was awakened by a phone call. There on the other end of a phone with somebody who'd been part of this congregation some years ago. He called up and he says, I want to tell you first off I'm drunk. He says, I want to tell you what's happened to me since I left. And he talked about having a couple of illegitimate children He talked about living with a woman now that he's uh in a terrible mess with. He talked about being in jail, serving in prison. Being involved in all kinds of things that have been ruining his life and he has no purpose or direction. And he called me up, I don't even know how he got my number. And he said, How do you know Christianity's truth There was a guy who was saying, you know, it's not convenient for me right now. Got a lot of things that I want to do. I don't want Jesus coming into my life and turning those things around at this point. But God says when you understand what Jesus is about, you can't put him off. You go at once. Because you understand that you don't need a friend or a super psychiatrist who's going to help you with your problems when it's convenient. But rather, you're a sinner who's disobeyed flagrantly God's holy law. And therefore you're under his judgment and his wrath, and Jesus is a savior from your sin. Someone during the prayer time said, Thank you, Jesus, for saving me from my sins. And that's the heart of it. Know that you have a clear conscience, that Jesus Has died on the cross that your sins would be forgiven. And when you understand that, you go at once to entreat him. You see what it says? To entreat And to seek him. Remember we said in July, everybody remembers that all, that word entreat was the word that's used of a woman in childbirth. It's the kind of tone that she uses when her husband is coaching her and her breathing, you know, and she says, Shut up and get out of here Give me the epidural, quick. I don't want to see your face around here anymore. It's the word used as somebody who's on their deathbed crying out for help To entreat, to see that I need a Savior from sin and I need him at once in my life. I will give anything to get him to come into my life. And I will humble myself and even give myself to him. This is the kind of language, an unprecedented worldwide movement of people coming not to find a convenient Christ. To find a Christ who is Lord and Savior of their lives. Have you ever felt that? For your sin? Have you ever felt an urgency about Jesus in your life? I would suggest to you that if you haven't, beware that you haven't substituted something else for Christianity and called it Christianity. For at the heart of Christianity is a cross. At the heart of that cross is that Jesus is a sacrifice for your sin. And that you need him, and that you need that forgiveness more than anything else. And there's an urgency to that in your life. You entreat him to come into your life and save you from that sin. And you'd be in despair to go for another day without him. You come, it says, seeking him. You see, entreat him and to seek him. The word seek there means to search and to strive after. And who is it that they're searching and striving after? You see, twice it says the Lord Almighty, a name that we'll consider sometime down the road in our uh Names of God series. It's the word uh the name Jehovah of Hosts. One of the most exalted, powerful names of God. The name of Jesus. And central, we have to realize as we talk about our vision, as we talk about what we're doing as a congregation. Let's always remember that central to what God is doing, whether it's in Columbia Presbyterian or any other body of his believers that he's working with. Central to that is to bring people to seek Jesus. Our first purpose, you remember, as a congregation is what? That I may know Him better. Seeking after him, setting my heart to seek Jesus, to feed on Jesus, to find in him all my resources To find in him all my joy, to find in him whatever the problem, the worry, the fretting, the guilt, the dirtiness, the ugliness, to find in Jesus, the one who can take that away. The one who can meet that need of my heart at its deepest level. We have to beware that our activities don't displace Jesus from the central focus of all that we do as a church and ministry, in everything in our own lives, that Jesus is central. I remember hearing a reading actually of some parents in Boston. It was a set of parents. A couple had their child christened. And after the christening, they decided to throw a gala party to celebrate the christening. They invited all their friends into this big house They had a tremendous party to celebrate the christening of their child. Though during the party, they forgot the child. At the end of the party somebody said, Now where's the baby? And they looked all around and and they found that the baby was smothered to death under the coats of the guests. Can you imagine? Such a story. It's a true story. The baby for whom the party was given was literally smothered to death by neglect. Beware, brothers and sisters, that we don't, in all of our activities and programs and ministries this year, smother Jesus under the activities themselves. And neglect entreating and seeking Him as our chief heart desire. That daily time in His Word, in which we come to say, Lord Jesus I'm not coming to ask you to intercede for all the rest of these things I need in my life right now. I've got to meet you. I've got to see again afresh who you are. And what you've done to know you as my Savior and my Lord, in order for you to come to meet my need right now. Lord Jesus, let me seek you, strive after you. And by my joy in you. Notice then the third thing that Zachariah presents in this vision. That is the unconditional sovereignty. of the promise, the unconditional sovereignty of the promise. First of all, see the promise that's given here, and how definite it is Notice the definite statements that run throughout this passage. Verse 20. Many peoples and inhabitants of many cities will yet come. Verse 21, they will go. Verse 22, they will come to Jerusalem. Verse 23, they will take firm hold. You see, it's all very definite. It's non-negotiable. It's the statement of El Shaddai, who calls things that are not as though they were. The one who is in control of history, and he says, This is what I am going to do. Count on it. There's no question about this plan failing and looking for a plan D. The promise was given at a time when it seemed very unlikely. A few refugees back from Babylonia to try and rebuild the rubble of Jerusalem and the temple. But then God got a hold of those people. They saw that vision. But they were born up with it. And under Ezra and Nehemiah Along with the ministry of Zechariah here. They rebuilt the temple in 52 days. They rebuilt Jerusalem. And things became a going operation again, and they saw the sense of the power of their God in their midst But then gradually things deteriorated. And they lost sight of that vision. And soon they were under the domination of Assyria. A second class nation being fought over between Syria and Egypt. By two hundred BC they were under the control of Syria. By 175 BC, Antiochus Epiphanes that Irrational tyrant of Syria persecuted the Jews, entered the temple, and desecrated it, offering a pig on the altar, persecuting and killing any Jew found with Scriptures. Imagine reading this promise at that point. The nations, the cities are going to come and seek the Lord. They just must have thought, Lord, why do you mock us with such a promise We're fighting for our lives. Our backs are to the wall. And you're talking to us about a worldwide revival here. And then God raised up Judas Maccabees and his brothers. And the Maccabees brought a glorious revolution and a large degree of independence. And so Palestine threw off the yoke of the Syrians. And they were rising to their glory again. And they must have looked at this and thought, perhaps now this is going to be fulfilled. But then uh that which makes uh things that are hurtful to become ever so painful. Uh their torment came from the Maccabees themselves The household of the Maccabees degenerated into reprobate leaders who themselves began to persecute the Jews. And so they look to their own leaders, their own governors, their own high priests in fear for what they're going to do. And again, they feel mocked and tested by this promise in their faith. And things go from bad to worse, and in 63 BC the Romans come and they subjugate this little state of Palestine. And so they are now completely under the control of Rome. And that tyrant, Herod. And they wonder, Lord, what are you doing? When and how could you ever fulfill such a promise as this? It's so unlikely. But then the promise is established. Through Jesus. Jesus came. And it was clear in Jesus' coming that he came not to be simply the Savior, the Messiah of the Jews, but also of the whole world. John looks at him and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Jesus Himself said in Matthew chapter 8 that behold, from east and west, all over the nations, they shall come and sit down with Abraham. At the feast that I've prepared, Jesus gave his life, a sacrifice on the cross, not simply for the Jews But for all nations. As 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 and 2 say, not only for us Jews, but also for the whole world. For you. And for me. And if you've trusted Jesus as your Savior, then this, His work In all its perfect completion, to give you new life, a new hope, a new identity, and a new conscience has come upon you But then Jesus shows that this is not only for a small group, but it's to be scattered throughout the entire world. And you remember, just fifty days after his resurrection. The Feast of Pentecost came, and that Feast of Pentecost is the beginning of the wheat harvest. God was using that to show the beginning of the world harvest. For do you remember in Acts chapter two and verse five we read that there were Jews there from every nation under heaven. And so God enabled supernaturally his disciples to speak in the language of all these nations so that they could understand the gospel. That day 3,000 as a first fruits of an offering to God. Of the fulfillment of this promise in Zechariah came to Jesus. And by Acts chapter four you've got it up to five thousand. In Acts chapter five verse fourteen it says more and more and after a while you lose count and all through the book of Acts, God's adding to his church daily. He's adding to his numbers. As he's bringing in those from the nations who are looking to Jesus to entreat and to seek him as Savior. And so through the two thousand years it's waxed and it's waned. To his believers. Other times it's been pretty dim. There's been the Reformation as a high point. There's been the first Great Awakening that I mentioned that was a worldwide phenomenon In which a whole book was written on this passage to present before God's people the vision of what God was doing and was expected to do in their generation. But it didn't happen in their generation. And things went downhill very quickly again. And then there was the second Great Awakening and the 19th century World Missions Movement And then that began to recede in the beginning of the 20th century. And now we see God doing at the end of the 20th century A work that seems unprecedented in many ways. We'll talk about that more in the second hour of this week and next week. Putting together, it seems, pieces of The puzzle in many ways for many nations in unprecedented ways to perhaps put us on the threshold of the fulfillment of this promise. Many peoples, inhabitants of many cities, peoples, powerful nations, people from all languages and nations coming and saying we want to entreat and seek Jesus We're turning from Islam and secular humanism. We're turning from all the different ideologies. And we see that Jesus is really who he says he is. The question is, are you and I going to be part of what God's going to do? I'd like to suggest that you begin to think about this passage in terms of levels of vision. You see them on the back of your outline there. That you uh think for yourself to construct a view of the world as God sees it, and that you would think about a global vision. We'll talk about that more in the next hour in the paper that I present. Did you begin to dream about what God could do in the United States and construct and develop a national vision of what the Lord is doing and could do? We'll talk about that some more in the next hour and next week. Did you dream about what the Lord could do in our own county? As we see him fulfilling the prayers of saints over the years, for ten years people have been praying And God would put together his people here in this county to make an impact for Jesus Christ. And we formed just this past summer the Howard County Coalition for Spiritual Renewal. Involving over 25 churches and over a hundred people at this point. It's a growing movement and the next uh meeting will be held on September the 14th. Uh all of you are invited and urged to come. See what God is doing in our county and what He could do in these next couple of years. That we would dream about what Jesus could do in our own body if he mobilized all of his people and all of us were obedient, using our gifts. In the way that the Lord, the Holy Spirit, is enabling us to, as part of this body, so that we might function together, each part doing its each member doing its part to build up the body in Christ. Mobilized for ministry, and we would develop a congregational vision. And then there should be a number five there for you to construct your own personal vision For your own growth in faith in the power of Jesus in your life. To believe Zechariah 8 and Ephesians 1, that we've talked about in our purposes before. And that this, as Dick read earlier in the service, this resurrection power is for us who believe. Whatever God is going to do in our generation. The fact is he has promised wherever we are in the calendar of the scheme of things in Zechariah 8. We could be on the very threshold of it. It could be a hundred years off or more. We don't know But we do know that Ephesians 1 is promised that this resurrection power of seeing Jesus ascended Lord is for us who believe And so begin to think in your own life how this year you might be able to take steps of faith to see Jesus do things that you yourself couldn't do in your own And so I suggest that you work backwards, that you start with number five, your own personal vision. Move on to four, the vision of our congregation, and then of the county then for the United States and what you would pray for God to do and then for the world. And as we talk about this in the next couple of weeks, the second hour, I hope that you'll have some ideas and begin to get excited. About what God is doing in our midst, about what He's doing through each one of us, and how you, as a member of the body of Jesus Christ Can invest your life, sacrificing, no doubt, setting aside things of convenience, things that you would like to do if we weren't wrapped up in a kingdom vision. But setting aside those things because you're saying it's worth it to invest my life in what Jesus is doing, nothing else can compare with the value of that investment. And that you be ready to give yourself to him. Let's look to him in prayer. Lord, if there's anyone here who has never come with that urgency to entreat and to seek Jesus as Savior and Lord of their lives. We pray that you would enable them to see that you do not promise tomorrow. But rather your call is for them to go at once and to seek you even this day. To give over those things that they've played with, to trust you. If they would not be like that fellow that called me last night in despair, saying, I've so messed up my life, I don't Know what to do. With so many regrets, so many lost opportunities. Lord, bring that one today Lord, we pray that you would give to the rest of us that vision of what you are doing, that we might get outside of ourselves and our own immediate concerns. Which in the light of eternity can look so trivial that we might get caught up in what you are doing. That we might be excited about that to the point where we give ourselves not begrudgingly. But with enthusiasm because of what you've done for us and what you promised to do in us. Lord, open our eyes that we might see what Zechariah saw. Lord, bring the fulfillment of this we pray, even in our day. Lift up Jesus in our county, in this nation, and among the nations. For Jesus' sake. Amen.