We come again to the anniversary of our meeting together as a church. We began meeting here in the meeting house six years ago this month. We begin our seventh year by leaving the meeting house. The office, as you've heard, is already over above the safeway. We anticipate moving our worship over there and the schedule change in November. I find are very helpful for us as creatures to remember that we have histories, a past, a present, and a future. And I personally never come to this. this time in September without remembering the time that I had agreed to come and help lead Columbia Presbyterian Church as it got started, and took a morning of prayer, went out And prayed, seeking what the Lord's unique purpose was for this church. Lord, what is it that you have called this particular body to be and to do? The Church of Jesus Christ The local churches of Christ, I believe, are not to be like McDonald's franchises. You stamp them out and they all look the same, doing the exact same thing. There are basic similarities. But I was seeking what it is that God has for us particularly as a people. What is it that He's calling for us to do? And I remember so clearly that day that the Lord showed me forcefully from His Word that in order to find out what His unique purpose was for us as a church. We needed to have clear in our minds what his revealed purpose was for us as a church. And he turned my attention forcefully to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 to 23. And I remember hearing so clearly, not an audible voice from heaven, but having a profound sense that this was God's word for us as his people. Three purposes. that he describes for his church to experience. And they've become, by and large, the purposes for Columbia Presbyterian Church, purposes that have guided our thinking and our priorities, and have helped us, I think, to have clear what it is the Lord would have us to do and to do. And so I want to at the beginning of our seventh year remind us again of God's purpose for us as a church. Let's take a look then at Ephesians chapter one. We'll begin reading at verse 15. And I remind you as we read this that the words that I say after reading this will be more or less worthwhile. But this is God's word, and it's infallible. And therefore, let's give our best attention to what he has to say to us now. God has purpose for us as a church. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 15 to 23. But this Reason, ever since I have heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, May give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you. The richness Of his glorious inheritance of the saints. And his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. dead, and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. In every way. And in this God's word we see for us, as there was for the Ephesian Church, three purposes. First of all, that we would know him verse 17. Secondly, that we would know our inheritance, verse 18. And then thirdly, that we would know his power, verses 19 to 23. So God's purpose for Columbia. Presbyterian Church has been, I believe, these three things. It continues to be these three things. It has been, and it continues to be in our seventh year that we would know Christ more. Intimate. Verse 17. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. That word know. remember is the word which refers to full experiential knowledge. Let me ask you something. Did you speak with Jesus this morning before you came here? And I didn't say, did you read his word? Were you aware that he was there? But I asked, have you spoken with the Lord Jesus this morning? Have you communed with him? Have you shared yourself with him? Have you heard him speak to you? Have you had that sense that you have met with him and known him? Can you say, as somebody who's been part of this fellowship for weeks, months, years, can you say that now you know Christ better? then you knew it before you were part of this fellowship. Can you say that? If you can't say that, but you can say, but I've gained some Christian friends here that I really treasure. I've gained some knowledge of the Bible that's been very helpful to me. I've learned some principles and skills about how to live the Christian life that have helped me along. But you can't say that Jesus means more. more to me now than he ever did before. I love him more now than I've ever loved him before. Then I don't care anything for the rest of what you gain. Without that It doesn't mean anything. That's not my own personal preference. That's God's purpose for you and for me. Paul says that my prayer for you as a church is that the spirit of wisdom and revelation. Will give to you a full, more experiential knowledge of Christ, that you'll be able to say that you know and you love Him better because of your relationship with Him. With us as a body. That's God's first purpose for us. Satan wants to distract us from that purpose. We looked last week at how he wants to distract us with busy schedules and getting into a fall schedule that's going to be so hectic that we We'll come to Jesus for rest and refreshment. But God's purpose for you and for me before anything else is that we know Him better. Is that your purpose? Is that our purpose as a church? It's God's purpose for us. The second thing he says, and the second purpose that we've declared as a church, is that we would know our inheritance More thoroughly. To know our inheritance more thoroughly. Verse 18. Paul says, I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he's called you. The riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. We're people who need hope, don't we? We very much need hope. We get discouraged from time to time. Sometimes we get depressed. And we need hope. We can't live without hope. A person who is hopeless will always contemplate ending their lives. If they are really, truly hopeless, we need hope. Verse 8. says God's purpose for you as a church. One of his basic purposes for you is to know hope. The hope that you have in Jesus Christ. Then what is the nature of that hope? He says it's his glorious inheritance. That's your hope. Now notice his train of thought. Follow it closely. In verse 17, who's he talking to? He's saying he's talking to the God of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is that Father of glory, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious father of the glory. Literally, the Father of Glory. That's the one that Paul says I'm addressing this to. He's the one who's going to give you these things. Let your imagination roam for just a moment and think of what it means to speak. Of him as the God, Father, glory. The nature and the extent of that glory. Just this week, on one of the clear evenings that we've been enjoying in this early fall days, Dean, my son and I went out with our nighttime binoculars and we looked at the moon and the stars through the binoculars. And Dean at at age four was just unfalled. That planet up there, valleys and mountains, peaks, what he could see on the moon. And that's just a little blip of of dust just 26,000 miles from here. And here's the sun uh ninety-three million miles from here in just our own solar system. And we can look at stars that Have had their light leaving from them that we're looking at right now, perhaps when the time when the Lord Jesus was walking the earth. Or perhaps when Abraham was walking the earth. And we could look at stars. That are thousands of times brighter and larger than our sun. Whole solar systems and galaxies. God says, that's my handiwork to display my glory. And then you read in verse 18 that what he had. Has for us is an inheritance of glory. It's the same kind of rage, you see. He's the father of glory, and what does he have for us? He has an inheritance of glory. Same word. But so you see, when you're a son, And you inherit something from the Father, you inherit what the Father has. And Paul said, I want your eyes to be open for you to see that your inheritance is what the Father has. It's his glory. In fact, The fullness of that glory, Paul says, is the fullness of what a creature can take of the glory of the Creator. You and I have all the glory that God Himself has that a creature could possibly have. Because God Himself has called us to be conformed to His own glorious Son. And there is nothing greater than that. And so our inheritance is a glorious inheritance. It's an inheritance that is like the Father. Father's own glory. And his purpose for us as a church is that we begin to see that and we enter into that. And you and I remind ourselves. We remind each other when we get down, when we get discouraged of the hope. that we have in Jesus, that we build each other up, that we encourage each other, reminding each other of our inheritance and of our hope in Jesus Christ. That's his purposefulness as a church. And then the third purpose that he states. It's been his purpose for us for six years. It will continue to be his purpose in our seventh year is to know Christ's power more awesomely. To know Christ's power more awesome. He takes all of verses 19 to 23 to expand on this. In verses 19 and 20, he describes it as resurrection power. Notice, he says, continuing the thought of verse. Verse 18, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened in order that you may know his incomparably great power for us who believe. And that power, he says, is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised. him from the dead. The power that raised the man from death to life and brought in him a whole new era and humanity of life. Then he goes on secondly to describe that power as a Ascension power. He goes on in verses 20 to 23 to speak of this power as the power which seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms far above all rule and authority. All power is above the heart. dominion, every title that can be given, not only in the present age, the one here on earth, but also in all the ages to come, or in that one age, that supreme age to come. And God has placed all things under his feet. And appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. As Christians. I think we need to make more of the ascension of Jesus Christ. There are some churches that have this on their annual church calendar. And every spring they celebrate the ascension of Jesus Christ. Well, there's a lot to be said for recognizing On an annual basis, that it's a historic fact that Jesus Christ rose, ascended, and was seated as Lord. He's not simply Lord by the very fact that he is the second person of the Trinity, but as Messiah. He has gained the throne in which he has established a kingdom. And he's called a people into that kingdom. And he's demonstrating through that people his power as he builds that kingdom. But not only is it a historic fact that you and I need to recognize that Jesus has completed his work perfectly and therefore he is reigning. But Paul says here also it's a fact that we should know experientially. It's a fact that you and I are to know in our own experience. Notice the line of a thought, verse eighteen. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know is incomparably. Great power. Don't separate that from verse 18. It's the continuation of that sentence. He says, I want for you. God's purpose is for you to know that incomparably great power. Again, it's that word which we Means the full experiential knowledge of something. God's purpose is for you and for me to know that power. Not just to celebrate that Jesus has that power. And that someday maybe we'll see that power. But right now. Through the first fruits of the Holy Spirit, to begin to experience that power in our daily living. In other words, Paul is saying that you and I have been called to live supernatural lives. We're not subject and victims to our circumstances. circumstances. Whatever it is that discourages you now, whether you gotta pull all your files out of a dumpster, whether you don't have a phone that works, whatever it is that may frustrate you at the point of time that you're living, you are not a victim and captive to those circumstances. Because you have a Lord Jesus who has incomparably great power. And he wants more than you wanted for you to experience that power in your damn enemy. He wants for you to come to. And he wants for you to know that power. A sign that a friend of mine has on his desk that I've contemplated sometimes of writing down and putting on my own desk so that I would see it and be reminded of it. It's the simple sign that says, What am I trusting God to do beyond what I know that I can do? What am I trusting God to do beyond what I know that I can do? Not just doing something and then asking God to bless it, but trusting God to do something through my life beyond what I know I can do in my own strength. So that I might experience His incomparably great. great power and see the Lord Jesus honor himself through my life and through us as a church. So as a church we encourage each other to be stepping out in faith to see Jesus show us his incorporably great power. Last spring we did a survey that I've done a number of times. You see it on your bulletin outline. It's that little diagram here. That diagram is a good illustration of what's been going on this week. Down to the uh worship God you see was typed by one person. The rest of the Was typed by a second person. So there was a little transition in there. And uh so you see this uh diagram that uh illustrates the three purposes of our church. Uh one, to worship God, to know And then down on the lower left corner to edify the church, to build each other up, encouraging each other that we might know our inheritance and that we might enter into it. And then down on the lower right, the triangle, the third purpose of our church to be a very good thing. Might witness to the world, that we might witness and demonstrate the power of Jesus Christ in a life-transforming way, both by deeds of compassion and through the word of grace. Now, from time to time we'll ask people to put on to that triangle. And we'll say something like this: put a dot on there, and if that dot was precisely in the center of the triangle, we'd say that we're perfectly in balance in these three purposes and functions. But if you put a dot that's in one of the corners, that says we're very slowly that. purpose were pretty weak in the other two. Where if the dots midway along the line between two of these, it's saying they were fairly strong in the two of them, but we were pretty weak in the other one. And we did this with a number of people last spring, and the results came back fairly consistent. that if you put a dot that represented where a number of us think that we are as a church, the dot, I don't know where you put it, you might think of that for uh this split second, you know, where do you think we are in our own experience? But where the people generally put that Last spring was along the left line, that upper left line, between worshiping God and edifying the church. He wasn't very close to the witness point. He was closer to the other line. We're stronger in knowing Christ, in seeing the Christ. seeking to unknown him better, and we're stronger in our building one another up than we are in experiencing the power of Christ in demonstrating the power of his word in a life-changing way, prophetically and evangelistically to the world. Now then as I think about this and I consider what God has been doing through our church in the first six years and I ask myself, what is possibly God's purpose for us in the seventh year? What do you think it might be? You're right. Well it makes sense, doesn't it? If in fact these three purposes are what God's purpose for us, and the one that we seem to be the weakest in, is the experiencing of his incomparably great power by Demonstrating that through a prophetic and evangelistic word in confrontation with the world, then it's possible that that's God's purpose for us this year. To experience more of that. Now, I've I lived long enough and walked long enough with the Lord to learn not to second guess it. And so I'm not going to say that I know that this is precisely what the Lord wants to do this year. He might have something very different in mind from what I have in mind. But I know from reading my Bible and taking a look at what God says is his purpose for us, that it's probably true that the Lord wants us to grow significantly in this area. And so I would like to suggest that our vision for the seventh year of our existence as a church. Church place a particular emphasis when I'm seeking to experience the incomparably great power of Jesus Christ by the use of his word prophetically and evangelistically in confrontation with our culture. lives and structures. That we take that word boldly and expect God to do something to change Columbia, to change people, that we take that word too, and that we trust him that when he says that he can change lives, he really needs that. And he'll really do that, even through people like us. And in order to do that, I would like to suggest three things that we consider about how to go about it. Number one, I would like to suggest that we dream of this. This is uh still on the front, they're under the track. First of all, did we dream? Did we dream of seeing Christ demonstrate his power and way that honors him? Acts chapter 2, verses 16 to 21. We read that the mark of the new age, the new kingdom that began at Pentecost was that it would be of a people who would dream dreams and see visions. Visions, kingdom visions, kingdom dreams. And the passage which Peter there is quoting from Joel, saying that this is now fulfilled, this day in your experience, is with relationship to his one. Wonders and powers and salvation. He's saying God is going to show us salvation, know us the day of salvation. Today we call upon the Lord, we'll be saved. So he speaks of young men dreaming dreams and old men seeing visions and arts. being able to dream kingdom dreams of his power. And so I would suggest that you and I begin to dream about what God could do. Tell us as a body here in Colombia. And in order to help with that, I would like to suggest one specific thing that you might consider doing. I'd like to suggest that you consider writing me a letter. Now because uh things like this can get very vague, I've tried to state it down there as precisely as possible what this would involve. So take a look at the bulletin outright. That you would write me a letter on your dreams for your life, for this body, and for the interplay between the two. Here's what I dream about Jesus Christ doing through my life. Here's my dreams for ministry and for growth and for obedience to Jesus Christ, to see him show his power for me. Here's what I dream about seeing our church doing, to show the power of Christ, not just to become a glamorous church, not to be written up in Christianity. Here's what I dream that God do through this church for his glory, that he wants to do. Then I here's how I see those things relating to it. Here's how I see myself fitting into the body. Here's how I see the body inner play with what God's calling me to do. What do you dream of God doing in and through your life and in and through CPC? How do you see God calling you to obedience to your dream? Now all I claim to do is to take these and I will pray for you. As you know, I pray through the directory and I go through praying for each of the individuals. And this will help me to take your dreams and your visions. and to pray for Christ's power to be demonstrated through you and see how that affects the rest of us. To be aware of perhaps certain things that God pulls together through this. A number of you have a similar kind of dream, get you together, let you know about each other. See what God's doing through us. But for us to experience in this seventh year more of that incomparably great power of Jesus Christ as we dream, kingdom dreams, and then see God begin to work through us in fulfilling those dreams. for his glory. The only thing that I promise that I'll do for that with that is once I take it and then as I interact with you and talk with you, we might be able to talk about it sometime and see what God's doing, pursue it a little bit together. I will keep it and I plan to mail it back to you one year from now. And uh that can be helpful, you know. Take a look and say a year ago this is what I was dreaming about. What's God been doing? As a reminder to yourself about what the Lord's been doing in your own life. I hope you'll do it. You know, I talked last week about saying no and people lay more pressures on you, being able to come to the Lord for rest and you know maybe saying, Well, this guy turns around and gives me an assignment the very next week, you know. The last thing I All right, feel free to sign up. But I hope some of you will do it. I hope a number of you will do it. I would love to pray for you, for God to fulfill your dreams, and enter into you and seeing God do that. Second thing concerning the how of experiencing this this year, is that we prepare for it. If we're going to be expecting God to do something, we've got to prepare for Him to do it. Instead of preparing, I would like to suggest two things. That we do it through Preaching and through training. In preaching, I said to some of you who asked what was coming up next after Amos that uh we would be doing this fall a series on the Song of Solomon. I did not plan to preach through the book on on the Song of Solomon because I just wanted to build attendance, you know, and figure that this was a book that nobody who says coming to I mean who how many have you ever heard a series on the Song of Solomon? And I don't mean just looking at it as an allegory. I mean looking at the Song of Solomon. What it says for us in terms of marital relationships. the families, relationships between men and women generally, and what God says about all the things that are touched on concerning love. And also the relationship of Christ and the Church, the Song of Solomon. Having said all that, I want to tell you that I'm not going to do this fall. I want to put that off and plan to do it now in the winter and the spring. Because in July and August, God particularly made on my heart, Psalm 28. 7. Psalm 28:7 says, The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I'm helped. Therefore, my heart leaps for joy, and I sing in my song to the Lord. It's a verse of tremendous triumph in the experiencing of the power of Jesus Christ. And so I'd like to open up that one verse to you. Now we spent all the spring looking at a whole book, zipping through. I'd like to now take with a microscope and I'd like To take a look at one verse for October and November and to try and just open up the glories and the riches of the power of God demonstrating what he says he'll do for his people in Psalm 28:7. To help us to trust the Lord for greater things, to know his incomparably great. That work that God will use that to help you to pray expectantly and believingly. He'll minister that burst to your heart as He's done to my own part. And He'll use His word in our lives. The second preparation is through training. Dan Iverson will come, hopefully, Lord willing, next week with his family. Dan Iverson has had particular interest in training in evangelism. He has been qualified by Evangelism Explosion to be training people in that. taking people out and training them through. He is looking forward expectantly to doing that, training four people this fall, sixteen people in the spring. But to begin to help us as a people, as a body, to be expectant about God bringing people to Christ in our community. And that they'll be contagious. And there will be a lot of training often in various ways that we'll be able to see the Lord show its power. Training, whether it's through Sunday morning classes, through tilts, series such as the one beginning tonight, ways for us to experience God's power. Various kinds of trust training situations for us to trust the Lord. And then the third thing that I would suggest that we do, to experience this. is that we practice it. That we practice this in two ways. That we practice it by continuing to apply the prophetic word of things that we considered last winter and spring to our culture. Especially to the opportunity of elec election year. Do we see the strategic times that we live in? That we continue to be concerned for the kind of concerns that Amos had, for compassion, justice. able to take those concerns and to we're able to speak a prophetic word to our culture, to be able to be involved actively in speaking against injustice, lack of compassion, to be able to speak against those unbiblical structures of humanism that would seek to undercut God's word. Just this past week I was praying through and meditating on Psalm eighty-two. And it's my longing that we would have that longing that you see in Psalm eighty two as we seek to experience the incredibly great power of Christ above all southern as he demonstrates the kind of thing we get an insight into in Psalm eighty two. Glimpse into heaven. And Psalm 82 says God's on the throne. And God's looking down at all the authorities and all the powers on earth. And he's saying to them, or the psalmist is reflecting God's thoughts to them, saying, How long will you defend the unjust and show partiality? partiality to the wicked. Defend the cause of the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and the oppressed. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. And then he looks at what's going to come of these people. In all their unjustice and lack of compassion, in all their oppression, he says, What's going to happen? He says, You're going to die like mere men. You will fall like every other ruler. And then there is that longing of his heart, Rise up, O God. Judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. The United States is your inheritance, Lord. You made it. You have authority over it. Bring us into subjection. of the power of Christ, whether it's involved in legislative issues, in helping issues, but to be involved in changing the culture. And then we'd be involved in practicing this through the word of grace. The evangelistic word. That we also, in a personal, simple way, share Jesus Christ with anyone who wants to listen to us. That we'll believe that the Word of God can change lives, that Jesus Christ really can change people. And that will say, Lord, I really want to experience more of your incompatibly great power in this. Lord, make me willing. Make me available. Make us available as a church, not only with personal evangelists. But in church evangelism, we're planning a men's evangelistic breakfast again for this fall. Other opportunities that we as a church can demonstrate the power of Christ. Is there somebody that you can think of who doesn't know Jesus Christ but a As a point of contact would admit to you that they are frustrated financially. What about that point of contact to invite them and bring them to the series these next three weeks? They may not be particularly interested in coming to a Bible study But they are interested in some answers about how to manage their money. And you could say, look, as a Christian, the Bible has some things to say about this. We could be interested in seeing what the Bible says about managing our money. Maybe it'll give some help. Maybe there's some people that would be interested. Looking for opportunities for us to demonstrate the power of Jesus Christ. Opportunities for sharing the gospel. Do you believe verses 19 to 23 are true? Jesus Christ really has ascended and is seated above all Roman authority, power and dominion. And that that is for the church so that he will exercise this with a purpose for Columbia Presbyterian Church of our experiencing, knowing or fully in our own experience, this incomparably great power? Do you believe that's for us? Do you believe that's for you? Do you believe that that's for this fall? If you do, Then pray with me now for the Lord to accomplish this. Let's pray. Lord, we want to set our hearts upon your purpose for us. And Lord, we're not guessing. We see from your word what your purpose is. Whatever else it might be for Columbia Presbyterian Church, we know that it's to know you better this fall. We know that it's to know our inheritance. more authority. And we know, Lord, that it's to experience your incomparably great power, resurrection, ascension power, more awesomely. And we ourselves might be surprised at how great that power is. If we might be available for you to use us in simple obedience to those things that you're calling us to, as we dream about those things that we'd like to see you do through our lives, as we dream about what it is that we'd like to see you do through us as a body. Lord, that you would bring reality to those dreams, the dreams that honored you. Lord, we pray that you'd purge away the dreams of self-glory, that you would take away those things that would simply honor ourselves. But that you would urge us in those dreams to want to honor Christ and to know and to experience his incomparably great power. Lord, we pray that there's anyone here this morning who's never experienced. Experience that transforming power, that that power that was demonstrated in the cross when the Lord Jesus died for our sins. We pray that that person would see that power that is offered to them and come. to Jesus for forgiveness of sins. We pray, Father, that in whatever needs each of us have, that you would demonstrate your power to us, encourage our hearts, Lord, that we might see that these things are really true. And that you really want for us to know them. Lord, we pray, for that for ourselves as individuals, and for ourselves as a congregation, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.