And now back to First Corinthians thirteen. Turn with me to First Corinthians chapter thirteen. Our scripture this morning. First Corinthians chapter thirteen. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains but have not love, I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor, surrender my body to the flames, but have not love. I gain them. Love is patience. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. Where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be still. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. That when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. Now we see but a poor reflection. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three remain Faith, hope, and love. The greatest of is love As we return to the series on 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the portrait of love, I want to call our attention to something which pervades the chapter. Which is such a major point in the chapter that it's very easy to miss it. And that is the word that Paul uses for love in this chapter. Notice in verse one if I uh speak in tongues uh and have not love And then uh verse two, if I have faith I can move bounce I have not love. Uh if I give my Possessions of the poor, surrender my body to the plains, verse three, but have not love. Then he describes love, uh patience, love is kind He goes on in verse 6. Love doesn't delight in evil. Verse 8, love never fails. Verse 13, there's faith, hope, and love, but the greatest of these is love. The word appears, of course, again and again and again. And the word that is used there is very significant. For the word used in this chapter throughout is the word agobin. And I want to look at that word today with to see it and how it is an essential part of understanding the whole meaning of this chapter, 1 Corinthians 13. You see, the word adopte is the fact that Paul used that word adopte, I believe, is very significant, and its significance is something that we as Christians generally miss today. We think of the word love as something you could apply from anything, from Cheerios to God, from Pac-Man to my wife. And love applies to all those things. Whatever I love, be it the uh a fleeting desire, to the deepest passion that runs my life. We all use the same word. But you couldn't have used agape that way. It's important to see that in Greek culture, agape before the New Testament was a rather rare word. It's not found very much outside the New Testament. The Greeks had a number of words for love. They used the word storge to refer to natural affection. The kind of affection we have for the family, you know, the people that we're close to. And they would use the word phyllos to refer to the love of friends, people that we're close to outside of our families. They would use the word eros to refer to either passion, sometimes a sexual love, a romantic love, devoted love But the word that corresponds most closely to our use in our culture of the word love is not the word agatha. It's the word Eros. Now in order to appreciate that, you need to understand that Eros has had some bad press lately. Most people when they think of eros, they think of the word erotic and they think of sexual love or lust and so they think well, you know, of course the Bible wouldn't use that word But in fact, it's not that way at all. Eros is a very good word. Eros was the word that Plato used when he referred to man's love for the good and love for God. Eros is the word that uh can refer to the deep passion you have for the highest ideals in your life, for art. For the Lord Himself. Eros is a a word that refers to devotion. In fact, When you come to the New Testament, the word that you would have expected the New Testament writers to use was the word eros. That's the word that would refer to religious affections, people's love for one another. It was a very good word. It's the common everyday word for love, like the word love that we use. But what's significant, you see, is that the word is not found once in the entire New Testament But rather, every New Testament writer, when he referred to love, dug out of the Greek vocabulary a rare word, a word that wasn't at all popular. A word that most people were at all that familiar with, and he used the word agape to describe what he was talking about And that's the word that Paul uses here. And it's important that we understand why that word was used in order to understand what 1 Corinthians 13 is about. So before we go on to the next phrase, I want to just pause at this point. in the series to examine that word. The word, as you see in your bulletin outline, can best be understood by contrasting it with Eros in two very important ways. You notice how I have it there. Eros number one refers to a love of the worthy. Eros is falling in love, you see. That which is so attractive that you can't help but love it. Donnie, who could help but fall in love with those baby blues of your That kind of a view of love. Just draw me with your beauty and your attractiveness. Agapi did not refer to that kind of. A gapi is a love regardless of woman. A gapi is a love that originates in the lover, not in the beloved. Agave doesn't say that the beloved is so worth loving that the lover just couldn't help himself from loving. The origination of agape is solely within the person who's loving. The second distinction is that eras refers to a desire to possess the beloved. There's always that desire, no matter how lofty, it is possessive. Eros is ultimately self-fulfilled. It is self-rewarding. It's self-possessive. Agape, on the other hand, has only the desire to give. It gives to the beloved without the thought Of what it gets in return. A goblin is only given. Well, you can imagine if we had a word like that today how much it would be used to refer to the kind of love that is so commonly understood. And you can see why it might have been a rather rare word. In order to understand, therefore, what 1 Corinthians 13 is talking about when it uses this word, what I'd like to do is take a look at John 3. 16. this morning and take a look at how that word is used there. Because there we see these two distinctive ways that that word is used In contrast to the word eros. For in John 3. 16 we read that God for God so loved the world. That he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I want us to notice, first of all, that the word their love is this word agape. God had agape for the world And I want us to notice simply two things about that. First of all, who he loved, it's the world. Secondly, what that led him to do. He gave his only son. You see You could only say God had agape for the world. The word agape here in in what John is trying to communicate is such a radically different word. That it's saying God had a uh an orientation toward the world ultimately radically different from any other philosophy or religion, even including the Jewish religion. See the Jews would have never said God had Eros for the world. You think of Jesus' parable of the publican and the cynic. You remember the publican talks about how he fasts twice a week and he gives what he uh of his tithes and gives this and does that and all the various things that he does. And what the what the Pharisee is basically saying is he's not hypocritical. We miss the point of that parable if we think that this fellow is just laying it on. He did those things. But he's saying, God, I am trying to make myself attractive to you so you will have eros for me. That is the nature of all religion outside of Christianity. The gospel is absolutely distinctive and unique When it says it's the religion of the public who says, God, I have nothing to make me attractive to you. My only hope is that there is a God there. My only hope is that you, out of free grace, You'll decide the love. So we read in John 3. 16 that God loved the world. The world you see there refers not simply to everybody. That's to miss the point of that verse. To think that all this is saying is God's love is so extensive that it covers everybody. When it says the world, what it is referring to is that sin-dominated system of people who follow the prince of this world. It's referring to the kind of people more than to the amount of people. God so loved the world, those people who were dead set against him. Who were allied as his enemies. God loved the people who were totally repulsive to him in terms of his holiness and of his goodness. It's hard for us to kind of understand what that's really getting at, you know, because as sinners, we don't find sin so repulsive I mean, let's face it, there's a lot of people that we find rather attractive and in some ways even involved with their sin. Sometimes even because of it. And so while certain sins repel us, There are other sins that we find extremely tolerable. There are sins, certainly, that do repel us: cruelty, spousal abuse, child abuse. uh drunkenness, uh certain things like this may repel us as sin. What we need to realize is that God is not complacent toward any kind of sin God doesn't look at certain sins and say, well, you know, that's okay. Nobody's perfect. I'll just overlook that. All sin repels God. And so when you come up with a statement like this that God has agreed for the world, that strikes you as radically new. That's different. Here is a God who John says in 1 John 4, 8 and 16, is love. He is Agatha. The very essence of this God's being is Agatha. You know, that means that it's not just that love is one of the things God does. That's saying that everything God does is loving. God is love. And when it says that he loves the world, it is saying that he, because of the essence of his own love, loves the world with an unmotivated love. He loves the world as we saw last week from Deuteronomy 7. He loves the world because he loves the world. He's set his love on the world. God has decided to love the world. Even the world. Michael Green puts it this way. He says that In in both cases, this idea of uh Eros and uh Philia In both these cases, these other Greek words, feelings are aroused because of what the loved one is. With agape, it is the reverse. God's agape is evoked not by what we are, but by what he is. It has its origin in the agent, the lover, not the object, the beloved. It's not that we're imlovable, but that he is love. You get that. God loves the world. You can't love the world. You could never say God had Eros for the world. Wouldn't make sense. Because either God's not who the Bible says it is he is. Or the world's not what the Bible says it is, but it's the world is that sinful system that is arrayed against God in all the repelling sins. And if God is who he is, as the Bible declares, then it makes absolutely no sense to say God had Eros for the world. It makes no sense, I want you to understand this, it makes no sense to say God loved the world in the way that we commonly think of love. It only makes the sense in some radically different way, where we understand that love is something which is determined within the person who's loving. God decided to love the world, to set his affection on it. That's what the Bible means when it says God loved the world. It's illustrated, for instance, in the parable of the prodigal son. Remember The son goes out and he wastes all the father's substance. And then he comes back to the father, and the father lavishes his love upon him. Often I think we miss the point of that parable because people will say, Well, isn't that wonderful how fathers can be? See, that's not what Jesus is saying Uh I'm illustrated by a story I heard once of a fellow who acted like the prodigal, and he went away And he bumped into a a pastor, and the pastor said to him, What you ought to do is you need to go home, you need to give up this form of life and go back to your father. And he'll kill the fatted calf for you, and you'll be received home. You saw the fella a few months later, back in the same district. And he said, how did it go when you went home? The fella said, I went home My father didn't kill the fatted calf. He almost killed the prodigal son. That's not how fathers often act. We act according to how people treat us so many times. But I'm not saying a father couldn't act that way. I'm saying that what Jesus says is here's how radically distinctive God's motion is. He uses a comparison, which is also a contrast. God loved the world because he decided to love the world. And then as a result of that, Paul then takes in First Corinthians thirteen that notion of love And he says, love is patience. Why is love patience? So you and I realized God loved the world. And he was patient with me and my sins. How can I not be patient with a brother or a sister who is giving me some sort of a happiness Romans tells me that while I was yet a sinner, Christ died for me. When I was his enemy, God loved me and died for me. How can I not be patient? That person who's lighting me, giving me a problem that is so small compared to my insolence or God 1 Corinthians 13 says that love doesn't laugh on about itself to impress. How can I blab on about myself to impress you if I realize that God love the world? Did he set his love on me as unworthy of that love? And did he set his affection on me because he loved me? Not because I was something impression. So love reflects that understanding of God's love. And it says this pre-pop. Paul says, Adampe doesn't count law. Doesn't keep a record of wrongs. Why? I realize that if God has kept a record of my wrongs, that I've had But God, in fact, has not kept a record of my wrong. That's the nature of agape. He's put them away. And so agape reflecting that doesn't keep an record of wrong. But what did God do to express his adoption? The Bible says that he gave. The Bible tells us that he gave the most precious possession we have. Jesus Christ. John 3. 16 says, God so loved the world, God had a godplay for the world, so much that he gave His one and only Son. Whoever believes in him would not perish, but have eternal life. Matthew 20, Jesus told the parable To illustrate the giving nature of God's love. Do you remember we were told about the laborers who had gone out? One went out and labored in the heat of the entire day, and then another went out and labored half the day. There's another fellow that goes out and he only works for an hour. And then the husbandman of the vineyard comes to pay them and he gives them each the same pay. He gives those who had said that they would work for the whole day exactly what he promised to do. Then he gives those who have worked only for an hour. Exactly the same amount. And people complain and they say, Why should they get the same as we who've worked in the whole heat of the day? And Jesus says, complain like that, you haven't understood the giving nature of God. When God decides to give, he doesn't give according to what we deserve or what we merit. He gives lavishly He gives because it's his nature of his love to give, not to possess, but to give. Galatians 2. 20 tells us that the Son of God loved me, he had a goblink for me, and gave himself up for me. 1 John 4, 9 and 10, we read that God loved the world. Herein then is his love demonstrated, John tells us. When he says This is how God showed his love, his agathe among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world that we would live through him. This then is love, not that we love God. Not that we had agape for him, but that he had agape for us, that he loved us, and therefore sent his sons. As an atoning sacrifice for our sin. You see, the cross is the only way that you can understand the God. Why does the New Testament distinctively use a dark to describe God's love and men's love? Because what is distinctive about the New Testament is the cross. It's only at the cross that you understand the measure of God's love. It's only at the cross that you understand what kind of love it is. That God could love the world, those who were enemies and who deserved his judgment, who deserved his wrath. And God, instead of cursing and condemning those people who so richly and worthily deserve that wrath, God sets his love upon us. God even sends us on the Son, the ultimate gift, giving up his glory to take on humility. Giving up his sinlessness to take on sin. Giving up his life to take on death No greater love has any man than this. But a man lay down his mind. Paul says, you might even lay down your life for somebody who's worthy of dying for But nobody is going to lay down his life for someone who is worth less. No one's going to lay down his life for his enemy for someone who spits in his face For someone who turns against him again and again, the Bible says that's exactly what Jesus didn't know. He saw us in all our unworthiness. He loved us because he decided to love us. Not because we attracted him. Not because we merited him. Think so often that we as Christians can use this, we think that God's purpose in saving us was so that he would get worship. So that we would serve him, you see. And so we say, well yes Uh Agape isn't really possessing, but God does desire to possess this, you know. He does get something out of this. It's not all just giving. I mean maybe he gives us love, but look at We've got to give him a lot in return, you know. We've got to be disciples and we've got to be faithful and we've got to give him our worship and we've got to give him our service. Seems to me I do an awful lot of giving toward God to tell me that all I do is to receive. Have you ever stopped to think how superfluous you and I are to the universe? I mean, do we really think that God existed from all eternity and complete Happiness and contentment with the Trinity. And all of a sudden he just had an itching, a yearning. You know, I I I just got to be worshiped. You know, I can I can I can't be Have somebody worship me and serve me, and I'm just not complete anymore. You know, everything was fine in heaven until now, but all of a sudden I've got this craving to be worshipped. And so God whipped together a universe and he put together some creatures on it So that we would worship him and serve him and really fulfill him. That's our us. If you and I can only understand God's love, when we recognize that we have absolutely nothing to give him. He doesn't need us. He didn't create us so that he could be worshiped, so that we can serve him. He made us because he loved us. And when he made us and we denied all of that purpose, so the only appropriate response of the creature to the creator, then he sent his son to die for us. Why? Not simply so we'd worship him and serve him, because he loved us. He set his heart on us The only appropriate response therefore is to worship and to serve, but not, you see, eros, so we will be attracted. Because we've understood what a copy is. Because we've understood that God has set us affection on people like that. Smoking to continue to give and to pour out lavish. The only measure of that is the cross. See this week. Here I come into the so why? Well I mean Let me read it and I give you a better understanding of what I'm gonna say it. You see, number one there, it would make no sense. To command eros. You see, if 1 Corinthians 13 was using the word eros, it would make no sense. You can't command Eros. You fall in Eros. You are drawn into eros. You are lured into eros by the inestimable attractiveness of the object of your affection. But God can command agape because he is agape. And he has demonstrated agape, and because agape comes from the lever. God says that's something that he can command. It's appropriate, you see, for him to command agape because as you see on the back, number one, it originates in the lover, not in the below. And number two, because we must receive infinite quality from God. Just this week I was particularly struck by this in my own life. You know you move along in your life from time to time and begin to realize that you're, you know, you sort of have some basic areas under control. And so you're sort of hanging in there as a Christian until at a certain point the Lord points up just how far short you're coming in your decisions. He points up to you with a great deal of force just how short you fall from really loving him and serving him as you are. And when you and I begin to come into that kind of situation, the temptation is despair and depression. And say, I'm just not making them. I am such a rotting Christian. How could God ever love me? And I feel so far removed from them. I feel so estranged from them as if I could never approach them. This week as I began to find myself going into the pits, as I realized I was falling so far short in so many areas. Use of my time and love for people concern various areas. The Lord reminded me again, Ellen I'll have to demonstrate to you Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and renew to you again and again, Alan. I love you. I'll remind you. I love you, Alan. And I'll I'll answer a special request just to show you that I love you and I'll continue to do things to kind of keep pumping you up to know that I love you, you know, like the person that says to their husband or wife, uh, Yeah, I know you told me yesterday that you love me, but you gotta tell me today because I I keep forgetting, you know, keep telling me that you love me. God says, Alan, look at the cross. There once for all, beyond any shadow of a doubt, I have demonstrated to you that I love you But I love you exactly the way you are. You know, I'm tempted to say, but God would love me more if only I But God would really love me more if only this area of my life was. But God would only love me more if I could be more faithful in That's Eros. Balde is the same guy. The staggering truth is That you love me with the infinite capacity of God Himself. You love me as much as you possibly can love me. Exactly the way I am. No changes, no emendations, no corrections. Exactly the way you are. Do you believe that? Do you believe that Christian relying on the fact that the Son of God loved you and gave himself in your life? Do you see in the cross that definitive once-for-all statement that Jesus didn't love you in spite of your failures? The cross shows you that he loved you and died for your failures. His love was demonstrated in the ultimate act of solving the problem of your failures and my failures. And it's with that hope that I can turn again to serve and love my Lord. To look at what 1 Corinthians 13 is telling. About love giving of itself. About the fact that love is kind and it doesn't envy. About the fact that love is not self-seeking. Because that's not the nature of a God. God loves you exactly what he wants. And the final last thing is because of this, God wants to bless you with the opportunity to understand the power of a God thing. By giving you someone not worth loving. You really look at that as a blessing? You know, God says, I want you to understand how great my love is. Because I'm going to give you somebody that in your eyes is not worth loving. And somebody who only takes and never gives. And you see when God does that, what he's doing is he he's drawing us into a more precious fellowship with us. And you look at that person, you say, this person's just not worthy of my love. And that's why there's so much divorce in our culture. People marry on the basis of narrowness. And when they find that person of their limitless affection has turned pale in the months and years. And they're no longer attractive. There's nothing left. You see, that's when the Christian gets into high gear. That's when the Christian says, now I move from the natural to the supernatural. That's when I begin to move from what I'm able to do in my own strength to what is absolutely impossible for me to do. in my own strength. Because Agave is supernatural. We don't have Agave. We have Eros, we have Storegate, we have Phylos, but we don't have Agoth. We don't have that love which comes only from the lover with nothing to attract it. from the person that we know. Just this week a woman was telling me, my husband's impossible, Alana. So I divorced him Kids say, My brother and my sister is impossible to love. This kid at school is impossible to love I can't help but thinking that is precisely to miss the point of the New Testament. It is precisely when you and I were impossible to love that God loved us. If I had the attitude, if God had the attitude toward me that I have toward people I find impossible to love, I'd be in hell. And so would you. But it's precisely at the point where we were most impossible to love that God loved the world and gave his son But you and I pay for that grace and that truth to understand how we will And then to simply cast ourselves on him and say, God, I thought thank you. It's supernatural. I can't do it. I can meditate on Jesus' love for me, but I still can't do it. Cast ourselves on it and say, Lord, it's got to be your human. You've got to be able to love that person and give to me that love for what I don't have. That's how the Christians want to understand what I'm not saying. That's how the Christian experiences supernatural. Are you ready to thank God for the opportunities He's given you in your life? Love someone who's unworthy of your love? It's very close to you and has hurt you very deeply again and again and again. Or someone that you find who is so needy that all they ever do is take They never seem able to hear. Say, God, that's the opportunity. See the power of your spirit. And you understand as I've never understood. I above me. But God so loved the world. Indeed, his only son. God has come What about you? Lord, we're we're so tempted as people to think that The ideal marriage and the ideal situations to pattern ourselves after is where there is just a natural kind of affection. And to forget, Lord, so easily, at those situations where there is great pain, where there's unrequited love, where there's love that's not returned, where there's love that only receives hurt. is really the best demonstration of the law of love that you showed us at the cross Lord, help us to not run from those opportunities. Help us, Lord, not to turn our back on those that you call us to love because we're not able to have eras for them Give to us, Lord. The agape that only you can give us. We know now, Lord, why you say that he who loves is born of God Many people can have arrows, but only the one who's born of God can have a goddamn. Lord, give us understanding of this. Speak to our hearts the truth of this. Apply it to our lives. Those situations that you want to heal, that you want to work in. May none of us miss that opportunity to draw close to you And to understand both your agape for us, as well as your power in working agape in us. We pray for the sake of the Lord Jesus, the Son of God who loved us. And do themselves for us.