Welcome and good morning. And I just dropped my uh Thank you, Gary. Let's try that again. Welcome and good morning. My name is Pastor Bob and I don't always drop my notes, but when I do, Gary is here to help me. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to Luke chapter 7. This morning I'll be reading for us verses 11 through 17. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you for its truth. And Lord, we thank you for its beauty. Lord, help us to appreciate your scriptures as something that you have exalted above all other things, but your name itself. Lord, may they be indeed a light to our feet, a lamp for our path, Lord, that they would be our source of guidance, correction, encouragement, rebuke. Lord, by your Spirit, we pray that you would help us to see and hear wonderful things from your word, that we might know you better. And Lord, even that we might know ourselves better. And be able to walk before you well. And Father, bless the preaching of your word that will follow. And Lord, in as much as it is faithful to your scriptures, Lord, we pray that you would bless that as well. We pray these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 7, beginning with verse 11, the Word of God. Soon afterward, he, Jesus, went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him. As he draw near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep. Then he came up and touched the byar, and the bearer stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother. Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, a great prophet has arisen among us. And God has visited his people. And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country. This ends the reading of God's Word. I think too infrequently do we consider the Bible as truly great literature. And we ought to. We ought to recognize that that which God creates is good, and that which we create is merely an echo, an imitation of what He creates. And God has created literature. And all of ours is just an echo of this great redemptive story. Not just in the great arc of redemption, which basically covers nearly every literary production of every culture this history has ever produced. But even the details. And I want you to think about a couple of the details about this text, maybe in ways you haven't. And in order to do that, we're going to do two things. We're going to take a look back and we're going to take a peek ahead. Let's look back. After Jesus' baptism and public affirmation, and indeed commissioning to his public ministry, And his temptation, that preparation in the wilderness, that we read about in John 4. After that, we have Several narratives about Jesus doing ministry and the report or the news or the rumor about Jesus beginning to trickle out into a flood. And at first it's kind of vague. It's kind of like the word could be translated in chapter four, a rumor. And then it's news. A little more A little more credible if you go back to the Greek language. And then a third word is used in chapter five. The report went out about him. And that again a more technical, accurate word in the Greek. Three different words are used. So we see after the baptism and commissioning and temptation of Jesus, we see that the news about who he is is starting to get out and coming into focus. After that we have him, after notice, after the news goes out, we find him clarifying the essential purpose of his visit. to forgive sins. You see, after that we find Jesus entertaining All of the rabbis and Pharisees and teachers of the law from all of Galilee, every town we're told, and even Judea and Jerusalem have come to hear him. And that's where he says, I'm here to forgive sins. After that, after he's clarified his mission, he calls disciples. He begins with the calling of fishermen, and that ends with a description of the calling of Levi. Then he appoints apostles. From all of the disciples who have come to him, he names twelve to be his very particular Think of him as his inner circle. The twelve men he is gonna go I'm here I got ten fingers up. Where's Gary when I need him? And uh I need two extra fingers, but in any event, uh he appoints these twelve men to be especially trained by him to carry on his mission. And after that, after he appoints them, he appears with them, and he gives what Luke in chapter 7 calls his sayings, the content of his Sermon on the Mount. It's called the Sermon on the Plain in Luke. Where he basically lays out the beatitudes. This is the blessed life. He lays out the woes. This is a life that is not going to result in blessing. He tells us to love one another, even our enemies. He tells us not to judge each other. He tells us to be careful how we build our lives by obeying And putting into practice the words of Jesus. And after these sayings, we read in chapter 7. We have two accounts. One is an account of the healing of the centurion's son, in which the authority of Jesus is demonstrated. And the second is this account that we just read, an account of the compassion of Jesus. Now the peak forward. John the Baptist, whom Jesus will say is the greatest of all born among women. Has been taking note of all this. And he gets a report that Jesus has, in a sense, demonstrated his authority. and exhibited his compassion. And John the Baptist sitting in prison in Jerusalem. begins to wonder if Jesus is actually the Messiah. Such that he takes two of his disciples and he says, go ask him And so they go off and they meet with Jesus and say, are you the one we were to expect or should we expect another? You see, Jesus was so countercultural in the sense that he defied and defeated the expectations of the Jews of his own day who were expecting, yes, the authority, but they were expecting the power to be demonstrated somewhat differently. They were thinking about large-scale nation-building issues. They were thinking about the defeat of the Romans. Not the healing of a censurian servant. The authority of Jesus would be used to crush all of the opposition and the oppression that God's people ever dealt with. Wouldn't be used to abet someone who is on the very fringes, if at all, a part of the community of God. He wasn't circumcised, the centurion in chapter 7, verses 1 to 10. Then when it comes to the power of Jesus, it's expressed in compassion to the least of these. Now there's a lot happening in verses 11 through 17, but as you study your Bibles think about what the narrator, in this case Luke, is by the illumination and prompting of the Holy Spirit telling us about what is happening in the heart of Jesus or what he's thinking in his mind. Things that you wouldn't be able to necessarily know if you were just an eyewitness to this event in history. And here it's compassion. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her. And indeed, all that follows is about compassion. And this compassion of Jesus is significant. We're going to look at three things about it. That this compassion demonstrates three things about Jesus that underscore what his messiahship is going to be, contrary perhaps to some of our expectations. In the first place, his compassion demonstrates that he has come to be a Messiah, a savior, the Son of God who has regard for the weak. Psalm 41, 1 begins. Blessed is he who has regard for the poor or the weak, depending on your translation. James chapter 1 verse 27 says, true religion is this, concern for widows and orphans in their distress. And here we have Jesus seeing the funeral buyer of a young man being carried out of a town, and he has compassion. Let's recreate that moment. You might think, how did Jesus know that that was a widow? How did he know that was her only son? Well, every single one of us in this room today, had we been alive at that time and familiar with the culture, would have instantly known that is a widow. And that was her only child. Why? Jesus is walking up to Nain. And we read right here, as he draws near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out. You see, the funerary observances begin in the town. The buyer is laid out, the body is being carried to the tomb outside of the town, just as the dead were to be outside of the camp, all the way back to the tabernacle. all the way back to the wandering in uh in the wilderness. So they're carrying the body out, and that procession followed certain traditions. The family of the deceased went first, followed by the buyer, followed by the community. And if you and I had been alive at that time, and we had seen a funerary procession leaving the town as we draw near, and see a single woman in the front of a buyer. We would have known that she was indeed a widow. Either that was her husband on that by, or that was one of her children. And we would have also known that there were no children surviving, whether she'd had any at all, or whether that body on the byre was her only child. And in that culture, that's a double tragedy. There is I am told from those who have reason to know. That there is nothing more painful in this life than burying one of your children. There's something so profoundly unnatural about that. We expect our children to bury us. We expect one day we will bury our parents. Oh, but God forbid that we have to bury a child. And in that culture, an only child, especially if you are a widow, that is your social security. That is your social status. That is your means to eat. To have shelter, to have any kind of sustenance, all of it gone And here Jesus sees this woman walking out alone. And the first thing he feels for someone in their need is compassion. Compassion, because Jesus came with all of his authority to notice the one. Jesus did not come with all of his authority to go straight to the Sanhedrin and set the kingdom right. He came to see the widow. And he walks up to her. And notice that we read, he says, do not weep, and then he touches the buyer again because he would have encountered the widow first. She was walking out front. And he says to her, Do not weep. Then he touches the buyer. And here we see the second thing about the compassion of Jesus. The compassion of Jesus in this critical text demonstrates not only his regard for the weak. But it demonstrates a sacrificial love. If we had been alive at that time, And party to that culture, aware of the do's and don'ts of that world, we would have been appalled that anyone Let alone a wandering rabbi of whom great reports are getting out would touch a buyer. Let me read to you a passage from Leviticus. Pardon me, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to read you a passage from Numbers. Am I the only one that gets those two books confused? Probably not. In numbers. This is chapter nineteen, verse sixteen Whoever in the open field touches someone who was killed with a sword or who died naturally, or touches a human bone or a grave, shall be unclean for seven days. That was understood by the culture at large and the rabbis to include touching a tomb. You know, in the ministry of Jesus he constant he not constantly, but on several occasions refers to whitewashed tombs. Well, tombs were whitewashed at rabbinical law, instruction and urging, so that they always stood out as bright white, very noticeable, so you wouldn't touch them. Because if you touched one even by accident, you were unclean for seven days. And that includes touching the byre on which a body was carried out to a tomb. So what Jesus does, so great is his compassion, he ritually pollutes himself In order to bring life. Notice that the pallbearers stand still when he does that. Imagine their shock. What is going on? They had very much calculatedly taken the cost. They had drawn the short stick. It was their duty to do this defiling job of carrying the buyer. But who is this great rabbi who is willing? of his own volition to reach out and touch the coffin, as it were. It's Jesus. Jesus reaches out his hand and touches the coffin. And notice he didn't have to do that. He could have simply said, stop. Hold on a minute. And then said, young man, I say to you, get up. There's something very significant about the fact that Jesus, in a way that foreshadows his death on the cross, touches the buyer and identifies with the broken uncleanness of the dead. And then says, get up. Do you see the shadow of the cross? Looming from the end of Jesus' life over his ministry. Jesus, who was willing to become sin for us, that we might be the righteousness of God Jesus, who is willing to take the guilt and the shame and the stain of our sin upon himself in order that he could be the one who says Come to me and have life and have it abundantly. This Jesus is demonstrating his great compassion not only By seeing the weakest, but by loving them to the point even of his own identification with death itself. There's something else happening in this text. The compassion of Jesus demonstrates his divine credentials. The compassion of Jesus, that is, in a sense, proved by his raising of this young man from the dead, causes great fear to fall upon All the people who saw the whole crowd from Nain, the whole village was there as you read the text, and the crowds that followed Jesus. Perhaps thousands of people saw this happen. And they say two things. A great prophet has risen among us, and God has visited his people. Now, Jesus both Jesus and Luke have done two things here. Jesus, of course, in the first case, but Luke in describing it. Luke, if you read his gospel after reading Matthew, is very careful to select only two occurrences or events in the life of Christ between the great sermon and the confusion of John. And the two events that Luke, led by the Holy Spirit, presents to us, are specifically selected as texts that echo the greatest prophetic tradition of the ancient Israelites. And please know that Luke, even though he's writing to a Gentile named Theophilus, is writing to someone who clearly knows his scriptures. Never forget that the Old Testament is the Bible of the New Testament church. They know their Old Testament scriptures. Luke doesn't have to, when he has his innumerable quotations and allusions to the Old Testament, say, by the way, this is an Old Testament author that says this back in Micah. He writes in such a way that his reader, Theophilus, and all those other God-lovers who are going to pick up that book and read it recognize the scriptures. And there are two things that are happening here that every Bible commentator I have ever come across notices immediately. Luke is portraying Jesus as the absolute fulfillment of the promise of both Elijah and Elisha. Both Elijah and Elisha raise a widow's son. Well, in the case of Elisha, it's not a widow's son, but it's the only son of an older couple. But in the case of Elijah, it is a widow's son. And Elisha heals the general of an opposing enemy culture's army. Naaman. And I want you to think about the conclusion of those two great prophetic instances. The conclusion of the raising of the widow's son is this. The widow says, Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth. Last verse of 1 Kings 17. 2 Kings chapter 5, after the healing of Naaman. Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. And isn't that the exact same twofold response that we find in Luke chapter 7, glory to God. I know that God is the only one. And the recognition that a prophet has come. Now I know that the word of the Lord has come from you. And this report, notice, take a look at verse 17. This report about Jesus spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country. Now, if if you were writing this as a term paper, Your English teacher might say, Nain is not in Judea. Nain isn't even in Samaria, which is geographically adjacent to Judea. Nain is all the way up in Galilee by the lake of Gennesareth or the Sea of Galilee. Why is it that he does this thing in Nain? And then the response is. this report about him spread through the whole of Judea because this is like a nuclear bomb going off. Jesus is now being heralded as Elijah and Elisha come again, if you will. And that is in part the confusion of John the Baptist. John the Baptist believed he came in the spirit of Elijah to be a forerunner to the Messiah. And John the Baptist is in Judea, in prison, and he hears these reports about Jesus acting not Like the Messiah everyone expected, but acting in the same spirit as Elijah and Elisha, deeply concerned about the glory of God. and eager to address the needs of the least of these. You see, that has always been Jesus' plan. It has always been Jesus' plan to use his authority to accomplish the salvation of individuals who together form churches. and fill out his body and do his work in establishing his kingdom. When you think about this text, The young man is anonymous. We don't even know his name. And when we think about the text immediately preceding it, the servant of the centurion, we don't know his name either. The point is that God demonstrates his authority and uses it for the benefit of a centurion, and he's compassionately moved to exercise his power for the benefit of a widow. And let those stand as bookends to help you understand the ministry of Jesus Christ. He has all the authority necessary to do whatever he wants. And he freely chooses to take on the pollution of our sin in order to bring us life. So great is his compassion for you. Jesus sees you when you walk out of your house, perhaps alone. With all your dead dreams, with your guilty conscience and toe trailing right behind you, with all your frustrations And do you know, dear friend, that Jesus has compassion even on you? Jesus is a compassionate Savior. When he crested the last rise to see Jerusalem, the city itself, he lamented. Oh, how I've longed to gather you as a hen gathers chicks, but you would not. Jesus' compassion is such that as he sees you in the funeral procession that is a life separated from God, He sees you in that dreadful march. And he says, do not weep. He touches the very heart of your brokenness. And he offers you life. How does he do that? When Jesus went to the cross, he became sin for us. That's what we're told very clearly in Scripture. He took on all of our sin so that he could die to fully pay the penalty for it. And he, in this great act of double transaction, takes our sin and offers us the credit for his perfect righteousness so that when God the Father looks, he sees Christ in us and us in Christ. And he sees all of our sin in Jesus on the cross. And he fully satisfies the just and reasonable and righteous wrath of a holy God against sin. Utterly satisfied in the death of Jesus, such that when God looks upon his elect, those of us who by faith and repentance come to Jesus and stop When Jesus touches the cross, and consider and hear the invitation to life, and rise up, for such as those, God the Father sees nothing but his Son Jesus when he looks at us. Isn't that something you want deeply and desperately more than anything else? to have Jesus end the funeral possession of your existence, that you might begin to live So I say to you, dear friend, in the name of Jesus Christ, arise, shine, for your light has come. Arise, shine, because Jesus has touched death and embraced it for you. Arise Wake up and glory in the life Jesus offers you. Will you glorify God? For what Christ has done, and confess even in its quiet terms, the truth that a great prophet indeed has arisen God has truly visited his people. Jesus came for us. Any of us who would like prayer following the service, we'll have members of our prayer team in the front of the sanctuary here And they would love to pray with you. And if you have never received and rested and embraced Christ and said, Yes, I will live. Yes, Lord Jesus, I accept the offer. Here are my sins. I will own you as my Lord and my Savior. If that's something you've never done, I would urge you, today Jesus is laying his hand on funeral buyers. stopping deathly processions and inviting people to live. Will you be one of them? Almighty God, we thank you for the gift of life that's ours in Christ. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that Jesus Christ touched that buyer. He didn't need to. We thank you that we're told he had compassion. We didn't need to be told that detail. We thank you that he is so deliberately likened to the prophets of old, such that this authoritative compassion of a savior from heaven who is God in flesh becomes clear to us. Lord, help us to understand it better, every one of us. Lord, help me to understand it better. Help me to see the death that creeps in and messes with my life such that I am daily cast upon Christ. And daily grateful for the fact that he touched me, he grabbed hold of the cross, he gave his life, he offers his life. Lord Jesus, for the sake of the greatness of the name and the sacrifice of Christ, We pray that we would all truly be alive. We pray this in the blessed name of our only Savior and our precious Lord Jesus Christ All God's people said. Let's rise as we're able. And I want you to sing with a mighty voice.