Two weeks ago, we looked at uh Job chapter ten, verses twenty to twenty-two. We saw that life is so brief, so few days, and so full of trouble. We saw that death is so final, there's no return. And death is so full of darkness, there's no light there. Found out afterwards, uh check the day Remember the example about the fellow that went through the passageway in the cave? Ten minutes with the light it took him. Found out from Dave, who wasn't uh storing a cave that weekend he was skiing. Turned out that that fellow took twenty four hours to get back to that passageway that took ten minutes for the light because the darkness was so total. Darkness, so disoriented. But we saw at that time that Jesus Christ has reversed all of that. But our days instead of being few are eternal because of the life that He's given to us. That they're full of joy rather than trouble. That while there's no return from death, we wouldn't want to return. Because what the Lord has for us is so beautiful. And rather than being full of darkness, it's full of light. Light to reveal. Light of purity and the uncreated light. of majesty. But that's our hope in 1986. Then after that passage, Zophar answers Jo. Job answers Zophar. Then Bildaz speaks up, or excuse me, Eliphaz speaks up then after that, and Job answers Eliphaz in chapter 17. And in chapter 17, verse 9 of Job. Job makes an observation which I believe is very appropriate for the observation of Sanctity of Life Sunday. This is not your typical Sanctity of Life Sunday text from Job 17, 9. But as I looked at this Verse this week. It gripped me, and I felt compelled that this was the message that God would have for us as a congregation this week. That's also just to let some of you know that I don't prepare all my messages a year ago. This one was from the last few days, which I believe that God has given this as a message for us right now. Look at chapter 17. Job chapter 17. it begins, verse 1, my spirit is broken, my days are cut short, the grave awaits me. Doesn't seem like things have picked up a whole lot since chapter ten. Just about as grim And he says in verse 2, surely my Surround me. My eyes must dwell on their hostility. They're not talking very much with self-image either. Notice verse 6. God has made me a by-word to everyone, a man in whose face people speak. That kind of treatment has its effect, you know. And so he says in verse seven, My eyes have grown dim with grief. One commentator says his eyes are dimmed with a spit. I don't think it means that. I think it means that it's just the effect. Of all its oppression, because my whole frame is but a shadow. And then he goes on to verse 8. And he says, The upright men are appalled at this. The innocent are aroused against the ungodly. Now, what is this referring to there in verse 8? The upright men are appalled at this But this, I believe, is referring to the righteous who are seeking to do right but are being resisted and are being ridiculed. And then you see in verse 9 a flash of hope. I mean, even in Job, it can happen. And so you see in verse nine there he said, Nevertheless the righteous will hold to their ways, and those with clean hands will grow stronger. A very exciting commentary to read. It's uh Hebrew commentary by a couple of German scholars, very prosaic and dry. But even Dietz got excited about this verse. He said it's like a rocket in a dark night, giving a brief light. Over the landscape. It's like a major chord in a series of unbroken minor chords. Nevertheless, the righteous will hold to their ways, and those with clean hands will grow. Stronger. Amazing. There's a principle, I believe, that's here for us as we struggle in a country where life has become cheap. There is an encouragement like Cold water to a triathlon athlete. The righteous will hold to their ways. And those with clean hands will grow stronger. Today we observe the 13th anniversary. Of the Supreme Court decision on Roe versus Wade, in which abortion was legalized in this country. As a result of that, since that time, about one and a half million abortions every single year have been performed. One and a half million babies a year. Over seventeen million babies have been killed in the last thirteen years. Currently the rate is four thousand five Five hundred deaths a day. If you are conceived in this country, your chances of surviving out of the womb are only two out of three right now. The chances are one out of three. nearly one out of three in the entire country and about one out of three in the state of Maryland. That you will be aborted. Now what's the hope that we have? I believe this verse. gives us a lot of points because there's a principle here, the Job's stating. And you see it in the two wills. Two promises. The word will appears twice there. Notice it in verse nine. Two promises. Point one, Nevertheless, the righteous will hold to their ways. Second point, second rule, those with clean hands will grow stronger. Those are the two points. Let's consider them together. Notice one. Nevertheless, they will hold to their ways. Notice it's nevertheless. It's in the face of opposition. Just as in Job's experience, he held to his ways in the face of opposition. Job did not compromise. He was stupid. Sit upon, he was ridiculed, but he continued in his way. And so it is today. Christians must stand. Against abortion on demand. S Two points about that. You see them in your votes and outlines. First of all, we must establish the sanctity of fetal life as a principle and not a preference. It must be established as our way, a principle and not a preference. We must be convinced that life Is not a combination of chemicals in an impersonal universe. We must be absolutely convinced that life is rather created by God and therefore is infinitely precious because it's precious to him. And that human life is distinctly created in his image, which the Bible so clearly affirms. But that raises the question, of course, but when does that life become human? Well look at it this way. No one contests that the life is human at birth. No question about that. If the life is born and brought to turn and delivered a month before the full term, there's no question that that life is human. Fully human. It's fully viable in almost all cases. You push it back two months before full term, and the chances are pretty good of that life surviving. Fully as a human, as you see it lying there in the intent. care units in many cases. Fully human, no question about it. Push it back a week before that. Surely nothing has changed, it's simply less developed. And you push it back a day and a week beyond and beyond and beyond. We find that as you go from there all the way back to conception, there's no point in which there's a qualitative change. It's simply a matter of unfolding and development all the way. And so at what point can we say that that life has changed? Changed from non-human to human. It has simply developed from what it was from the beginning. This is affirmed in God's Word in Psalm 139. Where God says in verse thirteen, David speaking about God's creation of him says, You created my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. You did that. God put him together there. I praise you because I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful and I remember that full well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place. God's work was involved in that also. Whole way through, David says. When I was woven together in the depths of the earth, speaking of the deep hidden place, your eyes saw my unformed body. There's continuity here, from conception to to delivery. The scripture affirms that. There's no change. And therefore the sixth commandment you shall not merge fully pertains To that little life that's still in the womb. And it's as simple as that. Well whatever else we want to do, however else we want to cut it, right? Hang it up, it's just as simple as that. God made it. He made it in his image. From beginning to the end, it's simply unfolds and develops as a little creature created in his image. And therefore it is murder to take that life. And we must learn as Christians to live by principle. We must live by principle. It's so easy You ask the average American about abortion and they'll say, Well, you know, personally I wouldn't want to do it, but I don't think it should be provision. I I think that it's a bad idea, but I want to make sure that you can do it if you really need to. I prefer that it's not be done. You see the whole watershed is between preference and principle. That's the watershed in how we live. It's the watershed for you kids. You know a lot of you kids you you you've inherited a value system your folks. And you bring that into school and then it's tested. And at that testing point you learn whether you have preferences or principles. Are you kids in school living by preferences? Are you living by principles? You can only live by principles when you're convinced that something is absolutely true. And that's where a Christian today has all the advantage, because we believe in absolute truth. And we believe that Jesus Christ can enable us to live by principles. principles. Are you living by principles in general in your life? Or are you living by preferences? And that's the second part of this first point, you see. If you live by principles, you will The righteous will hold to their ways. Because their ways are their principles. If you live by preferences, you'll poop out. If you live by principles, you'll persevere. It's as simple as that. Only principles will persevere in the face of opposition, in the face of lack of response, just being worn down over days and weeks and months and years of one way or another, it's really all worthless. When all the effort is worth it. Joe didn't ask Zophar and Bildad and Elizabeth, what do you guys think about this now? I mean, here I am, I'm trying to hold to my ways and I'm I'm not getting any support from my wife. She's left me. Uh you know, and you guys don't seem to think it's such a great idea. If Job had relied on preferences, he wouldn't have lasted more than a couple days. But Job says the righteous will hold on to their ways because they're principles. They're convictions and they cannot be let go. And so that's why because it's a moral conviction will continue to picket the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic. Even when it's not so popular. anymore. Not so many people are doing it. You're wondering, you're saying, well, well it's just a handful here. Is it worth it to go on? You say, it's a principle. It's not a preference. The righteous will hold to their ways. But so if you're called on to help and put a lot of news money. Or maybe to pay to help get the literature out. You say, Well, I'll do that because it's not a preface. It's a principle. Because it's a principle, we're going to write them down struggle and I'll hold on to our And I'll persevere in that. Or if you're called upon and you have an opportunity to help in crisis pregnancy counseling or working at a crisis pregnancy center and somebody says, Could you give a little time? You evaluate all your priorities. of your other principles. You say, where does this fit? And for some of us I believe God is going to call us to be involved. Because it's a principle. And we will persevere in that principle. Because the righteous will hold to their ways. And for some of this is going to be rearranging our schedules on Wednesday to march in Washington, DC, in order to show the media and the press that this movement is growing, it's not diminishing, because the righteous will hold to their race. Because it's a principle. It's not a preference. And we will continue to hold. We will continue to hold until we reach our goal, and the goal is absolutely clear. The goal is that the sanctity of life will become re-established by law and by practice in the United States of America and nothing less. That the sanctity of life will be re-established by law and by practice in the United States of America. And we will persevere in that goal until it is reached. And Senator Packwood and anyone else who says this is a passing phase, it will rise and it will peter out, doesn't understand Job 17, 9. They're right. Will hold to their ways. You say that much you said this was a word of encouragement. You sort of sound like Joe Schrifer, you know, and uh he's the head of the pro-life action league. When he recruits people, he says, I want you to it to be clear that we're going to suffer and sacrifice. We've been handcuffed, mocked, and ridiculed. Do you want to join us? Hey, thanks a lot. It is a word of encouragement. It's a word of encouragement because of that second Will. Notice the second part of that verse. He says there, those with clean hands will grow stronger. I love that part of the verse. Those with clean Clean hands will grow stronger. Really? Clean hands, not defiled hands. Psalm 24 asks the question: who can stand in the Lord's presence? And the answer is he who has clean hands and a pure heart. The Old Testament pictures sin as defiling the hands. What if hands then the day after day? Insert suction tubes of women to dismember babies piece by piece and pull them apart. What that hands would inject scaling solutions to burn unborn babies to death. Scripture speaks of defiled hands. What if hands that cooperate to ensure that this can go on? What if hands that are concerned that lest I have my own preferences? Restricted, I will make sure that this can be done in this country for convenience's sake, for my preferences, for the idol of my convenience and my lifestyle. What is such hands? The passage goes on to speak about the nature of those that do such things. How they twist truth. Look at verse twelve. These men turn mate in today. In the face of darkness they say night is new. They turn things around upside down. They say that it's just a fetus, you know, implying that it's subhuman. They say that It's just a bit of tissue. It's a potential human. Planned Parenthood puts out a four-page ad in Time and other major magazines saying, Planned Parenthood saved my life. What a tragic! Planned parenthood made it convenient for me to live irresponsibly. They all say it that way. They say Planned Parenthood saved my life. These men turned night into day. They twist logic and truth so that you don't understand what's right or what's wrong anymore, and the image is what's presented of compassion. We don't understand the truth. Job says, those with clean hands. I must warn us all and warn myself very much at this point. Last week you had a discussion in the still unnamed laugh group about a Christian's response to AIDS. But in that discussion, I believe you considered the danger of self-righteousness. My hands are clean. Your hands are defiled because you're pro-choice. Because perhaps you even practice abortions or have had an abortion. Let's not deceive. ourselves, brothers and sisters. Scripture makes it absolutely clear: all of our hands are defiled. None of us have clean hands that we can stand behind beside the sinners as they go past and we can judge them. For Jesus Jesus Christ in his words to us has made it absolutely clear every single one of us had defiled hands. That's why Jesus Christ came and was born as a man, so that he would keep the law of God perfectly, and having kept the law That law. Jesus Christ then submitted to the Father's curse upon him. And he died on the cross and suffered the extreme agony of separation from his father, with whom he had been united from eternity. And Jesus Christ died. Died under the curse of God, because you and I had defiled hands. And he died and he rose to clean our hands. So that we, in the words of Psalm twenty four, could approach to God. Having our hands cleansed through his blood. Having our hands cleansed, we can stand before Him as the righteous. So this morning, Whatever your position. Even if you yourself have had an abortion, whatever your position has been on this, Jesus Christ offers to you righteousness, forgiveness, clean hands, and a pure heart. based on anything that you or I could do, not working in the pro-life movement or anything else to try and gain God's favor. But because of grace, because of the finished work of Jesus Christ for us. But now, with regard to this matter, Joseph is talking about those whose hands are clean with regard to the evil that's in opposition to them. And so he's saying Those who are on the side of righteousness, who have clean hands made righteous by the finished work of Jesus Christ, what's going to happen? They will grow stronger. They will grow stronger. stronger, not weaker. They will grow stronger. Next as a principle here, those with clean heads will grow stronger. That's what he says to us. I was reminded in reading that. It's Proverbs 4. 18. It says, The path of the righteous is like the gleam of dawn, shining ever greater to the full light of day. But 1 Samuel 2. 4 that speaks of God and how he puts down the proud and lifts up the humble and says he's going to break the bones of those who are strong and proud, but the weak who are pure of heart, he's going to strengthen them. 40, verses 29 to 31. It speaks of the promise of strength to those whose hope is in him. To those who will gain from his strength and soar-like eagles, who will run and not grow weary, who will walk and not fail. Because their strength is in the Lord. For Psalm 84, it says, Blessed are those whose strength is in you. Who have set their hearts on pilgrimage. As they pass through the valley of tears, they make it a place of springs. The autumn rains also covered with pools and they go from strength to strength. In Hebrew that means going from increasing strength to increase in strength. Till each one appears before God in Zion, their strength will increase. Take heart, brother and sister in Christ, in your feeble efforts. And our efforts do seem so feeble. So often don't they? But let me call us to consider efforts in one or more of the three basic areas in which every one of us can be involved. Prayer, picketing, and paying. Prayer, picketing, and pain seems such feeble efforts. But God says that he will bless them. Pray. Pray. Every one of us can pray. Let me challenge you, because you know you all have such long. prayers and I have this too, you know. The last thing I need is for somebody to tell me here's something else to pray for, you know. Because unless I'm really involved and didn't care about it, I'm tempted to want to be a nice guy and say okay, but not really working in any practical way to really pray for it. Well yeah, one practical way of doing this is to commit yourself to pray once a month for the prayer-like movement, the sanctity of life to be re-established in America and for God to have mercy on us. Because how am I ever going to remember to pray once a month? Well, it's very simple. You choose some particular newsletter. Now, the one that you were given as you came in, who's about it, the Christian Action Council newsletter. That I find one of the most important Has a broad perspective, it's a national newsletter, and it's very well written from a Christian perspective. Now you get that if you get on that mailing list, you get it once a month. It's all very simple. What you say you do is you say, I'm going to commit myself whenever I get that thing, to read it and I will pray fifteen minutes for the issues that are right there and for God to work in reestablishing the sanctity of life in this nation and I will do it right then and that's it. You see? Then you've fulfilled your commitment. Once a month to pray for God to work in this and you'll be reminded by the mail. That's up to you. That's one possible concrete suggestion. And we often pray. Seventh thing, second thing is to pick it. Seems like a feeble effort. But that's a very concrete way of doing it. We've committed as a church, with a couple of other churches, to pick it every second Saturday at the at the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic, up there on Route 40. There's a a uh handout that's on the back table. And those of us who are in assault laughter will be considering that thing, we'll be going through it to just familiarize yourself with what's in there. But for those of you who are not in assault laughter, just so the rest of you know, we're not trying to uh draw away your sheet from your class. you know, into ours. We are making that handout available and it's on the back table. So no matter whatever class you're in today, on your way out, just pick up that green sheet on the back table and it will give you the information where Hillcrest is, when it meets, all this kind of thing. And you'll know exactly what are some options. Picketing, rallying, some of these kind of things. But to commit yourself to say, well, God, would you have me to do this? Maybe do it once. And just see. If it's something that I should go over to my schedule on some frequency, maybe not every month, maybe a couple of years. Continually until God brings about the response we seek for the closing of that clinic. Another thing in the uh in the rallies uh would be of course Wednesday, and that's on that sheet too. Uh it's very important that on Wednesday, the march into DC, most people will be coming all over the country. We have a very close, just a short bus ride. Plus be leaving from Chapel Gate Church, 11 o'clock in the morning. Very simple. But it's important that the media see that there's more there this year than last year. That's what they watch. Is it growing or is it diminishing? And so it's important that that movement it seems a growing movement. It seems like a feeble effort. God will use them. This thing really costs. Perlite lobbyists in DC are outspent by the pro abortionists ten to one. They have to do an awful lot. very little money. He And the more there is available, the more lobbying, the more literature, the more that can be done. And that's something that all of us can say, I can set aside a little bit every month or every quarter in order to help out of this. Efforts. But God says those with clean hands will grow stronger. God is going to bless those efforts. Let me give you finally just some encouragement about how God has done this. I believe we are at a very encouraging time to see that in fact God is fulfilling this. Those with clean hands are growing stronger. And we do need to be encouraged. In the last year, over 100 practice pregnancy centers were established. In the United States. One year alone. One of those was in Columbia. They live in the San Fenica building. A crisis pregnancy center for Howard County. In the first nine months of 1985 alone, over 8,000 Christians were trained in crisis pregnancy counselling, to use that in such sentence. Several adoption agencies and chapters of adoption agencies have been established as an alternative way, so that we can't be accused when people say, Well it's very easy for you to say To stop abortion, but what are you going to do with all those unwanted bases? No question. Many adoption agencies making them available to Christian homes. No problem replacing these children. And that's growing as a movement. Do you want to last fall? In just a couple of weeks we pulled together a pastor's protest of Howard County General Hospital. There was no publicity, we didn't write, we didn't talk on the news, didn't do anything. Simply by word of mouth, there were about eleven or twelve of us as pastors. We've committed ourselves together that we were going to picket. We said if anybody wants to join us and encourage us, fine, we'd be glad to have you. With just about a week's notice, two hundred people showed up and joined with us to Picket, Harrow County General Hospital. Now that's signs of a grass movement that is gaining strength. You can pull together that kind of support just by word of mouth through the grapevine. People calling us up, wanted to join with us. Just a few months ago, the United States withdrew ten million dollars. grant money from the United Nations Fund for Population activities because it supports China's program of population control. China, you know, has a population control program of one child per family. That's only allowed. One explanatory. After that, it's coercive abortion. China has performed in that program over fifty-three million abortions by their own admission. The United States is over seventeen million. Over fifty-three million. But the encouraging sign in all that travesty is that the United Nations the United States withdrew its support of that program. Because it says we'll no longer tolerate that. beginning of a change of an attitude. The Gallup poll conducted surveys on this and last year their conclusion is that Americans are growing uneasy about abortion. This was done by Newsweek and they commissioned Gallup to do the polls, and they found that a year ago fifty eight fifty eight percent of Americans would support a law restricting abortions to only race, incest, and the life of the mother being in danger. That is up eight percentage points from the year before. And over forty percent of Americans now say that they're not sure about their position or portion. It is not a population. Of people who are pardoned into one position or the other. They could become hardened if they're alienated by taxes. But it is not at this point hardened. It is a very soft movement. The source screen film that was public. And produced and shown all around last year may well prove to be the Uncle Tom's cabin of the abortion or the pro-life movement. But the kind of thing that galvanizes public understanding. Statistics and all the rest of that won't do it. But you have an image. You know, it's sort of like remember in the civil rights movement. People were talking about how blacks were restricted in the South and how the laws were so unjust and the racism that was granted and everybody said, Well, yeah, you know. that nobody's perfect. But then on the TV, they saw the police stalks, Bill Connor's police stocks going after those civil rights workers. You remember that? Nobody forgets that Islam. And that did more to galvanize public opinion than anything else. the speeches and everything else. And the solid screen for whatever it's worth has been used in that manner to reorient people's thinking To say this is an issue I need to rethink. For instance, Lynette Falkenberg, the leader of the National Abortion Rights Action League, has said as a result of that film and the things that are going on with it If the abortion movement is now on the defensive and is in for some hard times. For all of its terrible message, I'm encouraged by the Planned Parenthood four page. ads because if you read them closely what they're saying is we're scared. There are people who are trying to change the laws in this country and the ad says they just might succeed if you don't begin to react. They're scared. 1981 was the peak of the rate of abortions in this country. Do you know that since 1981 it's trail it's trailed off a little bit? We may be in the verge of turning the corner in the attitude towards life in this country. And so we need to be very encouraged. Friends, brothers and sisters in Christ, our ultimate encouragement is not in fact. Our ultimate encouragement is in the fact that Jesus Christ has risen and is Lord. And Ephesians one and the rest of Scripture tells us that He reigns and He rules as Lord right now. And Jesus Christ is coming at the end of history to establish His kingdom and to rule in righteousness. He is right now using his people to bring about that righteousness. And one day Revelation 17:14 tells us that they will make war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and with him will be his calls, his chosen, and his faithful followers. And then chapter 18 talks about the fall of Babylon the Greek, who was arrayed against God and his kingdom in his city. And Babylon is fallen. She's become a home for demons. And then you see it in chapter 18 and verse 11 and on after that the crying out of the merchants of the earth, those who are set against righteousness in Christ's kingdom for their own. greed and purposes. And it speaks about all of those things that they've done, their commodities, their luxuries, their smoke of burning. They will weep and mourn over their losses. They will be terrified because they will see their cargoes no more. carcass of gold and silver and on and on and on and goes for verses and verses. And then it ends in verse thirteen. Sweet, cattle, sheep, horses, carriages, and the bodies and souls of men. Isn't that interesting? Revelation 18. 14 tells us the part of the cargo of this world in its unrighteousness are the bodies and the souls of human beings. Those who make commerce out of people. The whole message of that chapter is that Jesus Christ is going to put an end to it. He is the victor. He's coming with his victory and his army. And none can stay. against him. And we are simply the vanguard of his righteousness. Let's stand together. Because we have that promise. But nevertheless the righteous will hold to their ways. Those with clean hands. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how to thank you for that hope that we have in Jesus Christ. That there will come a time. Where we will not have to fight against injustice and inhumanity and greed. Lord, there will come that time when all life will be sacred. That life will be eternal. Lord, how about you cannot hopefully. We thank you for the encouraging signs that we're seeing about us, of the increasing strength and the growth of those who are committed by principle to the sanctity of human life. Lord, we pray, but we cannot assume this is not a promise that's unconditional. But this is a covenant promise given to us, and so we must claim from you that you will cause your people within this movement to grow stronger. Lord, we pray that you might call out more to press on in this crucial time of the battle, in this next year, and we might see a real changing of the attitude of mainstream America. Lord, we know that this is please you, that we would do this in your name. And so we ask, Lord, that you would strengthen our hands, that you would help us, Lord, to be more faithful in praying and in deciding we've got our own priority system. There is some action. Where something can fit for us to be used by you in such a crucial battle of our times. Lord, we pray that if there's anyone here who's seeking to do these things or any moral actions in their own. righteousness, if you would show them their need to have their hands cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ to be forgiven and find their peace in him. We pray in Jesus' name.