It's a challenge to preach to uh challenge for me anyway to preach to folks that I don't know really personally, because preaching is a kind of intimate thing. But I do have a particular concern care for you all, beyond the fact that you're my brothers and sisters, because you are beloved at Al Harris. And Al is one of the people in this world whom I love and church very, very much. And God's providence He was one of the main reasons I am in the kingdom. And one of the main reasons that I am serving the Lord in this capacity. Quite literally, I will forever be grateful to him. And I'm very glad to come here and to join with you in worship this morning. I need to tell you that this passage and this rather this message is taken somewhat out of context. I'm preaching that because Al asked me to specifically this summer in our own congregation in Savannah Park, we're studying the attribute of love, divine love, and how it's reflected in us. And so we looked at John 15, and I asked you to turn to John 15, as we study the relationship of love to abiding in Christ, which is the topic of this passage and the message. Love and abiding. And our goal today is rather ambitious yet straightforward to appreciate something of the significance of abiding in Christ, a little bit about what it means, how we do it, and as God prospers us uh today, hopefully what it is to abide in him. The motive force behind it. John 15, verses 1 to 10, the words of our Lord. I am the true vine. And my Father is the Vine Christ. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself. unless it abides in the vine. So neither can you, unless you abide in me. I'm the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him, he bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he's thrown away as a branch and dries up, and they gather them and cast them into the fire and they're burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in me. you ask whatever you wish and it shall be done for you. By this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. Just as the Father has loved me, I have also loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. Just as I have kept my Father's commandments. And abide in his love. A real favorite passage. This is a favorite passage to me. It's the first time in about eight or ten years now of ministry that I've dared to preach on, in fact. Um very important in my own conversion years ago and my own call to ministry at Urbana, nineteen seventy. I'm sure you can catch here the significance, it's uh blatant, it's obvious in this passage, the significance of of abiding in Christ, how important it is. It says here that we cannot grow spiritually, and our topic in particular is love, but any kind of spiritual growth, any of the truth of the spirit are impossible, apart from Jesus Christ. We've been predestined, we're told, to Christ. Christ-likeness, to conformity to the image of his son. But not only is Christ the goal, but he is also the means. This is a very basic truth, and yet it's essential for us to capture this truth if we're going to do any serious growth. in the Christian life. Maturity in Christ is simply not something that we can accomplish by ourselves. It is an effect which Christ produces in us and which Christ produces through us by grace. Look at verses four and five. He gives us analogy of abiding in the branch and the vine, bearing fruit, and he says, apart from me you can do nothing. And I believe, and I'm sure you believe that he means that. Spiritual life is a fruit of the Holy Spirit, perhaps the fruit of the Spirit. So when we think about a gift of fruit, it isn't like the the uh the box of uh grapefruit that I get every year from a relative I have down south, which I enjoy, but after a while it either rots or it's eaten, and then it's gone. We're talking about a continual kind of gift. Of a life which is cultivated and so made capable of producing joy and peace, long-suffering, and all the rest. Without Christ's cultivation, continual cultivation of our lives for the Holy Spirit, there is no fruit and there is no law. This is so essential. And it's so moment by moment and day by day. It doesn't matter how much or how long we have known Christ. We could have known him for a few months, or for ten years, or twenty years. It doesn't matter how much we have accomplished. how much valid spiritual ground we have covered. If we are not abiding in Jesus Christ today, August 19, 1984, then we shall fall into sin today, August 19, 1919. it's nineteen eighty four. Either sins of omission or commission. There's no question about it. It doesn't matter whether a branch has uh been growing from a vine one year, two years, three years, and so on, if it is broken off, it will wither just as fast. We're talking about a communication of life. Jesus is Himself our life, our spiritual life. Being born again is different from being born physically. There are similarities on. Obviously, but there are differences as well. At physical birth, we are separated physically from our mother, and over the months and years we become more and more independent. Not so with spiritual birth. It is true scripturally, usually. the analogy or metaphor that we are born again, but it's also scripturally true and valid to use the analogy of Christ being born in us. As Paul says in Galatians 4, my children with whom I am again in labor, until Christ is formed in you. As we grow spiritually, we do not become less dependent on our God, on our Lord Jesus, but more so, or at least we become more conscious of our dependence on Him. Ephesians 4, in fact, defines Christian motoric the adds attaining. Christ's stature, thinking his thoughts, speaking his words, doing his deeds, and so on. Now we know our spiritual lives begin in Jesus Christ. I am the way, I'm the truth, and the light. No one comes to the Father but through me. But what we discover when we become Christians is that He is in fact our spiritual life himself. In him is all life. Christ Jesus became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. The Christian's life has become inextricably interwoven with the life of the living God to the crucified and risen Lord Jesus. So that Paul can say, I have been crucified with Christ, and is no longer I who live with Christ who lives in me. I think it's a danger, perhaps, in thinking of salvation a bit too mechanistically, especially in our mechanistic culture. The scriptures speak of salvation as a gift, which of course it is, but we take that image too far and we imagine it as a box with a bowl that is given to us. Because those kinds of gifts, when we receive them, they no longer belong to the person who gave them. That kind of image doesn't conjure up any ideas of a connection, a continuation. But scripturally you see there is that kind of a of a connotation. When a vine gives the gift of life to a branch, the branch isn't broken off and go its own way. The gift continues, the gift there's a continual communion so that the light continues. as well. The Bible gives us principles to apply through which we can grow. We mustn't understand growth as if it were a a machine. Put in the right raw materials, push the right buttons. And you'll have success. There's a truth to that, as we'll see in a minute, but it's only a half-truth. The Bible doesn't think in terms of machines, at least not in this passage. Spiritual life is modeled rather by this marvelous image of a vine and branch. Spiritual life and growth are thought of as being organic, not mechanistic. Machines produce, they're helpful, but they don't grow. And as vines organically produce branches, Christ lives. In some very real way, through his people and his people, and we live in him, so that he can say, I am the vine, you're the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him, he it is who bears much fruit. Christian life, spiritual growth. growth can be said to be Christ's life and love growing in us. That's the significance of this fruit image. It doesn't mean that we lose our individuality, it doesn't mean that it's not our love and our growth, because it is those things. But it means that A new life has joined our own. And through us that life is producing something, producing the character of Christ. And it's intensely personal. How does one abide? Well there are things for us that we do the things that we're called to do. And that's the second part of the sermon, and I'm not really going to get too much into it. This was put in primarily for our own congregation. Our own congregation is filled, I don't know if uh this congregation is well, we're filled with very new Christians. From all different kinds of religious backgrounds. And we have to dwell on some very basic things. The second section is on the means of grace. We find that abiding in Christ is not automatic. You look in verse 6. It's possible not to abide in him and to be cast aside. This is not inconsistent with the sovereignty of God, because while he ordains ends, he also ordains means to those ends, which we are responsible to cultivate ourselves. And what are these means? How do we grow? And I think you're very well aware of these things. And the way that I uh approached it is simply to do a word study on abide as John uses the term. And it's interesting because as John uses the term abide, you find that it's used with the idea of obedience very regularly. Look at verse 10, for example, in our text if you keep my commandments you'll abide in my love, and that's reflected in his epistles. But there were three particular areas of abiding, the use of that term, when he got very specific on on what we're supposed to do, because the obedience is a very broad term. And those three things are Verse 7 in our text illustrates it, the idea of meditating in God's Word. The Eastern mystics like to meditate by avoiding the mind of any rational thought. It's quite different in Christian meditation, where we fill our minds with truth that God communicates. to us in his word. That's reflected many times in John's writings. Verse 15, verse 7 rather, chapter 15 here in John, speaks of the idea of prayer. Prayer also, of course, is a means of abiding in Christ. And then in John 6, verse 56, I found an interesting use of the term abide, where Jesus says, He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. Obviously, using the same motif that he'll later use with the Lord's Supper. So that using the symbol That God gives us to focus our faith in Christ is also a means of abiding. Of course, what we have here are what we call traditionally the means of grace. The word of God, meditating upon it, prayer to God in response. And then the sacraments, to which I would also add fellowship, which is not technically another means of grace, but it's a way in which we are to experience the means, not just privately but also corporately. Three specific areas and that we can use, that we can that we can pursue to abide in Christ. So I don't want to spend much time on that. I think you're very well aware of that. What I want to do is get to the heart of the matter. Get to the crux of the issue of abiding. Because I think you already know that we need the scriptures and we need prayer And we need the sacraments to grow. Sure you know that. And I'm sure you know that we need to live with Christ to be strong. But there are times when I, and I dare say there are times when You forsaken means grace. There are times when we sin grievously. Without knowing you personally, I can say in a group this size there are probably at least some of us here who are stuck. struggling right now with ghost sins. Perhaps worse than that there are some of us who aren't struggling. Perhaps there are some of us who would say we are dry spiritually. I like that. That's something. I try to use a climactic metaphor to escape responsibility. It's just it's dry this time of year. Something's happening to me. And so to hear a preacher tell us we often use the means of grace, may increase our sense of guilt so on, but it doesn't really make Bible study or prayer or sacraments come alive anymore or make us more faithful in them. I believe we appreciate what Christ means. in John 15. What we have to do is to capture the flavor of an idea. And it's the idea of abiding, as he would use the term. We don't understand the English term for abide. I mean to abide means to dwell, to live, to stay put. Last year I taught a class of 18 people in our church called Making Friends. I learned how to make friends. And one of the things we did was to go around and share all the different places that we had Okay, and I expect in the mobile society we'd have maybe two or three places per person. Well, I should have kept counting. The average was well over half a dozen people living over twenty different places. places in their lives. Not only those in the military. I I was absolutely dumbfounded until I added up how many places I had lived. About a dozen. Incredible. We didn't know we meant to stay in one place to dwell. There was one person in the class who had stayed in the same house all his life, grew up there, was still living there. And it was a couple weeks later I introduced him to the congregation for a different reason and I shared what I just shared with you and said, He's the only person I know who's lived in the same house. And he got up there and I said, Yes, we're moving in. To us. We don't understand the English idea of abiding, how much less what Christ was bringing to that term. But it the idea of abiding or dwelling with God is a precious and profound. profound truth that has its roots back deep in the Old Testament. If we're going to understand what Christ meant by that term, that's where we have to go. The idea of God dwelling with us, dwelling with his people, or the idea of us dwelling or abiding. In him. That idea has got to become real to us. It says in the Old Testament that God dwelt in the tabernacle. It says in Exodus twenty five, let them construct a sanctuary for me, that I may dwell among them. And I will consecrate the tentative meeting, and I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and I will be their God. The tabernacle was more than a place designated for worship. You see, we can designate any place we choose for worship. It could be an altar, it could be a building, whatever That's not the point. The tabernacle was a place for worship because God said he lived there. And when he said that, he meant that in a very specific, special way. Don't you hate it with preachers just use that term a special way without you know defining it. I'm not sure I can. I just know that God said so. He said that although he dwells outside of time, although he dwells he's omnipresent, he said he was going to dwell there. He was going to live there. And that meant something special to him and to those people as well. It wasn't his office. It was his home. It was his home. This was exciting in the mind of Moses and the people. In Deuteronomy four it says, What? What great nation is there that has a God so near as is the Lord our God whenever we call on him? And why was God so near? Because he lived with them down the street. Literally. Indeed, ask now concerning the former days which were before you, since the day that God had created down the earth, and inquire from one end of the heavens to the other. Has anything been done like this great thing? Or has anything been heard like it? Has any people Heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire and hath survived. And God would come and speak from the tent of meeting to the people through Moses. All the tents of Israel were pitched, some imagine. Is a great square, but in the middle was God's tent. Not just an altar. That was there too. But his tent was there, just like their tents, where persons dwell. It wasn't thought of as a church building, a church building in A place that they did for worship. It was thought of as the dwelling of the living God. It was intrinsically a place of worship because God was there. God was not a philosophy to the people out in the wilderness. God was not a Way of life to the people out in the wilderness, he was a living being who lived with them. And that made all the difference in the world the way they would respond to him, because he lived there, in their midst, where God dwells, where God abides becomes a place of worship. It becomes a place of adoration to the person who's aware that He's present. It's impossible to be in the presence of God and not worship this. God to dwell with them and he accepted their worship. For them to desire him to dwell there means they wish to worship. In other words, abiding is connected to worship. The two go hand in hand together. God dwelt, God abided in the temple. It says in Psalm 48, we have problemat on the loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. Remember how the tent was made into a permanent dwelling by Psalm? Solomon? Remember that? Oh, I know that Solomon realized it was just symbolic. What did he say? What did he say in his prayer, Oh Lord, I know that heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain you? Much less this this house that I have built. But it was more than symbolic. That's the point. Just as it's more than symbolic that Christ is with us when we celebrate his supper. It was more than symbolic. He was there. And they took that seriously. They even said, I live in a house. I don't live a house. in a tent? Solomon felt the same way. I live in a palace. I don't live in a tent. Why should God live in a tent? God also should live in a house. The most beautiful, the most wonderful house that we can build should be his dwelling place. And they built him one And David saw too at the God's tent at that point, that God's house, his home, would be in the capital of the nation. What an important event that was in the Chronicles. What an important event when the ark was brought into Jerusalem. I hope you can sense the importance of that. Because David was saying that, yes, we're going to take seriously that God is dwelling with us. He's going to be in the capital city. And where the king is and where decisions are made and where things are happening, that's where our God lives and his He dwells. That became his home. Jerusalem became his address. In this world. And that's why Jerusalem after that became the place to worship God. The place was on Mount Zion because God abided there. You know, with all the contemporary love of The contemporary Jew has for Jerusalem because of all it means in terms of their background and their history, we forget the real reason, the intensity upon which the Old Testament Israelite longed to see Jerusalem. It wasn't just because of their history, it was because God lived there. And to visit Jerusalem. Jerusalem was to visit the living God. That's how they felt when they would approach the city. Listen to Psalm 48. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God. His holy mountain, beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion in the far north, the city of the great king. God is in her palace. He has made himself a stronghold. We have thoughts on the loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. As is thy name, O God, so is thy praise to the ends of the earth. But where do we find it? Walk. Around Zion and go around her. Count her towers, her ramparts, go through her palaces that you may tell to the next generation. What? For such is God. Our God, forever and ever. You've noticed in the Old Testament how often God is spoken of as a place, as a place where we may live, as a place where we may dwell. For God lives, where God dwells with us. That is where we worship Him. Lord, Thou hast been our dwelling place, where we abide in all generations. Before the mountains were born, thou dost give birth. To the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Did you read Psalm sixty-two earlier? Psalm sixty-one and sixty-two. We were meditating on and we we we say Together. In the stand of a few verses in Psalm 61 and Psalm 62, God has spoken of as a rock, a refuge, a tower of strength, a tent in which we may dwell, wings under which we may hide, a strength. Stronghold in which we can be safe. And both of those psalms are pure worship. To dwell with God, to abide in his presence is to worship him. It is impossible to be consciously in the presence of the living God and not worship him. Every Nisha bow, every tonsa confess. And that's what we do when we realize we're in his presence. One thing I have asked from the Lord, and that I shall seek, that I may dwell, that I may abide in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to be Behold the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple. It is the desire of a human heart that has been reconciled to him, to be in his presence, and to be conscious of that, and to love him. That is the background of the temple. Term as Christ used it. It's impossible to be in his presence and not worship him. He who dwells in the high and holy place also dwells in the contrite part, to refresh that heart, as we worship him. It's the motive power. Which energizes abiding in Christ, worship, being aware of his presence. Look at every occasion in the scripture that you know of when people were aware that they were in the presence of the living God. Every single occasion. becomes an occasion for worship. And the emotions involved vary, of course, in the situation. Sometimes great contrition, sometimes tremendous joy. But the human heart becomes alive, one becomes aware. Of everything more acutely and more sharply is God is the center and the focus. And his train fills the temple. Where does God dwell today? I mean you can see where we're going. Where does God dwell today? Where does God dwell today? I'm not talking about him being everywhere. Of course he's everywhere. But where does he dwell? Where does he cause his name to dwell? Where does he cause his name to dwell that he may live in this world? Jesus talking to that woman in Samaria. She said, You know, you Jews tell us that we ought to worship God in Jerusalem. And our fathers say we should worship him now in Samaria. Jesus said, Well, you know, the day is coming. You're gonna worship God in other place. You're gonna worship him in spirit, you've got to worship him in truth. Already the temple wasn't in Jerusalem, was it, when he was speaking? Already the temple was in of God was not in Jerusalem as Jesus spoke through his word. Isn't that true? Didn't he say, Destroy this temple and I'll raise it up in three days? While Jesus Christ dwelt this earth, the temple of God was his own body. Because that's where God lives. That's where God dwells. And then Jesus said, I will give to you my spirit. He shall be in you. And what is the gift of the Holy Spirit? Is it some thing that we have? Is it some dispenser of gifts? The gift of the Holy Spirit is the gift of God dwelling within us, personally and individually, and corporately. That we might be his people and his temple. And all of the sense of holiness and wonder that you apply to the temple in the Old Testament now applies to us. If our eyes are open that we might see. And our heart is open that we might experience. If we understand that God dwells in us, we will worship Him. I'll put it this way, at those times when we understand that God dwells in us, we will worship Him. If we understood that twenty four hours a day, we would worship him twenty four hours a day. When our eyes are open to that fact and our heart is open to that fact, we worship him because we're in his presence. Every place you step in this world is holy ground. Because you've got holy feet. You carry him with you. I know it's a metaphor, but it's more than a metaphor that he lives in us. And each of the means of grace is empowered And if you want to use that overworked expression, they come alive, if you will. They are energized. They communicate God's love to us when they are saturated with personal worship. When we are aware that that He is there in our presence and we are in His. Studying the Word of God I know can be a very dry experience when it's only an exercise that we do. But it can never be a dry experience when it is a part of a of our worship of God. It cannot be. It cannot be dry when you first let your heart open up in song, in praise to our God, or turn on your record player and let a brother or a sister lead you in the worship and praise of God. God, which can be our daily experience. Oh, how we need to make singing more a personal experience. I love this is a bit of a uh off the subject, but I I love to read about the early worship services. You realize in the second century in North Africa, when Tertullian wrote about his worship services, and of course they were always small group experiences because the churches were small groups. And they would meet in a home for the Lord's Supper, he said they'd go around and each person would offer up a song, either either from the Psalms or their own composing. That's the way to worship the Lord such as right. When each person is involved in the worship of God. But when you're doing that, the study of the scriptures can't be can't be dry. When you begin your I I urge you to devo begin your devotion with music. It's it's something that I do all the time. It's become a trademark of my meeting with other people. Al and I get together about once a month when we can and he always says you got a new faith because I'm always bringing something new so that we can tune our hearts to see the singers praise together. Prayer can be frustrating Because you just don't know what to say. No motivation or not. But not when it's part of worship. Not when you take the time, and it does take time and effort, to go out and look at the sky and look at the clouds or the stars and let yourself be carried away with the fact that God is. the Creator, or let yourself be carried away with what Jesus Christ has done for you, take time to meditate, take time to let your heart become alive, then it's it's difficult to pray, but not because your mind is blank, because it's too full. And it's hard to find words to express the wonder of this God who is in front of you and who lives within you. The sacraments can be nothing more than a pious necessity, but never when it's part of worship. Not when you know that Jesus Christ has deigned to be with you in a special way for those sacraments. I'm going to say something, and it may sound a bit flip, but I'll explain what I mean. But if Jesus Christ is betrothed to the church, then on the Lord's Supper, on those occasions, he takes the church on a date. That may sound flip, but if you're single and you get to know somebody at work and you see them every day, and then you were to go out on a date, that date is something special. It isn't the same kind of time. It's something you prepare for. It's something you look forward to. It's difference. And that's the way it is with our Lord. If we treat the Lord's supper like any other day, we don't appreciate how he looks forward to that time. How he prepares them. himself, how he would embrace us in his arms. The times of baptism and the Lord's Supper should be times that we regret leaving, and times that we would look forward to again. Well what we talked about back in John fifteen then is simply this. The power to grow spiritually, the power to love, to experience God's love, to recognize it, to respond to it, and then to reflect it, comes through abiding or doing. Dwelling with Christ Jesus in the presence of God. We will not become like our Lord just by talking about it or by vaguely wishing it were so. We cannot produce Christ's love just by pressing the right buttons. Only Christ Himself can produce that love through us as fruit. Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so be it in you, unless you abide in me. And what this passage is. told us is two things. First, to be real, this abiding has to be practical. We have to utilize the means of grace. But secondly, to be real, this abiding must be worshipful. We talk about a personal relationship with Christ. I like to change the word to a worshipful relationship with Christ, because that is personal. When his glory is our delight, and when his glory is our joy, then the fruit of Christ's likeness will come to him. Let's pray together. Father, these things are very personal. They aren't private. We can share them, but they are personal. We appreciate the way that your son opens. Up his heart to us in this passage. Lord God, you've invited us to abide in him just as he, your son, abides in you. And Lord God, you promised us that if we would keep your commandments that your son would manifest himself to us. Father, I speak for some of us here. As we lay ourselves with for you and confess that our relationship with you is very much at arm's distance. We mean our confession very much, but we feel your presence very infrequently. Father, help us to abide in you. We seek that now. And we ask that in response you would manifest yourself to us. That we might worship you. all our hearts to Christ Jesus. Amen. W