If you turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2, as you're doing that, I want to welcome a number of visitors here this morning. For those of you who have missed the first service, which is all of you here. Um don't you feel foolish when you say things like that? Um we had Lauren Ericsson here this morning from Germany And uh that was a real surprise. He's only been gone for about six weeks, but he's back for a conference, and so he'll be here this week. But we also today have the Nacimentos and the Arboros here who are visiting. Not that my toes live somewhat local, but the Yarbross have moved down to Florida and they're here today worshiping with us. So for those of you who know them, say hello. Let me open us in prayer. Father, we are so grateful that you have broken the chains and that you have brought us to yourself in Christ, that you have given us union with you. Lord, you've given us life. You've dealt with our sin. And we're yours. And so we pray this morning you will touch our hearts and our minds. That you will teach us more of yourself. Show us more of ourselves. And that as a result, you would be glorified. Father, I pray that you would free us from distractions, that you would free us from focusing anywhere else but on your truth. And I pray particularly for me that you would free me to speak your truth without focus on me. Meet with us this morning. Touch our hearts, transform our lives. In your name we pray. Amen We're going to continue the study that we began last week, which is a continuation of the study we began several years ago in 1 Peter. And as opportunity permits, I continue. But today we're looking at 1 Peter 2, verses 11 and 12. And there are going to be a couple of times I'm going to ask you to write something down on your outline beyond simply what you feel led to write down Uh so you may want to have a pencil or a pen handy and an ability to to do that. Let me read the passage that we're looking at. Peter says to us, his hearers Dear friends, I urge you, as aliens and strangers in the world, to abstain from sinful desires which wage war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. Remember, last week we looked at the idea that we are refugees. This world is not our home, and that has some profound implications for us. We have both the old nature, what Peter and Paul both describe as the sinful nature, and we have the new nature, which they describe as a spirit. In Galatians chapter 5, Paul says this to us: So I say, live by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. For the sinful nature desires what is contrary to the spirit, and the spirit what is contrary to the sinful nature. They are in conflict with each other so that you do not do what you want. But if you're led by the Spirit, you are not under law. The phrase there, desires of the sinful spirit, is exactly the same phrase in Greek that Peter is describing to us in our passage, to abstain from sinful desires. So there's a war. You have an old nature and you have a new nature. For those of you who are not in Christ and have not come to profess faith and not receive that gift of eternal life, you have the old nature. It's all that there is. But for those of you who are in Christ, there is a war that rages because you have both. You haven't been freed from the old nature. There's an ongoing battle. But even more so, even more than the battle that rages inside is a battle that rages between us and the world. For this world is not our home. Paul says in Philippians 3, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which we eagerly await for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the upshot of that is this. The world and all that it offers cannot satisfy us The world and everything that it offers, everything that it promises to you cannot satisfy I was told between services this morning that that an interview that I had with uh Ms. Hirsch from the Baltimore Sun about the prayer at the fair this week actually made it to the paper. She asked a really interesting question that I think goes to the heart of this matter. She said is is she was asking about why evangelical churches in Colombia would go to the fair The Howard County Fair, set up a booth that offers to pray with people. And her question was, do you really think that it's appropriate to take something so serious as prayer to a place where we want to go and have fun? And then without hesitation, I said, Absolutely. And she said, Why? And I said, Because the issues that we think we leave behind when we enter the fair to go have fun are the issues that we take with us. And the escape that we hope to enjoy, whether it's at a fair or at a movie or at a party or in a book or in a conversation, the escape we hope to experience. Can't take place. And as soon as we leave the fair, or as soon as we put down the book, or as soon as we end the conversation, we're still in life And so I said, we want them to recognize there's hope We want them to recognize there is satisfaction. It's just not an affair. Brothers and sisters, this morning, Peter calls us to battle. He calls us to battle for the glory of our King. And he gives us two commands. He commands us to abstain and he commands us to engage. Now, it seems a bit backwards. Because what he's calling us to abstain from are those things that promise us satisfaction. They promise us fulfillment. They promise us happiness. That's why we throw our lives into pursuing them. In in this passage in the NIV, it's it's saying abstain from sinful desires, and I think that's confusing. Because what he's really saying is abstain from over desires of the old nature It's not simply to desire. It's over-desires. Really, it's idols. What he's saying is this You have an old nature that wants you to be happy, that wants you to be satisfied, that wants you to be painless, that wants you to have fun. And that's not necessarily bad. And the things that you're going to desire and pursue that may promise to give you that aren't bad things necessarily either. In in the King James it says, lusts of the flesh Which I don't know if it does it to you, but in my mind it immediately draws me into the issue of of hedonism, gluttony, sexual sins, um abuse of substances. That's not what this passage is talking about exclusively. Certainly those are parts of the overdesires of the old nature. But what he's saying is this don't worship those things of this world that cannot bring satisfaction. Now, I told you I wanted you to write something down. I want you to finish this sentence. Life would be good if only And I honestly want you to write it down. So if you have a paper and pencil, you have the sermon outline, if you have a pencil or a paper, write down what you would say to finish that sentence. There are an awful lot of good things that you could put in that sentence. Life would be good if only my kids were more obedient. Life would be good if only I were a holier person. If I didn't battle this sin, if I had victory, if I overcame it. If If I had a car that worked, or my house were fixed, or or my health were better. There are a lot of really good things that God can give you that you could use to answer that sentence, to finish that sentence. But let me ask this question What would you have said to finish that sentence six months ago? In some cases it may be the same thing. It may be a long-term issue that you're dealing with. But for many of you, six months ago you had something different that you would have said, Life would be good if only And so let me ask this question. Is life good? Did you get that it only? And did it satisfy? Somebody was talking to me between services and said, six months ago I would have said life would be good if only I had a house. They've got a house now. Guess what? With a house comes effort, labor, finances, demand, and it's an ongoing struggle Brothers and sisters, the overdesires of the flesh will never satisfy. And if you focus on this world as your hope, if you focus on circumstances as your satisfaction You will never be satisfied. Never. It may be possessions, it may be a good marriage, it may be obedient children, it may be the approval of people, it may be health. There are a number of very good things that God may want to give you and may give you. But they can never be your hope. There's a book by Dan Alender called The Healing Path. I'm going to shamelessly put in a plug for two Sunday school classes. Mine and my wife's. I'm going to teach the men through this book in the first session of classes, and Anna's going to teach the women who want to do it. So we'll be signing up for the books shortly. But I want to read you a couple of quotes this morning from this book. And the first one comes here because the truth is that these desires will never satisfy. And Alander captures it well when he says this. When our fulfilled dreams fall short of our expectations, we feel ambivalent We lose hope. And in turn lose the energy to love. Without really knowing it, Janet and all of us dream for a ch not for a child, a marriage partner, a better job, or a clean bill of health. But for heaven. Our daily dreams are but the material wishes of our immaterial soul. We want a new car indeed But the smell of a pristine interior and the shine of a waxed, spotless exterior, is but the hunger for a beauty unspoiled and a glory yet revealed. Consequently, all our desires are sweeter than their fulfillment. Over time, we may come to feel ambivalent, not only about fulfillment, but about desire. And so with that, if we begin to recognize consciously or subconsciously, that these desires, even when fulfilled, can't satisfy We face the pain of that realization, and you may decide you've got a great command here to abstain from sinful desires, and if desires mean pain, then I'll become passionless. I won't feel. If I don't feel, I can't hurt. If I don't care, I can't lose. And so we shut down. In my adolescence, my young adulthood, my early adulthood, my marriage, up through most of the middle of my marriage, that was my path. And I'm sorry for the pain that my passionlessness caused. Brothers and sisters, we're not allowed to be passionless. It is not what Peter is calling us to be, and it is not what God allows us to be. Passionless living springs from the fountain of fear and from wounds, and it is a rejection of faith. Please, please seek more. On the other hand, passion springs from the fountain of hope. And brothers and sisters, we are commanded to hope. John read it earlier. Turn the page in your Bible to chapter 1. And begin at verse 13. Your translation, if it's like mine, clouds potentially what Peter's saying. So I want to unpack it for you. We've we've gone over this in the past. For those of you who remember that, please please recall it, but for those of you who haven't, I need to explain it to you. Peter says, Therefore, prepare your minds for action. Be self-controlled. Set your hope fully on the grace to be given you when Jesus Christ is revealed. And it sounds to me like, as I read this, there are three commands. I'm commanded To prepare my mind for action. I'm commanded to be self-controlled, and I'm commanded to set my hope. Unfortunately, the one that hits me third doesn't get the focus that it deserves Because in the Greek, the first two are not commands. What it really says is: while preparing your mind for action, while being self-controlled, Set your hope fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's not a future exclusive As a matter of fact, time isn't a value there. What he's saying is, whenever Jesus is revealed, it shows to you the grace that you received, and the grace that you will yet receive. And in that grace, focus your hope. And the way that it says it is this. It's the only act of command in the passage. Hope fully, completely, perfectly in the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. Which is obviously both past because he has come He has come, he has lived a perfect, obedient life, he has sacrificed that life, he has taken your record of sin and given you his record of perfect obedience. That's part of the grace upon which you must hope. But he's also yet to be fully revealed We live in that already in the not yet. We already are in Christ, but we have not yet fully experienced all that that means. And so we continue to hope. But we hope completely, perfectly, fully, exclusively in the grace that's given to us. And brothers and sisters, that means you cannot be content with a passionless life Because the goal of a passionless life is an escape from pain. It is a sinful over-desire to escape pain. It's an understandable one, but it's sinful. It's disobedient and it's wrong, and it robs you. Another quote from Dan Alender on Hope. Hope focuses not on circumstances, but on Christ's coming and the redemption of our character. If my hope is centered on getting a new job or being healed from an illness, then I've given my heart to what is tangible and material. My heart will never become any bigger than that in which or in whom I hope. But when my hope is centered on the coming redemption I begin to take on his glory. As I become more and more molded by the future, now becomes both more bitter and sweet. Bitter in that it is not enough. Sweet in its foretaste of what lies ahead. We are to be passionate. But we're to be focused in our passion Alender talks about that passion as a sacred discontent, and he says sacred discontent is not mere dissatisfaction that turns the heart to complain or to disengage. It is the holy hunger to enter a heart or a situation so that we can offer incarnate love and know the same at the roots of our soul. So what do we focus on? What are we passionate about? We're passionate about the grace. We're passionate about the Savior. We're passionate about the future. And we believe his love for us. That we will have well-being. Not because our circumstances will give it to us, our circumstances never can. There is always something more to long for. There's the famous quote of John Rockefeller when he was asked by a reporter, how much money is enough? And his answer was very insightful. He said, one dollar more. Brothers and sisters, there's always somebody who has more of what you want. There's always something more to be longed for. There's always something more to be acquired. There's always something Better, except for Christ. And if and when God moves you. to abstain from the sinful overdesires. You glorify him. The very choice The very choice of him over these things says, God, you are better. You are more. These things are great. Some of them are wonderful, astounding, and staggering. It is wonderful to be married. It's delightful to be healthy. It is great to have enough money to be able to do, but it's never enough. It's never enough. There's always something more to want. So glorify God and abstain from the sinful over-desires. One of the ways that God calls us to do that, He not only gives us the overarching command, but Peter gives us a very specific application of that, because then he goes on to say this Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. There's a way to interpret that that I want to eliminate from your mind. It's a way that I did for many years because of the way that the language reads It's very easy for me in the past to have read this passage and to think, okay, I am to gut it out, to live well. to do such good deeds before those heathen, pagan, mean, nasty people who speak ill of me, that when Jesus comes back, they'll have to grovel at his feet And tell them what a good guy I really was, vindicate my behavior, vindicate God's glory, and recognize their sin in suffering Any of you guys relate to that? Because that's not at all here. That is not what this passage is calling us to do. What it's calling us to do is to abstain from the over-desire of approval. It is to abstain from the overdesire of painlessness and instead to engage To engage in love and hope for those who wound you. 1 Peter 2,12, we've just talked about, but let me unpack it for you. Live nobly among the pagans. What it really says is among the nations, those who do not know God. So you could translate that pagans. But pagan has an emotional connotation for us that is not, I believe, part of what Peter's trying to get across. So what he's saying is live nobly before those who don't know Jesus They accuse you of doing wrong. A better understanding of that is they slander you and say that you do evil. They lie about you. They intend to wound you. They want to dishonor you and they want to dishonor your God. But live such a noble life before them that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. This calls for an engagement because what it says here is that they may eyewitness your behavior. That's up close and personal. And they may, on the basis of that eyewitness testimony, glorify God on the day that he visits. It doesn't really say us, it says on the day of his visitation. First Peter 122 is the predecessor to this, where he says, Peter says to us, Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth. So that you have sincere love for the brothers, love one another deeply. On the night that he was betrayed, after having instituted the Lord's Supper and before going out to the garden to pray. Jesus says to his disciples in John thirteen, A new command I give to you, that you love one another as I have loved you. By this, all men will know that you're my disciples if you love one another. You may think that the only people you have to deal with in this passage and be kind to are the pagans because they don't know Jesus. But brothers and sisters, this command is a command to forsake the overdesire of peace, painlessness, and approval by engaging in hope Living in the power of that hope, holding to the grace of Christ, and loving those who are out to destroy you. Why For two reasons. One, so that they can see those good deeds and glorify God on the day of their salvation. And two, so that God takes the pleasure in your life that He longs to take I don't believe that the only people who want to hurt me are non-Christians. I don't believe that the only people who are hurt by me are non-Christians. Brothers and sisters, we are sinners. We hurt one another on a regular basis. And if I were to take your hearts and broadcast your life experiences on this screen, many of you here would have been hurt by many of you here. God calls us in that case to live nobly, to love well, and to be redemptive. Our desire is to build walls. It is to distance ourselves and to stop the pain. If we really want to be honest, we hope that the person who's wounded us Will get their just deserts and will suffer for the wounds they've inflicted. And we don't want them to be saved. Brothers and sisters, that's our hearts. It's my heart. It's ugly. It's sinful. And it's mine. And so when I read this passage, I'm faced I'm faced with a command I cannot fulfill. But so are you. And so the question for us then is, on what basis, on what basis can I love this way? To love them as you're called is going to require three things. Number one Jesus is going to have to make clear to you that that call is his on your life. Because when somebody gives me a command that I don't want to do, the number one thing I do is find a way to escape God as the author of that command. If you tell me to do something, I may want to depending upon the level of my relationship with you, but I may not want to, and I may decide that the command that you want to give me is too great to be sustained by the level of our friendship. Or by the level of my position or your position or authority, and I'll just ignore you And so you may feel under conviction as you hear the message this morning, but as you walk out the door, if you don't take with you that this is Jesus' call on your life, you'll forget the call. And you'll give it up. Secondly, you need to acknowledge your inadequacy to fulfill the call. If you leave this morning believing that you have the ability to do what Jesus commands you to do through Peter, you'll try. And within a week you'll be frustrated and bitter and upset and hopeless, and you'll stop. You need this morning not only to know that this is Jesus' command, but that you don't have the strength, and you have to go somewhere else to find it, which is the third thing. Set your hope fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. Cling to Him. For he will give you not only the call, not only the awareness of your own inadequacy and your need for him, but he'll give you himself and his strength. Does Jesus call you to this type of engagement with others? Let me read another quote from Alander. I think he says it well. This is not important because Dan Allinger says it. It's important because I believe it's biblically true and it's sustained by this passage. By 1 Peter chapter 2, but he says this: I am called to live in the present, choosing to love based on the memory of redemption past and redemption future. If I refuse to trust, I will not offer myself to others, nor will I receive care from others. If I lack hope, I will not dream for others, nor desire their involvement. Faith that is founded on the memory of God's intrusion into my story And hope which is freed in the imagination of God's promise to shape my story for good, combined to enable me to open my heart and live for love today. Faith and hope are the foundation of love. Evil works to destroy the integrity of the heart through doubt, despair, and shame. It labors daily to provide betrayal, powerlessness, and ambivalence. Many Christians seek to escape the hard task of facing damage. They want to change without an honest look at life. The result is not only incomplete redemption, but worse, a shallow grasp of grace It is grace, the inexplicable tenderness of God to receive and gift us with his presence that redeems our hearts. Oddly, God uses the damage provoked by evil to win us to himself and to his purposes. He uses doubt to grow in us a new perspective about our past. A perspective that enables us to say, you meant it for evil. God meant it for good. He uses despair to grow a new purpose for our future that calls us to say, His mercies are new every morning. And he uses shame to grow a new passion to sacrifice that enables us to follow the one who, for the joy set before him, endured the cross. scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Doubt, despair, and shame can't be eliminated in a fallen world But they can be used to transform our hearts as we journey toward the staggering joy of full redemption. Brothers and sisters, it is your call. It is your call. Romans 12 makes clear that it's your call. Romans 12 says, love must be sincere. Hate what is evil, cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Honor one another above yourselves. Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spiritual fervor serving the Lord. Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer Share with God's people who are in need. Practice hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited. Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everybody. If possible, as far as it depends upon you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my friends, but leave room for God's wrath. For it is written, It is mine to avenge. I will repay, says the Lord. On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Brothers and sisters, is this kind of love in you? Can you love those who maliciously wound you? What does your heart really desire now for those people who hurt you? I encourage you to look deep. I encourage you to let Jesus take you to the depths of your heart to see what's really there. And should it be anger and bitterness and hatred, don't be surprised But don't stop at simply not being surprised. God says to you, in repentance and rest is your salvation, in quietness and trust is your strength. What he calls you to is you recognize your sin. is to bring it to him. That's what Jesus lived for, and that's what he died for. He says, repent, and he says, rest. Jesus explains that rest when he says in Matthew 11, Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. We're called to join Jesus in the yoke. He sets the direction. He provides the strength, he gives the goal, and we participate with him. God is powerful enough, and God is eager to change your heart. He's eager to change your behavior. Please, please, don't settle for an understanding of this passage that says you have to gut it out so that you can get those who've wounded you. Grunt grudgingly to acknowledge your good behavior before the Lord in the day that He judges them and sends them to hell. Because what this passage is calling you to is to love. Jesus loves. Jesus loves them. And Jesus is in the process of calling them. And bringing them to repent. And he wants you to be a part of that process. That's why in chapter 3 he says, as a result of the hope that you have, be always ready to make a defense of the hope that is in you. So that those who need that hope can find it, can experience it, and can rest in Him. We're not looking for grudging testimony from reluctant pagans. We are looking for new brothers and sisters who will glorify God on the day he visits us. And we're looking to be a part of the process that brings God that glory now. Let's pray. Jesus, give us big, big dreams. Anchor us fully in the grace that you have given to us. Make us men and women of hope. And satisfy that hope. Free us, Lord, to glorify you by recognizing that you alone are enough. So that in enjoying you we can enjoy those other things, not as an over-desire, but as a desire And that we can bring you honor and glory not only in the end as you return, but now in how we deal with things, with approval, with good marriages, with obedient children. Those things that make life good, Lord, will only make them good as they're built upon the foundation of hope. And so, Jesus, we want to be satisfied. We want you. Work in and through us, we pray in your name. Amen.