Today, as you already know, CPC's corporate worship changes from two distinctive services of contemporary first and then classic second. To the same order of worship basically in both services. This is because we found that the extra effort that was required to plan and to lead two distinct services which are not required by Scripture was not justified In helping people, the whole congregation, to worship, or in ministering to the guests who are dropping in. It's not a question of scripture versus culture. I want that to be absolutely clear in what we're doing here. The question is simply a matter of within the bounds of biblical, God-centered worship What is the cultural expression that is most helpful to Columbia Presbyterian, who we are and who we're seeking to reach for the Lord Jesus Christ? One thing that's very obvious to me over the years of working with worship here at CPC is that we all have very strong feelings about worship, don't we? I'll tell you You want to get a lively discussion going. Just raise the question of how do you feel about our worship and what we're doing? We get comments on gray slips every week. about do it this way, we should do it that way, like this way, change that way. You remember at the congregational meeting just two weeks ago, one person stood up and they said, one thing I wish we would do more is To repeat the songs we're singing so that we can enter into them more fully with our spirit and meditate on them. Next person stood up and said I disagree. I wish we'd sing more different songs and learn new songs. Let me give you a hypothetical illustration. It may help us to grasp the The situation, the issues that we're trying to deal with when we look at worship in our day and our own worship as a congregation. Let's take two people. On the one hand, you have Cammie Tambourines. Now, Cammy is the kind of person she grew up in a liberal dead church. And then one day she went to a charismatic church and she heard the gospel there for the first time. She heard about the Lord Jesus Christ as a Savior for sinners and she gave her life to him. And her whole Christian experience from that point of transformation was in a worship that used tambourines. And so when she comes, I'm using these because I don't know anybody that is really fitting, so you know, if this is you, sorry I didn't mean you. She comes here and she says all of a sudden, why don't you guys use tambourines? You know, tambourine, it just adds to the worship. I just can't imagine worship without the joy of using tambourines. And on the other hand, you've got Nick Notambourine. And old Nick over here, you know, he went to a church one time. He grew up in a basic evangelical church, followed Jesus Christ, has known the Lord all his life. But Nick went to this service and they were using tambourines, and he found that as he began to know those people, He found that there was a lack of depth in what he perceived of Christianity. In fact, the more he began to be acquainted with this worship, the more he valued he uh evaluated it as kind of a a shallow emotionalism and then the pastor was caught in adultery and the church split and that's it. And so he associates tambourines with shallow emotionalism and something that is not Sincere biblical Christianity. How in the world can you worship with tambourines? And so here's Tammy. How can you worship without him? And Nick's over here, how can you worship with him? Well, what does the Bible say? It doesn't speak to tambourines. You got lupes, you got harps, you got ten-stringed instruments. But Nick says, Tammy, there's no tambourines in the Bible. Knock it off Tambour and Nick and Tammy says in response, but Nick, it does speak of symbols. And those are pretty close to tambourines. Get with it How are you going to resolve this thing biblically, you see? That's the question. You know, when we think about our own worship We do not have that much cultural variety in our congregation. I mean, the biggest difference, let's face, is probably in age. You know, what generation? I can imagine our congregation if we had a good proportion of Latins, African Americans, West Indies, you know, I mean, you know, a lot of different cultures. How do you resolve who decides what true worship is? There's two questions that actually come from this. You see them in your bulletin outline right there. First of all, who determines true worship? And then secondly, what constitutes true worship? The answer to the first question is pretty simple. God is the one who determines true worship. Not all sincere worship, it is clear from the Bible, pleases Him. When I say sincere, I mean a person saying, I'm simply doing this, and I believe that this is worship. You have Cain offering the vegetables as an offering to God in Genesis chapter 4, and God rejects his offering. You have Nadab and Abihu in Leviticus 10 offering unauthorized fire as priest before the Lord, and God rejects that offering. The first four of the Ten Commandments Speak about what God says is required in worship. It's not all that he says, but you have four of the basic ten commandments of his covenant dealing with how to come before him. The reformers used to speak of the regulative principle, by which they meant that We don't decide how to worship God. He tells us what is acceptable worship before Him. So it's absolutely clear that you and I don't come deciding what worship is. And the interesting thing today is I find that for most contemporary evangelicals, worship is almost equivalent to singing. You say to the average contemporary Christian, we're going to go worship. And what they understand by that is we're going to go sing praise songs. And worship is in fact much broader. It inc certainly includes singing, but it is broader than that. We need to go to God. We need to get outside of ourselves in simply saying, what do I feel is worship? To look at what God says is acceptable worship to Him. To the second question, what constitutes true worship, I want to take you to this statement that you just heard read in John chapter 4, Jesus statement in John 4, verse 23 and 24. Some people are so wise that whatever they say is worth listening to. Have you ever met the kind of person where in whatever discussion you're having, if they throw in a couple of comments, You find more wisdom in that than somebody that's written a book on it. And it was maybe an off-the-hand comment because wisdom so permeates their thinking and perspective. Well, of course, more than any other live living human being, Jesus was that kind of person. So what's interesting to me is that in the statement in scripture where you have perhaps the most definitive statement about what true worship is, the context isn't even worship. Jesus isn't even talking about worship. Jesus is talking to a woman at the well in the discussion that you just heard, and she asks this question in chapter 4, verse 20. Our fathers worship on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. That's not even a question, but it's an implied question, you know, which is right. And of course, as you just heard, the reason that she asked that question was because the Lord Jesus, in seeking to reach her heart And to give her a thirst for himself and the living water that he could offer to her, began to move in on her life and said, We want to discuss this further. Go call your husband And in doing that, he put his finger on her need, the deepest need, her need for a man and sex as an idol And so she responds, uh, well, you know, I don't have a husband, and he puts his finger even further on that. You've had five, the man you're living with now's not your husband. And then of course she sees that he's a prophet, because nobody's told him this. He's just met her. How could he possibly know he's just passing through So let's have a theological discussion. You're pretty smart. Tell me now, where should we worship? Here at Mount Gerizim, as the Samaritans say, or down in on Mount Zion in Jerusalem, where you Jews say. And Jesus masterfully takes that question, and he moves that Without shutting her off, he speaks to that and then comes right back to the issue of her heart. But in speaking to that, in a very brief statement, Jesus says something very profound. He says in verse 23, yet a time is coming and has now come. When the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth. Twice in this answer that he gives to her, he uses this phrase in spirit and in truth, or in spirit and truth. That is, worship is not a matter of geography, not a matter of Gerism versus Jerusalem, but it's a matter of the nature of God. God is spirit. Revealing himself in the new age of Messiah as the one who by his Spirit reveals Jesus, who is the truth. And so there are two sides to this idea of worship that you and I need to look at in 1998 at Columbia Presbyterian as we reorient ourselves and come back to the basics about what worship is. True worship involves truth and involves spirit. What is meant by that? Very briefly, this is only one message on this Uh some of you who know me probably should congratulate me on my self-discipline. I am going to move on to other things. One message, I did I su I did not succumb To the temptation to make this a series. But because it's only one message, I can only deal with a very few basic points. These two ideas, truth and spirit. Her question really is about where God reveals himself, because that's where you worship him. Now, where is it that God reveals himself to us? Well, of course, it's in the Bible. If you want to see who God is and what he's like in any definitive statement, there's not a place that you go to. It's a book that you go to And you go to this book, the Bible, to find out who God is, what he's like, and how you should worship him. But more specifically, this idea of worshiping God in truth is intended to show that the Bible focuses on Jesus, who is the truth. So that's the first point. It focuses us on Jesus, first blank there, who is the truth. Two points about that. First of all, the Bible directs us in our worship. God gave detailed instruction about the construction of the tabernacle. Five chapters, Exodus 35 to 40 to detail the architecture and the furnishings of the tabernacle and then how we are to come and to approach him in worship. Now that's very significant because God is a holy God and He is saying you and I can't simply come waltzing in on any whim and idea of what it is that we think of as worship. Worship is a psychological need of human beings. It's very tempting for us to seek to fulfill it in the way that seems most fulfilling to us. But God details in great specific instructions how sinners are to come before a holy God with blood sacrifices. And then he goes and opens that up into the temple in 1 Kings chapter 8, in a more permanent dwelling, but even that is only temporary. Because he is moving us on. You see, worship he's showing us through these instructions is not a matter of raw creativity It's also not a matter of following a list of rules. But rather, the Old Testament, through these pictures, impels us toward Messiah. Who is the one who will open the way to the presence of God in worship? You notice that when Jesus gives his answer to her in verse twenty four, God is spirit and his worship must worshipers must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said verse twenty-five, I know that Messiah called Christ, Christ simply translation the word Messiah. I know the Messiah is coming, and when he comes, he will explain everything to us. And then Jesus declared, I who speak to you am He. Jesus is Messiah. He is the one who is the fulfillment of all the Old Testament pictures of worship. So the second thing is that the gospel focuses us on Jesus, who is the true tabernacle. John 1. 14, the word became flesh and we redwelled among us, but literally the word in the Greek is and tabernacled among us. He was the true tabernacle. He's the true temple in chapter 2, when Jesus goes in to cleanse the temple of those who were defiling it. He says, destroy this temple, John says, speaking of his own body, and in three days I'll raise it again. He's the true temple. the Bible teaches. Jesus is in fact the truth. You have that three times in the book of John. That's why I say I think that John four twenty-three and twenty-four when Jesus says you worship God in truth, he's referring to himself. Because three times God says, John says, he is the truth. In John 1:17, The law came by Moses, but grace and what? Truth by Jesus Christ. In John chapter 8, verse 31 and 32, he talks about those who truly want to know Want to be his disciples, and he said, I will show you the truth, and the truth will make you free, and the truth is himself. He says that clearly in John chapter 14, verse 6. I am the way, the truth. and the life. Therefore, truth means that we focus on Jesus in our worship, not ourselves, not entertainment. As I mentioned, we get lots of feedback on the grace lips, and I'm not discouraging that. I welcome it. So if you're one of those that likes to give us feedback, don't think, ah you don't like that, you know No, I'm uh we do. But remember when you give that feedback, always to distinguish in your mind preferences from principles Whether the lights are up or down, how the overheads, whether they're overheads or slides are out of a book, or you know, whatever we do, all these circumstances, these may be preferences. But the principle is that the worship focuses on Jesus and what we seek to do is what is going to best enable us to focus on Jesus Not simply our comfort and cultural preferences. That's the focus of worship. And so when you and I come here, it is with the intention of setting our hearts upon Him. As you've heard many times, the issue of worship is not what do I get out of it, but what does he get out of it. The word worship that is used, the Greek word means to serve. And so when we worship, we are serving. It is an active thing. It is not passive. You are not watching the people on the stage, the band and the worship leader. do their worship thing and you kind of join in or spectate back there. We all come to offer ourselves actively, concentrating on the words Entering in to set our hearts on Jesus Christ as we come here to worship and to adore Him. He is the truth. We focus on him as the truth in our worship. That's the focus of it. We worship him in true ways with true hearts, but the focus is on Jesus who is the truth. That's what this text means. But it also uses the word spirit. We worship him in spirit and truth. And what does that mean? Does spirit mean with life? With emotion? The human spirit? The Bible uses the word spirit. In that way, Jesus was grieved in his spirit, John says. And that's not capital S, that's in his emotions. And that's the way the message interprets that, as you heard it read. I used to believe that. You know what? I've changed my mind. I don't think that that's what John is saying. I think that when John uses spirit here, he is specifically referring to the Holy Spirit. Why do I say that? Look again in verse 23 and 24. The time is coming, and is now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in spirit and truth. So the Only other time you have that word spirit used in those two verses, in spirit and truth, is when it defines God. God is spirit. That's the reason we worship in spirit and truth. That doesn't simply mean that it is not a matter of geography. In other words, God isn't located in Gerizim or in Jerusalem or someplace where he has simply manifested himself. But God is omnipresent as spirit because he is spirit. It's his nature that he is spirit. And three times in the book of John, you read the phrase, the Spirit of Truth. And so when John talks about worshiping as being a focus on the truth who is Jesus, And then he uses this word spirit and truth. You think of those other times, John 14, 17, John 15, by the way it says down there 1524, should be 1526, cross that out. 1526, I don't know why I put twenty-four. And then 16 verses 12 to 14, all those passages say the spirit of truth. Now, what does he mean by that spirit of truth? And why is it that I say that it's the Holy Spirit who enables us to worship in truth? There's two ideas that I believe John has in mind here. And I base these on what John himself says. First of all, because it is the Spirit who makes us able to see Jesus. If you look at John chapter 3, just the chapter before, Jesus speaking to Nicodemus, do you remember said, I tell you the truth. No one can see the kingdom of God unless he is born again. How can a man be born when he's old? Nicodemus asked. Surely he cannot be entered a second time into his mother's womb to be born. Jesus answered, I tell you the truth. No one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water and of the Spirit. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the spirit gives birth to spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you can't tell where it comes from, where it's going. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. You can't see the kingdom. You can't see the nature of God. You can't understand him. You can't worship him. Unless you have the Spirit in you who enables you to see the truth, who enables you to understand the kingdom. Without that, you're simply coming here for whatever superstitious reasons, you're coming here for legalistic reasons, you know, you're coming here to fulfill a duty So you don't feel guilty this next week. You're coming here because you think if by doing that, God's going to look on you and He's going to have favor on you. That's superstition. That's not worship. You only worship when the Spirit of God works in your heart to see your sin, to see that Jesus is the one true provision. to take that sin, that you need him, that you desperately must have him in order to be right with God. You confess that and you come to Jesus Christ and he opens your eyes. In order to come to him, that you might see that he is the truth, he is the way to God. In chapter 14, in verse 17, John says About the spirit of truth, he's speaking about the spirit of truth. He says the world cannot accept him, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he lives with you and in you. Let me ask you very personally, do you have the Spirit of God in your life? Have you ever been born again, as John puts it, through Jesus in chapter 3? If you have never experienced the transformation of the Spirit of God in your life, you're not worshiping. It's as simple as that. You may be coming and seeking God. You may be looking after Him. You may be trying to find out But you are not worshiping in spirit and in truth, because the spirit must be in you to fulfill what Jesus is talking about. If you have any questions about whether that's true in your life, let me urge you to put down on the gray slip I would like to talk about being sure about knowing Jesus. And when that comes in in the offering, just have your name on it, your phone number, I'll get in touch, and we'll talk about that. Would love nothing better. Because all of the rest of this is very secondary to that most basic question. But that's not all that Jesus has in mind here when he says in spirit and truth. The other thing that I think he has in mind is that the Spirit satisfies our thirst by Jesus. The Spirit satisfies our thirst by Jesus. Again, remember what it is that started this conversation. It was Jesus' offer of living water. to the woman at significantly the well. Where he said in verse 10, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that asked you for a drink, you would have asked him And he would have given you living water. Verse 13. Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of well water. Peterson says an artesian spring. I think that's a good idea. A spring of water that wells up to eternal life. That's what Jesus is talking about. And you see, when you and I come to worship, what we are doing is we're we're doing two things. You're coming thirsty to say, I need to hear the gospel again. I need to hear God's word. And I need to be pointed to Jesus, who satisfies my thirst. But in addition to that, when we come to worship, what we are doing is we are saying to Jesus, whether by word, confession, in song, whatever, we are saying, Jesus, you satisfy. my thirst. John Piper has said, God is most glorified when we are most satisfied in Him. That's profound. God is most glorified, most worshipped, when we are most satisfied in Him. And so when you come here on Sunday morning, not passive, not looking to see the action that's going to happen, but you come here saying, would you guys enable my spirit to enter into the truth And to confess to Jesus, Jesus, you've taken my guilt. That's living water, you see. You've released me from the bondage of my sin. That's living water. In the trials that I've been going through this week, you have been with me. You haven't abandoned me. I know your presence, your loving control, and concern. You are sufficient for me. That's living water. I know that I don't live here just for a few years and that's the end, but I have a hope that I will be with you forever and ever in heaven. eternal life that is welling up the hope of that that he speaks of in John 4 verse 14. That hope fills my heart And it outweighs all the sadness and disappointment of this world. That's living water. And the Spirit satisfies your soul in Jesus. And when that happens, and God is glorified by your satisfaction in Him, He is worshiped in spirit and truth. Amen? You see, and that's what our hearts enter into. Now, three final points of application. One The worship service is simply the expression of our whole lives in worship. One of the points that's most missed in this passage is that Jesus is not talking about worship services. He's talking about life. There's not a word here that says on Sunday morning, you worship in spirit and truth. Jesus is simply talking about our whole lives. God is seeking worshipers. That's an amazing statement in itself. Don't have time to unpack that. God is seeking worshipers, and we please Him, you see. When in our lives we enter into and believe his truth, and by the power of his spirit, that truth fires our hearts. So our worship on Sunday morning is simply the expression of a week of worship and walking with Him. Uh something I had from back in the 60s thing was written and I've kept it through the years because I think it states it so well. Let me read it to you. It's called Making Love, Making Worship. To make love is to consummate a relationship. To worship is to consummate a relationship. Both are expressions of a realized togetherness which is more than mere verbal communication. Both fulfill a basic psychological need in human beings. Both acts if they are the single most outstanding element in a relationship are without meaning. Both acts must issue from a life context of work, concern, obedience, time, and play. If these are dead, making love or making worship will also be dead. Books on church renewal and sexual technique are similar. Both may be helpful, but both may miss the point. A bad marriage is not made good by a better method of sexual intercourse. A bad church is not made good by a better worship service. The basic misconception about the act of worship and making love is that they are of value in and of themselves. This is false. They are only of value when they express honestly the attitude of the whole heart and the whole life. We worship in spirit and truth. There's very little in the New Testament about what a worship service looks like. In fact, it was patterned after the synagogue worship, not the tabernacle or the temple. It's fruitless to seek to list the essential elements. Any two theologians will always have at least slightly different lists. There are some things that are obviously basic, the reading and preaching of Scripture, the confession of sin, the adoration and praise of God, prayer, offerings. Did you go much beyond that? And you're on shaky ground in what is required. And so what we're trying to do is to come back to basics here at Columbia Presbyterian. Beyond the distinctions of contemporary and classical, which are cultural distinctives, To simply say what is the best offering that we can give to God each week in our worship associated with the text that we're considering All worship is cultural. You cannot get outside of that. It is not cultural versus biblical. It came to me again when I was teaching the course at Westminster last week. There was a Korean pastor in the class, and we were talking about the need to associate together in citywide associations to strategize for the city. and making contact with other pastors and he said, you know, I tried that. He said, this is a Korean pastor, first generation Korean pastor. He said, I went to a church of a pastor who I had gotten to know who was from Ghana And he said, I went to visit that church and it was all Ghanaians. And he said, wow, what an experience He said they dance from the beginning to the end. He said they dance when they sing. He said they even dance when they give the offering. They all come dancing up the aisle and they put the offering in there and they go dancing back to the aisle again. What an experience. And I thought, now, you say to those brothers and sisters, now let us discuss the theology of dance and worship. They'd say, what are you talking about? It's simply who we are. You see, we do things culturally in the expression of our worship to God that is unconscious because it is who we are. The point is that we are giving that within biblical direction and guidelines to God. In hearts that are fired by his truth. There's great freedom in the New Testament. Within the restrictions that God states define true worship. Worship is hearts that are responding to truth fired by his spirit. Matthew 15 says that they come to me They honor me, these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They worship me in vain. Their teachings are but rules taught by men. Hebrews chapter 12, on the other hand, speaks of our coming, as you heard read before. We who have received a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably, with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. That's to characterize your life and my life. Practice that I have engaged in this summer is Kind of something I've renewed and found very beneficial is when I come into my office, first thing I do when I clear out the briefcase, get sent, before I do anything else, is to just kneel at my chair with a hymn book And to just read through a hymn and personalize that hymn as a prayer, and to enter into the poetry of that hymn and the music in order to lift my soul to God in worship. Now let me suggest that if you and if I at Columbia Presbyterian practice each day, beginning that day with worship whether using a hymn book, which I highly recommend Or some Christian poetry, scripture, whatever it is going to enable you to enter in with your spirit by the Spirit of God into the truth, finding your satisfaction in Jesus. When we came here on Sunday morning, the burst of praise out of the context of a week of worship with our Savior, of our Savior, would transform the worship here on Sunday morning. You know that? Let me suggest that you and I find that key to better worship on Sunday morning is individually our worship of Jesus Christ through the week. And finally, we're simply also observing through this That the worship service is not simply a matter of what we do toward God, but we see here it is also what He does for us. Jesus, remember, offers to worshipers himself as the living water. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verses 24 to 26 that there are two purposes of worship for us. One, in verses twenty-four and twenty-five, is to challenge the seeker who comes in. And therefore it's very important to us, because Paul's point in that is that you don't speak in tongues, but you rather speak in a Language that can be understood by the seeker to eliminate every barrier toward the seeker who comes in from understanding the gospel. And therefore we are sensitive to that person. To remove all barriers, our worship is not in Latin. It is not in forms. that our culture can't relate to. I walked out this morning praying this and I saw my neighbor out there shuffling toward his paper in his grubbi to get it to walk back in. I thought if I talked in this week and he accepted Jesus Christ, could he come and worship in our congregation. And what do you say the cultural barriers are so great? I can't even understand what you're talking about. We need to minimize anything that's a barrier to bring a person to be able to see and understand the truth that's in Jesus. It was also then, he says in verse 26, to strengthen the saints, that you and I come and find Sunday by Sunday our satisfaction in Jesus, who is our living water. Let's pray. Father, we want to be a congregation that knows more about worship. We pray for revival, but we realize that the way we worship and the bringing of revival are a cyclical matter. That as we seek to worship you more in our own hearts and come with a crescendo of worship each Lord's day, That deepens in our own hearts the awareness of you and your sufficiency, your loveliness. Makes us the more open and prepared for the revival that we pray that you bring into our community and nation. Lord, get us outside of ourselves And just the own personal and cultural preferences we have that we might see the bigger picture. The strengthening of the saints, the challenging of the sinners, the offering of worship to Jesus in spirit and truth. That finds you, Lord Jesus, to be our chief and our sufficient satisfaction. This we declare to you because we love you and we worship you. In Jesus' name, Amen.