We look at Amos chapter five now, as we resume our study in this book for the American Church at the end of the 20th century. And as I read, and you follow along in your Bibles from Amos chapter 5, the first six verses, which we consider today, notice especially the exhortation in verse 1. Hear this word. This is God's word. So as I read it now, let's give our most careful attention to this word. As Matthew Henry once wrote, Where God has a mouth to speak, we must have ears to listen. And it's only the most foolish who do not listen when God speaks. Because verse 4 and verse 6 tells us that this is what the Lord says to the house of Israel. So let's give careful attention now to these six verses from God's own word in Amos chapter 5. Hear this word, O house of Israel. This moment I take up concerning you. Fallen as Virgin Israel, never to rise again Deserted in her own land with no one to lift her up. This is what the sovereign Lord says. The city that branches out a thousand strong for Israel shall have only a hundred left. The town that marches out a hundred swell will have only ten left. This is what the Lord says to the house of Israel: Seek thee and live. Do not seek Bethel, do not go to Gilgal, do not go into Beersheba, for Gilgal will surely go into exile, and Bethel will be reduced to nothing. Seek the Lord and live, or he will sweep through the house of Joseph like a fire. It will devour. Bethel will have no one to quench it. So far, God's word. Now let's give it our best attention as we seek to understand it and to apply it. I walked in the sunshine with a scholar who had effectively forfeited his prospects of academic advancement by clashing with church dignitaries over the gospel of grace. But it doesn't matter, he said at length, for I've known God, and they haven't The remark was a mere parenthesis, a passing comment on something I had said, but it just stuck with me and set me thinking. Not many of us, I think, would ever naturally say that we have known God. The words imply a definiteness, a matter-factness of experience, which most of us, if we're honest, After we admit we're still strangers. We claim perhaps to have a testimony and can rather off our conversion story to the best of them. We say we know God. That is after all what evangelicals are expected to say. But what it occurred to us to say without hesitation and with reference to particular events in our personal history that we have known God. I doubt it, but I suspect that with most of us, the experience of God has never become so vivid as that. These words from J. I. Packer's book, Knowing God. And with all of the conferences With all of the tapes, with all of literature, with all of the training opportunities that are available to us today, I think it is more and more easy for us as Christians. To accumulate vast quantities of secondhand knowledge about Christianity and about Jesus Christ without even noticing The lack of being able to simply and honestly say, I have known God I have sought him with all my heart, and he's met me. God has met me personally. But with all the information explosion that's before us, we become more and more able to be able to deceive ourselves. In not being able to make that statement or even notice the lack of it. Amos had that concern as he spoke to the church in Amos chapter 5. It may be that these were people who were worse off than we are. Certainly, I don't think there's a great deal of difference between the church he's addressing his comments to here and the American church in general. But perhaps we might say we're a little better off in terms of our own personal acquaintance with God, as people who seek Him But I think it's the same kind of problem that he's describing here that many of us in this very room also have. The problem of seeking religious experiences in supplanting the seeking of God Himself As the chief object of our desire. Verse 4: seek we and live. Verse 6: seek the Lord and live. So let's search our hearts this morning, as we consider this, to see, are we a people who are seeking God? Where do we find ourselves relatively satisfied? The second best. Notice that Amos begins his message here with a dirge. And that we see in verses 1 and 2. He's concerned for what is the effects of this. Notice what he says. Fall at his virgin Israel, never to rise again, deserted in her own land, with no one to lift her up. The picture here is a prophetic funeral. Amos is practicing a custom of that day. When a person died who was some dignitary, it is often the custom to compose a psalm, a memorial, toward that person in their death. It was a means of expressing with the mind and the emotions the grief for the person who had died. Now who's died at this funeral? But in our horror, we see it's Israel that's died. God's people have died. The church is dead. That's the picture in verse two. And so Amos is saying, Israel, God's people have died. They have fallen, and they'll never rise again. They're forsaken and there's nobody to rescue them. Now notice in passing, before we go on from this, that that's a rather amazing verse because it was literally fulfilled. Never occurred to you as you read the prophets that that was never said about Judah. What you have here is a statement by Amos that the ten northern tribes Ten twelfths, one six, five-sixths of all of Israel is going to be wiped away, will be considered so far gone that you can hold a funeral for it, it'll never rise again. And that literally was fulfilled. Israel was swept away and can never be traced to this day. That is never said about Judah, the two southern tribes. They said that they were going to go into exile, that they would be judged, that they would be punished. But isn't it interesting that at a time when this nation was so powerful, so prosperous, Amos says, Israel is as good as dead. And I predict that it will never rise again. And that was literally fulfilled. And again, I say in passing, you want to note the comfort that that should give to U and B concerning the authority of Scripture. The word speaks supernaturally. That's a word that was literally fulfilled. And so when you look at the scripture and you read it, you can face your confidence in it. Because it's true, it's the word of God. God alone can say and predict. This nation will die and never rise. This nation will go into captivity and everything be fulfilled, just as he said. Never study goes on to spell out the disaster that's coming to the nation. The first, too, is a kind of poetic picture of a prophetic view. Verse 3 gives you the good reality of it. Now we move to praise. Verse 3 he says, this is what the sovereign Lord says. The city that marches out a thousand sword for Israel will have only a hundred left. The town that marches out a hundred strong will have only ten left. Do you see what he's saying there? There's going to be a 90% casualty rate of those who are either killed, wounded, or deserted. Now it's amazing to me that if you read history of battles and wars, Gettysburg and some of these others, and you read of the tremendous bloodshed that there was When there is a battle in which there was a 30% casualty rate, that is considered a massacre, an absolute disaster. And yet you have here a 90% casualty rate. Only 10% are going to be left. And again, you look at history, what in fact happened. In the last twenty years of Israel's history, there was bloody coup after bloody coup Defeat after defeat in battle, until finally in 722 BC, Sargon II from Assyria swept away the remnant who had survived the various sieges and slaughters, and there were none left. They were scattered among the nations, an alien population was brought in, and Israel was dead. Its history had ended. Absolute disaster, precisely as Amos had predicted. And the point I want us for us to see in that is how very unlikely that was at the time Amos moved. When Amos said this, this was a large, economically sound, and expanding power. A power to be reckoned with among the nations. And yet, how quickly things can turn sour. How quickly when God's hand turns against a nation, can its prosperity turn to bitterness and weakness. How quickly that can happen. I remember reading the history of Russia, reading of the glories of Russia in the first decade of this century, and thinking it would be impossible. To imagine that such a mighty nation would fall in the very next decade, in which there would be revolution and chaos, things totally overflowed. And so if we look at America, let's not be too quick to say that well, that can't relate to us. Twenty years is a long time. This was written twenty years before the end. Things can turn very quickly when God's hand of judgment finally turns to a people. And the church in America, I believe, as I have said before, this can be the key to whether God's hand of judgment will turn. For whether in Reformation and Revival, God will be pleased to use the Church of Jesus Christ to be the means and salt and life of this nation being preserved. Now, what is the way he says to do it? So you see the third point, verses four to six. He speaks not only of the dirt, the disaster. But of the deliverance. Verse 4. This is what the Lord says to the house of Israel, seek me and live. First of all, notice where deliverance does not come from. He says, do not seek Bethel, do not go to Gilgal, and do not journey to Beersheba. Don't go to these three places. Now what are they? These were three shrines in Israel, three sacred places identified with significant events in the book of Genesis. Identified with the experiences of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. It's interesting that if you look at chapter 5 of Amos and the various commentators, and I've looked at a number of them I have yet to find any two commentators who agree on the outline of this chapter. They seem to think that the thread of this thought in each case is a little different. No two people agree. But I think there's a lot of weight to J. A. Multier's analysis that the chapter should be understood as structured around these three shrines. That what he isn't going to do after he's mentioned these three shrines for the rest of the chapter is to discuss what were the ideas, the wrong ideas associated with these shrines, and how each shrine represents, I believe, a pre-a misconception of modern evangelicalism. And so for the next three weeks we're going to take a look at each shrine and we're going to see what misconception about God And about Christianity or about the ways of God were represented by that shrine, and how that misconception is one that we see today in the church, and what God says about that in terms of his solution. But for this morning, I just want us to see one thing. I want us in lumping these three shrines together before we go into their meaning these following weeks. To see what God is making as a point in verse 4. And that is simply that if you go to these shrines as opposed to the Lord, You will never find deliverance. But when people went to the shrines, why did they go? Well, I believe they went because they felt first of all safe and secure there They would go to Beersheba, they would go to Bethel and Gilgal, where the promises of God had been given to the patriarchs, and they would feel like, isn't it good to be everything's right? God has given these promises and now we can invest in it. It's a religious experience, kind of like failing back in the womb and just knowing, isn't it good to be here? Everything is the same. Everything may change in my life But I go back to church, I sing the same old hymns, I hear the same old messages, and I hear all the same things that are familiar to me, and I feel safe and I feel secure in the experience, not in God. When they were there, I'm sure that they felt also a little special because they were Jews who could go to these places We're barked with believing people, and so we're special to God. Wait till the rest of the world's going to hell, but we're special to God We're right next to him. We feel close to him because of the shrine, because of the experience, because of our practice, of our liturgy, our religion. And thirdly, I believe that they felt spiritual going there. You feel spiritual doing the things that you're supposed to do on Sunday morning. You feel spiritual because you're in the right place at the right time, doing the right things and feeling like God is pleased for you to be there. But if in fact it's the experience itself that you're trusting in to somehow make things okay between you and the Lord, then you're not seeking him. There's no deliverance in that I'm not just speaking about people here this morning who don't know Jesus Christ. I'm speaking about those of us who maybe had years ago made a commitment to Jesus Christ. But we're not cultivating the relationship, we're only cultivating the religious experiences. God is saying here that religion without a relationship It's simply sentimentality. It's sentimentality and finding some comfort in an experience that gives me a good feeling. It's superstition because it's saying that I can manipulate God by going to the shrine and by doing certain things that will ensure his blessing And if I do this, then God will do that. I put some money into the offering and I make sure that I show up and I live responsibly and morally, and God will therefore bless me Neither does it say that you're headed for disaster. The call of God is to seek me Seek me and live in verse 4. Seek me. You notice he says a few ways. Verse 4, he says, seek me and live. Verse 6, he says, seek the Lord and live. I think there's a reason for that difference. In verse 4, he's emphasizing the personalness of the seeking. Seek me as a person. And let's as Christians stop here to praise God for the fact that when God says, Seek me and live, that that's a promise to us that there's someone there to seek. When you and I go to seek God, we have the promise of Scripture that God is there to be sought after. That the universe is not impersonal or empty. But God Himself bids us to come and to seek Him as a person. And so when we cry out to Him We have to resist the temptation that says, I wonder if there's really anyone listening to. Because Amos tells us this is the word that says to the house of Israel, this is God's word. Seek me. He calls you, and he calls me to seek him as a person. And what does it mean to seek and to know God? Let me suggest a couple of things that I've thought of this week that it means to me to know and to seek God what that means. I think it means first of all that we treasure the relationship. Do you treasure your relationship with Jesus Christ? God says in Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 23 and 24: This is what the Lord says: let not the wise man boast of his discipline. of his degrees, of his education, let not the slow man boast of his strength, or of his power, of his status. Let not the rich man boast of his riches, of his material goods, of his powers, and his house. But then we'll do both. If there's something you want to glory in, then glory in this. If there's something you want to treasure, treasure this. That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord, who exercises kindness and justice and righteousness on earth. For these things I delight, says the Lord. To know and to seek the Lord means to treasure the relationship that I have with him above everything else that I have. It means I think also to know his history. When you say you know someone, you're saying you know something of their history. You know where they've been, you know something of where they've lived, you know what their experiences of the past have been, and kind of what has made them to be what they are now. You can't really say you know someone if you don't know anything about their past. The so to know God is to know his history and he's revealed that. He's given that to us, the history of his record of his relationship with his people. And so it means that I know him. I've looked in these pages and I've searched through them to find out what God has done and what his experiences have been in the history of redemption. It means also, I believe, to know how a person behaves in various circumstances. You say that you know your husband or your wife when you say, I know what she'll do in this situation. You put her in this kind of pressure, and here's how she's going to react. I know like a book. You put him in that situation, he's not going to like it. You put him in that situation, he'll be as happy as a clamp. I know how it'll behave in various situations. Do you feel I can have that kind of acquaintance with the Lord? You feel like you have a kind of a phrase that says, I know that if I do this, this is something that pleases him. I I know that in this kind of situation I can expect God. to react and to respond in this kind of way because that's what he's told me about in his word. And I've gotten to know him on such a personal relationship now that I can sense whether he's pleased or displeased about something. I know what he likes. Ephesians 5. 10 tells us that we should learn what is pleasing to the Lord. And that's, by the way, a precondition, as he goes on to describe, therefore, knowing what his will is in your life. To first of all learn what's pleasing to him. And so to know God, to seek after Him, is to treasure that relationship, to know how He behaves in certain situations, know what He likes and doesn't like. Tell his history because you've spent time with letting him tell you about himself. And you've cultivated that, and you've thought on that The problem is, Amos says, we've sought other things. We've sought our Bethels and our Gilgels and our Bershibas. We've sought our Bethels of evangelical traditions. And if we feel comfortable simply saying that we believe the Bible and practice the things that are expected of an evangelical and good standing, yet how many such people are comfortable talking about Jesus? You want to test at that? Spend some time with some people after morning worship. Have lunch with them. And bring up the subject of what was talked about in the morning message Not in terms of critiquing the sermon. You know, I'm not against you necessarily doing that, but I know you do it anyway, so what am I going to say? But just think in terms of the content of them Yeah, Luther said, don't worry about whether the food is served on a clay pot or whether it's a silver dish. Just get the food. Bring up to some brother or sister something about Jesus that God showed you in the message. And find out how comfortable people are. Don't do it as a test, that's not very gracious. But just think about this. How comfortable are we talking about our love for the Lord? Or do we find we're embarrassed? Do we find that that's talking about something that we're not comfortable with? We can talk about what we did in the morning. We can even analyze the passage. But when we talk about our relationship with Jesus, somehow things become more silent, and the subject gets more easily changed. Well, we practice our religious disciplines, we do our priatines, we make our applications, we have our family devotions, and days and weeks can go by before all of a sudden God calls to our attention. But in all that time we've never sought him. We've gotten the answers, we've gotten the applications, and the applications may have challenged us or laid guilt on us, and we've walked us in terms of seeking to do them, but not in the sense of seeing God's. Or of enjoying his presence in the process. But so if we're to practice religious disciplines without a relationship Well maybe we have sought after the Gilgeld of Christian literature. There's so much great Christian literature today. But the trap of it is that in the reading of that, you supplant your own direct seeking for God by getting it through the experiences of other Christians in their biographies and autobiographies. I remember when I was very guilty of this in my own life, picking up a Puritan work that looked like it was a good heavy tomb and I was really going to get a challenge out of it. And I picked the thing up and I thought I had a get through this thing and master these three hundred pages. And at the very beginning of the preface of this thing, this wise old divine had said, if you pick up this book just to master the material, it'll be a curse to you And then he went on paragraph after paragraph in joining against the danger of simply seeking knowledge, apart from seeking the relationship and the presence of the Lord Himself Christian literature can be a blessing, but it can also be a subtle second blessing to seeking the Lord Himself. The same thing can be said about our fellowship. Many people seek to be a Shiva of small groups and of people to encourage them. Well of course, well, four small groups. We'll be having a meeting at our house to encourage you. to consider smaller fellowship this afternoon. But there's a danger in simply saying, I will go to my brothers and sisters to be encouraged. But it's really true what the Bible says. And I'll go to them to be lifted up. I'll go to them to share my troubles and to pray with me. And in a subtle way the fellowship becomes idolatry. I seek to be dependent on those people. And my dependence has shifted from the Lord to people to fellowship to small group dynamics Or there may even be the deathbell and the gild bell of emotional uplift through various experiences. I may see Christ Gilgown of speaking in tongues as a way of assuring myself that the Bible really is true and there's reality for all that I see. Well, I may seek to be a Shiva of Christian music. And I say, man, I get really good now, but if I just stick on that album and I just let my mind just be lifted up by that phrase, I find in that a great uplift. Nothing wrong with that. Subtle danger. In the process of doing that, I'm resting simply on that person's praise. And when the album's over, I'm back apart from the Lord. But does that album help me to then continue to go on and seek the Lord and to praise Him? Does it become in itself a supplanting of the relationship? The Lord says, seek me and live, accept no substitutes, as some of the commercials say when they want to promote the brand name instead of the generic. Accept no substitute. Seek me and seek the Lord. I believe that he says seek the Lord there, secondly, because he wants that to be a warning as well as a promise to us. That's God's covenant being in verse 6, Jehovah, the Lord. And what he's saying, I believe, there is that there's a willing When you go to Bethel, Gilgal, and Beersheba, you're going to the places where I've deposited my promises. And you go there as if those promises are automatic. Just to go to the place, just to go through the motions, means that I have God's blessing. But God says those are covenant promises. And covenant promises means there are conditions. And the conditions are that you have me as Savior and as Lord of your life. You claim those promises to a covenantal trust that is an obedient trust, a trusting obedience, and yet your life is mine. If you don't do that, look what he says, verse 6. For he will sweep through the house of Joseph like a fire, and it will devour, and Bethel will have no one to quench. God says, if you don't see me as the covenant God, I will sweep through your people like a fire. That is unquenchable. I remember reading not long ago about two duck hunters that were hunting in the flatlands of southeastern Georgia. All of a sudden, far away on the horizon, one of them spotted a small cloud. And in a very few moments, they saw that cloud grow larger and heard the crackling of a brush fire. They knew that the fire was moving too quickly by the wind for them to outrun it. And so rifling through his pockets, one of the duck runners found what he was looking for: a book of fashions. But he lit a fire right at their feet. As they stood in that fire, they let the fire spread about And the fire came from the horizon very quickly too. They didn't have to wait very long. They took their handkerchiefs, they put it over their mouths, they stooped down and they waited. And the fire passed over. While they were hot, they were unscorched and unburned. For where fire has burned, fire can't burn again. God is saying here I have presented my son to you, and I have brought the fires of judgment upon Jesus Christ. And you and I are embedded to hide from the fire of God's judgment by hiding in the burned place of Jesus Christ Himself. For where fire has passed over Jesus, and it has scorched and burned him with the very fires of hell for your sin and mine. It can never pass over again. And the only safe place for human for me to stand to avoid the fires of judgment that he describes in verse 6. is to stand in Jesus Christ, who has been burned over once for all, so that you and I can be safe in the scorched Messiah. Now why is it that if Jesus Christ has done all of that for you and for me, presented himself to be burned for us and our sin, then we find it so hard to get to know him? Isn't it simply because you cry out? And you say he's so intangible. I call out to him, and he's so silent, I don't get an answer. I call out to you, I call out to my wife, to my husband, to my friends. I get an answer. It may not always be the answer I want, but it's an answer I can deal with. I cry out to God. And I seem to cry out with all my heart, and there's nothing but silence. That's why I find it hard to have a relationship with him. Because of that insuffering, frustrating silence. Let me suggest to you that the way through that is a way that we as moderns don't like to take. It's to learn to meditate. You see, we so want to have an answer that's at the snap of our fingers that I find that many Christians today think that their idea of meditating is while they're sitting in a carpool on the way to work. And that's the most treasured time that they develop their sounds before the Lord. I'm not saying you can't meditate in a parkour or a bus or amtract or anything else. What I am saying is that if you're driving a car, if you're simply having family devotions, if you're simply walking around, watching Christian TV, reading a Christian book, and you think that's the level of your firewall to God, don't be surprised. When there's no answer. Then I need to learn to cultivate again the idea of meditation in which we are still when in which we take that passage and we see those truths and we think on those truths and we turn those truths about God into thoughts before God's presence and all of the things into thoughts that we turn as praise to God. That we learn to be quiet before Him. And you take a passage of Scripture and cry out to God, Lord, I want to understand what this means, and you hear just silence. And you continue and you cry out to God and stay there until He has met you. And you know the funny thing happens. Gradually that passage changes. Gradually it changes from words on a page. To truths that are reality. And in the reality of your coming to understand what God's saying to you, you feel a certain precious ownership of those verses. Have you ever experienced that? The kind of ownership in which you believe God has met me and he's spoken to me through this. Didn't you hear any voice from heaven? But I have grasped the truth of this, and I have met God because I have sought Him. The Hebrew word that's used there for seek is a word which means to be intent on something. It means to seek intently with all your heart. And I challenge you this week that in your practice of your devotions I challenge you to spend 15 minutes just this week. I'm not saying any other time, just this week, the next seven days, beginning sometime today. I challenge you. To spend 15 minutes in quiet, sometime during your day, simply meditating on one brief passage of scripture. Very, very brief, one or two verses. And seek the Lord through those verses. Seek Him. Seek His space. Amen. Let's pray. Give us their dissatisfaction to those spiritual disciplines and experiences that become to us Bethels and Gilgels and Beershebs. By which we simply seek to feel safe and secure, special and spiritual Father, that you would deliver us from the second best, that which can be so powerfully used by your Spirit to point us to you. That we would by your grace be hungry and thirsty. And the people who would go beyond that to seek you and live. To seek this week, to take 15 minutes each day to simply seek your face through some passage of Scripture, some psalm, something, Lord, that speaks to us about what you're like. We will be able to take those thoughts about you. We'll be able to be aware that we think them in your presence who have called us as the person of infinite God to seek you. And then we'll turn those thoughts to praise to you, as the one with whom we treasure that relationship. Teach us, Lord, to be a people who seek you. Who seek you that we might not be spiritually starved and superficial, but a people who know our God and can say simply, I have known him, for I saw him, and he has met me in the face of Jesus Christ. Fulfill this in our lives, we pray. Because we know it's what you want for us. We have the authority of your word for that. So we pray in Jesus' name.