Conclude our brief series this fall on how God is calling us to live in community as a fellowship by speaking on the subject of accountability. Accountability is a word that you hear a fair amount of today. Promise Keeper says that accountability is the key to men keeping the seven promises of integrity. Or you'll hear people say things like, his problem is that he needs to be in an accountability relationship. Or has anyone ever asked you, who are you accountable to? Accountability comes in some measure from support groups that we are familiar with today. And for many support groups, accountability is a life and death matter If you're going to survive, you need to be in an accountability relationship. The kind of thing that you hear Now what's interesting to me as I thought about this and how important this concept seems to be in the Christian life today and in the church and how central it seems to be as a key to Christian living. Isn't it interesting that nowhere in the Bible, of any of the commands that the Bible gives, over fifty commands of what we're to do for, to, with one another, all these things, there never once Does the New Testament say, be accountable to one another? Now why is that? Why is something which seems so central in the thought of the church today, why does that never appear in the Bible? Well, first of all, we need to understand what accountability is. I suggest the definition that you see there in your bulletin outline. What we mean by accountability, I say in a Christian context, that accountability is giving permission to another believer to ask hard personal questions in areas of my life where I admit that I need help to do what I know I should. Let's go over that again. So that we're sh we're real clear on what we're talking about as we wrap up this whole series on what we do with one another, this kind of the climax, the thing that's going to bring it to focus, the idea of accountability. What is it? Giving permission. To another believer to ask hard personal questions in areas of my life where I admit I need help To do what I know that I should do. The scripture doesn't speak of this, doesn't use this term Now why is that? Why is it that we don't see that in Scripture? I think in order to understand, we need to appreciate the difference culturally between the New Testament world and our world. You see, in the world of the New Testament, the notion of non-accountability did not exist. In the New Testament, there was no such thing as HMOs or government health care. And so if you were sick, it was your family or your friends that you depended on to take care of you. There was no social security. There were no pensions. When you got old, you depended on your kids to take you in. Probably improved relationships with parents and kids, you know? You were dependent on each other. You didn't commute for 45 minutes or an hour to work someplace with people who never saw you in any other context than at the office or the work environment. You didn't travel 15 or 20 minutes to go worship with a group of people who never saw you any other time except Sunday morning in worship. Your life was integrated. You worked and lived and worshipped in the same basic community. Therefore, social pressure was a fact of life. You see, in the New Testament, you didn't choose whether to be accountable. You lived within people to whom you were accountable because you depended on each other. It's only in our kind of society that a person chooses whether to be accountable or not. You realize you have the luxury to say I can live in isolation. Because of cars, TV, computers, suburbia, the whole business, I can choose Whether I am going to be dependent on someone else, let them into my life to know me, or live in isolation and relative anonymity, particularly within the Christian community. That choice did not exist for a person by and large, unless they were an outlaw or someone that was simply an outcast of society in the first century culture. And so when we read what Paul says, he talks about the church as being a new family. When you come to Jesus Christ, you are transferred from your general societal relationships to a new society, a new family in which there is a mutual interdependence. And so when we read a passage like the text this morning from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and you know, with all my going on here, I hope you turn to it by now, and if not, please turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 to see what it is God. He's going to say to us this morning. First Thessalonians chapter 5, when Paul says in verse eleven there, therefore, encourage one another and build each other up. Just as in fact you are doing. He's speaking to people who are in mutually interdependent relationships. Notice how he goes on. Now we ask you, brothers, to respect those who work hard among you, who are over you in the Lord, and who admonish you. Hold them in the highest regard and love because of their work. Live in peace with each other. You're living with each other. Now, live in peace with each other. And we urge you, brothers, warn those that are idle, encourage the timid, help the weak. Be patient with everyone. Make sure that nobody pays back wrong for wrong, but always try to be kind to each other and to everyone else. Well you see that kind of teaching assumes accountability. What force is there to warning someone who is idle or encouraging someone or helping These kinds of things, encouraging, building up. What force is there to that if I'm really not dependent or accountable to the person who's doing that? And yet, when we see that kind of text, we not only don't feel the force of it, we actively resist it as Americans, don't we? We love to sing as Americans, I come to the garden alone while the dew is still on the roses, and he walks with me, talks with me. Tells me I am his own and the voice I hear falling on my ear. None other discloses, you know, and it goes on, and it's me and Jesus, you see Come to the garden alone and it's just him and me. None other shares that fellowship. Well, ultimately there is a certainly that relationship each of us uniquely has with the Lord Jesus. But our notion of Christianity is basically, I don't mind God telling me what to do. But you keep out of it. You see, because if God tells me what to do, I can decide what texts to read But you may rudely impress upon me some text I'd rather not see. I'd rather avoid that one. So let me come to the garden alone and read these texts about his love for me and care for me and memorize the 23rd Psalm and the rest of those things that are all true. But Don't particularly have any necessary life-changing force to them that will cause me to deal with sin in my life. In some sense, accountability is the ultimate test of whether I'm serious about sin. So, when we look at Paul's words, Chapter 5, verse 11, therefore, encourage one another and build each other up, just as in fact you're doing What I want to demonstrate is those words really don't make any sense apart from the context of the New Testament culture and world in which they assume an accountability that we need to practice. The only way we can really encourage one another and build each other up is in the context of a realization of mutual dependence and accountability. First of all, notice Paul's purpose for this encouraging and this building up or edifying. The context Of what Paul's writing here is a discussion on the return of Christ, which begins in chapter 4, verse 13. And so he talks about how the Lord Jesus is going to come at any time. But he says, for those who have died, Christians at that time thought Jesus' return was so imminent that uh they didn't expect anyone to die before he came back. And what about if someone died, what was going to happen to them? And he assures them. that uh we shall not even precede them, we'll all be caught up together with the Lord, with them, to meet the Lord in the air. And then he goes on in chapter five to say, Now how ought we to live in the light of the expectation of his imminent coming? The fact that he could be here this afternoon, could be here by Wednesday afternoon or Friday morning. How do we live in the light of that? The things we were talking about in 1 Peter. Well basically he says in verse 5, you are children of the light. That is, this world is in darkness. Jesus is coming to bring an eternal light. You are children of that light. Therefore, live as children of the light. You ought to be living differently. Because you are citizens of a different kingdom, you are part of a different kind of family, you are of a different race, therefore live differently from the people around you. Or as he puts it in verse 8. Since we belong to the day, let us be self-controlled, putting on faith and love as a breastplate and the hope of salvation as a helmet. These are the things that are to characterize us faith, love, hope. That's part of our life. Accountability is the test of whether I in fact am serious about seeing faith and love and hope developed in my life. But we fall down. There are things we want to do. I want to see more love developed in my life. I want to grow in my faith, to trust God in areas that I'm not trusting him now. I want to stop doing things that are sin patterns that have gripped my life for years. I want to start doing things, being in the Word, memorizing the Word. Starting to do things that I know God would intend for me, desire for me to do. And somehow I just never get around to doing them. Somehow those old habits keep clinging to me. And nobody else knows about it. So it's between me and God. And I come and I confess and I beat on the floor and beat the wall and beat my head and beat my chest and everything else, and nothing ever changes, and I wonder why not. Well, look at what Paul's saying here. You know, I used to lament the fact that I would preach overtime. I know you don't think I do. That's just time goes so quick and you just never notice how long it's gone when I start. I I realize that few. But I'm aware, and some of the worship leaders are aware I basically get 35 minutes in the time that we have together for scripture, for prayer, and the message. And if I take 37 minutes, then there's two minutes we're either going to go over or somebody's got to chop something. And so with one worship leader, we talk about this, and he said, Are you serious about changing that? I said, Yeah, I really do want to. He says, Okay. He says, here's the deal. You preach 37 minutes, the next time you owe me two minutes, you preach 33. Now you see, what's up view? That puts to me, am I serious about changing that or not I really want to keep to my time. Oh yeah, I'm so sorry guys, I went over again 40 minutes. Hey, you know, what's five minutes between friends? Hey, you know, it's uh it's a worth the friendship, that's what it can be, you know, 'cause after you do that for a while it messes the guys up But that was a challenge to me. Am I serious about it? So this one worship leader, and I won't even tell you who it is. I owe him. In fact, right now I am two minutes down. I owe him two minutes on the next message. I'm accountable to him for that. And as we're accountable to one another, it's the test of, do I really want God to change this in my life? Or am I just going to talk about it? You see, the purpose of accountability is to help me to stop doing what I see as sin in my life and to start doing those things that I believe God wants me to do. Now, what is God's provision that he talks about here? Very interesting. Look again at verse 11. Therefore, encourage one another and build each other up, just as in fact you're doing. He says you've got each other for encouragement and for building up. That's the edifying. That's the here's where you are, and here's where the Lord wants you to be. And I'm going to be an agent, a means of his grace to help you to get there. Now, notice very carefully here. Please don't forget this part of the message. Very important that we see a balance in what Paul's doing here. The balance is that on the one hand, there can be an over-emphasis on accountability. That's what I'm hearing that we're beginning to see today. That the answer to changing your life is to simply be accountable to another person. You see sin in your life? Well just be accountable to someone. That's support group thinking. That's humanistic thinking that says that if you want to see change, the sanctifying work of God in your life, what you really need, I mean it's nice to have the Spirit, it's nice to have the Word, it's nice to have Jesus, but what you really need is to be an accountability relationship. That's my fear for movements like Promise Keepers and others that emphasize what are good things, but without the Word and the Spirit and Jesus. Becomes an imbalance. Notice what Paul does. When he says that you are to live as children of the light, verse 9 he says, For God did not appoint us to suffer wrath. But to receive salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. He died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with Him. The focus is on Christ, his death for my sin that has taken away sin's guilt, taken away sin's power. Now I am alive with him. I have a new life, new resurrection power, and that's what enables me to overcome the darkness, the sin. Now, what's interesting to me, that side has to be absolutely emphasized today. It is Jesus Christ and the power of his spirit that will change your life, not the fact that you're simply in an accountability relationship with another human being. Amen? Alright. Good. Got that clear. Now, the other side is that you would expect that after Paul has said in verse 9 and 10 God did not appoint us to wrath. He's given us salvation. Jesus has died for us, freed us from our sins, so that now we live a new life in Him with His power. Therefore, be in the Word. Depend upon the Spirit. Get going. That's not what he says. Therefore, notice the connection, verse 11. Therefore, he says, encourage one another. and build each other up, just as in fact you were doing. In other words, Paul blends together the power of the Spirit As the work, the transforming of work of Jesus is taking place in your life, with the fact that you need one another. Then we need to be encouraging and building one another up. And then the things that he goes on, talking about you need the body in general, that's A, and the elders in particular, that's B. And so the body in general, you need to encourage and to build up. Verse 14, warning those that are idle, encouraging the timid, helping the weak, being patient with everyone, making sure nobody pays back wrong for wrong. but always trying to be kind to each other. On the other hand, there is the elders in particular, verse 12 and 13. Now we ask you. Respect those that work hard among you, who are over you in the Lord, who admonish you, hold them in the highest regard and love because of their work. Live in peace with each other. And so there is that sense that besides the fact that there is a mutual encouragement and accountability, there is also the fact that I am accountable to and I am subject to the admonishment. And the teaching of the elders that God has placed over my life. Or as he says in Hebrews chapter 13. Not the same author, but as Hebrews chapter 13 verse 17 says, obey your leaders and submit to their authority. That's accountability. They keep watch over you as men who must give what? An account. Elders are accountable. We're accountable to God for the ministry that He's given to us for you. Obey them so that their work will be a joy, not a burden, for that be no advantage to you. In other words, odors are for your protection. Are you in a relationship in a local body where you are in an accountability relationship with the elders of your church? Or do you want to stay out of that? Are you saying, well, you know, I like visiting here, but I'm not sure I'd ever want to become part of this body. And we have all kinds of reasons that we give for that. I may loop move in three years, you know. Who knows where I'll be or what I'll be doing or I'm not sure that I can believe in infant baptism or some other thing in it. When the issue really for many of us is I'm not sure that I want to be accountable to some other person. For how I'm living my life? Are you serious about those sins that have been clinging to you and that you plead for the Lord to change? He's given a means here, a provision. Encourage one another, build one another up. Be supportive of the elders who are at work in your life. To hold you accountable for how you live. That's God's provision. And so the next time that you see something that's been in your life that's been clinging to you and And you wish that this thing could be gone and you've prayed for years about it, ask yourself, am I willing to be accountable to some other person, whether it's an elder over me or it's another Christian brother or sister? With whom I am able to share the need that I have. Confess your faults one to another, James 5. 16. Pray for one another to be healed. The passages that you see listed there under number three, what we do with one another. Those things to love, to encourage, to confess, to pray, to teach, to admonish. The admonishing is taking the teaching and saying, here's how it applies. What are you doing with this? Being willing to be accountable to someone who will hold me responsible for what I've said that I want God to do in my life, speaking the truth. In love to one another, carrying one another's burdens. On and on, these things that require that we're accountable. It's a hard question, isn't it? It's a hard one for me to ask myself. How serious am I about living a holy life? God has blended here the provision of the work of Jesus Christ and his power in your life, as well as the means of grace of your brother and your sister. encouraging you and building you up because you're accountable to them. Think of uh somebody that told me just this week that they had visited a church and they sat in a Sunday school class. And in the Sunday school class it was someone sitting right in front of them and they said that um through the class they didn't say anything to them and after the class they got up, didn't say a word to them. They walked out. Then they got into the worship service. The worship service they had this little greeting time where you turn and you greet your neighbor and this person turned. And turns turn so happened that the person who ignored them all through the Sunday school hour was sitting next to them. So they turned, this this person was uh a member of the church Turned to my friends and said, We're so glad to have you here this morning. Welcome. You know how meaningful that was to them? They never went back Brothers and sisters, when God says here that we're to encourage and to build one another up, that's part of what we've been talking about, loving one another deeply. And let me say, as I've felt with a deeper conviction this week, as I've thought of some people in our body who have been hurting. Paul says here, encourage one another and build each other up just as in fact you are doing. And I can say that to you. Many of you go out of your way tremendously to encourage and to build up. But let me put it very plainly. All of our programs and all of our facilities and all of our great worship services and everything that we do here really don't count a rip. If we're not caring for one another, in a way that when we sense that someone's hurting, when we see someone that we know is not Following the Lord as they used to? When we see someone that is alone and no one's paying attention to them, if we don't care for that person Then we're being hypocritical to talk and to sing about fellowship and what it means to be a body and how great CPC is. We need to be caring for one another. I say that to myself. We all come here with burdens on Sunday morning, and many of us come saying, I sure wish somebody would encourage me, would speak to me, would Help me, I'm hurting. But we know that can become a habit. And so I'm always hurting. Without realizing that there's comes a time when I've got to say, I've got to get out of that. Somebody else is hurting too. And I'm going to ask somebody else how they're doing this morning and listen to them. And as I do that, to be ready for God to work through me in that person's life, maybe to challenge them. Maybe simply to encourage them, maybe simply to listen. I guess I'm saying this because a couple of people have come to me this week really hurting And not really feeling very supportive. Now there's people that will complain and that you know are black holes and you can't ever fill them up. But I'm not talking about that kind of situation. I'm talking about where we as a body need to function with simple caring, going out of our way for one another. Now let me make some practical suggestions. That if you're sitting there and you say, I want God to do something in me, I want to experience. There's things in my life that I'm tired of and I want to see God use other people in my life and use me in theirs to make progress that I haven't seen. Here's some suggestions. Number one. Pick this is on the back side of the bolt and outline. I'd suggest first of all that you pick one to three peers of your own gender where there's mutual respect. Can't be a large number. This is not a small group. It's got to be just a couple of people. Best works usually if it's just one-on-one. But you can have three, you can even possibly have four, but it can't be, I don't see it working with more than that. And of course they need to be the same sex. It's a pretty deep and very open kind of relationship. And it can't be husband and wife. Some people say, well, I'm accountable on my wife and my husband. Well, who are you accountable then on how you love your wife and your husband? You're very open to when they say, you're not loving me very well Well, yeah, I'm accountable to you for that. Just tell me how to do it. Well, you need somebody else to tell you how to do that. It's not gonna work real well for them. It can be one way, but it's better if it's mutual. Secondly, need to meet face to face regularly. There's three people that I'm in this kind of relationship with, meet with various frequencies. But it's important that we meet regularly. No exceptions. Being available to one another at any point. Remember reading I think it was from Chuck Swindle about a person, a pastor, who was meeting with other pastors. And they met for business. And One week one of the pastors says there's something I'd like to bring up just kind of personal. And they didn't get to it because of the business. Brought up a second week, and they didn't get to it. Brought it up a third week. They said, well we'll really get to it next week. The next week they said, okay, what was it was on your mind? And he shared it. It was three days after he committed adultery. We need to be available to one another. An accountability relationship can't simply be scheduled. It has to be that we're in a relationship we meet at certain times, but we're available wherever there is the need. By a phone call, particularly. Thirdly, agree on the areas of your accountability. And by this I mean set personal goals. Somebody doesn't tell you what you're to be accountable for. I need to decide. I ask you. I give permission. Here's an area of my life that I want to see God work, and I I've been fooling around with this and I want to mean business. Now It's hard to tell you this, but here it is, and I share it, and then the person can say, okay, good. I will pray for you about that. I will ask you about that And so there is an openness, an honesty, a permission to ask direct questions about it. I've seen this in many cases in my own life. Remember in one case uh some years ago a woman calling me up and um we had been dealing with some issues and as she talked to me uh she began to hint at a relationship with a man. And gradually it came out that she was considering having an affair with this man. And so she began to talk about uh how terrible her marriage was and why she was justified in pursuing this relationship, but I remember at one point I just simply stopped and I said, you cannot do that. You know, as a follower of Jesus, you've got to cut off that relationship. You must not do that. Now people say that's not good counseling, you know, it's not very, you know, it's too directive, you know, kind of lays it on them. So her response was, thanks for saying that. I knew you'd say that when I called you, but I just needed to hear it. Sometimes we're in these relationships. And we need to ask the question that we may feel awkward asking, thinking it's getting too direct, it's probing too vigorously. But you know that you need that from someone else in your life. And so there's times when we need to be direct and give permission for the other person to take that privilege. Fourthly, use scripture when we're counseling one another. Not simply, well, I knew somebody that did this and it seemed to work for them. The whole idea of Colossians 3:16 is we teach and admonish with all wisdom as the Word of God is dwelling in us richly. 1 Peter 4. You speak, speak the very words of God in the ministry that you're giving. So let's try to grow in that Saying, now what does Scripture say about that? Let's look in the next couple times we meet. I'm gonna between this time and next time, I'm gonna look up some scriptures on that. And you do it too, and we'll see what God says about his provisions for you there. And what he says in guidance. Fifthly, then pray for one another in the times that you have. And as well as praying between those times. James 5:16, confess your faults one to another, pray for one another that you would be healed. Sexly, when you're tempted to quit, don't. You will be tempted to quit. It's not convenient. It's getting uncomfortable. And so you see the person that you've been meeting with not show up and they've got reasons and excuses, don't let them out of it. That's probably when they need you the most. Pursue them. And then finally, seventhly, encourage one another and celebrate your progress together. That's really important. Paul says here, therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as in fact you're doing. Encourage one another that the Lord is going to return soon. That's the context of what Paul's saying here. So we're not going to be fighting this battle a whole lot longer. But encourage each other also in the progress. I've had through the years a number of men who have talked with me that I've been in relationships with and particularly in the area of sex, pornography, asked me to hold them accountable. people that travel saying, I'm going to be in motel rooms and the TV's there. It's very easy to just pop in the the coins and to watch some pornography and I'm tired and it's just so easy they give you these little titillating uh three you know minute or two just to get you into it and pray for me. I've done this. I'm ashamed. I don't want to continue it. Ask me after my next trip. How did it go? Pray for me during that trip. were chat rooms in the internet. I've been in this chat room and I have no business being in there and I'm trying to keep it to myself, but I don't want this. It's displeasing to the Lord, so I'm telling you about it. I hate to talk about it, but please you hold me accountable so that I don't go into that chat room anymore. Ask me about it. Pray for me. And then you celebrate the progress, as I've seen in each of these cases and many others. Tremendous progress, and I don't go in there anymore. Any couple that meets with me for premarital counseling There is always the accountability about the physical relationship. And some couples will say, you know, that's we wish it was because we loved the Lord, but it was because we knew you were going to ask us that we didn't go further than we probably would have liked to. We help each other in that. Celebrate the progress when you're saying, I haven't been in that chat room since the last time we talked. I haven't turned on that TV. I threw away those magazines. Praise God for the victory. Now how do you get started in this? Very simply, there's Grayslip. It's in your um Bulletin this morning, I don't know if you ever notice this line that on the backside, right above prayer concerns, says interested in accountability partners. Do you ever notice that? Right there. It's because it's never been there before. I knew somebody look at this and say, I never noticed that thing there. How long has that been there? That's there for this week, alright? If you're interested, put a little check there. Didn't even make it write it out. All you gotta do is put a little check. You gotta put your name there and a number so we know who you are. and just check the thing and press in a blank gray slip. But you know, once you do that then we will work on trying to get you matched up with others that we see that you have na natural kind of contact with. Do that if you have no other recourse. But if you're in a small group, bring it up to your small group. Say, could we try some trial pairs? You usually have to try some people on this. May not be the first one to work out. Try different people Then you may just thirdly want to approach somebody you know. I mean that's the simplest, that's the best. There's got to be somebody that you trust and you know. Fourthly, choose to one or two specific areas to start. You're not going to start in the deepest area. A couple of weeks ago I had someone I'm accountable to say, when I described an interaction with a family member, Al, you blew it there. You should have listened instead of just talking and defending yourself. That wasn't easy to hear, I'll tell you. And that's not the level we'd start at. But we'd grown to the level where I could hear that from him and think, I better not just shoot off my mouth defending myself about how I defended myself. I better think about this. And I had to say, you're right. I should have listened. That's helpful to me. So start with the easier areas I'd like to start in being in scripture more or memorizing or something and then move to the deeper levels as you're comfortable. Fifthly, I Meet at least every couple of weeks, every two, three weeks, but have weekly at least phone contact so that you can be in regular communication about these areas. Some things may be daily to start. But that's up to you and what you need to do. Sixthly, then evaluate after a couple of months whether you want to continue or change, but don't escape it. Once you start it, determine that you'll continue in those kinds of relationships, but the people will change. And finally, as you continue then to expand to other areas. In conclusion, let me just mention that Al Meninger, the head of regeneration ministry to homosexuals, illustrates how in his own life he's in an accountability relationship and one night when he fell in temptation he said that uh he was ashamed And the next morning he called up his accountability partner. Um first thing that he did after confessing it to the Lord and And sensing that the Lord would forgive him, he called his accountability partner, and I wish I had more time, I'm out of time, but let me just sum up what he says as the result of that. He said Doing that accomplished five things for me. First of all, it enabled me to fulfill the biblical mandate, confess your sins one to another. And I was able to do that. Secondly, as I was describing the sin out loud, I saw how ugly and stupid it was. There's something about talking about your sin out loud to put it in perspective. Thirdly, he says, the knowledge that I would have to call him again if I did it again made it very much less likely that I was going to do it again. Because I didn't very much enjoy that phone call. Fourthly, my confession provided closure, he says, because not only did I know from Scripture God forgave me, I heard from my brother, God has forgiven me. you. And that enabled me to put it behind me. Not only was I forgiven, I felt forgiven. And then he says, finally, fifthly, the fact that I was That I was able to declare that, and we worked it through, and he counseled and prayed for me, made it much less likely, he says, that I was going to continue in that cycle. The cycle itself was broken through the openness, bringing into open air. the nature of the sin. Now you know what are you going to do with it? Let's pray. Lord we pray for those that you're speaking to now that are not in this kind of blessed and precious relationship, I thank you for the brothers. Lord, that I am accountable to. I know so many pastors that have gotten in trouble that would have not gotten in trouble if they had had those kind of relationships and people that cared for them, like my brothers care for me. Those that you have used me to help, Lord, I thank you for that. I pray that you would give that experience. Many other here Who can see the cycles of sin broken in their lives, to be encouraged and built up. And we as a body would take seriously the means that you have provided for us. To grow in grace, in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, to know his power over our lives and the forgiveness of sins that you provided. Thank you, Lord Jesus Lord, speak to each of us. Put us in these relationships in the next days. Amen.