In this series of messages we're looking at now uh how it is that our God wants to equip us so that we each individually and together are able to able to carry out uh a love ministry to him in response to the new life that he has given to us in Jesus Christ. We're looking at Ephesians chapter 4. Tom indicated, we're looking at Ephesians, and particularly we're looking at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 to 16. to see the principles of what the church is to look like and how it's to function in today's world. So once again, let's uh look at those verses, read them together. From God's Word to see that this is what He's calling us to be, not something that's just my idea or some Presbyterian distinctive or something ours. session thought up this is what God says to us. Ephesians chapter 4, beginning at verse 11. It was He, Jesus, the risen Christ, who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets. Some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people, to prepare the saints, to equip the saints for works of service, works of ministry. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of God. Deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love. As each part does its work. We saw last week from verse 16 that we belong to one another. We need one another. We affect one another. one another. We saw that this current American idea of private individual Christianity, in which an individual chooses or not to be part of a local Body of believers seen as kind of a voluntary association of people who agree on certain things, and that that's based on certain consumer criteria about whether Whether or not you want to be part of a body, or which body, or which group of bodies that you're part of, or at least attend or visit or associate with. Foreign to the New Testament. In fact, an example of just how far this has gone and is continuing is from the book A woman by the name of Sheila told the author of that book, quote, I believe in God. I'm not a religious fanatic. In fact, I can't remember the language Last time I went to church, but my faith has carried me a long way. I call it Sheilaism. Just my own little voice. Well, you know, I mean you see that and you say, Well, this person pretty far out but yet how many Christians have this idea of my kind of Christianity or what I believe or my God wouldn't and so we kind of tailor make a belief system that fits us rather than saying what God says and how he speaks through his word is what I'm going to submit to because I'm part of his body. In fact, in a recent survey, an astonishing well let me let me ask you this this was the question. They said, do you agree Or disagree with this. An individual should arrive at his or her own religious belief independent of any churches or synagogues. Now, how many people in America think that you should arrive at At your own system of beliefs, totally independent of any church or synagogue. 81%. 81% of the people, over four out of five in America, believe that That whatever you believe should have nothing to do, or it shouldn't be dictated, or at least it shouldn't even be necessarily guided. You know, see, it says independent. It doesn't say think for yourself, it just says what you do Is independent of any church or synagogue in your belief system. And yet many of those who even go to church don't want to be pinned down, don't want to have some sort of sort of a commitment to any particular local body. We see that in our day as too confining, don't we? We on May the sixth had a National Day of Prayer and you know a number of us were down at the Ellicott City Courthouse praying there. And it was a great time, uh, calling on the Lord together, believers from a number of different churches in the area. And after that, a man came up that I'd never seen before. before and he said, Boy, it's so good to see you people here praying. I tell them a born-again Christian, and I've been inside there telling the people in the courthouse what you're doing. They thought you're a bunch of freaks out here, and I was going in there saying, you know, there is such a thing called a national day of prayer. And these people are out there because our President and Congress have approved this. And so this is what they're doing. really on the ball and I said, that's great. Where do you go to church? He's oh well, you know, he says, uh sometimes I go to the independent church here in Ellican City and sometimes I go to the Pentecostal church down the road there a little bit. And every once in a while I go to a Lutheran church too because that's kind of my background. I said, well what are you part of? He said, I'm not really part of anything. And you know, the thing is that when you hear that, that probably doesn't sound that strange to you, does it? I mean we know lots of people that are like that. It's sort of like grand loyalty, you know. That scene is old-fashioned. But I want to tell you that I'm arguing here not for brand loyalty, not for denominational loyalty. The question is a question of relationship. The relationship that you and I have with our brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. And that relationship is something that has to be lived out because Jesus Jesus says, we are one. You and I share a common life in Christ. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, if He's died for your sin and you have received Him into your life, then because you are joined to Jesus Christ in a vital relationship, and I am joined to Jesus Christ in a vital relationship, the Bible says you and I are joined together, and we live 16 says from him the whole body, like a human organism, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part grows does its work. And so the idea is that by being joined together we grow up together into what verse 13 talks about, our knowledge of Christ and our life of Christ. To Christ. But it's at this point, you see, that we come to what the root problem, I think, is of why so many of us are resistant as Americans to that. The root problem My Paul quoting from Patrick Morley in his book The Man in the Mirror, the missing link in American Christianity, the problem of accounting. I want to deal with that under two headings this morning. First of all, I want to talk about the problem of privacy. That's the first line. The problem of privacy I want to draw some principles from Ephesians chapter 4, verses 14 and 15, because you see two kinds of people there, contrasting. The person in verse 14 is a person Who is private and self-sufficient? Private and self-sufficient, then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the ways, blown by Here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheme. This person is in contrast to the kind of people spoken of in verse 13. Who are all reaching unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. The person in verse 15 is speaking the truth in love to one another, hearing that truth, speaking, growing up together into Him who is the head. The person in verse 16, joined together, held together by every supporting link of it, every one of us affecting one another because we belong together. The contrast to that you see is verse 14. Because the person is tossed back and forth because they're out on their own. Now they don't want to be tied in to an accountability structure. They don't want to be in a situation where they're answerable to someone else. When you look at that person in verse 14, do you identify at all with that person? Feel like you lack stability in your Christian Christian life. Things aren't developing, you're not growing the way that you would like to be growing. And you're wondering why that is, but you're determined that you're going to go in alone. You're determined That you don't really need to be committed to other people, that that's confining. That you'd rather be able to pick and choose in your relationship. And if things in fact get a little tense or tough, then it's always easy to move on to others who will be more helpful, where you'll be able to grow better, or whatever it is. And yet for so many of us, it's only in those times when we are in the deepest need that we are then that it really matters whether or not there were people that we were committed to so that we can't escape. And the Satan will get a hold of us and be able to separate us from the body and begin to play havoc with us. We so want to be independent. You know, there was an article In the Los Angeles Times, this was November twentieth, nineteen eighty-eight, about a woman who was driving along the freeway and she was on an overpass, and she apparently fell asleep at the wheel. year old woman and her car went off the overpass, but it didn't quite leave the road. It was hanging by the left rear wheel. And there she is dangling over this bridge and she's screaming and people came to stop uh and eventually twenty-five people gathered around got ropes to pull the car to try and And now they they tied it to other cars that stopped and and then they called for a nine one one and a fire truck came underneath and they put a ladder up to try and stabilize the car a little bit. bit and then he put chains on it, got tow trucks, they got all these people together, and they finally pulled her back onto the road. Took them over two hours to do it. And the fire chief said it was kind of funny while we were doing that. because we heard the woman in the car and she kept saying, I can do it myself. I can do it myself. empathetic, but how many of us are dangling in one way or another and we're saying, I can do it myself. It's just Jesus and me. If I, you know, if I can just get a hold of it, if I can just get a handle on, you know, because we're so resistant to saying, no, I need someone who's going to be able to pull me back. I need someone who's going to lay hold of my life and the bonds of Christ and care for me. I need to be in that religion. Relationship because I care for them. And we're going to develop that kind of a relationship. That person is in contrast to the person in verse 15. The person in verse 15 is the person who speaks And hears the truth, spoken in love to one another. That person is a vulnerable and accountable. Vulnerable and accountable. That is, when I say accountable, I mean that they are answerable to someone else for their walk with Jesus Christ. That's the bottom line. Line of accountability, being answerable to someone else for your walk with Jesus Christ. Not just in religious and spiritual areas, but in every area Of your life, willing to speak and willing to hear the truth spoken in love to you. Times when particularly it's things that you may not want to hear, but that you're willing to to hear it. You're willing to hear it because you know you need to hear that in your walk with Jesus Christ. Who are you answerable to? Is there someone In your life, that you know you are willing to hear say difficult things to you because you have a trust relationship that's built. You are experiencing Unity of Christ with that person much more than any other person that you know. Maybe there's two or three that are in your life like that. But is there someone Who can look you in the eye. And when you give superficial spiritual answers to how things are going, they can look you in the eye and say, boy, I know better. Is there someone that you're willing to be in that kind of a relationship with? You may begin with a vague sense of longing in your life. I think of a letter that uh was appeared in Pat Morley's book, uh, The Man in the Mirror. It was a uh letter from a man Frank to his pastor, and I'm not going to read the whole thing, but just to sum up a couple of parts of it, just kind of give you the drift. He writes to his pastor and he says, You know me well, because you see me every Sunday. They have been generally sit in the same spot like a lot of us here. You know, we got our seats, you know. They're not they don't have our names on it, but you know, you you know, you better not get in that seat because that family's gonna be there, right? You know. So, you know There it is. We got our little spots. And he says, you know, I'm pretty regular. I see you at the door. We always say hi. How are you? Everything's fine. But he said, The uh you don't really know the the real me very well. Behind that happy smile is a life that's somehow imbalanced. In fact he goes on to say, I'm a little embarrassed to talk to you about where I really am. spiritually. I'm supposed to be on top of things. After all, I'm a successful businessman. I've tried to take a look at my life to examine my ways, but the plain truth is I don't know how. I really enjoy your sermons. They move my emotions and spirits. But on Monday morning at 9 a. m. when the phones start ringing and the customers start complaining, I just can't seem to make the transition. I really need help. Then he goes on to talk about his family. He says, My children don't seem to like to spend time with me anymore. He talks about how his priorities have been messed up through Through the years and now he's paying some of the consequences. He goes on to say, I know lots of people, but I'm really a very lonely man. I wouldn't know how to talk. I wouldn't know who to talk to. If I could put my frustrations into words, there's no accountability in my life whatsoever. Nobody knows or even seems to care how I'm doing financially, in my business, with my wife, with my children, or spiritually. I know you're interested at the group level, but I'm talking about just me, personally, individually. I don't expect you to spend personally spend time with me, but I wish we had some way of linking men together to talk about these things. And then he goes on to say, frankly, I've done some things in the business area that I regret. I've cut corners, I've compromised my integrity, I feel guilty about it, but since nobody knows the difference, I'm I can just go on pretending everything's okay. I'm really not much different from anyone else, I think. I often wonder if behind those plastic Sunday morning smiles other men might feel the same way way that I do. And then he finishes, oh well, I never planned on mailing this letter anyway, but I just had to get some things off my chest. I really wish I could tell you about these things. There is so much I want to know and need someone to talk to. Oh well. I guess I'll see you Sunday. Sincerely, friend. Do you identify with that at all? Even if you're a woman and maybe not identify with some of the things he says, is there that same kind of law We need more than just being able to talk on the surface level about how to live the Christian life. I need someone that I can talk to about how it doesn't seem to be working in my life. And the struggles that I'm having. And someone who when I say that and they say, well I'll pray for you, I know that the next week they're going to come back and they'll have prayed for me. me and they'll ask me how it's going. And what I say that I want to do, they're going to hold me accountable to do that and not just talk about it. You see the person in Verse 15 is characterized by three things. And that's why they're willing to be vulnerable and accountable. First of all, they're characterized by By the fact that for them Christlikeness is a passion. A passion. Not simply a longing. Not something that's Spoken of theoretically as an ideal that's seen as unattainable. But that idea of verse 13, until we all reach unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, become material. Who are attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. I want to know Him. I want to become like Him. I want my values to reflect what Jesus Jesus wants. I want to please him in my life. I want to know more about him. I want to understand his mind, and I want to get to know his wonder. And I know in order to do that, But I need someone else who's not going to let me off the hook with superficial excuses about why I don't. I believe that the lack of accountability in the American American Church is right there within the top three elements of why the American Church lacks credibility and power. I really believe that this question of accountability is one of the most important questions for the contemporary evangelical church to deal with. I really can't over State how important I believe this matter to be. The willingness to hear the truth spoken in love in a relationship in which I cannot assist Being answerable for my life and my walk in Jesus Christ. And I believe that if we had a body of say 400 hundred believers that we have about four hundred people associated with us and we were in those kinds of relationships that would affect central Maryland and Howard County and Columbia in particular, in a way that you and I might not be able to guess at at this point. I believe that Satan is playing havoc, even with spiritual Spiritual leaders. You've heard the stories in the past years of men like Gordon McDonald, a man who I very much respected, who was the head of Intervarsity Fellowship, and how he felt And immorality, and said afterwards that he wasn't in that kind of an accountability relationship. And so there was too much that was private about his life that he was able to get away with. Or I think of the man who I've known and has affected my life very deeply as a Christian, Frank Tillipal, who helped to shape our philosophy of ministry that we We have as a body has been great help to us in many ways. And how after I was with him one time, just a couple of months later, a reading that he had been totally Withdrawn from ministry because it was discovered that he had been nine years in an adulterous relationship. How can a pastor who speaks all over the world? And is so well known, is so loved, and such a public figure. How could he carry on an affair for nine years and nobody know about it? Lack of accountability. Lack of being in the relationships where somebody's able to look him in the eye and say, Well, where were you, Frank? What were you doing this? How's your life going? How's your relationship going with With your wife. Being able to help us. Because we know that we'll make excuses for ourselves. But there's a passion for Jesus Christ that says, I'm willing to be in that kind of a relationship. because I know I need it. This person's characterized secondly by the fact that they're willing to pay a price then for that progress. They're willing To pay a price. You're tired of being tossed about. You're saying to yourself, I realize that I need someone else who is going to hold Me accountable for the things that I say and the goals that I have in my life as a Christian. I believe that every single Christian who is serious about growing in Jesus Christ will Will be willing to pay that price. And if you're not willing to pay that price, I question how serious you are about your desire to become a mature believer in Jesus Christ. I really You may say that I have no right to say that, but I think on the basis of Ephesians 4, that there is that contrast between the one who has taught All about in infancy and never really growing, in contrast to the one who is together seeking to grow in the knowledge of and the love Likeness to Jesus, who is willing to hear and to speak the truth in love, and is part of that body which is knitted and joined together, growing up to become like Jesus Christ. But there's biblical warranty. To question how serious we are if we are not in a relationship in which we are answerable for our walk with Jesus Christ to other believers. So You may have a scary feeling about wanting to do that. Because you know that to do that puts you in a relationship where people are going to know you. It's scary for me. I've had the feeling in my small group, the feeling like, you know, now we're really getting down to stuff I wish nobody else knew about. It's bad enough my wife knows about it. You know, I couldn't escape that. But now for someone else. And there's that feeling that if you know this and we pursue this now, you're not going to respect me anymore. I've blown my credibility with you. as a Christian or as a Christian leader. Because now you know more of the real me. You know the stuff that it's just that I'm ashamed of that I'm still dealing with in my life. You ever have that kind of feeling? Then have you ever been in a relationship where as you begin to share that, you begin to open up and you think that you are just utterly a sh And people will never be able to have any regard for you again if you find that they gather about you. And you find that in fact the relationship deepens Is that shared and perhaps someone else in the group says, you know, I've been struggling with the same kind of thing and I've been afraid to talk about it. Then you begin to see the healing of Jesus Christ come. Because you find that as you're willing to do that, that the second point there becomes very apparent. You realize that you're practicing a fellowship based on Only on the grace of Jesus Christ. See, for some of us, I think we have this idea that our fellowship within the body is based on the grace of Jesus Christ, plus the fact that all All our major sins are in the past tense. You know, it's not allowed that I have any major sins in the present tense. You ever hear Christians will say, yeah, boy, you know, I really used to struggle with you know, and so there's one. We'll confess most anything in the past hence. Because implicitly there is that idea that well, you know, sure, I might have been a scumbag Ten years ago, but you know, now I'm not in that position. So you can respect me now. But for us to come to the place where we say, I'm still a Scumbag. I'm still recovering from stuff that I'm ashamed to talk about. I'm still seeking to see the grace and the victory of Jesus Christ in areas that I I'm not seeing it. And it may be from dysfunctional behaviors, uh whether it's in substance abuse or whether it's recovering from sexual abuse Or dysfunctional matters in your background that have scarred you and marred you, you can see these things and you can say, I'm still in that process. But the grace of Jesus Christ is what binds us together. I have a pastor friend who is a real leader and uh very effective, and one time he greeted this conversation Congregation as he was talking about this and he said, Greetings from a recovering hypocrite. You know, we all like to think that it's the sometimes we call the technicolor sin. That are the things that if we can avoid those, then we have credibility within the body. But the Bible talks about root sins, hypocrisy, pride, and demandingness. As being the things that God's concerned for. Every one of us are subject to major sinful behavior that is crippling us. And the thing is that we need to see that what God intends is to use the body to help us to be able to get beyond that. You see, we have this idea that if I need the body Then that's weak. That's replacing Jesus. Shouldn't it be his power that's enabling me to overcome this? You see, what I want us to understand from his word Is that that's the way he uses that he works through us to that maturity? It's not instead of Christ, it's the way of Christ. He has laid it out for us here in Ephesians 4. That it is through the body that Jesus enables us to grow and to overcome sin. It's as we are in the accountability relationships, willing to be answerable to one another. That Jesus Christ works through his body that healing, that confrontation, that rebuke, that encouragement that we need. That word in season. Spoken To us just as we need it. You see, the gospel gives us freedom at that point, so that we can say when we are humbled, so we realize that there is nothing left in me for you to respect. But Jesus then begins to get the glory. I've often quoted James Denny, who once said, No man can at one and the same time give the impression that he is clever and that Christ is mighty discipline. None of us can give the impression that I am capable and that Jesus Christ is mighty to see. And it's only in those relationships of trust that we build That we begin to open up what we're really like, that Jesus Christ begins to move in those, and he says, I'm the only one who is capable around here. And that becomes evident as we humble ourselves. And so the third thing is that this person in verse 15 is able to be vulnerable and accountable because he or she recognizes personal high-risk areas. You see the the three Ps. That this person has a passion for Christlikeness. They're willing to To pay a price for it, and they recognize personal high-risk areas. Patrick Morley in his book talks about the big four, and I agree with those, four areas of common downfall and failure in the Christian life. The areas of the relational, the moral, the financial, and the spiritual. The relational, areas covered in Ephesians 4 to 6. Bitterness. Inability to resolve conflict, the relationship in the marriage between a husband and wife. And I believe that if we were in these kind of accountability relationships, that before people Get to a crisis in their marriage, things would be able to be managed and handled because there would be the ability to see that problems are developing and the body gathers around in order to to buttress up that home and that family to help them out with with singles, to be able to be delivered from temptations and from things that a person gets into Because of the loneliness and the ability to be private and in an accountability relationship, those things are headed off. The moral area You know, I must say that through the years I've had a number of men who've come to me and have said that they have problems with pornography, whether it's magazines or videos or traveling and uh you know the accessibility to cable and motel rooms and all these kinds of things. And through the years, as I've had people come and have shared that and we've talked about it, they say, I want to be accountable. I do not know of one case where that has continued to be a significant problem in that man's life after we've prayed and talked about it. Now he may start off by saying it's not that I have such tremendous sense of victory in the power of Jesus Christ, it's just that I was too ashamed to come back and say to you that I blew it again And so it's just that we help one another, and then as we help one another, then there is that turning to Christ and beginning to see his power in new ways. You know, I'll be honest with you, if you come to me for marriage counseling because you're premarital, you know, you've you've gotten engaged, you're thinking of getting engaged. And I talked to couples before marriage. One of the areas that I say I'm going to help them is I'm going to hold them accountable. In their physical relationship up until the point of the wedding. And I've had many couples who have said to me, Al, we've got to be honest with you. We would like to think that the reason we stayed out of bed was because of our love for Jesus Christ. The real reason was we knew we were going to have to answer to Al the next meeting. How's it been guys? And that accountability was a powerful thing when temptation began to hit. I'll tell you, if all of us were accountable To people who we knew were watching our moral wall and were able to ask the difficult questions back and forth, it would do wonders for defeating the power of Satan. Or you take the financial area. People getting into trouble because of privately just moving in that area area in ways that are compulsive in keeping it private how much I spend. I know that you know people wouldn't understand that I spend my money this way, but I need to. Rather than saying, no, if I can do it, I should do it with a clear conscience and I can talk with some brother or sister about this. Or even the area of the spiritual. By cultivating my relationship with Jesus, Jesus Christ. By his word, growing in faith, encouraging, not saying, hey, how many quiet times have you had this week? Only five? Well I had six. Get down on your knees, you know. This idea of checking up on one another, how many verses have you memorized? But there is within that sense that we're we're wanting together to be more in the word. We're wanting together to make that word become Besides, we're checking up on them too. See, you know, you give it the way you want to receive it. None of us want to have that sense of just uh being under the law with it And so as we apply grace and as we help and encourage one another, we find that we're able to do things that before we were just giving excuses and say, well, I just can't do it. We find that when someone else is helping us and working with us and that they care, it becomes a higher priority to us also. And we work out that fact That I'm talking about, that we are one in Christ and therefore we experience the oneness in Christ. It's all based on that simple principle. We already share a common life in Christ. All I'm saying is Is the Ephesians says work it out in your relationships. Now, very briefly, the process of accountability. Just a couple things I want to say about this. We've covered most of it. Kind of by way of review, the process of accountability. Summed up in verse 15, speaking and hearing the truth in love. In application, simply saying, be regularly answerable. in key areas of my life to qualified people. You break that down the four areas. Qualified people are those that love Jesus and they care for you. Those are the qualified people. You're willing to give them authority to ask you the hard questions in your life. Maybe a couple of different people. People in your small group in one area, or maybe there's a a man that you have something in common with or a woman that you have something in common with, and in that particular area they're going to be the person who will hold you accountable. Key areas is the second B. Key areas. The big Big four. Relational, moral, financial, spiritual. Key areas of your life. No, what are the areas that Satan most wants to bring you into defeat? Make that the number one priority. Thirdly, to be answerable. Answerable. That is that it's not a person when they begin to ask the uncomfortable things, you're going to have the ability to To just blow them off or to leave. But you're going to be willing to be answerable to them because you love Jesus. And then the fourth thing, finally, is that you do it regularly. Regularly answerable. I suggest weekly and that you cultivate over a long haul that relationship of comfortableness so that after a while you hardly care what they know about you Because there's such a closeness and you know things about them and they know about you that you know within our small group there are I can't think of anything we couldn't talk about. We've already talked about everything. It's all come out one way or the other, you know. You see each other all the time, or whatever mood you come in, what you've been wrestling with, it all comes out on the table. And so Sooner or later, it's all pretty much come out. You can keep going deeper. But you do it regularly, so there's a cumulative effect. A few words about getting started. First step is you need To admit your need of others. Some of you need to be convinced about that. Read through the New Testament to see how it characterizes the body, whether or not you are in the relationship that The New Testament speaks of it, the Christian with a body. Couples laughter, but just a couple more weeks to discuss that, too, if you're interested. Secondly, confess your hurdles Pride, fear, uh, past situations where you've been hurt in that kind of thing. Confess that to the Lord. Tell him about that so that you'll have grace to continue Thirdly, then find your people. You may want to start by taking that gray slip. It's on the back there. Now, I guess you've already handed that in, right? That's too bad. Go back and get those. Find some gray slips over next week. You know, on the back of that gray slip it says, I would like information on small group ministry. And so you may want to take that and be able to just check that. And if you check small group ministry, Steve Green will get back to you. And he'll say, Tough, we're all full. No. He'll say, we will find one. We will start groups. Whatever it takes. to make sure that everybody here is in a small group that wants it. And then finally set your schedule. Begin to meet together, gradually developing with the people that you're drawn to how you can do this in a regular way. I am so glad that I am in that kind of relationship with the elders in this church where we can ask each other anything. It's for my protection. And you need it for yours. Let's pray. Lord, for those of us wrestling with this, we pray that you would give us grace and courage. Step out on faith to experience this. For many of us, Lord, we know what this means deepened. We pray our willingness to be accountable in areas that perhaps we've been holding Holding private. And Satan is still having more victory than is certainly warranted at this point in our Christian lives. Lord, we pray that you would use us. Should speak to us, we would be able to grow as a body because we are willing to pay the price of relinquishing our privacy and our pride. And to be answerable in key areas of our life to our brothers and sisters. Lord, use us in one another's lives to accomplish your purpose in Jesus' name. Amen.