Of September and October, this whole matter of self-image. Not studying it as an issue, but we're looking in a very personal way to this matter of self-image. How do you honestly feel about yourself? Your looks, your abilities, your achievements, your past? And when you come to things that you don't like about yourself, where do you go for comfort? Too often I believe that we go to secular sources, which I believe are sort of like junk food. They have no power to really change to sustain, but they can make us feel good, like a big Sunday, banana split for a little while. But even after we have passed in the hype about feeling good about ourselves, we long for something deeper. And I am absolutely convinced that only the Bible gives us a basis for being content with ourselves and who we are. The Bible alone has the answer in the person and the work of Jesus Christ and in the gospel. And that's what we're looking at in order to be able to get some substance from God Himself and not just from those things, the articles and the books. That we read to try to help us. We're examining four basic areas, four problems that we have in self-image. The first one we looked at last week was the problem of perfectionism. Believing that I must perform according to a certain standard in order to be able to feel good about myself. We've seen that the problem is that in doing that we substitute God's standard for our own little standard, various standards of achievement. It will help us to feel good about ourselves, but By that setting aside God's ultimate, absolute moral standard in how we treat Him and one another. And in doing that, we put aside what should be in fact the most important question that we ask, and that is, do I have to be perfect to get to heaven? And the world of course says, no, hey, cut yourself some slack. God doesn't expect you to be perfect. Nobody'd make it if you had to be perfect. So of course God gives you a lot of reasonable attitude here in what you must attain to in order to be okay with him and to get to heaven. But when we turn to the Bible, we find an entirely different answer, don't we? We look at the Bible, and the Bible says, Do I have to be perfect to get to heaven? And the Bible says, Absolutely yes, you have to be perfect to get to heaven. There will be nothing imperfect in my heaven. Somebody said, Oh no, that's all I needed to hear. I felt bad enough before. But deep down in your heart, you know that's good news because you know that when you read that you didn't have to be perfect And that God would somehow let things slide that didn't just guide with who God is. And so when you read, Yes, I have to be perfect, your heart says, That makes sense. That's the way God is Then you come to the gospel, and the gospel tells us that the perfection that you have is not yours, but it's the perfect record of Jesus transferred to your account. In what is called justification. God declaring that you are acquitted based on the fact that your guilt was transferred onto the account of Jesus Jesus and he suffered the full payment, the full payment and penalty that was due for that guilt. And that you now have all of his righteousness And we need daily to stand in that, to remind ourselves. It's not what I do or accomplish, it's what Jesus has done and has accomplished. And the fact that by faith I am joined with him in my identity. My identity cannot be separated from Jesus. And do you know the Bible makes it clear his identity can't be separated from yours? You never read about Jesus except in his identification with his church. And you and I can't be separated from him. And so you see, the Christian's identity is wrapped up literally in Jesus. And I can't think of who I am and how God looks at me apart from Jesus. And so because of that, I am freed from the bondage of perfectionism. Now I want to do my best to please Jesus. But I'm free from being under the bondage of feeling good about myself according to how well I achieve. Because I can start each day standing in the record of Jesus and say, that's how God looks at me. Now I'm free. Just simply do the best I can. Remember I told you about that swimmer, the Olympic swimmer, Greg Greg Ludano. Every time he stood on the board, he was ready to jump in, he said, I'm gonna do my best and even if I blow it my mom will still lie. And that's the way we can believe as Christians about our Heavenly Father. Now we go to the second thing this morning, and that's this matter of what we call addiction to approval. Both these first two items have to do with our efforts. That is, the first perfectionism says, if only I could meet my standard Then I'd feel okay about myself. The second says, if only I could gain others' approval, then I could feel good about myself. Now what's the problem here? In that book by Robert McGee, Search for Significance, it talked about these four problems. problems he illustrates it in the fellow that he calls Randy because Randy was like a bending machine. So he could just put in a token and out would come certain services. And so when his wife told him that he should uh cause her to live at a certain standard, uh Randy goes out and he works over time and does the best he can to accomplish that. And when his kids say, We want this and we think we deserve that and you better come up with that, Randy comes out up and he's performed and he never rebukes because he can't stand to be alienated from them. And then at work people slack off and he has to cover for them and he has they ask him to do certain things and he always says yes. He can never say no. Because he's afraid that if he says no, they won't like him. They won't approve of him. And even at church it's like that. And so whatever committee or task force or ministry people want him to serve on, he'll always say, Yeah, I'll give it a shot I'll try, I'll do my best. Because you can never turn anyone down unless they don't like him, lest they disapprove of him. What's the real problem here? Well, you see, as it's written out there The problem is simply an insatiable need for approval and acceptance. An insatiable need to be respected and liked. That's what I'm talking about. talking about you. Now I had the same problem myself. I see it in myself. I don't know how much you see it in yourself, but I see it. I see it in the fact that I struggled So always be approved and accepted. There is a tendency to feel about yourself the way the last person that you talk to reflected about you, isn't it? If they thought you're a pretty nice guy, you say, well, I guess I'm a pretty nice guy. If they thought you're a jerk, well, you say, well, I guess I'm Jerk, you know. Nine of them are positive and one's negative. Jer I'll go away from that. I'll forget the nine. I'll think about what about that one. They really don't like me. That one thing, that's really the big one. I mean the others really didn't count. They were just trying to make me feel good. That one thing, that's the thing that they really think about. Anything your rest of you feel that way You know, nine to one makes them about even, if not slightly weighted, in favor of the one and the effect. And that's because of this insatiable need to have nothing but approval and acceptance Now, for myself, I think the beginning of healing in my own life was when I first saw that that was sin. I used to just think, well that's the way I am. Hey, you know, everybody's kinda like that, and I'm just little more insecure than those, but that's all right. But then God showed me that that was sin. Now that's bad news and good news. You see, because if it's sin, that's bad news, because now I can't just, you know, sort of say, well, that's just the way I am. I need to repent of it. But the good news is if it's sin, then it can be changed. See, it's not just part of my personality. It's something that God can heal. Sin can be repented of and put aside. It may take a great deal of effort and time, not overnight. But if it's sin, it can be healed. And why do I say that this is sin? Because the Bible says that. Now look at the consequences. And see, this is what we're really talking about: being in bondage to other people's opinions. Being in bondage to other people's opinions in what the Bible calls a man-pleaser. For instance, in 1 Thessalonians in chapter 2, Paul talks about his ministry to the Thessalonians, and he says in chapter 2, at the end of verse 2, He says, uh, if you know with a help of our God, we dare to tell you his gospel in spite of strong opposition For the appeal we make does not spring from error or impure motives, nor are we trying to trick you. On the contrary, we speak as men approved by God, to be entrusted with the gospel We're not trying to please men, but God. We're not doing this just to get approval of men. We're seeking God's approval who tests our hearts. You know, we never used flattery or did we put on a mask to cover up greed. God is our witness. We were not looking for praise from men, not from you or anyone else. Paul said, in order to be able to be faithful to you, to the God, to the gospel, I had to be free from worrying about whether I was pleasing you or whether I was going to be approved by you. Appraised by you. He's even more blunt in Galatians chapter 1, verse 10. That's a big issue in Galatians. The whole matter of being approved by other people. Big issue in Galatians. Kind of a book of approval. And so if you're really dealing with this, I can't think of a better book to read. But in Galatians 1 ten he he nails the whole thing down in one verse. He says, Am I now trying to win the approval of men or of God? Or am I trying to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ. Those are mutually exclusive. If my concern is to please men, to get their approval, I can't really be a servant of Christ, because to be a servant of Christ I've got to be free. From the control of the opinions of other people. I've got to be more concerned about what Jesus thinks of what I'm doing than what somebody else thinks about. So I think of a fellow that illustrates this brilliantly in my mind, a fellow by the name of Peter Cartley. He was a 19th-century circuit riding Methodist preacher. One Sunday morning, Cartwright was preaching and he was told ahead of time President Andrew Jackson is going to be in the congregation this morning. So watch your mouth, Cartwright. Don't say anything that's going to offend. And be discreet. The president is here. Sometimes I thought, what would I say about preaching to President Bush? One of our pastors in our Presbyterian got that opportunity not too long ago, preach to President Bush. What would you do? Peter Cartwright stood up and he said, I understand that President Andrew Jackson is in the congregation this morning. I have been requested to be discreet in my remarks and not to offend our president. Andrew Jackson is going to hell if he doesn't repent. Now that's my kind of man, you know. It said that at the end of the service, Andrew Jackson came back to Cartwright and shook his hand. He said, If I had a regiment of men like you, I could whip the world. Free from the approval of other people. See? Jesus talked about this. He said, if you're locked into this, it blocks faith in me. You can't trust me. John chapter 5. Jesus said in chapter 5, in verse 41, I don't accept praise from men. This is Jesus speaking, but I know you. I know that you do not have the love of God in your hearts. I've come in my Father's name and you do not accept me. Why? So if somebody comes in his own name, you'll accept him. How can you believe if you accept praise from one another and yet make no effort to obtain the praise that comes from the only God? So all you're concerned about is what people think about you. If you're not concerned about what God thinks about you, then you will always be locked into bondage to the approval of other people. He illustrates this in John chapter 12. Here's an example given of this kind of thing. In John chapter 12, we read at the same time that many, even among the leaders, believed in Jesus. But because of the Pharisees, they would not confess their faith for fear that they would be put out of the synagogue. For they loved praise from men more than praise from God. See what he's saying? What about you? Enough praise from men? More than praise from God? It comes right down to us. Did you ever think that if you're having trouble believing in Jesus, believing the Bible, you're saying I read it, but it doesn't really seem alive and true to me. A problem in your life could be that you love the praise of men, what people think of you, more than what God thinks of you? The Bible says there's a direct connection. What are the effects of this kind of thing? It works its way out in a lot of ways. The fear of rejection of people. I make it a habit when I fly to try to pray for the person who will be sitting. next to me just recently I was flying back from Atlanta and it was a full plane as well as in the three-seat part and this woman came in and sat down next to me And I'll tell you she was glamorous. I mean this woman, like right off the cover of Glamour magazine, you know, I mean there she was, I boing and all the guys, you know. You know, I sat next to him. You know, what do you do? You know, I'm praying, Lord, now help me to talk about you. Not very cool. So I'm sitting there, you know, praying, and she pulls out this Christian devotionally. I think, oh no, I you know, can't ignore this, can I? I started talking to her. And it turned out she wasn't a Christian, her mother had given her that, but she was open But I saw in my own heart there was that temptation to want to impress her or to at least not blow my image before a person who I will probably never see in my life again. But we're locked, aren't we, into such silly sense of I don't want this person to not think good of me. I want to protect my image How many times do we pass up opportunity to talk about Jesus because I'm afraid of rejection? They won't approve of me. It won't look cool. Many times I fail in that. Or there's that, which I wrote down here is the codependent rescuer syndrome. That's for Ken's benefit. He's leading He can explain more to you about that. But basically what I don't want I'm talking about here is the fact that it's so easy for us if we're addicted to approval. to be easily manipulated by people to support them, to enable them in their addictive or destructive behavior, because if we don't, they'll make us feel guilty. They'll make us feel they won't accept us, and so we're manipulated to do what they want by the need to be approved by them, to be accepted by them. Where there's the aloofness that many of us communicate because we're so afraid that people will reject us. We kind of beat them to the punch. I'll reject you before you can reject me. Put a wall around, free of being rejected. Where there's the need to control and dominate. Need to be in control and to dominate people so that I feel needed, feel respected, feel in control less, I crumble under rejection. On and on and on we could go. You get the idea. I hope so. Feel it kind of now? How does Jesus heal this? Well, Jesus heals the problem through what the Bible calls reconciliation. Reconciliation. What I mean here in reconciliation, there's a number of places that speak about this, but perhaps the clearest in this connection I find in Colossians chapter 1. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 21 and 22, we have this stated, but let's pick up Paul's train of thought. Well, let's pick it up at chapter 20, at verse 21, but then go on to the beginning of verse 23. Colossians chapter 1. Now, this is God's word to us, remember. He's addressing us in this. Paul says in Colossians chapter 1, beginning in verse 21, once you were alienated from God, and were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior, but now He has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish, and free from accusation. If you continue in your faith established, firm, not moved from the hope held out in the gospel. What I basically want you to notice here is a contrast between verses 21 and 22. You notice that the contrast is between what you once were, that's the two blanks there, between what you once were in verse 21 and what you now are in verse 22. Between what you once were, A, and B, what you now are. What you once were is alienated in verse 21 What you now are in verse 22 is reconciled. Do you ever think seriously about what it means to be alienated from God? Look what he says. Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior. Put your name there. Once you, Alan Harris, were alienated from God. And you were his enemy in your mind because of your evil behavior. What does it mean to be utterly alienated from God? That's infinitely, infinitely more important That all the approval of all the entire world. For all the approval of the entire world is at best so very temporary And its consequences. What can people do who approve of me? Like me? Make me feel accepted? What is that in comparison with standing before the holy God who determines me to me? The outcome of my eternity. Whether I spend that eternity with pleasures in his presence or cursed with the demons of hell, apart from me. The Bible says, because of your evil behavior, you were alienated from God, totally unapproved by him, his enemy. Utterly rejected. Out of his sight. And then you come to verse 22. But Praise God for the butts of Scripture. But now He took the initiative. What did you do? Nothing. He reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you. Now notice how he presents you In what he has done through the finished work of Jesus, what are you now? Three things he describes there. Number one, you're a holy Present you holy in his sight. That means you're set apart from the world unto him as his precious, treasured possession. He's made you clean. He has set you apart to himself. The cleanness is developed in that next phrase. You are spotless. Look at this. Presents you holy in his sight and without blemish. No blemish in your character, in what he sees, in your identity with Jesus. Thirdly, he says you are free from accusation. Entirely, totally, free from any accusation from the Father. Nothing but his approval and his welcome. How'd he do that? Through Christ's physical body. Look what he says. He develops that in chapter 2, verse 13 and 14. When you were dead in your sins, he says, in the uncircumcision, that's the uncleanness of your sinful nature. God made you alive with Christ. He forgave us all our sins. How many of our sins? Most of them. The bad ones. The ones except for the ones I continue to do. No, it doesn't say that. How many sins? All. No exceptions. Forgave us all our sins. The ones that nag you, the ones that continue to plague you, the ones that are the exceptions the final print, the bottom lines, the footnotes, but not this one. He says all. Why? Because he's canceled the written code with its regulations that was against us and stood opposed to us. His law. He canceled it. He took it away, mailing it to the cross. Every accusation that you had against you by the Holy God who made you and examines every detail of your life. Every word, every motive, every deed. He's nailed it to the cross. And Jesus Christ has paid the full penalty. There is nothing but approval and reconciliation based on his finished work. Amen. You see that? You see the connection. What that means for you and for me, you see justification is the legal declaration that you are acquitted by Jesus having met the perfect standard. Reconciliation are the relational consequences of that. See, there's two sides, both things we need. I need to know that objectively I am acquitted and forgiven But I also need to know that I am approved by God and that he likes me, that he wants me to come to him, that he welcomes me into his presence And that's exactly what this is. He has reconciled Christ's physical body to come into his presence and to never be rejected, but to be welcomed. To know that he is your friend and your father. Yet many of us as Christians tend to avoid God, don't we? Because we think that he's aggravated by it. He's impatient and disgusted with our slow learning, with how sloppy we are in our spiritual disciplines, with how half-hearted we are in our intentions and commitments and follows. Al Lindsay in a one of his writings said something, not all of what he said was all that helpful, but one thing he did say is an illustration. that I found very helpful was where he talked about a friend that he had who had been a good friend of his for a number of years But on one occasion he said that he borrowed some money from him with the intention and the expressed intention of paying him back in about a couple weeks A week, two weeks went by, and Lindsay said he still had no means of paying this guy back. And so he found that though this fellow was his best friend, he began to kind of avoid him In fact, after two and a half to three weeks, he said he began to plan his days out of how he could not see this guy. He began to assume that whenever he saw him from a distance, even in just on high, high noise That he felt accusation. He felt the disapproval of the fact that he had intended to pay the money back, and he still owed this guy money, and he wasn't yet paying it back. Though he sure would love to. Finally, after about four weeks, his friend grabbed him and trapped him and collared him, and he said, Come on, Al, what gives? Why are you avoiding me? And he described the guilt that he felt over this money that he hadn't paid back. He says he always remembers my friend. He said laughed and put his big hand on my shoulder and he said, I thought that was it. How? Come on. How deep do you think our friendship is? Our friendship is more important to me than that money. I know you'll pay me back when you can. But don't let the money separate us. I haven't changed toward you one bit. You've changed toward me. And Lindsay said, How he thought so many times that we're like that toward the Lord. He hasn't changed toward us. We're still reconciled with him. We're still justified. There may be things the Spirit will want to speak to about us that will make us uncomfortable. But it's not rejection. You see, it's not rejection any more than the parent who disciplines us, says, I don't love you anymore because you've been disobedient. It's discipline, not rejection. World of difference. You never have to avoid the Father. One of the things that's been most helpful to me in my relationship with the Lord is to remember that whenever I come to his presence. He's smiling. He's never irritated. He's never said, what are you doing here? Come on. I told you get that thing straight. Don't come back until you do. Because he knows I can in my own That anything I do that's going to please him is going to be by faith in his work and in his power. And so there's always that acceptance, that response How do I then lay hold of this? I believe that you and I need to refocus our thinking To refocus our thinking from our from people to ourselves. I mean, from people to God. To God as my central concern for approval. To believe that God's approval really is more important than the approval of other people. To think of how long their approval will last, to think how really important their approval is, and then to think, what about God's approval? How long will it last? What are its consequences? How important is it? And to realize that I have been alienated from him. Enemies. Because of my evil behavior. When I see that, I realize that all my fears have been in the wrong direction. That's what I ought to fear. That's what ought to consume my anxieties and terrors far more than what people think about me. And when I do, then I secondly refocus my attention for myself. To Jesus for the assurance that I am approved by God. It's not what I do, but it's what He did. I need to memorize perhaps verse 22. I'd encourage you to do that. To memorize, perhaps, with verse 21, verse 22. Now he has reconciled me. It's passed, you see. It's a finished, completed act. You are in the position of having been reconciled and can never again be alienated from God as your judge. He may need to smack your hand. He may need to take you through a difficult time in discipline. But that's never rejection. You are reconciled because of Christ's physical body. That's what we celebrate tonight. That's why tonight we gather around the Lord's table and we remind ourselves that it's what Jesus did, represented in those elements, that has reconciled me to my Heavenly Father So the results of this are the freedom that we have, the freedom from that should be mine, not mine, from my bondage to people's opinions. That means then that I'm oblivious to other people's rejection. Oh yeah? No. Not for a moment. I'm still a feeling person. I'm still a person who notices whether you like me or not. I'm still a person who feels pain in rejection. But you see, pain is not dependence. I can feel the pain, but like Peter Cartwright, still say, this is what I need to do. This is what I do to please my God because I love him. And I am free from your opinion. It'll hurt when you reject me. But when I say free, I don't mean oblivious. I mean that I am not controlled by it or dependent on it. That is a wonderful freedom. I don't experience it all the time But in the times that I do, it's a glorious feeling. You and I need as believers in Jesus to enter in more to that And how do we do that? Secondly, well, let me just say one other thing about that. In knowing God's smile, we need to distinguish. If my goal is to feel good about myself, Then I will always be locked into external things in my culture, my achievements, my approval, the rest of that, that will enable me to feel good about myself. But in fact, if my goal is to have a right relationship with my God, then I look to Jesus and see that He has reconciled me with my God. God. And therefore now, because I am in a right relationship with Him, I am secure, not dependent on other people. And so that leads to then my being able to act from conviction rather than to react simply to gain approval. I have freedom because I have feared God. And I have been reconciled by that God, and his love outweighs anything of your rejection or your approval. That doesn't come by just wishing it, by stating it. It comes from time in Scripture, time soaking up his presence, soaking up the gospel. What's the first step that you need to take? Let's take that step right now. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us here wish so much that we could be free. Free from our bondage to the opinion of other people. And we confess, Lord, that there will be something of that bondage for the rest of our lives. We can never be ultimately free because our faith is not perfect. But help us to see the connection between that and our faith. And to see again the gospel. To believe that we who were alienated, and some of us might here still be alienated because we haven't come yet to Christ. We pray work in that heart. Grant faith that that person would come to rest in the finished work of Jesus and be reconciled. For those of us who have been reconciled, Lord, help us To come back again and stand in the gospel, and to look at what you have done, that your opinion and approval would outweigh everyone else. We'd find our security in you. That security would be our peace. Lord, give it to us. Grant it in Jesus because we come to Him now.