Well see ever seems like uh might have been a a hectic morning. Actually it didn't feel like that, but last weekend was. And uh I remember last weekend Saturday and Sunday Seemed like they were especially long days. And then uh Monday morning, it was um a day off and I was just really, really looking forward to relaxing And I had just bone weary, gotten finished with breakfast, had just sat down to relax a little bit, and it was a knock on the door. And it was one of our neighbors who we're very close to. And her husband's uh mother had just died. And she was upset and wanted to talk. And so I invited her in, and we talked for a while. And I must admit that I was feeling a conflict. I don't know if you ever feel that such times, but I did. Part of me, of course, was really empathizing with her. My heart was going out to her in her grief. And she um was expressive about that and I couldn't help but to have my heart go out to her and what she was feeling. But there was also another part of me that I must confess, and that part was a little resentful of the fact that I was now missing the time that I was hoping that between all the things going on I was going to be able to sit and relax some. And so uh after we had some time together, I look back and I realized that if I had been more open to the spirit and not protective of my time, that I could have thought of a couple of other things to say that might have gotten us more effectively into the gospel. But I didn't think of those because I wasn't really fully engaged. You know what I mean? Well, as I thought about that later on, I realized that uh I wasn't the first of God's reluctant servants. And it was comforting to me to realize that oftentimes God's servants have been reluctant. In their desire to serve him. And that's what we are. We must always remember, as Christians, we're servants of our God, of our Lord, of our Adonai. And so this week, during this series on the names of God, we've been looking at the sixth name, Adonai. And we are now, having looked at Adonai for a couple of weeks, we're now continuing to look at this name Adonai, which means you remember. Lord or sovereign, that's how it's translated in your Bibles. Lord, capital L small O R D or Sovereign. And I Put the ways that it's translated at the top of your bulletin outline so you can check them there. Maybe it's easier than my going through it verbally. But remember the name means master, and it has two ideas to it. One That Adonai is the master who provides for all of our needs. And secondly, that that means that you and I are his servants Who are obliged to do his will without question or complaint. He is our master. He provides all, and our lives are to serve him. The last two weeks we looked at that first idea that God is the provider through the Abrahamic covenant. And you remember we looked at that covenant as being summed up in the two words Seed and deed. I hope whatever you think of the Abrahamic covenant now, you'll be able to think of its essence in those two words. The seed promised. an innumerable host of people that will belong to God and be his people, his children. And the Dee, the inheritance of the land, the new transformed heavens and earth, ultimately. that God is going to provide for his people. Only Adonai could make such a provision, and it's a provision that meets our very deepest and most complete needs. That's who he is and how he provides. But now I want to look at it for a couple of weeks with you, three to be exact, at this whole idea of our being his servants. The idea that you and I are servants ready to do his will. Whenever you call Jesus Lord. You are saying to him that you are his servant, and that you are ready to do his bidding without question or complaint. And yet, Scripture, to my encouragement this week, and I'm sure often to your encouragement, gives us examples of servants who were reluctant to do his will. In some of those cases, the servants, when they were his people, interestingly enough, were not cursed They may be rebuked, but they were not cursed. They were not vaporized for their arrogance and their disobedience. Because they had their trust in God's provision of the Messiah, and they trusted in his work for their forgiveness, God was Willing and ready to forgive them. But get this, in every case, ultimately, they wound up obeying him. And I'd like to look at three examples this morning of those who called God, Adonai, who were commanded to do something, who protested it, and in every case. Of these three examples, you notice all three protested what the Lord called on him to do. Now, I was struck this week as I studied and as I studied in past months looking at this name to prepare for this series. About how many times that command that God gives focuses on speaking for him in a difficult situation. Interesting how the whole issue of whether God is Adonai, whether he is Lord, comes up so often in terms of You are to speak for me in a difficult situation. Represent me. You're afraid to do it. But represent me. Speak for me. And that's something I think you and I can identify with. I could this week. And you can many times in your neighborhood, with your family, with your friends, at the office. Speaking for God in a difficult situation when you're reluctant. That's interesting to notice that all three of these examples of the reluctant servants protested that In all three cases, they addressed God as Adonai in their protest. In all three cases, they were given the same answer to their protest. And finally, all three of them were enabled to do exactly what they thought they could never do. And I think that's instructive and encouraging for you and me. So let's look first of all at the reluctant servants. And that's the first point. That you see there in your bulletin outline, the first blank, the reluctant servants. The first one is Moses Now you remember that God had spoken to Moses from a burning bush, and had told him that he was to go back to Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to speak on behalf of God's people. He was to witness of God's redemption and his judgment to Egypt before this mighty king. Moses was very much like you or me, I think, in that situation. Basically Moses was probably grumbling out there in the desert saying somebody needs to stand up and speak for God's people. Things are terrible back there. Why doesn't God raise up a leader? Why doesn't God do something for his people? They're languishing in servitude. Why doesn't someone stand up and say something? And God said, Good idea, Moses. I'm calling you for the task. And immediately Moses said, Oh no, wait a minute now, you know, I think you got the wrong man for the job. And he begins to make a number of excuses just like you and I would, you know Somebody needs to do it, but not me. And so Moses gives four excuses to be exact as to why he's not the person for the job. First he says, I'm a nobody. They're not going to listen to me. I'm just an old shepherd out here. Who's going to listen to me? Secondly, he says, Well, Lord, they've forgotten who you are. They're not even going to know who I'm talking about Thirdly, he says, they're not going to believe me anyway. I don't have any credentials. And then fourthly, he says, Lord, I'm not eloquent. I can't really speak very well. But in Exodus 4. 10, where he gives that excuse, he makes a mistake because he uses the name Adonai in addressing God in that excuse. And as soon as he's used that name Adonai, he's lost his case. Moses says in Exodus 4, verse 10, O Adonai, I've never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant. I am slow of speech and of tongue. Moses thinks that he is going to convince God to not send him. In fact, he gets even more desperate in verse 13. You notice he says there, Oh, Adonai. Please send someone else to do it. You know, I'm forget- I'm tired of the excuses. Or just please, that's the bottom line. Please send someone else. But you notice again how God answers him He doesn't curse him, he doesn't slap him around, but he speaks to him in verse 12 the words of encouragement. The Lord says to him, Who gave you your mouth? And then in verse 12 he says, Now go, I will help you to speak and will teach you what to say. Don't be afraid, Moses. I'm Adonai. And if I've commanded you to do it, I will go with you to enable you to do it. I don't command you to do something that I don't enable you to do. I will be with you, and I will enable you. And so Moses of course went, as you and I know, and the rest is history. Retake the case of Gideon in Judges chapter 6. Gideon was a man who lived when times were rough also. Israel had sinned and because of their sin, God had sent the Midianites as marauding bandits. To come and to pillage the whole land and to terrorize the people, lest you think that that is a uh a kind of lifestyle that is outdated to us. Uh as you read the sessional prayer request, you'll be reminded that just ten days ago In the modern country of Kenya, our church's hospital, the mission hospital, was attacked by exactly the same kind of marauding bandits Uh the same kind of thing that was going on in the time of judges. And as you'll read that you'll find that they broke in, that they beat up the nurses, and they stole many of the uh goods, the trucks and various other things. And so as you read what's happening here in Judges, you realize that this is the same kind of thing going on now. And the result, of course, is that you live in terror. You never know when the next raid is coming. There is no sense of security in the law. You just don't dial 911, you know, and the Howard County police come running to the door. And so Gideon Midian Gideon and Midian and Gideon was living in terror of the Midianites. And at the time of Judges chapter 6, he's in such fear that he's out hiding behind his wine press, threshing his grain. When the very angel of the Lord comes to him. And in Judges chapter 6, in verse 12, the angel comes and says, The Lord is with you, you mighty warrior. Gideon says, you gotta be kidding. I'm out here hiding behind the wine press so that I don't get beat up by some raiding Midianite band that wants to come and take my grain But in saying that, you notice in verse 13, if you have your Bibles open to that, you notice in Judges 6, 13, in the NIV at least, Gideon says to the angel, But sir. Now the word sir there is that same word Adonai. You remember I said that it could be used of men in a term of respect, master, sir. But sir, but Adonai, he says, if the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? Why are we living in terror as a bunch of fugitives in our own land if our covenant God is the one who has given us this? And he's complaining that the last thing he feels like is a mighty warrior. But again, you notice that God speaks to him He responds to him in verse 14 to commission him. The Lord now, not just the angel of the Lord, but now it's we see that this angel is a very special representation of the Lord himself, he says, go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand. Am not I sending you And at that point, Gideon realizes that this is no ordinary man. It's not some imposing figure. uh to who deserves the title of Adonai, but this is some representation of God Himself. And so in verse 15, Gideon addresses him with the same term, but Adonai, Gideon asked. How can I save Israel? If you have an NIV, you'll notice that the first is translated Sir, but the second is translated Lord, and then it's got a footnote that says or sir. That's just simply showing you that it's the same word in verse 13 and 15. Both are the name Adonai. Gideon is saying, Adonai, how can I save Israel? My clan's the weakest in Manasseh, and I'm the least in my family. Or perhaps in contemporary terms, I live in Nerdsville and I'm a nerd from Nerdsville. I'm nothing, Lord. I have nothing to offer. Nobody's going to listen to me. There's nothing that I can do. And so the Lord realizes Gideon's lost his case when he addressed him as Adonai. He said, Oh, master, I can't do it. You can never call Jesus or God master and say you can't do what he's just sent you to do. And so the Lord gives, again very kindly to Gideon, the same answer he gave to Moses. You notice In verse 16, the Lord answered, I will be with you, and you'll strike down the Midianites together. That's all you need to know, Gideon. I don't need to tell you how I'm going to do it. I don't need to lay out the plan for you I don't need to give you a vision of them all quaking before you. All I need to tell you is that I, Adonai, will be with you. And that's sufficient. I will never command you to do something that I won't enable you to do. Hudson Taylor used to say, God has never commanded us to get a loaf of bread, but that he hasn't provided the bread there to get. Adonai never commands you to do something that he doesn't enable you to do. I will be with you. That's all you need to know. Well, you take the case of Jeremiah. Jeremiah lived in even tougher times. In Jeremiah's day, the nation of Israel was on the brink of disaster. The people were religious, but they were arrogant and they were proud, and the land was about to fall under the judgment of God. And God called out a young man by the name of Jeremiah to speak for him in this terribly difficult situation. And in Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 5, which Steve called our attention to a few weeks ago. You read of God's call to Jeremiah. God says, Jeremiah, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I set you apart, and I appointed you as a prophet to the nations. And then you see Jeremiah's answer in verse 6. Ah, sovereign Lord. And there it is again. Ah, Adonai, Jehovah. Adonai translated sovereign because it's combined with the covenant name, Jehovah. Ah, Adonai, Jehovah he said. I do not know how to speak. I am only a child. Does that sound familiar? Have you ever said that? The Lord says, I want you to speak. I want you to go see, and maybe there's some interest in your neighborhood of people that would want to get into a Bible study. And you say, aw Adonai Jehovah, I'm only a child, I can't speak. The Lord says, I want you to take a position in your office. There's some moral and ethical issues there that need to be spoken to. And I don't need one of my servants wimping out on me and you say, Ah, Adonai Jehovah, I'm a child and I don't know how to speak. The Lord says, I need somebody to stand up in the PTA meetings. There's some moral and ethical issues at the school that need to be spoken to by my people. Last humanism in its relativism sweeps everyone away because no one's ready to stand up and speak for right and wrong and you say, Oh, had an I Jehovah Jehovah, I'm just a child. Who am I? I can't speak. Have you ever said that to the Lord? When you felt his prompting to call you to stand up and to speak, I have. And I've responded just like that, just like Jeremiah. But what's his answer? Again, he doesn't slap him around. He doesn't say, Well, I'll go look for somebody else then if that's your attitude, for he's Adonai. And he will have his way into your life. And so you see in verse 7, the very same answer he gave to Moses, and he gave to Gideon. The Lord said to me, Do not say I am only a child. You must go to everyone I send you and say whatever I command you. I am Adonai, after all. Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you, and will rescue you, declares the Lord. And so in each case, whenever Adonai calls to his servants, oftentimes there's that initial protest, but in every case there's the same response. All you need to know is that I am with you. And if it's in your neighborhood or in your office or in your school district or whatever it is, When God's asked you to speak for him in a difficult situation, all you need to know is that he is with you. But now you may say, yeah, but I know that, but somehow I don't get the force of it. And so God has given to us, in his wisdom and in his mercy, a contrast to these reluctant servants. He's given us an example of one who is a very different kind of servant, and that's point two. The eager servant. The eager servant on the back of your bulletin outline is Isaiah. Isaiah also was called by the Lord in a difficult situation, also addressed him as Adonai. But you notice a strong contrast to these other three. Isaiah's times were just as rough as any of the others. He was living just a bit before Jeremiah's time. Assyria was a menacing nation that was a growing threat to Israel. It was armed and it was moving. Israel was weak militarily, but much more significantly Israel was weak morally. It was weak spiritually. Israel was a drifting, shallow nation of people. Israel was not following the Lord, and so they were in deep trouble. And Isaiah is a godly young man. Along with many others were lamenting the state of their nation, knowing that they were vulnerable, that they were subject to God's judgment. And yet, probably Isaiah had no intention of ever getting involved in any leadership position. You need to understand that to understand a story. Isaiah was from an upper middle class background, perhaps even better than that, and a well-to-do background He had his career set out before him, had all his schooling mapped out, had his career goals set in place, and he was headed up the ladder. He was a kind of yuppie of his day. Isaiah had everything laid out before him. And then something happened. That utterly changed his life and totally rearranged all of his plans and the direction that he was headed. In Isaiah chapter 6, in verse 1, you read, In the year King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. Now first of all, notice that King Uzziah's death is the occasion of what happens to change Isaiah's life. Who was King Isaiah? King Isaiah was a good king. He was a king of God's people who was basically a godly man, king of Judah. But he did not sufficiently respect the authority of Adonai. While he was basically good, he was inconsistent. And on one occasion, he insisted that as king he offer the incense in the temple. That was forbidden to anyone but the priests But Uzziah thought that he should be allowed to do that. And so resisting Adonai's authority, he went into the temple and he offered the incense. And the Bible tells us that instantly Uzziah was struck with leprosy for his arrogance. And not long after that, Uzziah died, a leper. Now it's in that circumstance, with Isaiah's hopes in this good King Uzziah to save Israel upon his death Isaiah is called by the Lord. Those are his circumstances. Notice his call. It comes in verse 8 of Isaiah 6. In verse 8, Isaiah says, I heard the voice of Adonai, saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Now you notice his response is in utter contrast to Moses, to Gideon, to Jeremiah. To others of Adonai's servants. In contrast to that, Isaiah's response is, Here am I. Send me. I'll volunteer. Come on, Lord. I'm ready. What do you want me to do? An immediate response of eagerness to Adonai's call to speak in an extremely difficult situation. Just how difficult becomes immediately apparent to him. Because you notice that after that, God says in verses 9 and 10, The people that I'm calling you to speak to, Isaiah, are going to be ever hearing but never understanding, ever seeing but never perceiving. In fact, your preaching is going to make the heart of this people calloused, their ears dull, that will close their eyes, otherwise they might see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. Not a very encouraging ordination sermon, is it? You're going to utterly fail in what you're going to do, Isaiah. And he goes on in verses 11 and 12 to say the same thing. But then again in verse 11, Isaiah uses that name. And then I said, How long, O Adonai? He doesn't say, well, if that's the kind of ministry you're talking to me about, I think you've got the wrong man. I think I changed my mind about that eagerness you just heard a few moments ago I'm going to continue in my career plans. They sound like there'll be more success there than there's going to be in this venture that you've got mapped out for me, Lord. Lord, uh, I never was the missionary type, you know. In particular, I never was the martyr type. I didn't even like the movie, The Mission. You know, I I never even enjoyed that kind of thing. I'm certainly not up for this kind of a ministry. But you don't see anything of that at all. Isaiah simply says, How long, O Adani? God says it'll go on and on and on Until the people are taken away. And Isaiah continues faithful in that ministry all of his life So what made the difference? And that's the third and last point. The difference is a vision of Adonai. The difference is a vision of who Adonai is. You notice the four contrasts. First of all, there's a contrast between Uzzah and Adonai. Isaiah respected and hoped great things from King Isaiah as the leader. Excuse me, that should say Uzziah. That's not the fellow that was hanging on to the ark. That's Uzziah here. Isaiah respected and hoped for great things from King Isaiah as the leader, but he failed him. In contrast to that, Adonai never fails. Notice the contrast between Isaiah, though, and Adonai. Look what happened that changed Isaiah's life and made him such a willing and eager servant. Again, back to Isaiah 6:1. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. And that name there is, of course, that name Adonai. In the year that King Isaiah died, I saw Adonai. That's what changed Isaiah's life. He saw Adonai as he really is. Saw him like Moses never saw him in the burning bush. Saw him like Gideon never saw him in that angel standing before him. Psalm as Jeremiah didn't see him in that vision of calling him to be a prophet. Isaiah was given the privilege of seeing something of what Adonai is really like. And there are seven ways that Adonai is lifted up in his glory. In the description that you have in the next few verses, notice them. He says, I saw the Lord seated on a throne. That's the first thing. Adonai's only appropriate position is to be seated on a throne. That's the nature of who Adonai is. He's master, he's king, he's the ruler, and he's seated on a throne. Secondly, you notice that the throne is high. It's not a throne that you look at on eye level, but it's high. Thirdly, it's exalted. It's lifted in majesty. You have to look up at Adonai. You look at him when you look from a low position to see that you are simply at his feet to see him. And then fourthly, you notice that the train of his robe filled the temple. What a glorious robe it must have been. And the train of the robe is the picture of its glory. And this robe has Such glory that the train fills the whole building. The whole temple is filled with the flowing folds of this glorious robe of Adonai in his majesty. And then you notice fifthly that above him there are seraphs. Seraphs are powerful, glorious, majestic beings. creatures before whom you and I would be tempted to kneel ourselves because of their great glory. But these seraphs, each with six wings, cover their faces before Adonai. And constantly they are calling to one another, holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. And Adonai hears this refrain again and again and again and he begins to realize that he is before the presence of the Holy One. Do you see the sixth indication that at the sound of the voices who are calling out constantly the holiness of Adonai, the very doorpost and threshold shake. If you've ever been in an earthquake, you've understood what it means to be frail and vulnerable. And the very foundations on which Isaiah is standing begin to tremble and Shake with the glory and the power of Adonai. And he understands that he's in the presence of holiness and power beyond anything he has ever seen or imagined. And then seventhly, the very temple is filled with smoke. The smoke of the fire of the glory of Adonai. What a picture. Meditate on that picture sometime. And you will understand something of the awesome picture that Isaiah was up engaged in. I believe that today we have so much less obedience and eager serving of Adani because we don't understand the awe of Ad and I. Psalm 97, 5 says that the mountains melt like wax in the presence of Adonai of all the earth Psalm 114, 7 says, Tremble, O earth, at the presence of Adonai. And when you see Adonai, you can't help but tremble. And tremble Isaiah did. Because when you see Adonai as he is, you see your sin. And so Adonai So Isaiah in response sees his sin in verses five and six Notice then the contrast between Isaiah before and after he's forgiven. In verse 5, Isaiah says, Woe to me, I am ruined, for I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips. My eyes have seen the king. Of the Lord Almighty. Isaiah understands that he can't stand with his sin before a holy Adonai. And so he feels ruined. He's undone. He's saying, I'm coming apart. There's no hope for me before this God. He's not saying that as a prophet. He's saying that as you or I, at the beginning of our careers, would look and all of a sudden see it is who's made us and see what we're like in his presence. And then, in verse six, one of the seraphs flew to me with alive coal in his hand, which he had taken from the tongues of the altar. And with it he touched my mouth, and he said, See, the old King James has woe. And so, to help you to see the progress of this, I have the woe of Isaiah's recognition of his sin. This is the load, the scene of forgiveness. See, this coal has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. And all of a sudden, Isaiah feels the burning, hot purging of that coal upon his lips, and he realizes that his sin has been taken away Adonai is a god of forgiveness. Have you ever felt in your own life the purging, the wonder of the fact that Adonai Is a God of forgiveness in your life. It's that that makes you an eager servant. It's that that causes you to see that there's nothing you want to do more than to serve Jesus. For Jesus is the fulfillment of that call. Who purged your sin by taking it upon himself as a substitute on the cross where he bore the curse of his father in your place. And so the coal touches your lips and my lips. And we're cleansed and we're forgiven. And so with a rush of immense gratitude and of surge of love in his heart, when God says, Who then is going to go for us? How can you imagine Isaiah doing anything else but saying, Here am I? Lord, you have forgiven me. You haven't cursed me. You haven't destroyed me, but you've cleansed me. I can stand in your presence without terror. Here am I. Send me. Let me go. And let me speak whatever you want. Nothing is too great to ask of me. And so you see the contrast between Isaiah and the other servants. The contrast is that Isaiah has seen Adonai. And seeing Adonai, you can't do anything else but want to serve him. And so Monday afternoon, after that time with my neighbor I began to reflect on who it was that I served anyway and what I was doing with my days and my nights. And I called back my neighbor and I said, I'd like to get together And as soon as we could was Wednesday evening. And so Wednesday evening, until that time I had a definite, unusual sense of Burdening to speak. I had spoken with these folks for years, talked uh off and on of things about the gospel. Had gone to a Billy Graham crusade together, done a number of things, but had never really found that kind of communication. And I prayed specifically that God would enable me to do that and I wasn't going to leave without it. And uh Kathy was busy that night, wasn't able to go with me, so I went over there by myself. After we talked for a while, I mentioned about uh how the death of his mom must have caused him to think about death and be thinking about it now, and I simply asked the simple question What would happen if you were to die tonight? Would you know where you would go and what would happen to you? And for the first time after all the years of our talking He looked me right in the eye and he said, No. I don't know what would happen. And he said, What's more, in the last few months I've thought about that question more than I've ever thought about it in all my life In fact, last Sunday we went to church for the first time. And then I began to talk to them about Jesus. And I said, Would you like to get together and talk about these questions? And we talked as we had never been able to talk before, and may get together for a Bible study. When the Lord calls you to do something, he will enable you to do it. What is it in your case? Is it your family? Someone that you keep putting off talking to? Is it your friends? Perhaps someone in your neighborhood. Perhaps somebody in your workplace. Perhaps it's a casual contact that you see on a daily or weekly basis. You've talked about the weather and a few other things, but you've never talked to them about anything meaningful. Or perhaps it's Some group of people that you have a particular burden for with a need, and you've longed to have a ministry to that need, but you keep putting it off. Write down what Adonai is saying to you this morning. Because if Adonai is calling you to do it, Adonai will enable you to do it. But in order to want to do it, you need to see him as Adonai. Let's pray. Lord our God, give to us a new vision of Adonai, high and lifted up The holy God, before whom we would be ruined and undone, were it not for the forgiveness that you extend to us in the person of Jesus. May Lord that forgiveness be so precious to us that when you call us to speak in whatever difficult situation, and you say, who will go for me in Colombia? Who will go for me in Howard County? Let our hearts well up within us. Hear my, Adonai. Send me. For Jesus' sake, Amen