Sort of reminds me of uh one time, I don't know how many of you have heard of the great preacher Charles Spurgeon, but uh Spurgeon was a man who preached to a congregation of about five thousand people. And it was said that uh one time Spurgeon was a rather short fella and he used to preach on a on a little box behind his pulpit in order to raise him up above so that he could uh look over at this big thing and see the people. And one morning he was preaching from this and he got so excited about what he was preaching about that he he kept leaning further and further over and finally he fell right over the pulpit into the first pew And he uh the only thing he could say after that was he commended his people for their dignity and allowing to climb back into the pulpit without everybody just sort of breaking up in the uproar but if I fall into the first two here please try to maintain some decorum and I'll continue on the best I can. I don't usually uh make a point of uh welcoming people but But uh this morning I do want to particularly welcome my aunt and two of my three cousins from her that uh have come to visit with us and to be here in worship this morning. I've only seen them once in over twenty five years, and that was just uh a little over a year ago when we finally uh resumed contact after having lost touch with each other for over twenty years. And so it's a special delight to me to have you here this morning and for us to be able to have some time together. Well, the holidays are over. The new year is in full swing. And so we're back to the series on the names of God. And those of you who uh perhaps have joined us since the last time I was speaking on this, back last November, I want to remind us all that I'm doing this series in part because I believe that as we enter the decade of the nineties, the one thing that we as a church particularly need Is more faith. We need to be a people of greater faith, and to do that, I'm encouraging us to turn our eyes from our own problems, from our own preoccupations, our own stresses So that we might be able to look again at the greatness of our God, whether personal problems or national problems problems or global problems, that we will be able to see again who our God is, and that will build our faith. So often today you hear people talk about faith as if it's something that you sort of generate, you know, you go to a pep rally and get And I believe that the best way that you and I can grow in faith is to understand who our God is, what his promises are, and then claim them bit by bit in our lives to experience his fullness. But we have to begin by seeing who he is, and I think often we think we know who he is better than we actually do. And so we're looking at how our God has revealed Himself, particularly through His names. Many names, over 20 that we'll be looking at. And so far in this series we have looked at the five L names of God, compound names that are based on the simple name L, which means the strong one. And you see them there at the top just a kind of recall to your mind in case you didn't remember what those all were, you know, there they all are for simple summary of those first uh five in the series. Elohim, translated in your Bible by the simple word God, capital G, small O D. Which means, in fact, the strong, faithful creator. Wherever you see that name God in your Bibles, you should think that that's describing God as the strong, faithful creator. And then there was El Elion, translated God Most High, which means that he is the possessor of heaven and earth. Genesis fourteen defines him. Then there was Alleroy, the God who sees me, the God who sees my hurts and my heart It was Al-Shaddai that we looked at for four weeks. God Almighty is translated in your Bible. Refers to God as the God of new life in impossible situations. And then fifthly, Il Ulam, the everlasting God, the God of secret times and ways. So having looked at those, and uh if you want to find out more about them, uh there are tapes available as for any of the messages here at Columbia Press Security. And there's tapes for all of those in the office available to lend out if you care to listen. But today now, I want to begin to look at an altogether different name of God. A name by which he reveals himself to us, the name Adonai. Appears in your Bibles generally by the word Lord with a capital L small O R D The Lord. Now uh sometimes uh that word Lord, you know, is written with a large L small capital O R D. That's an entirely different name of God. Yahweh or Jehovah. And just to show you how distinct that is, you can now or some other time turn to Psalm 110:1, and you'll see there that it says, The Lord said to my Lord, And you'll see that in Psalm 1101, the first time that word is written, it's large L small capital O R D. And then when it says, said to my lord, it's a large L small O R D. It's that second name there that is this name Adenai. The first is an entirely different name. But there's an additional problem, and I hope this doesn't get too confusing. But sometimes the Bible uses the two names together, Adonai Yahweh or Adonai Jehovah. And so the translators decided that it wouldn't be too cool to say, Lord, Lord And so whenever those two names appear, instead of it saying Lord, Lord, it says sovereign Lord in the New International. And the word sovereign is the translation of this name, Adonai. So sometimes the name Adonai is translated Lord if it's used alone with small Ord. And sometimes it's translated sovereign. Or if you have a New American standard, it's translated Lord God. There you have the God with a small capital O D. That gets even more confusing. So let's not even pursue that. But anyway, it's sovereign or Lord. The name itself comes from the Hebrew word Adon, which means a sovereign or a ruler. It's used both of man and of God. Sometimes the name is used of God, it's used uh three hundred times or more in the old testament to refer to God God, but it's used two hundred and fifteen times to refer to man. A man can be an Adonai or an Adon, a master, or a ruler Ezekiel uses the compound Lord, Lord, or Adonai Yahweh, or Adonai Jehovah, over 200 times in his one book alone. And so it can be used of either God or it can be used of man, but the basic idea of that name is master. That's what I want you to see. The basic idea of it is master. And Adon was a master. And it means two things. Two things God wants us to understand as he uses this name in his Words. One is that he is the master, and you see this in your bulletin outline. This is the first blank. He is the master who provides for all our needs. That's the first meaning of this name, Adonai. He is the master who provides for all of our needs. A human, Adon, or Adonai, provided the food, the shelter. The direction, the protection for all of his servants. Everything that the servant needed, he expected his Adonai to provide Our word Lord comes from the ancient Anglo-Saxon word layford, which refers to the Lord of the land. The one who was the master of the land that you lived on. He was the one who owned that land. He provided everything for you You were simply the serf dependent on him for your food, your shelter, your protection, your direction, everything. And so you depended on him for your very life, because he was your Lord, your Adonai. And that's the concept that the Lord takes in using this name for Himself. We live on His land and He protects us, He provides for us, He provides everything that you have, everything you've received this past week. Every good gift has come from Adonai, who has provided it for you. But the second idea in that name is that we are his servants Because he is the master, we are his servants, responsible to obey his every command. The serf or the servant owes to his Lord unquestioning obedience, not because he feels like it Not because his commands make sense to him, not because he can see the benefit of keeping them, but simply because Adonai has said it. And that is sufficient. We obey because he is Adonai. And you never whine, but why, Adonai? Because Adonai says, because I said I am your Lord, I am your master, and I provide everything for you, but I respect, but I expect in return unquestioning, implicit, immediate obedience. For I am Adonai. Now, this word is first used in Genesis chapter 15, and so if you haven't turned to it by this time, at least do so now in your Bible. In Genesis chapter 15, Abraham uses this name of God for the very first time. You recall the situation that we have here. It's been a long time since we've been back in Genesis looking at this. So you recall that back a few years before this God had ordered Abraham to totally reorient his life. Total career change, family change, everything. He called Abraham to leave the country where he was, to take his family, and to go into a totally new and strange land called Canaan, that Abraham was entirely unfamiliar with Like you or me going to some part of the world that we have very little understanding of and no personal acquaintance with, and to take our families there And to settle down there and make it our new home. And so God called Abraham to do that. And in doing that, God promised to Abraham A series of blessings. It's called the Abrahamic Covenant. Now, the Abrahamic covenant, we hear referred to a number of times, but let me say that I think we can boil down the Abrahamic covenant. To basically two promises. It all boils down to two promises that God gave to Abraham that are still in force And those two promises I call the promise of a seed and the promise of a deed. That is the promise of children and the promise of land. The promise of children, Abraham at 75, when he received this promise, was childless with his wife Sarah. Never had a child. God promised them children. But not simply children, but children through whom the whole earth would be blessed, through that seed of Abraham. They also promised him a land, a deed to a land, a land that would ultimately not just be a new and pleasant land, but a new heavens and a new earth. And so these are two simple promises that are given to Abraham, the consequences of which he can't begin to realize. But what he does realize that God is promising him children and land, a seed And a deed. And so, because of those promises, Abraham obeyed God in faith. He obeyed and he went out. He went trusting Adonai to the go to this new land. And just uh recently now in Abraham's life, you remember Lot was taken captive and Abraham went out with a small band of men to seek to deliver his cousin, and he delivered in the process King Bera of Sodom. And God gave him a great victory over four Canaanite kings. And so God had given this victory to Abraham and revealed himself to Abraham as El El Dion, the possessor of heaven and earth. And you remember that in a rush of gratitude and faith and concern for God's reputation, Abraham had turned down any of the booty, any of the spoils of that victory. Because he didn't want anyone ever saying that he had taken advantage of King Beera in a weak moment in order to make himself rich. But just as it happens with you and me, whenever you've taken some step of unusual faith in Jesus Christ. Whenever you've sacrificed something for him, whenever you've said that God's promises mean more to me than what I can gain in this world, Satan comes to attack you, doesn't he? And sometime shortly after, you'll be attacked with spiritual depression. And Satan will whisper in your ear, you are a fool to do that. Why did you let that go? Look at all the fun you could have had with this, and what have you done it for? It really would be better if you weren't following Jesus. Non-Christians have more fun. And so Abraham is sitting there, and Begins to think about those four kings that are gonna probably come back looking for revenge, looking for some shepherd by the name of Abraham rather than King Bera this time He begins to think of all that fortune that he had given up and given to King Beer, who certainly didn't deserve it. And he's having his quiet time in that kind of a frame of mind. Now you can imagine, as you have quiet times in that kind of frame of mind, how productive they are. But in this occasion, God appears to Abraham. Now, before we say what he says, maybe you're thinking, yeah, but you know, if God only appeared to me in my quiet times, I'd have a lot easier time believing what he says, you know. So I mean if you look at God, he just comes right to him and talks to him, person to person. If God only did that for me, before you hastily think that you'd be able to trust him much easier if that were the case for you I don't think that it's the case, humanly speaking. For Abraham had very little to go on about who God was and what his character was and what his plan was. You and I have the full Bible. We have that whole plan revealed to us in Jesus Christ. We understand Where God is going. And we understand what He's already done. We have a risen Savior to vindicate our faith. And I think that we need to keep in mind that when God comes to speak to you, As you open up this word morning by morning as you hope to get up and spend some time in that before you begin your day. As you open this word, and God speaks to you from this word, His message is just as personal as it was to Abraham. Just because God spoke to Abraham audibly And he speaks to you through the printed page doesn't mean that his message is any less personal or less powerful or less trustworthy to you and to me But now what did God say to Abraham? He begins by addressing his fears, and then Abraham questions him And then God speaks his comfort. And so this morning we're going to look, as you see, as this is part one of Adonai. We're going to just look at God as provider this morning. And even of God as provider, we're only going to look at the first part of Genesis fifteen. I want to look just this morning at this idea of seed. Next week we'll look at the idea of the deed, the rest of the chapter. And then a couple of other ideas about Adani, we as his servants. So this morning we're going to look just at those first six verses of Genesis chapter 15. Let's hear God's word as he addresses us. After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your very great reward. But Abram said, Oh sovereign God, O Adonai Yahweh, Adonai Jehovah What can you give me, since I remain childless, and the one who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, You have given me no children, and so a servant in my household will be my heir. And then the word of the Lord came to him. This man will not be your heir, but a son coming from your own body will be your heir. And he took him outside. And he said, Look up at the heavens and count the stars, if indeed you can count them. And then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. Abram believed the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness. The question before Abram is can he trust Adonai in his provision? Do you see that there? Uh as the other blank. Can Abram trust God to provide this impossible promise? God has promised two things to Abram. In addressing his fears of the revenge of the kings, God has said, I'm your shield. Trust me, Abram. I'll take care of you. And with reference to your concern about having no children, I'm your great reward, Abram. Don't worry about that. Let me take care of that in my way and in my time. And so, in response to this, Abram from the depths of his heart pours out a question. And I want you to notice that as he asks God this question, God doesn't zap him. God doesn't strike him dead for his insolence. God respects his honest dealt. Sometimes I think you and I would do a lot better if we were to just verbalize our honest doubts to God, rather than to think that that is not pious That that's not acceptable. And so we harbor that alienation from God in our hearts and we never verbalize it to him, thinking that he's going to do some terrible thing to us if we're really honest with him about what we feel And how we're really doubting that he is Adonai, who can be trusted to fulfill all his promises and provisions. But here's God telling Abram, I'm your shield, I'm your reward. Trust me, Abram. And how's Abram respond? Oh, yes, Lord, I know, I believe you, I trust you, I've said I do. No. Rather bold, isn't he? He says, Oh, Adonai Jehovah. You notice he uses that name, provider, master. Oh, you who are my provider, you who are my covenant God, what can you give me, since I remain childless? And the one who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus, my slave. You've given me no children, and so a slave, a servant in my household, is going to be my heir Pretty bold talk, isn't it? But you know that boldness communicates and intimacy with God that he loves to have when you and I speak to him from our hearts. Every one of us have a Lord Adam I, what can you give me since I don't have this in my life, don't I? Every one of you could fill in a blank. Maybe it's not childlessness. Maybe it's something else. But it's something in your heart of hearts is that when you come here Sunday morning and we praise God and we say He's Adonai, He's the faithful provider, Satan's whispering to you, oh yeah? Then how come he hasn't provided this, which is so hurtful in your life? Why has he ignored that great need that you've been asking him to provide for years? Why do you hurt so much if he really is Adonai and cares for you? And that's exactly what Abram's saying. He's saying, God, if you're really the provider. If you've really promised this, why haven't you fulfilled it? Why is there such an ache? Or why is it that every month and every year My heart cries out to me, God said you'd have children. He hasn't given you any, has he? God said he was going to give you land here And you still don't own one square foot of it. It was only a few years ago that God had reiterated that promise of children to Abram, and He had said, Abram, if you can count the sand on the seashore So you'll be able to count your children. That promise mocks Abraham, but he's not going to pretend that it doesn't. He's got to be honest with God. And that honesty is the seed of his faith. And somebody says, God, what can you give me? Because you haven't fulfilled your promise And then what does God do? Does he reprimand him? Does he rebuke him? Does he go away and say, well, just for that I'm going to leave until you can get your attitude a little better shape You got a bad attitude, Abram, and I don't want to take that off of you. But what does God do? Verse 4. Then the word of the Lord came to him. This man will not be your heir, but a son coming from your own body will be your heir Words of great comfort. Abraham, don't worry. I'm going to do just what I said I was going to do for you. I'm not going to back off of that one little bit And so he took him outside. Go on outside the tent here, Abram. Outside from your quiet time. Take a look up at the heavens. Remember this is in the desert. There's no lights of Baltimore or DC or anywhere else. It's clouding the sky. uh astronomers that I hear of, you can check with Doug McElroy. But what I hear I always have to get at least one in every couple months or else he gets upset if I don't have an astronomical illusion. It's the best I can do for this month, Doug I understand if you're in the desert you can see with the naked eye perhaps ten thousand stars. I'm not gonna even look at them, check that out But Abraham's looking up there and he sees the whole Milky Way spread before. He sees all the stars as you can see on those darkest nights within the desert. God says, look up Abram. Count those stars. And Abram says, I couldn't even count one little section of them. And God says, that's the way you're all stars. Abram, I'm Adonai. And when I say I'm going to do something, I'm going to do it. I am not cheap. I am not concerned that I'm going to indulge my children. Sometimes you and I think that God's afraid that He's going to spoil us by being too nice to us. He's got to keep us in line. God says, Abram, I'm going to do for you in this promise far more than you could ever imagine. And so what does he do? Abram, first of all, in seeing this, has his heart touched. And verse six tells us that he believed God. That's a beautiful verse, isn't it? Nothing's changed in the circumstance. Nothing's happened. He hasn't seen anything happen in children. But God has spoken to him. Adonai has said, I am your brother. Master, I will provide. And Abram believed the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness Now, in order to understand what that means, that he credited to him as righteousness, you know you need to understand how he fulfilled the promise. And so Genesis chapter 21 begins to unfold how God fulfilled his promise. And in Genesis chapter 21 you read that God gave to Abraham and to Sarah a child They called his name Isaac, meaning Laughter. For he was the child of the promise. He didn't come until thirty years after that promise had been given. Thirty years Abram had a wait in faith, but God did fulfill it in a physical, tangible way. He's given a child, a literal fulfillment, and there's great joy. But just so that Abram remembers That he's the servant, and that God is the Adonai. When that child grows to be a teenager, God tests Abram that he might remember whose child it is And you remember how he calls Abram out and he says, I want you to sacrifice to me your only son. And so Abram now, having grown in faith, trusts that Adonai will provide. And he takes Isaac the very next morning. And he takes him in order to sacrifice him He takes him to the mount, and he's ready to plunge the knife into his own son's breast. Adonai provides a ram, a substitute for Isaac, as a picture of the fulfillment of this seed that he's promised Abraham And the ram is a substitute for Isaac, and he says, I know now that you've believed me, and that you wouldn't even withhold your own son. You understand now, Abram. I'm Adonai. And you're the servant. Unquestioning obedience is your responsibility. Is yours and mine And so God continues in the fulfillment of this down through the ages, one after another of Abraham's heirs come. God promises that they will be a king on his throne forever. And then when you come to the New Testament, the very first verse that you read in Matthew 1:1 Is this the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham? And Matthew wants you and me to understand very clearly that Jesus is the son of Abraham. He's the promised son and the promised seed And just in case you'd miss it there, Paul makes a big deal of it. In Galatians chapter 3, where he says in verse 16: the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. The scripture does not say unto seeds, meaning that by that, many people, but unto your seed, meaning one person, who is Christ. The Messiah is the seed, the son of Abraham. Romans chapter 4 says that through the seed The son of Abraham. God was going to have many sons in him, who are those who have faith like Abraham in the provision of God for sin, his son Jesus. And Galatians 3 goes on to say that very same thing in verse 29. If ye belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed, and heirs according to that same promise. Isn't that amazing? God has said that you and I are the fulfillment of that promise given to Abraham back there in that lonely place. Now, remember that when Abraham had that promise, he didn't have an understanding that there was somebody writing down what he was believing or not believing. And was going to preserve that for all posterity, to put into the Bible so you and I would read it thousands of years later. He had God's word, and he simply had the choice, do I believe Adonai or do I not. If Abraham could have only seen the consequences of whether he believed or whether he didn't And as I thought of that, I thought about you and me. Sometimes you and I think it doesn't really matter very much whether I believe Jesus Christ this week. He's given this promise, and I can believe it or I cannot. I can trust him and rest in his promise, or I can go on my own, my own scheming, my own designing, my own gutting it out, my own strength. And you and I have no idea of the consequences of whether we believe Jesus or not. You have no idea of the consequences that will be revealed throughout eternity. Whether or not you believe Jesus this week and take him at his word, Abraham could have never foreseen all that flowed out of his active faith. And you and I cannot know now, but will know in eternity the consequences of whether you believe him step by step as you walk Or whether you doubt and hold back and say, Well, I can't really trust myself to him in this promise fully. I've got to design my own way of escape. But because Abram believed, because Adonai is Adonai, and because he sent his son Jesus as the substitute in fulfillment of that ram. To take your sin and my sin, and to take that sin and to judge it in his own son, as that ram that was slain, whose blood was shed, and who was cursed as a substitute for you and for me. You and I have life in his name. Did God fulfill that promise to Abram? Revelation chapter 10, chapter 7, speaks of the tribes of Israel, of those who came from Abram. And look how it describes them. In verse 9 of Revelation 7, John says, After this I looked, and before me there was a great multitude that no one could count. From every nation, tribe, people, and language standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. For they were wearing white robes For they were holding palm branches in their hands. And they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Amen. Amen. That is the fulfillment of the promise of the seed to Abraham. God said, I'm going to give you a seed And oh, if Abram could have only seen how God would fulfill that. What an illustrious family this guy's had. And you and I, by faith, are part of that family. In Jesus Christ. You and I can believe him or we can doubt him. The servant of an Adonai in Israel, there was a distinction. If that servant was a purchased bond slave Rather than a hired servant who came and went, decided he was going to serve the master for a while and then decided to leave. If rather that person decided to be a bond slave, was purchased and was a slave for life. The law of God said that that slave should be treated as a son. The slave, for instance, if he was an alien, was given the right and the privilege of taking the passive And so Jesus says in John twelve twenty-six, and my servant must follow me. And if my servant follows me, my father will honor my servant. You and I are servants of Jesus, who is our Adonai. But if you're a servant for life, then you're his son. And every time you and I come to the Lord's table to celebrate the Lord's Supper, And that table speaks to you and to me of the fact that you're not just his servant, but that you're his son, and that he's your Adonai. And that whatever his need, his promises pertain to you. And so you see those two things I have down there at the end. Two consequences for your life and for mine. One, that this should be a comfort to you. A comfort in the fact that God has said That you can have confidence, whatever your trouble. Confidence this morning, because you're not simply his servant. You're his son. And because of that, Adam I who can do the impossible will provide for your every need He's faithful to his promise. What is it that you need this morning? What is your heart saying, Oh Adonai, what can you give me? Since in my life I still lack this, go to God's Word. See if there's a promise that pertains to that Study that word and find out. Maybe it's something you're claiming that you have no right claiming. Maybe it's something you're claiming and you've lost confidence in God's promise. Check those promises. And then affirm again if God could provide a child for Abraham, and not just a child. Not just a few children, not just a son on the throne for a few years like David and Solomon, but that God has provided an innumerable host of children. An innumerable seed for Abraham, a whole kingdom like the stars of heaven and the sands of the sea. And surely he's able to fulfill his promise to me. What is that promise that you're seeking? Put it down. Say afternoon. I encourage you and challenge you to reaffirm your faith in Adonai, your provider. May you have confidence also in your evangelism. Because Adonai is calling out sons to himself. He is calling out a seed. He's continuing to add to that kingdom that he spoke to Abram about. And that kingdom isn't filled yet. Now there isn't the representative of every tribe and nation and tongue. There isn't that representative, and there's not the fullness of the representatives of all those that he is calling out. And so God is sovereignly continuing to use the stammering of even people like you and me. Who when we're afraid and somebody brings up something and we're afraid to talk about Jesus if we just read, oh Adam I. You're still calling out children to yourself. Help me now. Because maybe here's a person that you want to be yours. Oh Lord, help me to be face. To be confident that you can use even me. And trust him this week and see what he'll do For his way of adding to the family, not to great evangelists primarily, but is to his people, like you and me. On Tuesday evening, we're going to gather right here, and I hope that most of you will be right back here, to call on God to do great and unprecedented things in our county. To call people out to himself. Because we believe that he's Adonai. Do you believe that this morning? Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, we Find in our hearts that which witnesses to us of the truth of your word, and we want to cry out, oh, Adam I we believe. Yet, Lord, there's that doubt. We pray, Lord, that you would speak to each heart here that you who gave that impossible promise to Abram Of a seed that would issue forth in a whole new generation, a new humanity that you would create through him and through your son Jesus. Have fulfilled that promise on our still fulfilling it. And you have called us as sons into your kingdom that we might have the right as children to cry out to you in our needs. Help us to believe. That you're still fulfilling those promises. And that you will do that for each of us as we cry out to you, whether for forgiveness and healing. Or whether for some particular promise that we've doubted and almost given up on, hear us. In Jesus' name. Amen.