Turning your Bibles to Joshua chapter five Israel had just crossed the Jordan River, were coming to take their inheritance that God had promised, the land of Canaan. They were taking it as God had promised, not by their own power, for the inhabitants were giants living in walled cities But it was an exciting time, for God had brought them through the Jordan. The first thing that they did was to circumcise all the males as an indication that they were a people who belonged to God. And then after that, they had a giant Passover feast, sort of like our celebrating the Lord's Supper together. It was a great celebration No doubt there were a number of speeches made on that occasion about God's faithfulness and how God had provided for them a great new leader, Joshua. One who followed Moses, but in whom they could see God at work, and probably a number of very positive things said about this great new leader, Joshua, who was coming to take them into the land. The next day, Joshua felt a need to be alone. And so he got out, off by himself, probably with some very mixed emotions. On the one hand, I imagine that he probably felt somewhat puffed up by the adulation of the crowds. That's always a very difficult thing to cope with. On the other hand, I imagine he was struck with the fact of the responsibility that he had now to lead the people of God into some very bloody battles And so it's with mixed emotions that Joshua gets out outside the camp, looks over into the distance, and sees that walled city of Jericho. And just as he does, suddenly there is a man standing before him with a drawn sword. Let's read the incident that I'm describing here from Joshua chapter 5. Joshua chapter 5, let's hear God's word just from verses 13 to 15. Now when Joshua was near Jericho, He looked up and he saw a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua went up to him and asked, Are you for us or for our enemies? Neither, he replied, but as commander of the army of the Lord I have now come. And then Joshua fell face downward to the ground in reverence. And asked him, What message does my Lord have for his servant? The commander of the Lord's army replied, Take off your sandals For the place where you are standing is holy. And Joshua did so. Said as the strange man in verse 13. A man standing in front of him with a drawn sword. You've probably been startled at some time or another when somebody all of a sudden is right next to you or in front of you or behind you that you didn't know was there. How much more if they have a drawn sword in their hand? I think it was kind of bold of Joshua to go right up to him. It doesn't say ran, scooted back to camp. It says Joshua went up to him. And he asked him, Are you for us or for our enemies? And then he receives that answer, neither. That's not the point, whether I'm for you or I'm for the Canaanites. But as the commander of the army of the Lord I have now come. Interesting to me that Joshua doesn't say at that point What do you mean, buddy? I'm the commander of the Lord's army around here. Haven't you been hearing what those people have been saying about me back there at the Passover feast? Haven't you heard? I'm the one who's led the people across the Jordan. I'm the one who's appointed to lead them to take Jericho and the rest of the land of Canaan. What do you mean that you're the commander of the Lord's army? Gordon MacDonald once said that the greatest pitfall for any Christian leader is to begin to believe his own press releases. And Joshua did not succumb to that. Rather, Joshua falls face downward, prostrate on the ground, in reverence. And he asks the question you see there in verse 14, what message does my Lord have for his servant? Now you notice that in verse 14, that word Lord is different from the way it appears in verse 15. In verse 14, it's capital L small O R D. In verse 15, it's capital L small capital O R D. And that's because those are two entirely different names of God. And as we pointed out in this series on the names of God, the small O R D Lord is the name Adonai. Totally different from the covenant name of God, Yahweh or Jehovah, that's L small capital O-R-D. Adonai is the master. Adonai is the one who provides for his servants and who expects unquestioning obedience from his servants. And so you see, this question makes good sense in using the name Adonai. What message does my Adonai have for his servant? Joshua realizes now that he is standing before the presence of the Lord Himself. He realizes that this one who is the commander of the army of the Lord is not only the commander of Israel. This one is the commander of the Lord of hosts and of all the heavenly hosts of God's army. And so Joshua comes Face down, prostrate, flat out on the ground, licking the dust, and says, What message does my Adonai have for his servant? Thanks, Lord. I'd almost forgotten that you're the one who's leading this army and not me. I was in danger of forgetting that these are your people. They're not my people. And from time to time I've got to come back and I've got to remember or else the Lord's going to show me by discipline. The Columbia Presbyterian Church is not my church. This church doesn't belong to me or the other pastoral staff or to the elders. The Lord Jesus, as you've heard many times if you've been around here for a while, the Lord Jesus is the head pastor of Columbia Presbyterian Church. We're his people. And it's his church. And that's a tremendous relief to me. And because if I had to worry about the finances, If I had to worry about providing the facility, if I had to worry about raising up elders and deacons, if I had to worry about producing growth and grace, In bringing people to a saving knowledge of Christ by my changing their hearts, I'd be in a hopeless situation. But just as the Lord Adonai said to Joshua that day, It's not your army, Joshua. It's not your people. I'm the commander of this army. So he says to you and to me Whether as part of Columbia Presbyterian Church or you're visiting from another church, or in the broader perspective, we see ourselves as part of the Howard County Coalition for Renewal, it is the Lord who leads his church. You and I are simply his servants to do his bidding. But how freeing that is, if we can give up the ownership of that. It's not your Bible study that you're leading. It's not your small group that you're leading. It's not your laugh community that you're leading Those aren't your ministries that God has called you to serve him in. They're his people. And that's his ministry. And you're a servant. And as long as you keep that perspective, as you serve the Lord in whatever ministry He's called you to be part of in our body, you'll be free. But if you take it on yourself, He will be an intolerable burden. What message does my Adonai have for his servant? And then the Lord gives them a further reminder that this is God Himself. Verse 15, the commander of the Lord's army replied, Take off your sandals, Joshua. The place where you're standing is holy. And there's no questions. Joshua simply does so. You see, Adonai has got to get his servant into that position before he's going to be ready to hear the difficult thing that Adonai is about to say to him. This, then, in case you're wondering, is the first point. The attitude of a servant. The first point in your bulletin outline. The attitude of a servant. Thought I wasn't going to give it to you, didn't you? Thought I'd passed it. But that's what it is. You see, there's only one way for you and for me to hear God's word That is prostrate with our shoes off and with a question on our lips, what does my Adonai have to say to his servant, what message does my Adonai have for his servant? Now I'm not saying that in order to hear this message, that y'all ought to get prostrate on the floor here of Smith Theater and take off your shoes and look up at me from the ground. Although I'm not entirely against prostration in worship. In fact, I wish that we could, in our worship, kneel. I think that body language is a powerful statement in worship. And I wish that we could kneel here, and maybe when we design the new facility we'll have some place there. Uh Chuck take note here, you know, that uh we'll have some facility that we can kneel in our worship. And I'm not asking you to all take off your shoes. That's okay. You can leave them on. Probably be better for those around you anyway. But I am saying that in our hearts, in order for us to hear the word of Adonai. There must be that attitude of prostration. My shoes are off because it's holy ground. And my question is, what message does my Adonai have? have for his servant, ready to hear and to do. I understand that Dwight L. Moody and George Mueller both read scripture always on their knees In order to remind themselves in their own personal devotions that it was the word of Adonai that was coming to them, and not a book that was just of curiosity or interest. I've done that a number of times. And I find it in fact a very helpful exercise. I commend it to you this week. If you've never done it before, try it at least twice this week. Maybe the first time you'll feel so awkward and You won't get a whole lot out. But at least twice this week, let me recommend that when you read the scripture in your own devotional time, take part of that time to read it on your knees Just lay the book, the Bible out onto a chair, kneel at that chair, and read it in that position. It does something to you. As Joshua, prostrate before the Lord in that situation, to make you realize that he is Adonai the master, and you are the servant, ready to hear his word. That you're ready to do it. What is your attitude towards Scripture when you read it? Do you read Scripture to find out whether God is going to give you a blessing? Maybe hoping you'll get some jolt for the day that'll help you to feel better and concerning his will to find out what he has to say and then decide after you've found it out whether you're going to do it or not That's not the attitude of a servant of Adonai. But it's the attitude of Joshua, prostrate, shoes off, the question on my lips: what does my Adonai have to say to a servant? So that when I read Scripture, Lord, what do you want me to do? For you are Adonai, and I'm simply your servant. Or what's your attitude towards sermons when you come to hear them? Typical modern American Christian Comes to hear a sermon and they think something like this, uh, well, you know, I've heard about 10,000 sermons in my life. Man, I hear sermons on tape, I hear sermons on the radio, I hear sermons on television. I've had heard so many sermons I could catalog the text and compare them with the preachers. And so I come to hear this guy and I say, now what's he going to say that's of any interest to me? Is this going to move me or be a blessing to me, or is this one going to be boring? We'll give it, you know, sort of a rating from one to ten. This one's sort of a two, and that was a three. That was an eight. I remember that was a good one, you know What do we do? We come with our shoes on, standing erect, to judge the preacher and to judge the word. Rather than to come prostrate in our hearts, with our shoes off, coming not to hear the preacher and to judge how well he speaks or How he compares to Chuck Chuck's Windall or somebody else that we like to hear, but rather to say, what does my Adonai have to say to me today? Lord, this is your word. And this is your servant opening that word to me. Disregard him. What are you saying to me through that word this morning? And if you come to judge the word, you won't get anything out of it. Maybe you think thinking, well Uh that's what I do all the time. Of course I come to judge the word. I mean after all, don't you sit and uh night by night, uh week by week uh judge the likes of Peter Jennings and Dan Rather and Diane Sawyer and Connie Chung. You know, one of the pitfalls of the information age is that we are so full of words, aren't we? Constantly getting messages. And we are so full of information. Then we have forgot how to be quiet to listen to the word of God. We have forgotten how to be quiet prostrate with our shoes off and our face lifted up, saying, What does my Ad and I have to say? Say to a servant. And until we can quiet ourselves and take the position of Joshua, we're not going to be ready for the secrets of Adam. and I. For those things that he reveals to those who are ready to hear him, because they're ready to obey. And so now notice By the way, I would suggest that if you're in the habit of doing this, that you underline that last statement in verse 14, what message does my Lord, my Adonai, have for his Sermon. Underline that you might meditate on that, that you might make that your own prayer. Not only this morning, but throughout this week as you read Scripture. So that brings us to the second point, and that is the test of a servant in chapter six. The test of a servant. Adonai begins in chapter 6 with assurance to Joshua in verse 2 that he is the one who's going to deliver Israel. In fact, you notice the way he puts it in verse 2 that he's already done it. Look at chapter 6, verse 2. Then the Lord said to Joshua, See, I have delivered Jericho into your hands, along with its king and its fighting men. I've already done it. It's as good as yours. And Joshua, here's how you're going to do it. You're going to march around that city once a day for six days. You're going to march with the ark, the symbol of my presence carried with you. And then on the seventh day, you're going to march around that city seven times with the ark. You're going to blow the trumpets. And the walls are all going to fall down flat because I'm going to do it. Now can you imagine what Joshua must have felt like as he took that battle plan back to his generals? Battle-hardened desert men who had fought in the wilderness. They call a military strategic meeting. And they all gather together back there in the tent. And they say, Joshua, we've got to ha come up with a plan for Jericho. And Joshua says, Don't worry about it, boys. The Lord's given me the plan. I know what we're going to do. They say, Okay, Joshua, what are we going to do? He says, Well We're going to take the ark and we're going to march around the city once a day for six days. They say, okay And he says, and then the seventh day, we're going to march around the city for seven times with the ark. They say, fine, uh, what next? Well then we're going to blow the trumpets Okay, what else? That's it. The balls are just gonna fall down. Right How long were you out in the sun yesterday, Joshua? And those men must have thought, what kind of a crackpot have we got for a general here anyway? It must have taken tremendous guts for Joshua to declare that plan to them. But you know something? Joshua was able to do that because he had learned to fear Adonai. He had lain prostrate with his shoes off before Adonai as his servant. And when you learn to fear Adonai, you're free from the fear of people. So Joshua was able to state that. There are two foolish things that the Lord commanded for them. One was what they should do, and the other was what they should avoid. First of all, the command was what they should do, which I've just gone over, to march, to blow the trumpets, and to let God bring down the walls. And that was foolish, but the purpose was to show the power of Christ. Sometimes God wants to put us in a weak position and command us to do something that it's impossible for us to do in our own strength, so that he might show the power of Christ in us. But then there's the second side of that. The things that they had to avoid. And God says to them In verses 13, excuse me, 17 to 19, that you are to avoid taking anything out of the city. Spare none of the inhabitants except Rahab and her family. The evil has got to be destroyed utterly. Even the precious metals are to be only brought to the Lord for his tabernacle. Nothing is to be taken and nothing is to be spared. Why is that? That's to show the holiness of Christ. Now there's things in your life and in my life that God commands us to do that we might show his power. There's things that he commands us to avoid, that we might display his holiness. There's things in your life right now. I don't know what they are. I know some things in my life, but I don't know what they are in your life that he's telling you to do. Adonai is telling you, do this. Seems foolish to you. You don't understand why in the world he tells you to do that. It doesn't make sense. It's not the way you'd react normally. But he says, this is what my word tells you to do in this situation. How you're to respond to that enemy, what you're to do in that situation, to give up your rights or whatever it is. Then there's the things that he's telling you to avoid. The things that he's saying that in your life you say, it makes no sense, Lord, what harm can this do? And he says, but my holiness is at stake in you. And you must avoid that. If you belong to me, that must not be part of your life. Let me give you one relevant concrete example: question of things and money. God says, to avoid setting your heart on things, to find your contentment in them. For in finding our contentment in those things or the success that brings them, We come to take on a cancer that will take us away from Jesus. You say, what harm is there in those things? And he says, trust me. Put me first into your life. You say, but what do you want me to do, Lord? And he says, I want you to start by bringing the first fruits. of all that I've provided for you, and to give that as an offering for my people. I want you to trust me in doing that. You say, Lord, that's so foolish. I can't even pay my bills now. How in the world am I going to give to you first off the top and then have less left? And let you provide for me taking care of the bills. I can't it just can't be done, Lord. My common sense tells me I can't do that. And he said, Yeah, that's exactly what Joshua said about Jericho Can you trust me in what I tell you to do? And when I say to bring the first fruits and the ancient benchmark of that, of the tithe, and to give as an offering to me, then I mean that to trust me. I mention that particularly because in our churches we look at our situation, as you see in the sessional prayer requests. It would seem that by the fact that uh the offerings have been about $1,500 a week less than the same time last year Uh that some of us have forgotten to trust the Lord in that manner. I don't know. I you know, that's between you and the Lord where you are in that The fact is that God is calling some of us, I believe, to trust Him in this area. And He's saying, It may seem foolish to you that I say to do this. But the fact is, I've told you in my word that you can trust me. But I've told you in my word that a way to begin to avoid greed is by giving to me what is first of all mine. And then trust me to take care of the provision for you. And if you do that, I'll take care of my church and I'll take care of you and your own life. The question is, do you and I believe that Adonai will vindicate himself? You see, this very practical. Very much has to do with our everyday affairs That brings us to the third point. That is the failure of a servant. The failure of a servant. And that we see in chapter 7. Of course you remember that Israel did what God had said They did obey him. They marched around the city for seven days, the seventh day, seven times, with the Ark of the Covenant, the symbol of the presence of God. And God did, in fact, bring the walls down In a supernatural work of his might, the walls fell flat, and a great victory was given to Israel by the power of God, the same God who lives today. God was vindicated in his foolish command. His people trusted him, and they provided for him. Just as if you trust him, he'll provide for you. But then Joshua got cocky. Joshua forgot that Adonai gives the orders And what was so recently learned in that hillside prostrate with his shoes off and his face turned upward to receive the command from Adonai has been so quickly forgotten. And so after Jericho they come to the next tiny little suburb of Ai. The spies say, hey, this place is a piece of cake. In fact, you're only going to need probably two or three thousand soldiers to waste this place. He can give the rest of the guys a day off. And so they decide to take AI. You notice if you read chapter 7, there's no consulting of Adonai. Joshua doesn't come back to the Lord and say, Lord, what do you want us to do? They simply say, our common sense says just take it. We don't have to consult God's word on this. So functioning by common sense, they act on their own, they take it, and chapter 7, verse 4 says that they are in for a big surprise. That tiny town. After the great walled city of Jericho fell, the tiny town of Ai utterly wraps them. And about thirty-six men lose their lives in that battle. And they are shocked. How could this possibly have happened? How could this tiny city Take us and rout us when we had just accomplished a great victory in Jericho. And of course they're looking at their own strength. As if they had taken Jericho, and they'd forgotten it was Adonai who gave Jericho into their hands. And so Joshua is upset. I mean, he is really upset. He starts off by ripping his clothes apart, and then he prostrates himself before the ark for several hours. When's the last time you lay prostrate in prayer before the Lord for several hours because you were so upset? You just couldn't get up and you couldn't leave. And you had to wrestle this thing out with God. Why would he do this? How in the world could he act like that? But you're not going to leave until you have this thing settled with Adonai. And so after a number of hours there, you read in Joshua chapter 7 and verse 7 that he begins to speak and he says, Ah, sovereign Lord, ah, sovereign Adonai, Jehovah. Why did you ever bring this people across Jordan to deliver us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us? If only we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan. Oh Adonai, what can I say now that Israel has been routed by its enemies? And on and on he goes until finally God stops him. Now it's not often that God interrupts somebody's praying, you know. Usually he can't get us started praying. So he's not about to stop us. But in this case, God stops Joshua. He says, Joshua, stand up. Joshua, get up off of your face in your self-pitying whining and blubbering. Joshua, you didn't consult me. If you had consulted me, I would have shown you that there was sin in the camp. I would have shown you that there was somebody who was greedy and had taken the forbidden thing. But Joshua, you didn't act like a servant. You acted on your own. And now you've been hurt by that, and you're wondering how it happened. Maybe you're in a situation in your life now where you're hurting. You're in a situation where you're wondering, how and why has this happened? And the Lord's whispering to you, stop whining on your face. You haven't sought me. Or I would have shown you what to avoid. And so God speaks to them. Find the person by lot. And they find this one achen. And Achan confesses his sin of grief. He's taken some clothes, and he's taken five pounds of silver, and he's taken a pound and a quarter of gold. Clothes had become his idol. Money and things and what they could buy were irresistible to Achan. He thought that he could find contentment in them. And he said, What harm if I take this for myself? And we're right back to it again, aren't we? What is God telling you to do, and what is he telling you to avoid? And when we put things first, greed is going to begin to take root in our hearts. It will wind up like Achan. Joshua was presumptuous, and he needed to be disciplined. Achan was greedy, and he met death as the fruit of his greed for him and for his family. And you and I are unfaithful servants, aren't we? You and I have been greedy. You and I have been disobedient You and I are convicted when we think of the posture of Joshua prostrate, with his shoes off and his face turned upwards, saying, What message does my Ad and I have for his servant. And we realize we haven't had that posture, and we realize we've gotten ourselves in trouble. And we realize that we've gotten what we deserved. But no, we haven't. For if you and I got what we deserved, we would get what Achan deserved and got. That was to be put into the valley and stoned to death. Because he had disobeyed a holy God. But Adonai has come and he has sent one in our place who has stood in that valley of Acor, and that one is Jesus. And Jesus is the servant of Adonai. And Jesus has come and stood as that faithful servant. And he has taken the punishment that you and I deserved. It said that if you were to roll back the atmosphere around the earth, that the heat of the sun would fry you in a matter of minutes. The atmosphere protects us from that. The atmosphere is like God's common grace, protecting those who live in the heat of that sun, but enjoy its blessing and not its But one day God took his own son, and he rolled back the atmosphere So that there was no protection from his wrath, and the full heat of the sun cursed the very Son of God. So that he, as the ultimate failure and servants, took upon himself all the cursing that you and I deserved. And Jesus thought Unto the curse, so that you and I could be possessed as his servants and his sons Are you trusting him this morning to take the penalty for your failure as a servant? For the ways that you have served yourself and not looked to him Do you have the confidence that Jesus has taken that in your place? That you can go free because you have his righteousness? And are you trusting him? What he's telling you in his word, trusting him in the attitude of prostration and barefooted and with your face lifted, what does my Adam eye have? have to say. What is my Ad and I telling me to do this week? What is my Ad and I telling me to avoid this week? Do you believe that you can trust him? That he's the same God as the God of Joshua, who delivered his people at Jericho? Do you believe that you can trust him? Whatever it is, whether it makes sense to you or not, he will vindicate himself this week if you trust him. For you can trust him. He's fully trustworthy. Amen. Let's pray Lord our God, believe that each one of us have things in our hearts and minds that we're aware of now. And if you come to speak to us, we think, oh Lord. I've been ignoring that. It seemed foolish to me telling me to do that or That hasn't seemed like it's fit with my common sense and I didn't really think I had to avoid that. It didn't make sense to me. What harm could it do? And now, Lord, I see That you're Adonai. And even if it's a very small thing, I'll never really understand your secrets and the treasures of your grace if I'm not willing to listen. Listen, give to us now in these moments obedient hearts that we might look to you to lead and to instruct In Jesus' name. Amen