But here we're here today to to give God's word. Uh and I'm gonna read the text. Uh we're we're Craig and I are gonna walk through portions of Tim first Timothy and it's second Timothy as you heard later in the summer, Lord willing. Let me, today's text is verse 18 of chapter 1 to chapter 2, verse 7. I'm going to read this from the ESV translation of the scriptures. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you That by them you may wage the good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith Among them are Hymeneus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and a quiet life. Quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good. It is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time. This for this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I'm telling the truth, I'm not lying, a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. God's word is pray. But I pray you would bless this time and your word as we think through the fact that uh we're we're poor we're in war as Christians. We don't realize it, but we are So we pray that this time in your word would be fruitful in our lives as we seek to follow you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well as you see my title is Kingdom Warfare. Kingdom Warfare. Jesus talked a lot about the kingdom of God, didn't he, in the Gospels, if you've read the Gospels. Verse 18, this interesting phrase, by them you may wage the good warfare. Wage the good warfare. The NRV translated to the Fight the good fight. Fight the good fight. Wage good warfare. In warfare, generals map out strategies to accomplish the ultimate goal of victory. Over their opponent. But then there are specific tactics that are need that need to be done in order to accomplish the strategies that will produce victory, right? A strategy is what you want to do, a tactic is how you plan to do it. And I've never fought in a war. My dad was a World War II veteran, but I never fought in a war. But I've played chess. In fact, at Source Hall, Bill and I were roommates at Source Hall, in Frostburg, we played chess. And I learned very quickly, don't play against Bill I can never beat him. But what we did was we we played doubles. We had two on two chess. You ever done that? It's crazy crazy. You have a partner and you're on the same you you you you have the same color but you can't communicate you can't to come up with a common strategy you have to anticipate the strategy of your partner I always wanted Bill to be my partner, but that's another story. The golden chest is a checkmate of the king. The corner of the king immobilized the king And you may have a strategy in your mind, but your partner may have a different strategy, and so you don't succeed. It's a challenge to figure out strategy. The good news is that God has given us a strategy for this warfare. Amen. He's given us a strategy. Matthew 8, 28, 18 through 20 says, where he says, um, we're to go and make disciples among the nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, and lo, I'm with you always to the end of the earth. That's our strat. That's what we're to do. That's the calling card of the church. God's goal is to go into all the world. Impact the world with a message about the person and the work of Jesus Christ. His strategy is really simply make disciples. Make disciples, Christ's followers who will cluster together for worship and for mission. Tactics, he gives a couple of the tactics, baptizing and teaching to observe. Now, in the book of Deuteronomy, Moses. His words come to the children of Israel. They're on the verge of going into the promised land, and their goal was to destroy the idolatry, the worship of false gods. Those who had lived lives that were in clear opposition to the will of a holy creator. They had a clear commission from God through Moses. Wipe out the wicked people of the land and establish a cluster of new communities that would model what it means for mankind to reflect the image of a holy, loving Creator God. Jesus, like Moses, gave his marching orders to his Joshuas, his apostles, but the strategy is radically different. They're to put out idolatry as well. By transforming idolaters, not by killing them. By turning idolaters into disciples of Jesus. A clear commission. Make disciples, not converts, make disciples, and who would do what? Establish clusters of new communities that would model what it means for mankind to reflect the image of God who is holy and loving creator. That's our calling, Saints. Now the problem is we have an invisible enemy who doesn't like that. Who doesn't agree with that calling, doesn't like that calling. Satan. He hates God. He hates God's son. He hates the people who love God's son. And he hates the disciple-making agenda of those who love God's son. And the important spiritual battlefield in many ways is the minds and hearts of you and of me. That's where the battle lies. We have a problem. Unfortunately, we can go through life totally ignoring the reality of spiritual warfare. That pleases Satan when we do that, but but when we do, our faith tends to diminish into complacency and and apathy and in fact it can even drift into unbelief and falling away from faith The pastor today we're going to see that the kind of faith that defeats Satan, the kind of faith that defeats Satan, who is the enemy of Jesus and who is our enemy. I'm going to look at three things. First, the kind of faith that advances God's kingdom against Satan is a persevering faith, verses 18 to 20. We'll spend a lot of time on that one. Then we're going to talk about the kind of faith that defeats Satan is a praying faith. Verses 1 to 3 of chapter 2. And then it's a proclaiming faith. Verses 4 through 7. Faith to defeat Satan, first of all, is a persevering faith. This charge I entrust you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies That you wage war, the good warfare, fight the good fight. The apostle reminds his young disciple and fellow church planter Timothy that we're in a war. Timothy is to wage the good warfare, fight the good fight. It was Tuesday morning, September 11th 2001. Many of you remember where you were that morning. I always recall where I was that morning. That decisive morning in the history of the United States of America The children had uh we I'd got the children all five of our kids were at school at school now and Terry had gone to work and I had a meeting I think around 11 o'clock that day So I was I was last in the house. And uh and to be frank, to be honest, to be very transparent, um, the night before I had heard that my Washington Wizards general manager Michael Jordan Was gonna put on a uniform and play. And I hadn't seen so I said, Let me turn the TV on and see what's going on. Now they played something from the night before, and for and for for about 45 minutes, I watched and say, Yeah, this rumor is true. About 9. 55, I turned it off. Says, okay, I gotta meet at 11 o'clock. Let me go let me get ready to go to work. I looked, the dishes were dirty from the breakfast because I hadn't done them yet. I said we do the dishes. I turned the radio. We had a radio in our you probably don't have a radio in your kitchen anymore. We had a radio in our kitchen, okay? I turned it on and I said, what's going on? It wasn't the it I was I was hoping to hear the the 10 o'clock news. It was like three minutes to 10 and I said what's going on here it wasn't what I expected and then about 20 seconds later my sister called from Dallas, Texas. She said, all she said was, I stand, um, mommy and daddy, they're not in the air. They're still here in Dallas. I said, what's going on? Well, as you know, that day was a faithful day. My parents were in Dallas. They had a flight scheduled early for the first flight, but they they decided to take the second flight. They never got in the air. That day is the day where the two twin towers were hit. And so my sister explained to me this this guy who who didn't know what was happening, though the whole world knew what was happening, I didn't know what was going on because of Michael Jordan and Red Wizards. That's not the story. For an hour, there was a war going on. I didn't know about it. That's where a lot of believers are. There's a war going on. We're oblivious to it. Many followers of Jesus. That's where we are. Paul gives an apostolic charge then to Timothy, who's a leader, a pastor. He began the charge in chapter 1, verse 3. I urge you to charge certain persons not to teach any other different doctrine. Verse 5, the aim of our charge, love that issues from a pure heart, a good conscience, a sincere faith. And now here he says, This charge I entrust. To you. Charge. It's a military word, isn't it? Although Timothy is a friend and a brother in Christ, Paul postures himself as a higher-ranking officer, giving a command to his lieutenant. Paul exhorts him to set things right in Ephesus, where there were very influential, charismatic, false teachers deceiving the saints. So Paul predicted, they predicted that in Acts chapter 20, fierce wolves would infiltrate the flock at Ephesus, speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them. Because he knows Timothy's natural hesitancy, Paul urges him, don't pull back. Don't retreat. Courageously stay in the battle. Stand your ground, Timothy. Fight the good fight. And this charge includes a very specific admonition to hold on to faith and a good conscience. Again, similar to what he said in verse 5. The aim of our charge to love a love that issues from a pure heart, a good conscience, and sincere faith. He says, he goes on, he says, uh by rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith. faith. Shipwreck of their faith. They've gotten off course. They've gone AWOL in one sense. They left in the middle of the battle. They've strayed. It's interesting. Uh just since since the the the the COVID lockdown experience of our country the last few years and other things, the statistics I've last seen were that two out of every five pastors Feels like quitting. It's been tough on pastors. In our presbytery, for various reasons, about a year ago, of our 36 churches, nine were without pastors. You were one of them, by the way. Nine out of 36. There's a crisis in leadership going on. The kingdom needs leaders. Leaders are falling for various reasons. Falling, shifting, whatever. Pray for leaders. In verse 20, Paul then gives two examples of men who went AWOL, who failed to persevere. in this charge. Verse 20. Homene Hymeneus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. They weren't just leaders looking for a different call. They fell into sin of some type, some error of some type. And we find out more of what the type that sent that error might have been in in 2 Timothy. Look at 2 Timothy chapter 2, 16 to 18, where Paul says to Timothy again in his second letter Avoid in irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are, he names two people again, and the first one is Hymenaeus, the same guy he mentioned in 1 Timothy, Hymenaeus and Philetus. Who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They're upsetting the faith of some. So it seems that the era here was not a moral thing. It was a theological drift that happened as they began to speak heresy. Paul points to Satan as the one who is behind this deception and defection. Of these men. Here are a few of Satan's tactics that Satan uses to come against our hearts and minds: heresy, doctrinal error, lack of clarity regarding the essential truths of the faith. Disunity. Believers fighting over insignificant things. Immorality. Scandalous living. Bonding bondage to sins of the flesh. doubt giving us the lack of assurance of the gospel and in the word of God and in our ability to really truly embrace Christ Discouragement, causing us to lose our joy, the joy of serving. And sometimes that discouragement is because we see heresy, disunity, immorality, and doubt. We just get discouraged, don't we? Paul has already shown himself in 1 Timothy as a faithful warrior in this battle. An example of someone who has persevered. He didn't say it with a very proud voice in an arrogant way, but in humility. I'm going to read verses 12 to 17, the passage right before our text. Listen to what Paul said. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor. An insolent opponent, but I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me With the faith and love there in Christ Jesus. You see his humility here. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. of whom I am the most, I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example of those who were to believe in him for eternal life. And then he ends that Section with the sology to him to the king of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Not not unto me, he says, to the eternal God be the glory, because what he's done in my life. Paul, the faithful warrior, had that humility that keeps us from straying, that keeps us from falling. Paul never forgot where he came from. And he never failed to remind people that it was the mercy of God, the kindness of God, the grace of God that saved him, and that keeps him from falling. Here are a few hints, simple hints, at how to persevere, keep our charge as faithful warriors in God's kingdom. By remembering, like Paul, that saving faith and keeping faith is indeed a gift of God's grace. He gives us understanding and he gives us the will and ability to follow him. By regularly talking to God, hearing from God, maintaining our spiritual disciplines. Prayer and Bible study, Bible meditation, and every week in worship, letting the Spirit of God remind you of the gospel and its implications for our lives By hearing and heeding Hebrews 10, not do not neglect the gathering together with other saints, as is the habit of some being among the gathered saints so that we might be encouraged regularly. Our Sunday experience is not only to hear a sermon, It's to praise God and it's to encourage others and to be encouraged by others. Listen, where were you 10 years ago in your faith? Probably in a different place than you are now. Ten years from now, will you still be in the faith? Or will you be like Homenaeus Apheletus? Swerving from the truth. You who are in the work world, what does faith look like on the job for you? Are you processing things through the lens of God's word? And is is that even a factor in your view of your job? Students, college students, freshmen, sophomore, how will you process the many changes and challenges and experiences that you're having on campus? We leave God behind. We enter the dining room, the gym, Fred House, classroom Pause. What would it mean to take God with you into those settings? Youth, teens, what does following Jesus look like when others laugh at you because you go to church? They laugh at your faith. A faith that sometimes you're not even totally convinced about yourself, to be honest. Your questions, your fears, where do you take them? Life is about choices. Every day, every hour, every minute, every hour, the choices we make reveal the true direction of our heart. choose to live by faith to honestly follow Jesus each day even on those days when it's difficult to do so Listen, we can't control our lives, but one thing we can't control is our response to things that happen in our life. In one sense, God's not asking you to follow him 10 years from now, 20 years from now. He's asking you to follow him today. Today. It's a great old gospel song. You might know it. Christy Lane said, I'm only human. I'm just a woman. Help me believe in what I could be in all that I am. Show me this. The stairway that I have to climb. Lord, for my sake, teach me to take one day at a time. Lord, do you remember when you walked among men Well, Jesus, you know, if you're looking below, it's worse now than then. Cheating and stealing, violence and crime. So for my sake, teach me to take one day at a time. One day at a time, sweet Jesus. That's all I'm asking of you. Give me the strength To do every day what I have to do. Yesterday's gone. Sweet Jesus. Tomorrow may never be mine. Lord, help me today Show me the way one day at a time. We persevere step by step, one day at a time. The second thing about a faith that defeats Satan is a faith it's a faith that praise. Chapter 2. First of all, I urge that supplication, prayers intercessions and thanksgiving be made for all people. Paul seems to be shifting in in the book to public worship because he's going to talk next next time you'll see he's talking about public worship The ESV on this verse says he's not listing various ways of prayer, but piling up various terms in reference to prayer for their cumulative impact. He says, pray for all people. This is your family, your friends, acquaintances, enemies, even strangers. Pray for all people. All people need prayer. It's a call also for to pray for civic leaders. Verses two and following two and three. Kings and all who are in high positions. The command is to lift up kings, those in high authoritative positions I believe that our governmental leaders are accountable to God for how they serve. We should pray for them. What are they to do? They're to protect their people, they're to create the capacity for succession and flourishing of their people. There to be some sort of a role model, an example for their people. And they're to create an atmosphere for healthy conversations, especially religious conversations. Among their people. About this verse, Thomas Eddy wrote this. When he, Paul, wrote these words, 1 Timothy 2:1, Emperor Nero was the king over the Roman Empire. And Paul urges Timothy and all of us to pray for our political leaders. His rationale is that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life. I am not sure that Paul disagreed with almost, excuse me, I am sure that Paul disagreed with almost everything Nero politically believed in, yet he urged the church to pray for Nero. Now, the Roman Emperor Nero's immoral lifestyle was bad enough, but he also hated the church. He hated the Jews and did unspeakable things to the early believers. And Paul was in fact prisoned by Nero and eventually beheaded under Nero. You want to really be salt and light in this generation? One simple way to be different than those around you. Talk less to others about our civic leaders and talk more to God about them. Pray for your leaders. There's a result, you see, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly, dignified in every way, that is good and it's pleasing in the sight of the God our Savior. The result is peace on earth and pleasure in heaven. It pleases God our Savior. Faith that defeats Satan, we say it advances God's kingdom. It's a persevering faith. It's a praying faith. The last thing, it's a proclaiming faith. A proclaiming faith, verses 4 through 7. The principle is that the gospel is more easily proclaimed by the church where there's peace in society. That's the connection between uh uh in in verses one through seven when there's peace it's easy to proclaim think of nations that are close where there's authoritative totalitarian leaders that will crush the gospel. The gospel is more easily proclaimed by the church when there's peace in society. That's why we pray for our leaders. But these this verse this verses have some interesting things. I don't have time to go into some of the intrigue of verse 4. Which is the Lord, the Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth Desires, wants, wishes. God's desire. This is theologians love to talk the distinction, the healthy distinction between God's decree and his wish. And there is something there. There's something there. 2 Peter says in chapter 3, verse 9, that he's not willing that any should perish. There's an this there seems to be a contradiction there, but it's not a paradox. We need to hold both those truths together. Indeed, God, we would say that God, if God wants it, if God wishes it, if God wills it, isn't it gonna happen? Well, think about it. It's not that simple. The Bible gives us the will of God, doesn't it? The Bible tells you the will for the God's will for your life. Is it accomplished? Well, I can't say for me it is. I don't know about you. There's something in this this idea of God willing it, therefore it must be, is not that simple. That's all I want to say on it. Here we have God's God's wish is that all people would be saved. God has a heart. Jesus cried over Jerusalem. Because they didn't come to knowledge of the truth. They crucified the Lord of glory. Verse 5. The message. God's wish, God's message. Is in verse 5 and verse 6. There's only one God. There's only one mediator. Jesus, the incarnate Son of God, the God man, mediator. And so there's only one message, a message about this God man who gave himself as a ransom for many. This points to the gospel truth of the substitution, the substitutionary death of Christ. The just one dying for the unjust to bring us to God. One message for all people. God is a savior who desires, wishes that people be saved There's a universal need for salvation. There's a universal offer to our people for salvation But sadly, it does not mean there's a universal experience of salvation. Clearly, scripture doesn't say that. So the simple truth is have you been saved? Have you been delivered? From sin and its consequences by believing in the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Have you come to the knowledge of the truth, embracing him as your only hope? Do you believe the gospel? Christ died for you. your sins to bring us back to the Father he did that repent turn to him believe in him follow him We have a message to proclaim. It's a responsibility to do that. It's a privilege to do that. And all of us are called to do that. Paul says in verse 7: I was appointed a preacher. An apostle, I'm telling you the truth, I'm not lying, a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. Paul was gifted, he was passionate, he had stewarded his gifts to have maximum impact in the kingdom. Preacher, apostle, teacher, Gentiles. Not just for the Jews only, the Jews who have the Old Testament special revelation from God, but for the Gentiles and all people Not just for the people of Asia Minor or the Middle East or where Jesus lived, or where where Timothy lived in Asia Minor, for all Paul himself had cross-cultural instincts and experiences as a Hellenistic Jew in the city of Tarsus. And add to that his theological training under Rabbi Gamaliel in Jerusalem. He had an apostolic leadership calling and giftedness But all of us have gifts, maybe not the kind of gifts that Paul had, but each one of us has gifts to be used to further the cause of the kingdom. Our testimony needs to be heard from our lips and seen from our lives. 1 Peter 3 says, In your hearts, honor Christ the Lord. As holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that's in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect. Satan's kingdom is defeated as we proclaim the good news. So in verse 7, Paul proclaims that gospel, and so should Timothy, and so should we. God's strategy simply is the church. The church must utilize his tactics if we're to defeat the enemies of our enemy of our souls. How do we wage war? Persevering. Standing our ground, not pulling back, praying, gaining strength for the battle, energy to wage war. Proclaiming. Attack the enemy with the sword of the spirit. The word of God. The word of truth. Years ago, there's a movie called Hacksaw Ridge about a man named Donald Dots. Donald Doss was a Seventh-day Adventist, a conscientious objector. A World War II medic. Let me read from an account of his heroism. Desmond Das, an unarmed army medic, saved the lives of dozens of fellow soldiers under fire. On Okinawa in World War II, and became the first conscientious rejector to receive the Medal of Honor. He died in 2006. He was a Seventh-day Adventist, strong faith, persecuted, teased for his faith. He was accompanying troops in battle for a 400-foot high ridge in Okinawa When the Japanese counterattacked, many of the Americans were driven off the ridge, but wounded soldiers were stranded atop of it. Private Dash remained with the wounded, and according to the Medal of Auto Site, He refused to seek cover, carrying them one by one in the face of enemy fire. The movie is fantastic if you see that. He lowered each man on a rope supported, a rope-supported litter and he had devised using double bow-line knots he had learned as a youngster and and tying the makeshift litter to a tree stump serving as an anchor. Every wounded man was lowered to safe a safe spot thirty-five feet below the ridgetop, and then Private Dawes came down the ridge unscathed. He was injured later in battle. But the the estimates are from 50 to 75 soldiers were rescued by him in his heroic way, in this heroic way, uh while the guns were blazing from The enemy. He did his part. He used his his limited. He did he didn't carry a gun and shoot, but he had used his gift to participate in the battle. That's all we're all called to do. We're all in a battle, you see. Some of us feel wounded. Some of us feel beat up. Some of us are shot up. The good news is that we have one who continually comes to our aid in the battle to rescue us in the battle. carrying us to the place where we can find healing and get patched up. So we can get back into the next skirmish that's before us. Saints. Stay in the battle. Persevere. Pray. Keep on proclaiming. God gives you strength. Let's pray. Lord, may we not be like those who are oblivious to the warfare? May we know that souls are at stake. That the world is at stake. That lives are at stake. May we do our part in sharing. With gentleness and meekness, the good news of what you've done in history and in our lives. To your glory we pray. Amen