Feel like a little as if I am uh I have some Presbyterian blood in me. And that is because Your neighbors and your brothers and sisters here on Route 108 at the First Presbyterian Church of Howard County were so open and so loving to us. in those beginning years, when we use their facility, even at the very beginning to reproduce our bulletins, never charged us anything. Of course we w uh gave uh them a gift to their missions and what have you, but There we use that facility for our revivals, for weddings, for funerals. And it was just outstanding as we wandered in the desert for many years as you all did, before God blessed you with this beautiful facility. And what a wonderful facility it is. Well, I want to share this morning with you from my heart. Um First Corinthians chapter one and verse ten And I will be referring to several passages that I will be asking you to turn to if you care to turn to them. Um usually I don't have that many passages being read that I read during the message, but um I believe this day this morning we will be sharing from those those passages. First Corinthians chapter one, verse ten I appeal to you, brothers. And it means, sisters, also, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree with one another. So that there may be no divisions among you, and that you may be perfectly united in mind and in thought. The oneness of those in Christ Jesus Let's pray. And our Father, we do pray that you would guide us now in this time of study of your word. We pray for your wisdom and your insight and your direction now. Thank you for what you have been to us, and what you are going to be to us. We pray for your anointing and your unction in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. If there is a theme woven throughout the pages of Holy Writ Other than the theme of love, God extended to mankind through the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the theme of unity. At the very beginning, in the creation event, there was the unity. Of the Godhead in Genesis chapter one and verse twenty-six, when God said, Let us Triunity of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, make man in our image, in our likeness. And there was the oneness of Adam and Eve, with Eve being taken from Adam. Being made from his rib, God took from his side. In Genesis 2 and verses 23 and 24. The man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh. This theme is continued in the prophets when Amos said in chapter three and verse three Do two walk together unless they have agreed to do so? And it is carried forth in the Gospels as Jesus prayed to the Father. In John seventeen, and I want to read that to you verses Twenty through twenty-three. My prayer is not for them alone I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me. And I am in you, may they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one. As we are one. I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity. To let the world know that you sent me and have loved me even as you have loved me. And here in the epistles are letters written to the church making application. Of the principles of unity taught by Jesus, as he set into motion those principles laid down in the Old Testament. Paul appeals to the baby Christians in Corinth and to us. Using the generic term brothers, meaning, of course, brothers and sisters But this title, brothers, also involves an appeal and is used to soften the reproof. He is about to lay on them. I appeal to you, brothers In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, Paul is saying, I have a right to correct and rebuke you As Second Timothy verses three, chapter three, rather, and verses sixteen through Chapter 4 and verse 2 instructs. And I want to read that to you. I said I wanted to read a number of passages. All scripture, he says, is God breathes and is useful for teaching Rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness, so that the man, the woman of God, may be thoroughly equipped. For every good work in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who will judge the living and the dead, and in view of his appearing, And his kingdom, I give you this charge. Preach the word. Be prepared in season and out of season. Correct Rebuke and encourage with great patience and careful instruction. Paul says. I teach, I correct, and I rebuke you on behalf of our Lord, our Master, our Savior. Our God, the Lord Jesus Christ. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, in verse 4, he says, For Christ's love. Compels us. And in First Corinthians 9 and verse 16, he says, I am compelled to preach, to teach. Woe to me if I do not preach, if I do not teach the gospel. Paul says, because you are in Christ Because you are saved, because you are Christians, because if you want to stay right with God. I appeal to you to get your act together or to put it in a stronger vernacular of the streets of my earlier days. You better straighten up and fly right. The application of that crucial principle That must be evident in the life of every child of God is unity Oneness of those in Christ And Paul puts it in very clear and precise terms, saying, All of you agree with one another. What is the need to agree with each other so that there may be no divisions among you? God's will and God's way is not the way of division and strife This is the way of the world, the way of the adversary, but not the way of Christ. Quite frankly, you see We really can't expect peace and tranquility. From any persons or governments that are not trusting Christ as Lord and Savior. People who are not trusting Christ as their Savior do not have God as their Father. It's as simple as that. But rather. As John chapter eight and verse thirty-eight says. Verses forty-one and forty-four, and those verses They belong to your father, it says, the devil. And you want to carry out your father, the devil's desire. Now that's what the Word of God says. And his decree is for chaos and confusion and strife. And bitterness and separation and conflict So you see anybody who's causing division and trouble in the church Remember what 2 Timothy said? It is my responsibility. It is Pastor Harris's, Pastor Steve's. Responsibility to make sure that we take a checkup. Take a checkup from the neck up. What are your motives What are you planning Check out whether or not you really have your father as God, or whether or not your father is the devil. The Bible says they belong to their father, the devil. If your father is the devil, you cannot be saved. Romans six and verse seventeen says to mark those who cause division. Keep away from them. That's what the word says. The desire. Of the adversary is for chaos and confusion. He is a thief and a robber. John chapter 10 and verse 10 says, He comes only to steal and to kill and to destroy. So I am saying to you, my brothers and sisters, this morning, any one who continues in division And showing discord among the flock does not belong to their father God, but belong to their father, the devil. Somebody said, Pastor Bob, how can we all speak the same thing? As the Holy Bible, I have some folk who believe that the only Holy Bible is the King James Version. That's what King James says. They say, how can we all speak the same thing When there are so many different interpretations given by as many people of this same verse and similar passages in the Bible. Well, that's the reason why I believe the NIV in similar versions Help us at this point. I believe they have the correct translation when it says that All of you agree with each other You see, we may not all speak the same thing concerning our understanding of this Word of God. But we can all agree with one another that the word of God is right. We can agree with that. We may never on this earth. All say the same thing with our varied interpretations of that same word. Our different cultural and religious heritages. And that's all right. It's good we celebrate that difference. But all of us who are not looking for excuses to cover our sins, All of us who are not trying to twist and bend the Bible to make it say what we want it to say All of us who are not trying to use the Bible, but rather are allowing the principles from this book to use us. All of us who agree that the Bible is the truth of God, not simply contains the truth of God. All of us who believe that the Bible is without error as it was presented in its original manuscripts. And agree with one another that we are all one in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who makes us one. You see, it matters not what color Or national origin we come from, nor what class or family background may be ours. It matters not whether our roots. In the Presbyterian church or the church of God. Go back five generations. You know how some folk can be puffed up and proud because I've been in this church my generation goes back so fine. I'm the fifth generation Presbyterian. It does not matter what denominational Tag or church organization we are affiliated with, the word of God tells us to agree with one another. That the Lord Jesus Christ is the way, that he is the truth, that he is the life. He is the way to the Father. He is the way to salvation. He is the way to heaven. He is the way to eternal life. You see We are not aiming at ecclesiastical union in this oneness we speak of. That is conformity to the same system or worship style. Nor necessarily are we aiming at theological union. You see, that is conformity to the same scheme of doctrine. Pastor Allen and I have over these years Been able to love and to share and to respect each other because we know what the oneness is in Christ Jesus is Those kinds of unions you see do not touch the spirit and the soul We have been able to touch each other's spirit and each other's soul. Those kinds of unions are merely unions of various parts of a machine. But the kind of union the Apostle Paul is expressing Here in First Corinthians chapter one and verse ten, is the kind modeled by a tree With its varied branches shooting out from the main trunk of the tree. The unity that Paul is speaking of is the unity of Spirit, not unity in the letter But unity in life of the Spirit What is your spirit? I know Alan's spirit. Alan knows my spirit. We have allowed those things that would separate us in spirit To be pushed aside if we dare unite in spirit, if the tree is right If the mind is right in spirit, then God will develop All of those other relationships that we ought to have. It is the unity of the Spirit. In the bond of peace that God is trying to get us to aim at Then at some point it may be when God brings the system to an end. It may be when Jesus comes back again that we will only then maybe be able to Come to the unity of the faith where all of us are saying the same thing and doing the same thing. But at this moment, right now, Ephesians chapter 4, that you've been studying. God wants us to aim for unity of the Spirit. He is seeking unity of the soul. That you may be perfectly united in mind and in thought. This oneness only be expressed By those who are truly in Christ Jesus And are seeking to stay in union with him, in spirit with him As Acts chapter seventeen and verse twenty-eight states, for in him Christ, we live And move and have our being. This, my brothers and sisters Is the unity that Paul is urging It's the Christ His love Who dwells in me and dwells in you that makes us one. That makes us the body of Christ. Denominational walls Of Church of God and Presbyterian do not separate. They cannot separate. And it was this love. That often made people say of those in that first century church See how they love one another. Oh, I pray May this be said of us today. Would you stand with me now as we pray? Down gracious father, we do pray. That by your spirit we will Be able to discern the oneness of those in Christ Jesus We pray, Father, that you make us one. The one who will put down chaos and strife and division. And Father God, we pray that you give The anointing and the unction, the authority that you have given to the leaders that you have placed to be overseers in the church, to correct and to Rebuke and to encourage these whom you have placed to be under authority. We pray, Father, at this oneness that you are urging in your word. Appealing to us that we agree with each other That no divisions will be among us. That we be perfectly united in mind and thought This oneness can only be accomplished as we live As we move, as we have our being in Christ, as we live by the Spirit Walk by the Spirit, we will not fulfill the desires of the sinful nature. And we pray now that it will be said of us this day, Columbia Presbyterian Church Longreach Church of God, see how they love one another We pray in Jesus' name. Amen