But this morning, as we resume our study of 1 Peter, we're going to look at 1 Peter 2, verses 11 and 12. Peter is going to be teaching us at this point a pivotal thought about transitioning into how do we live the Christian life Much like Paul does in his epistles, Peter's beginning to move into a passage built upon the reality of who we are in Christ and teach us how we are then to live. But before we begin that, I want you to imagine that you have met up with a friend that you haven't seen for years, whether it's in a grocery store or out at the school or or at a sports field or at work. But you connect with somebody that is important to you that you haven't known for years, you haven't seen for years. They may have been on a temporary duty assignment, they may have moved away and just be back for a visit, but you're with them and you connect You begin to talk. And in the midst of that conversation with them, as you're catching up with all the things that have gone on in both of your lives over the period of time, you talk about home. And as you talk about home with this person you haven't seen for years, I want you to think for a minute about what you would say, how you would describe it. Even write a few thoughts or phrases down on your outline. So think for a moment and reflect Let me lead us in prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace. We've mentioned that already this morning, and we have had the privilege of seeing how is it work in the lives of this church. As David and Joanna and Emily have come, and as David and Joanna have brought their children into this expression of your body. We thank you for your word, which is the way we know you. And we thank you that you've given us this passage. But mostly, Lord, we thank you for your spirit, for it is your spirit who has given us life. Your spirit that has applied the work Jesus has accomplished to us. And so we pray that you would speak to us this morning, that you would teach us of your truth, that you would encourage us, and that you would equip us. That we might please you. Jesus, we pray these things in your name and for your glory. Amen. Let me read to you the passage this morning that we're going to look at Dear friends, I urge you, as aliens and strangers in the world, to abstain from sinful desires which wage war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. Peter has spent a great deal of time in the first part of his letter to the church up in Asia Minor. Laying the foundation for who we are in Christ. Talking about how we have received the grace and we focus our hope upon that grace. And the implications that that has for us as we live day to day. But he's beginning something here where he wants to focus us back again on that truth that we are aliens and strangers And if you belong to Christ today, you are an alien, a stranger, or better said, a refugee. For that's what the sense of the term stranger means. It means one who does not belong and will not stay long. One who does not belong here. That's why the NIV adds in strangers in the world. Because there's a very real sense that we are here, but we don't belong here. It may have been that he was talking to the Jews who in the diaspora had traveled up into Asia Minor, but there's there's more of a sense than simply being out of your country. There is a sense in this passage of not belonging in this world. Because the dynamic that he sets up is between our flesh Which is our old nature, and our new nature in Christ. So if you belong to Jesus, you are a refugee. If you belong to Jesus, you do not belong here. You are in transit. Now, just to give you a picture of that, one of the things that I've been thinking about this week is how can I communicate this to you Many of you are sports fans, some might say fanatics, and and for you, one of the ways that you may be able to grasp this is that the Orioles a long time ago, several a couple years back, had a really wonderful picture. His name was Mike Messina. Excellent. But he got traded. He got traded to the New York Yankees. So in order to get a sense of what this being a refugee is like, I want you to imagine that both Mike Messina and Derek Jeter get traded to the Orioles. Now for those of you who are Oriol fans, stop salivating. But I want you to imagine not only are they transferred or traded to the Orioles, but they have to play every game they play for the Orioles in Yankee Stadium. Now I'm not a huge sports fan, but I know the personality of the Yankee fans I know the personality of of the area around New York City and and it will not be a pleasant experience for either Messina or Jeter to wear the Oriol uniform and to play in Yankee Stadium They are at odds and they feel very clearly that they are refugees. They do not have home yet I want you to think about what you wrote when you were or thought about as you were discussing in your mind home with your friend. If you're like me, you probably talked about Maryland. You probably talked about your house. You may have talked about your job. You may have talked about the opportunities and the cultural availabilities, the cultural opportunities that you have in this area But brothers and sisters, that's not home. Now if you if you figured out what the blanks were on the outline and recognized that I'm I'm talking about being a refugee, you may have gotten pious. And you may have decided that, well, better said, home is heaven. And so I ought to be talking about my relationship with the Lord and talking about what I anticipate when I wait for my home in heaven. That's what Peter's talking about here. He's talking about being in a place you don't belong. He's talking about being in transition. And the reason he's talking about that is because that is a huge factor in how we live our lives. I want to read a passage from Hebrews 11 that talks about people of faith. It talks about those who understood that they were refugees. It's Hebrews 11 beginning in verse 13. It's a summary that the author of Hebrews is making on the quality of life of these heroes of the faith. And he says, all these people, all these heroes of the faith, were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised, they only saw them and welcomed them from a distance. And they admitted that they were aliens and strangers on earth. People who say such things show that they are looking for a country of their own. If they had been thinking about the country they had left, they would have had opportunity to return. Instead, they were longing for a better country, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. Brothers and sisters, we belong somewhere else. We do not belong here. And if you live in order to make yourself comfortable here, if you focus on the things that here offers you, you will be unsatisfied. And you will not experience the intimacy with God that He longs for you to have This is for those who are in Christ. For those who are in Christ, we belong somewhere else. Where we belong is heaven. We belong with God. We belong to God. We have been bought with a price. We have been traded to a new team. One of the difficulties that I experience with this whole thought is that it doesn't feel fully right. I can trace back my birth to San Angelo, Texas. I can trace back my biological parents. And I love them and I was nurtured by them and I'm familiar with them. I can trace back my growth. And I can look and see what a little scandalous kid I was. I can see how I enjoyed living as a member of the society in which I lived. I was an Air Force brat. I traveled from station to station. I was born in Texas where dad got flight training. We moved to Ohio where he was in the Air Force Institute of Technology. We moved to Northern California where we lived and had a wonderful place. And then we moved to Florida and I had the privilege of living at Cape Kennedy, Florida on Satellite Beach Air Force Base as the Gemini project finished. But not only that, I had the privilege then of living in Houston, Texas, as Apollo took up. Neil Armstrong was my neighbor. I delivered papers to Frank Borman I rode to school with Gus Grissom Jr. It was a wonderful place and a wonderful time. But that's not my home. Because you see, at one point God reached out of heaven and he grabbed me. Now he began by placing me in a Christian home where I was regularly and faithfully taken to church. He taught me of the scriptures. He taught me of faith. He had parents who would love me in Christ. But I still was a citizen of the flesh. I still was a citizen of this world until that time when God in His grace gave me a heart transplant. My home, up until the point where I came into Christ, was here. And it was comfortable. And it was fun and it was exciting and it was exhilarating. And I fully embraced it. But God got a hold of me. Out of his wondrous grace and his incredible love, he gave me a new heart. And I don't belong here anymore. I have a new home I have a new identity. Let me read to you from Galatians, where Paul talks about this. Paul talks about that transformation when he says in chapter 2, verse 19: For through the law I died to the law, that I might live for God. I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. But Christ lives in me. The life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. That's the credo of those who are in Christ. You have died to the law. You have died as Christ was crucified, and you live in Him. Jesus describes us in his last prayer. In John chapter seventeen, Jesus says this I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. Brothers and sisters, if you're in Christ, you do not belong to the world And Peter thinks this is remarkably important. Peter thinks this is dreadfully important to how you live in Christ. We're called to recognize that our citizenship is not here. In Philippians chapter three, Paul says this Join with the others in following my example, brothers, and take note of those who live according to the pattern that we gave you. That's the pattern of the new life as a refugee. For as I have often told you before, and now say again with tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their destiny is destruction, their God is their stomach, and their glory is in their shame. Their mind is on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ. who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body We we live in the dilemma of what is oftentimes called in theological studies the already and the not yet You are already in Christ. You are already fully righteous. You have received a passive righteousness, a perfect righteousness that comes from the work of Christ. It is yours by faith, not by obedience. You are completely already acceptable, loved, and righteous in Jesus But you're not yet home. And the more you live here, the more you find yourself in conflict, because there is still your old nature, and now already your new nature. And they're at war. They are at war. We'll talk about that in a minute. But in that battle that rages in you, do not forget who you are. That's why Peter begins. Beloved, I urge you. I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world, that's who you are. You don't fit here anymore. Not fully, but still too much. Because heaven has become your home. Now, being refugees, and that's the last blank on C, has profound implications on how we live. God is very gracious and He organizes and orchestrates our experiences in remarkable ways. And one of the things that I wanted to share today was the lesson that God taught Anne and taught me in our travels to Ireland about being a refugee. Now it might might be enough already to think that you're going to a foreign country, actually too, because we had to travel from Baltimore to Toronto and over to Dublin And it would have been enough of a shock to go through two countries and different passport controls and different laws and different cultures. But they're really fairly similar. Canada is almost a clone of the US in many ways and is growing more and more that way, unfortunately. Ireland is is part of the United Kingdom, although the Republic is an individual country, and that's where we were. We were in the Republic in the South. But it's still remarkably similar to the US, except that it's green and gorgeous and everything is colored and well maintained. Even in the cities that we went to, it was remarkable to see how well it was maintained, but I digress. We were dropped off by Katie, and it was a really interesting experience to have your daughter drop you off at an airport. at about four o'clock in the afternoon for a seven o'clock flight and we thought you got to go through all sorts of rigmarole to get in and so we got checked in, we waited for the flight and it kept getting postponed. And so we sat there in the international terminal at BWI, and you can go in passport control and you can go out of passport control. um for the international flights, you've got to show ID, you've got to show your ticket. Every time you go through you got you gotta basically be be searched. And and they have really increased security. Um I know that for a fact because I have an artificial hip and my surgeon told me when I had the hip replaced that it was a a wives tail, a myth that the metal in the hip would ever set off a metal screening. And and I almost had three times to show them my scars. to get through is my hip continually set off the alarms on the metal detectors. So we we we sat in this international lounge and kept waiting. And the people from Air Canada that we were flying with Kept saying, do not worry. The problem is that there's thunderstorms in Toronto. Those thunderstorms are affecting every flight trying to go in and out of Toronto, so you don't have to worry about making your connecting flight. It'll be okay. Well many of us were traveling from Baltimore to Toronto to get onto a flight that would go to Dublin and then to Shannon. And what they didn't tell us is that there's a once a day flight from Ireland to America and then in the evening back to Ireland. So prior to these storms ever hitting, our airplane had gotten onto the ground, dis discharged its passengers, been cleaned up, refueled, and ready for takeoff. So While they had all the good intentions of giving us comfort, when we finally took off at eleven o'clock at night in order to try and catch a 1022 departure from Toronto Which had indeed been delayed, but it had been delayed sufficiently so that a half an hour before we landed it took off And so we arrived in Toronto, tired. We'd already sat for seven hours in an airport. We then got on a small airplane for the hour plus flight to Toronto and then we had to get taken from a large terminal way far away from everything else back to the main terminal and everything was closed. And we felt like refugees. And the reason that that's important for you is because a refugee is very focused. As we got to that terminal, the first thing I was looking for was an open air Canada ticket counter. Because we had just lost our flight. And I knew from what I'd heard from the ticket people in Baltimore that the next day's flight was loaded. And they now had all the people from that leg who wanted to go to Ireland. And there was a family of six. There was Anne and myself. There were three ladies who were traveling together. We got to know them all fairly well as we tried to find the ticket counter. And we we realized as we asked around that the ticket counter where we were was a place that would normally have have handled our ticket, and so we decided that we would lay down on these couches that really weren't couches. Not nearly as comfortable as our chairs here. And wait for five in the morning as as the ticket counter opened because we knew that if we didn't get a flight that next day, we were still at risk even the following day and we wanted to make The opportunity we wanted to join the team in Dublin. They were meeting for a certain period of time and if we missed it, we missed it. So we finally did find a ticket counter open that was open until two thirty in the morning. And we finally were able to get the last two tickets for seats that were sitting together on the seven-hour flight to Dublin. Okay, so we had met that one very focused issue. Now the next issue was to find a place to sleep. Being a refugee, uh my first inclination was the couches were okay. But my wife and her wisdom realized that that wasn't okay, and that we would get a bad night's sleep that night, and a bad night's sleep the next night, and be grouches when we finally got into Dublin. And still had to face the issues of getting from Dublin down to Greystone's an hour and a half south. So the second issue was to get a good night's sleep, and that meant that we were going to find a place to get a hotel, and we were going to get into that hotel at three in the morning, and then we were going to have to check out. By eleven in the morning. God was gracious. And we called around and we found a good deal on a hotel, travel lodge on Dixon Road, if you ever want to go to Toronto, I would recommend it. And we were waiting for the shuttle because one of the deals, one of the good parts of the deal was that as you as you get reservations in some of these hotels, they'll pay the $6 per person per way fee to shuttle you to the hotel. And so we got that. And and shortly after we began waiting on on the street for the shuttle to come, there was this minivan that said travel lodge at Dixon Road And I thought, great, that's the way they do it in the United States. It must be the bus that they they sent for us. And so Ann and I began to lift our bags and put them on on minivans. And the driver looked at us like we were crazy I thought, well, but but you came to pick up people to go to the travel lodge at Dixon Road, didn't you? He said, Well yes And there was another man beginning to horn in on our minivan. And we said, Well, we're going to the travel lodge on Dixon Road. Why why wouldn't you take us? And he said, Oh, I guess I can And I'm really confused at this point. I don't understand what's going on, but I'm a refugee and I want to get to the hotel. So he says I can. I put my bags on the van and we go. And as we go, this man who joined Ann and me in this van sat in the front seat in the passenger side. I thought, well that's a rather cheeky individual, but that's okay. You know, we're we're on the the van and we're getting to the hotel. Turns out he was the vice president of the travel lodge who was flying through, had come in at one in the morning and was leaving by five in the morning the next day and the van had come specifically to pick him up. But God was gracious because we got there much more quickly than we would have should we have waited for the large shuttle that goes to all of the hotels And on top of that, this man heard our story and recognized that we we were really struggling because we were hot, we were tired. We were delayed. Everybody had been delayed in the airport that day. And so we walk into the travel lodge, and the first thing he does is ask us to go and check in. He wants to help us. But they're just shutting down their computers for the night and closing out their accounts for that day. And so they can't check us in. But lo and behold, they already have the reservation ready for this gentleman, and so he whizzes by, gets checked in. But as he goes I hear him mumble something to the clerk. And so we begin to negotiate our contract with them and they give us a better room. And they give us a one o'clock checkout time for free. And and and they really take care of us. And so while I'm there in this refugee mindset, God is still showing me his goodness. But the story's not over yet, because we're still in Toronto. So the next day we we sleep late, we get a wonderful breakfast that was thrown in as part of this upgrade in the room without charge. And we relax and we get ready for the day's travel. We finally get to the airport. We we we get on the flight, which by this time on Saturday night does indeed take off at 1022, which is its time And we managed to get some sleep in the airplane. But when we land in Dublin, we're in Dublin. And we have to go through passport control and we have to lug our bags and we have to figure out how in the world we're going to go from the airport, which is a good twenty minutes north of Dublin. into Dublin to catch the dart, which is the Dublin Area Rapid Transit, to go a good hour south to Greystones, which is where everybody else is And And so as a refugee, I've traveled enough with Dick Barnes to have a good understanding of a refugee mindset. And in spite of the fact that he's in Russia, you can talk to him about that We get on a bus that takes us to City Center. We walk through City Center with our bags, following other tourists. And the main station that is where the Dart connects with the bus is closed because they're doing road construction. So we walk for twenty minutes through the city. And I'm getting very tired of this Thankfully, we had arranged to get cash and we had gotten a phone card in the airport, so we'd called the people down in Greystones. They knew we were coming, and we expected them to welcome us And so we finally get on the dark. And we're sitting down and we're thinking, good, now all we have to do is rest. But when you get into Greystones, it's a cute little village, it's a wonderful place to stay. But the dart station's on the other side of town from Kerrigeedon, which is where we were staying. And I had directions But I'm a stranger in a strange town, traveling with two carry-ons and a large suitcase, a wife, and I've got to get us from the dark station to the Kira Gidden. And I'm still a refugee. I'm very focused. I have a task. And I'm not looking, as I stay in that hotel, to rearrange the furniture. When we were in Toronto, we had one thing on our mind. Well no, we had three. A shower, sleep, and food. That was it. I looked at the furniture in that room and I thought this is really nice. No thoughts about rearranging it. The bed should be over here, the table should be over there, so let's move them. No thought about the carpet was the wrong color, so I had to order a change I wasn't looking to be comfortable. I wasn't looking to be home. I was passing through When I got to the Kerrigean, I didn't rearrange the furniture. I didn't ask for a different room. I wasn't looking to make that place my home. I was there for a purpose Brothers and sisters, you are here for a purpose. And understanding that you are a refugee is a critical point for you to accomplish that purpose. You are not here to be comfortable. You are not here to be at home. You are not here to love life. Those are gifts that God gives you, but those are not your focus. Those are not the purpose of life. And Peter tells us in his passage what the purpose of life is. He says to us this: Dear friends, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain. from your sinful desires, which war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they may accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day He visits us. You have three purposes. From this passage, you have three purposes. The overarching purpose is to glorify God. The shorter catechism asks the first question: what is the chief end of man? What are we created to do and to accomplish? And the answer is this: to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Your number one purpose in life is to glorify God. As a refugee, that's your focus. It's not sleep, it's not food. It's not a shower. It's to glorify God. Second Corinthians chapter five. Tim did a lot in opening this passage for us in the last couple of weeks. But earlier than where he began, there's a passage I want you to look at and I want you to mark. So so if you can, time is short, but would you turn Paul describes his refugee mindset, beginning in verse six. Therefore, we are always confident and know that as long as we are at home in the body. We are away from the Lord. We live by faith, not by sight. We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So we make it our goal to please him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. Paul's predominant goal in life. Recognizing that he is a refugee, confident in that status in faith, his predominant goal in life is to please Jesus. Now we may think that to glorify God is a spiritual term, but Paul brings it clear. Because to glorify God is to please Him. It's not something so spiritual that you have to separate yourself from it. It's not something that you are emotionally detached from. It's not something that is An obligation or a burden. It is the desire in your life to please Jesus. Whether you're at home in the body here as a refugee, or whether you're at home in heaven with God who owns you. The goal of your life, purely and simply, is to please Jesus. But Peter goes on, and there's a couple of other things that he talks about here, and we're going to unpack these next week. He says this abstain from sinful desires, which is what the NIV says, which wage war against your soul. The term there is related to the flesh, the sarcs, and it it's it's sarcicoth epithumius. It's fleshly, old nature, old man over-desires. In the King James, it talked about fleshly lusts. In the New King James, I believe it talks about desires, and I'm not sure what it says in the New English. But passions. The issue for us is this. You are already in Christ. You are not yet at home, and you still battle your old nature. Romans 7 talks about that in rich ways. That which I want to do, I don't do. That which I don't want to do, I do. There's a battle that Paul is describing in Romans 7, and it would be very helpful for you to read that this week as we prepare for next Sunday's message. But the truth of the matter is you have an old nature and it has desires that are over-desires. And you begin to experience them when you're very young You may have an over-desire for food, and you may cry at a regular basis as an infant because you want the comfort of your mother's contact and food. As you grow older, it may be toys. And you have a desire for that teething toy that you don't want this other child to play with. And so this other child grabs the toy, you see it, and you scream. Because life, comfort, and well-being is found in possessing that toy. As you get older, it may be other forms of toys. It may be music, it may be movies, it may be entertainment, it may be possessions, it may be clothes. All of which are good things. There are things that are given to us in which it is appropriate to desire, but inappropriate to over-desire. Yet that's our natural inclination in the old self. As you get older, it may be fitness, it may be athletic success, it may be academic success. It may be health. It may be that mechanical things work well for you, and that has been one of my constant struggles But God is still gracious and good, and and since I left for Ireland my computer, which is a very nice computer, is no longer a very nice computer. As a matter of fact, this week it's not even in my possession Because although it's a, for those of you who are technically oriented, Pentium 3650 MHz, which should be very fast, it believes that it's a Pentium-383 MHz, which is not very fast. And so God has been showing me in my desire for material things to work well, that He's much more important to me and much more necessary for my well-being than a functional computer. And that's very good. Because it reminds me that I'm still, even though I'm home, a refugee, and that my well-being will not come from things in this world. The problem with each of these desires that makes them an over-desire is if you believe they're the source of your well-being, if just having this thing will make you happy, if having this nature of relationship with your spouse will make you happy, if having your son Or daughter be obedient will make you happy. If having this praise from your employer will make you happy, if having this in your next house will make you happy, if being able to wake up without a headache will make you happy. You're wrong. Because it won't. And if you look back on every aspect of your life and you see everything that you've lusted for With the belief that it would satisfy, once you received it, you'll recognize that it may have been a day, it may have been two days. If you're really fortunate it was a whiz-bang thing, it may have been a week But at the end of that time, you're looking for the next thing. You're looking for the next improvement in your relationships. You're looking for the next praise from your boss. You're looking for the next toy to make it better. The next piece of clothing. And it never will make it better. You see, those are your fleshly over-desires that wage war against your soul And that's one battle that we face. But the second battle that we face is this in verse 12: Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds. And glorify God on the day that He visits us. Brothers and sisters, one of the things that is very difficult is to do good to those who reject you In the Greek, Peter is saying, live such noble lives before those who speak evil against you. That they will glorify God on the basis of what they have seen when He comes to them. And we'll unpack that next week. But it is a call to engagement. We are called to abstain from the over-desires because they cannot do what they promise, and we are called to engage with those who hate us. And the only way you can do that is because you are a refugee. Because you are in Christ, and you have his grace. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we absolutely completely depend upon you And so we pray that you will make clear your presence, that you will give your spirit in rich measure to transform us. Both as refugees, but also as men and women, boys and girls who long to please you and are empowered by your spirit to follow through on that longing. We pray this Jesus in your most precious name. Amen