Our scripture lesson this morning is found in the New Testament, the New Testament book of Hebrews, chapter twelve, beginning at verse eighteen. I'm reading from the New International Version. of the NIV. I'll begin reading at Hebrews chapter 12, verse 18, and read through the end of the chapter. Please give attention to the word of our God given to us by divine inspiration. You have not come to a mountain that can be touched, that is burning with fire, to darkness, gloom, and storm, to a trumpet blast or to such a voice speaking words, so that those who heard it beg that no further word be spoken to them. Because they could not bear what was commanded. If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned. The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, I am trembling with fear. But you have come to the house. Come to Mount Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly, to the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. You have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkle. blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. See to it that you do not refuse him who speaks. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we If we turn away from him who warns us from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, once more, and I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. The words once more in Indicate the removing of what can be shaken, that is, created things, so that what cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be Thankful, and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. Let us pray. Our Father and our God, we thank you for this, your holy word. It is unto us the word of life. Without it, we would perish. Perish in ignorance. We would perish in our own willful arrogance and pride. We pray this morning, O Lord, that you would inflict your word upon us, that our pride might be put down. down, that we might be humbled and prostrate in your presence, that you might fill us with your strength and your truth, in order that we might rise up as the sons of light in the world in an age of darkness. That we might in our good works exhibit the glory and grace of God so that men might praise and serve their Creator. We ask our Father this morning. That you would strengthen our fellowship not only with your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, but also with your people who are gathered here with us and who are to be found around the world. We ask our Father that your blessing. blessing might rest upon your covenant people in order that your judgment by might be withheld from a world of sin and decay. We ask, O Lord, that you would fill us anew with courage and with with your Holy Spirit, that we indeed might be co laborers with Jesus Christ in the establishment of His kingdom. We ask these things in His name, who has loved us and given Himself for us Amen. Since being in Taiwan, I have discovered some things in the Bible that I'd never paid very much attention to before. That I am advocating that we adopt some of the fruits of a pagan Chinese culture. But there are by God's common grace ways in which different cultures are affected in different ways. Ways by sin, and uh God's truth has been preserved by his common grace in different ways in different cultures. I'm thinking particularly of a new appreciation that I have gained. of covenant theology after having been in Taiwan, of seeing things in the scriptures which uh I skipped over before because they didn't seem to have any importance or practical application for me. This morning I would like to share some of those things with you in the few minutes that we have together. In our Reformed Theology, our Reformed Heritage, we like to talk about a total biblical world and life view. That is we want people, Christians, to understand that there is a biblical way of looking at everything. That everything in life, everything in the world, has religious and spiritual significance. We talk about that from time to time. Maybe you kind of recognize that slogan. Total Biblical World Mike View. Sounds pretty good. Well, the Taiwanese have such a thing. It's not biblical, but it's total. They have a total religious world and life view in which everything has religious and spiritual significance. Sickness becomes a major spiritual crisis in their lives. When they are sick, when there's been an accident, they they earnestly believe That the gods are dealing with them. And that the gods must be responded to in order to restore peace and harmony in that relationship. They will go to see a doctor, they will take medicine, but they will also go to the temple to take care of that aspect of this spiritual crisis. Even a fussy baby can become a spiritual ordeal in a Taiwanese home. For example, we talked a moment ago about little Kevin Hake. When he was about a year old, he fell off the bed and broke his arm. When that happened, Steve and Fay took him to the doctor. The doctor examined his arm. He says, I think it's going to be all right, you just take him home. Well, they took him home, but for the next two weeks he continued to fuss and cry day and night, and he wouldn't use his arm. And finally the neighbors became quite distressed and they said, We really think you should be. should take him to the temple. If you take him to the temple, you will discover what's wrong with him and what you must do to make him well. More than likely he's been uh frightened by an evil spirit, and you must take him there to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of be de spooked. What that usually involves is that uh some spirit money, some coarse uh uh spirit money is burned, the ashes that money are crumbled up in a glass of water And the child is required to drink that concoction. Well, Stephen Fay didn't take him to the temple. I'm sure you'll be relieved to hear that. But uh they did take him to the doctor for a second visit. And this time the doctor decided to x-ray the arm. And on the x-ray, there were no evil spirits showing up on the film, but there was a broken bone there that uh had to be uh put in a cast. But uh something's So simple, you see, and common as a fussy baby becomes a spiritual crisis in a Taiwanese home because of their religious world and life view. Um around the first of the year Cheryl Smith, uh Lendell Smith's wife, had uh very severe back pains, and evidently she had a slip disc in her back, and uh she went to the doctor and he said that she needed to be placed. in traction for a full month and he told them how they could rig uh her bed for traction. But uh her bed didn't have any foot or head to it and so he said, Well you just Uh this doctor was born and raised in Taiwan and he's very enterprising. He said, You go to a welding shop and you tell him to make a certain device and uh you bolt that to your bed and I think that will work just as well as anything we have here in the hospital. So Lendel went to uh a welding shop and unfortunately it was just before Chinese Lunar New Year and that's the busiest time of the year. And he told the man he what he wanted and showed him a picture of it and uh he said it would only take you ten or fifteen minutes. Oh, he says, but I'm so busy I really don't have time to do it. And Lindell says, But it will only take a few minutes and my wife is in such severe pain. No, I haven't got time. But she's really suffering. And so the guy stopped and he said, You better take her. to the temple, she's that bad off. Never mind the welding job, just get her to the temple. So you begin to see how even amongst common laboring people, the religious world and life view becomes crucial for dealing with the problems of life. Um one of our missionary associates, Miss Wilma Sebinga, adopted a little baby girl at uh Christmas time. And uh she had to give the family certain gifts, one of which was a whole hindquarter of a pig. And uh they the family took some of these uh gifts, they went into the ancestral hall where these ancestral tablets of their family are cal kept. And they reported what they had done. And they asked the ancestral spirits not to be angry with them, that after all this was the seventh girl and a family of eight children, and that's too many girls to expect any of the people. Any family to have to raise and we don't mean we it's not that we don't like little Sarah. Uh you know, won't you please understand we've found a nice American mother for her? And uh but you see this kind of thing has to be checked out. with the ancestral spirits. If there's to be a wedding in the family, an engagement, uh opening of a new business, uh moving into a new home, all of these things have to be communicated to the ancestral spirits and Uh it's best if you check with a fortune teller to determine the appropriate day in which to do those things. Uh a death in the family, for example. Uh the family will always prepare the body for burial themselves. Uh there the body is not embalmed, it's within a day or two prepared and put into the coffin in a formal uh service in the home. And then uh that coffin Will be sealed and set inside the front door in the living room where it may sit for the next several months while the fortune-teller decides which is the best day to bury grandfather. And then grandfather Will be buried about uh halfway below the ground and halfway above the ground, because in another seven or eight years we have to dig up grandfather's bones again and clean them off and put them in a vase. And during that time, uh on a holiday once a year, uh similar to Memorial Day, uh the family will put food offerings on grandfather's grave and uh when grandfather's had enough to eat, then they will go and uh gather around on his tomb. uh gravesite and uh have a kind of family picnic in which they have some fellowship with grandfather spirit. You begin to see that the spirit world is very, very real to the Taiwanese people. It governs everything they do. They live in fear of the spirit world. They have many ways in which they feel they're they are able to communicate with the dead. When our family at Chinese Lunar New Year was entertained. entertained by the uh county magistrate where we live along with several other religious leaders in the community. He didn't entertain us at a hotel or a restaurant, but he took us to his ancestral hall. There he provided a lovely Chinese feast for us. In that ancestral hall, he was entertaining us in the dwelling place of his ancestral spirits. He was honoring us by entertaining us in their presence. presence. We could go on and on and talk about the Taiwanese understanding of spirits and the spirit world. But I think you begin to get the point. Some of it seems a little humorous to us, all of it seems very strange to us. But uh before we dismiss it entirely, let us look again at God's word. Because there are some things in God's Word which are very strangely similar to some of the things that we've been talking about. I notice, for example, in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders, and let us uh and the sin that so easily entangles, and let us run with perseverance the race marked up. For us, let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith. This epistle to the Hebrews is being written to Christians who come out of a Jewish background. Because of their confession of faith in Christ, they are being severely persecuted. Uh some of them have lost their jobs, some of them have been excised from their families, uh some of them have lost uh everything they have. And they are beginning to They're beginning to say, let's go back to the temple, that smoke-filled temple with all of its bloody and rotting sacrifices. And the writer of the Hebrews gives them one argument after another as to why they must not do that. That what we now have in Jesus Christ is infinitely superior to anything that we had under the old ceremonial law in the Old Testament. That what we had in the Old Testament was simply a preparation and prelude to what we have in Christ. And if you go back now You will have missed the point. You will have totally misunderstood what God was saying to you all of these centuries. And now in chapter twelve he gives them yet another reason that they should consider As they are engaged in this tremendous struggle, costly struggle. He says, think about the great cloud of witnesses. And let that not be a terrifying thing to you, but let that be an encouraging. Encouragement to you. Now what what is this great cloud of witnesses anyway? When we read the Bible and we come to the word therefore, we should always stop and say What it's there for. Which means we have to consult the previous context. If we do that, it will take us back into chapter 11. And chapter 11 is filled with a list of people out of the Old Testament who live. Lived and died and did mighty things by faith in God and his promises. People who were well known and highly respected by the Jewish people. People like Abel and Enoch and Noah and Abraham, women like Sarah and Rahab, other people like Isaac and Jacob and Joseph and Samuel, and so on it goes. And he says, these people and their lives constitute a great cloud of witnesses. surrounding believers and their struggles here in this world. Now I don't know what that means exactly, except that it's called to our attention, and it's called to our attention To be an encouragement to us, that we should be mindful of these people That we should have a sense of solidarity with them. Now, it's only been in recent years that Americans have become interested In tracing their ancestral roots. But the Chinese have been doing this for centuries, keeping careful genealogical records. And they take great pride in being able to trace their ancestry back to particularly important people, often it winds up that they've traced their ancestry back to a god of one sort or another, or somebody who has been deified. And the Jews also had a problem with this. They had family trees that were very well kept and preserved. And uh they were often very proud and boastful of the fact that they were children. Of Abraham. And over and over again in the New Testament, these Jewish Christians had to be told, it's not a question of whether the blood of Abraham is in your veins. The real question is whether or not The faith of Abraham is in your heart. In fact, it really doesn't make any difference whose blood is in your veins. If Abraham's faith is in your heart, you can call him your father. Father Abraham. And being able to call Abraham our father should be a source of great strength and encouragement to us As we read that list in chapter 11, we should see that as our family tree. These are our spiritual ancestors. We are part of something that God is doing on a cosmic scale. American individualism obscures that. Perspective. Anything that happened before last week is not important to us Americans And that's a tragedy. It's a real tragedy. Because what God started with Abraham, and the promises that God God made to Abraham have become ours through our union with Christ. What he has begun them, he is continuing to do through us. We are a part of the household of faith. If we could just get that perspective, it would keep us from being so almighty arrogant. It would keep us from being so prejudiced against people from other races and backgrounds. Then we move on down further in the chapter and we come to verse eighteen. We have a description of what happened at Mount Sinai. It could very well be A description of the Taiwanese view of the spirit world. It was a terrifying thing. There was fire and gloom and darkness and storm and blasting trumpets that scared people out of their wits and a a void That was so eerie that even Moses was shaken to his very foundation. And he says to these Jewish Christians, you haven't come to that mountain. You come to Mount Zion. Mount Sinai was unapproachable, was untouchable. Even animals had to be slaughtered if they even so much as touched that mountain. But he says, Now through the Lord Jesus Christ, you've been brought to the very pinnacle of Mount Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem. Now I want you to notice the verb tense in verse 22. It's It's not future. It's past tense. This is not something that you will experience someday in your Christian walk and pilgrimage. This is not something that will happen to you when you die and go into the presence of the Lord. Is not something that will happen when Jesus comes again. You have already arrived. You have come to Mount Zion. Now, in this heavenly Jerusalem, which we enter by faith and not By sight. We are not surprised to find that God, the judge of all men, is there. We are not surprised to learn that Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, is there. But look what else we find in that new Jerusalem. He says, We have come to come. Countless thousands of angels. In Taiwan our churches are rather small. Sometimes our worship is not very stimulating or lively. And it can be so depressing when they're struggling through these awful Western hymn tunes. that we've thrust upon them. But he says, wait a minute. You have come to countless thousands of angels. What is the business Of an angel anyway. Isn't it to praise God without ceasing? Isn't it to sing the praise of the Lamb seated upon the throne? Now, if an angel can't sing well, we're all in trouble. We need this perspective in our worship. That it's not just me and Jesus, nor even the handful of People that I worship with by week by week. But something that God is doing as He gathers His people, His elect from out of every nation and tribe and tongue in the world. And even the heavenly Beings are involved and included in that fellowship. Think of that as you sing the praises of Jesus Christ. That you are being joined and accompanied. Accompanied by a massive household of faith. That even the angels join with you in that worship. And let that carry you heavenward. And when you go back to work this week, And people say, What was your attendance at church this Sunday? Don't you tell 'em, well, this was Fourth of July weekend and uh three fourths of the people uh went somewhere else for the weekend and it was really a very uh What is it you said? Our our r ranks were decimated this Don't you say that. You say to them, I couldn't count 'em all. We were joined by innumerable, countless Thousands of angels in our worship. That's what the scripture says. And then we move on to verse 23, and it says, You have come to the spirits of righteous men made perfect. I realize this is strange to our thinking. But he's saying that there's some kind of fellowship, some kind of exchange between the church militant, which is still slugging it out with sin and temptation in this world, and the church victorious. Which has passed into the presence of Jesus Christ and is free from sin and error. Now, I'm not suggesting that we take the Taiwanese approach and say Boy, our our ancestors, our these, you know, these just men made perfect are simply Christians who've died. Maybe your own grandparents, your own godly parents. Maybe a spiritual father or mother in the Lord who's gone on to be with Jesus. And he says, we've come to their spirits. Now I'm not suggesting that the spirit is not a good thing. We live in fear and trembling that these people are watching us and controlling our activities and lives. That's what the Taiwanese believe. And you have to kind of bribe them and keep them well fed so that they don't become hungry ghosts and come around and cause you sickness. Another tragedy. I'm surely not suggesting that you try and communicate with these people. That's what the Taiwanese do. Our lives are under the sovereign control of the hand of Almighty God. And that Delivers us from fear because He is a father of love and mercy. The thing I am suggesting is that we have to have a consciousness of those who've gone before us. A consciousness of their presence which will give us encouragement in our struggle with sin. Now how does this work? Let me suggest two ways that I think it can be a help to us in our own Christian lives. Now two things that the Taiwanese can do, which are terribly wretched and unforgivable. The first thing is to cast any kind of shame Upon the name of his family. He can be a real louse, doing all kinds of rotten things, as long as he does it secretly. But one it becomes known and it becomes a public scandal, then that man will often go out and commit suicide because he has brought disgrace upon the name of his family. And I think maybe the writer of the Hebrews is saying something similar to us here. He says, When you are burdened down with temptation and sin, and you're tempted to entertain it in your life, think about the great cloud of witnesses that surround you. And as you think about them, then throw off those weights. And that sin that would drag you down and keep you from running. Because in as you engage in sin, it is not a private personal matter. It is something that is going to reflect upon the whole household of faith. The lives and the testimonies of these people mentioned in chapter 11 are recorded in the Bible. To the extent that people watch your life, And find them to be false and hollow and phony. They're going to go back and read the Bible, and they're going to draw the same conclusions. Oh my, these people were supposed to have Done great and mighty things, but I bet they weren't any more sincere or genuine than the Christians I know. And they're going to draw the conclusion that this Bible is no more genuine than a comic book. Think about their reputation. Think about the name of Jesus Christ as He's placed that upon His covenant people. And let that be an encouragement to you to turn away from temptation, to throw off the sin that you're contemplating. Generation after generation of God's people will be disgraced as you wallow in the mire of sin. Don't let American individuals Individualism, con you into thinking you can get away with it. It's just my life. I can do with it what I want. I know that my Heavenly Father doesn't want me to do this. After all, who is it going to hurt? Just me. Uh uh. There's a second thing that the Taiwanese can do that's also extremely wretched, and that is to fail. To produce a male offspring. You see, a single Taiwanese by himself is unimportant. He gains importance only as he becomes a part of an unbroken family lineage. Virtually everybody in Taiwanese society is married, virtually everybody has children. There's virtually nobody who is not a part of a family unit. Why? Because this is the Chinese answer to the problem of immortality. There are many ways to cope with death and gain immortality. The Chinese have come up with a very novel approach. They gain immortality by having babies. And that's why one billion people in the world are Chinese. As you have babies, and especially as you have Sons. Then you secure your place in the eternal scheme of things. Your son will perpetuate your memory and your name, and his son in turn will keep it going generation after generation. Generation. And you're you've suddenly become immortal. Kind of clever, isn't it? But the question is not Whether we can establish contact and prove our contact connections with a certain family clan. Our hope for immortality does not lie in our ability To have children, nor even in whether or not you're married. What a cruel thing this becomes for people who aren't able to have children. If a young man Gets killed before his wife has a son, his family gets furious with him. Really angry with the guy. You haven't done your duty to the family yet. Look at all these generations in our family who are depending on the family. upon you to keep this thing going. And now you've gone and blown it off. The word they use for that is the word damnation. You brought damnation upon our family by getting killed before you had a son. But after all, isn't a major portion of our task as Christians to raise up yet a new generation of people who will name bear the name of Jesus Christ? Who will proclaim the mighty works of God throughout the earth so that the name of Jesus Christ does not perish. In the midst of men. Not only to bring the children born into our own homes, into the household of faith, but through the proclamation of the gospel to bring many from every tribe, tongue, and nation into the household. Household of faith. That gives us new encouragement in our own struggles with sin privately. It should give us new urgency about the business of being a parent so that our covenant children don't grow up to be covenant breakers. It should give us new urgency urgency about the business of evangelism. That we not let the name of Jesus Christ perish with our generation, but that we strive to bring up yet another generation. It's possible that the name of Christ could perish in one generation if we were not faithful to that charge. And that surely would be damnation. For the whole world. As we think about these things, and as we think about the wonderful thing that God has done, as He's adopted us into His Family. Let us have a new appreciation for the corporate nature of the church, for the universal scope of the church. That we might have a new sense of solidarity, not only with Christians in other lands, but even with our Christian ancestors who've already died and gone to be with the Lord. And may this give us a new hope. vision and perspective of what it is that God has called upon us to do. To throw off the works of darkness and to proclaim the word of life that men might not Perish. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we ask that you would forgive us of our sin and neglect, and that you would cause your word to be written upon our hearts. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's uh take a