We're still looking at the same passage each week this season, verses 18 through 25. And this morning I'm giving particular focus to verses 22 and 23. This season of all this took place is our Advent series, but it really culminates in this phrase that is found in the verse this morning. And we are looking at God's word, at how Jesus' birth is the very good news of the gospel, salvation to the world. Hear now God's word. I'll be reading the context leading up to and following verse 22. But now the birth of Jesus took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. and her husband Joseph being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, add to your reading that we might understand in our mind, that we might be moved in our affections. And so quicken our steps that we might walk and follow after you by faith. To know the proclamation of this birth, this very announcement of your coming is a fulfillment of your very word. And we rejoice and are eternally grateful. In Jesus' name, amen. As Anthony shared earlier, would like to even just move with that same flow of reminding us of how Advent is about anticipation. It's anticipating the first coming of Christ. And now on this side of the cross and the empty grave, we are anticipating Jesus' second coming. This season focuses our mind and engages our heart to mourn that the world for what it is but also for us to hope for a time that it should be. Whether it is political stress in our own country. Whether it's on the news we hear of the potential military threats against countries like Ukraine, or the aftermath and the social and government fallout in Afghanistan. or tornadoes. We desire for a world to be as it ought to be. We long for the world to be put right. And in the meantime, we put words to that grief and our hope as we cry out, hear us, O God. And as we sing, O come, O come, Emmanuel, the good news The very gospel that means good news is here in this passage. Even as Matthew begins his gospel account of telling what the good news is, the good news is proclaiming that indeed Jesus Christ is the Emmanuel. And so we're just going to look at 22 and 23 and just take it in two brief points. at how God fulfills his word and how God gives his very self So as we look at how God fulfills his word, we look there at verse 22. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. That phrase is beautiful, isn't it? All this took place. It has come to pass. It's happened. This is the events that that has unfolded. Matthew is drawing our attention to this story. And as he is giving an account of the events, he's telling us where the story has come from, where it is now, and where it is going. And the evangelist Matthew wants the reader to understand our stories in this story. Matthew started his gospel account with a genealogy as he introduced the lines of this story. It's a story about the true and living God making covenant promises with his people through the line of Abraham and through the line of David. And the passage we have been looking at the past several weeks. Recounts these unfolding events, which culminate in the birth of Jesus as the very fulfillment of all of redemptive history. It hangs. It's heavy of what we are reading. Understanding what Matthew is saying in verses 22 and 23 depends on exploring what that word fulfill means. The word can mean simply to make full, to fill up, to complete, as to complete a period of time or to finish an activity. The word can also refer to bringing to a desired end As to fulfill a request or a purpose. So for example, a soldier fulfills a command when it is carried out fully. A parent fulfills their promise when what has been promised. is carried out to completion. A pattern is fulfilled when it experiences its full expression. The New Testament writers are using Old Testament Citations and allusions and illustrations and quotations in these ways to show the various types of fulfillment that God's story is unfolding. Matthew uses this word 14 times throughout the gospel when he mentions it in conjunction with Old Testament prophets. It is a very important theme for what he is trying to convey in this gospel. And here in verse 23, he refers to Isaiah 14. The verse read this morning by Mara. It's this first quotation in the book of Matthew that he cites, and it is to show how Jesus' birth fulfills Old Testament prophecy. But of course, to understand how Matthew's using it, it's important to understand how Isaiah used it first. What was his purpose? And to understand that helps us to understand then why Matthew is using it. Isaiah was a prophet. We we hear from Isaiah 6 what we sang just a moment ago Holy, holy, holy, Isaiah coming to terms with his sin and confessing it and being cleansed by the living God and being given a vision, a task, and a message. Being a prophet was a religious office in ancient Israel. They were communicators. They were poets. They knew the word. They understood the law. They were about reminding God's people to live their lives according to God's word. They were also heralds proclaiming and sometimes living out with symbolic acts. to deliver God's message to the king and to the people regarding God's judgment and God's grace. By the time that Isaiah started to serve in his ministry, the kingdom of Israel was no longer united. It was divided between Judah in the south and Israel in the north. Israel was in rebellion to the Lord's covenant, whereas Judah sought to live faithfully as it preserved the rightful line of David. This covenant of the throne of David is established in 2 Samuel chapter 7. And it's traced out through historical books. It's traced out through the prophetical books. And it's what is finding its endpoint, its culmination here in Matthew. By the time of King Uzziah, there had already been multiple kings in Judah. Some were good, some were bad. And Isaiah's ministry spanned four of these kings. And during his ministry, he saw the northern kingdom collapse, and he foretold of Judah's future destruction by the Babylonian Empire. So the background here for Matthew, as he quotes Isaiah 7. 14, it is dealing with, in Isaiah's context, a geopolitical threat. And it's dealing with religious temptations. The kingdom of Israel and the northern regions of what's modern-day Syria, they were facing pressures. From a strengthening and expanding Assyrian kingdom to the further north and west. You can read about this in 2 Kings chapters 15, 16, all throughout the rest of the book. as well as in 2 Chronicles chapter 28. We read that Syria and Israel decided For whatever reason, they decided to join forces and threaten the southern kingdom. And as the adage goes, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. That becomes a very alluring, safe strategy. And so King Ahaz in the south is tempted to find consolation in the enemy of my enemy. And finding a friend. He seeks out help from the Assyrians So Ahaz was tempted to trust in his own wisdom for what is good for the kingdom. He was tempted to consider his ability to build alliances that would protect his kingship and his kingdom. Ahaz was tempted to count the cost of what it might mean for him to ally himself with Assyria in the face of being crushed by Israel. and their borderlands to the north in modern-day Syria. But as one commentator said this, Isaiah understood it. The real issue was not one of military muscle nor of political cleverness in creating defensive alliances, but whether the Lord could be trusted to do what his word promised. Ahaz was to respond to Isaiah's message with faith and hope that indeed the Lord will fulfill his promise. That there would be no need to reach out to the Assyrians. Later on, there'd be no need to tempt himself with trying to build alliances with Egypt. There is a sense of how do I trust in my circumstances? Will I trust in the Lord God? Ahaz was to respond to Isaiah's message with faith and hope. Under understanding Isaiah's context helps us better understand why then Matthew brings attention to it in verse 23. So as Isaiah is giving this message to Ahaz, he begins with this sign. This is chapter 7. He begins with a sign of a child to be born. Now, of course, there's more nuances that we don't have time for. There are books and books and pages and pages, but but in a simplified way, there are three main approaches to understanding. Isaiah 7 verse 14. One way is to recognize that Isaiah is predicting only a near-term fulfillment. That the sign of a child was born to be born in Isaiah's lifetime, and that child was to play a role in fulfilling the message delivered to Ahaz. This way of approaching Isaiah recognizes that Jesus' birth has nothing to do with Isaiah. And maybe Matthew might just be calling attention to it because maybe Mary's stationed in life being a young maiden, being a young woman in her situation. And he's just using it to call attention to it. I don't believe this option is very helpful to understanding Isaiah or Matthew. So I suggest that you don't really give much attention to it. But it's out there. Another way of approaching Isaiah 7 is that Isaiah is predicting both a near-term fulfillment and a far-term fulfillment. of this prophecy. And I and this is a viable option. There are people who who make arguments for this and and see this and and um but there are also um good Christians who who take the other side that Isaiah is predicting something so unique that he could have only meant it for a future fulfillment. This too has good points to consider. And when you get into the the nuance of these arguments, it's working with words that are being used in the passage. What does the word virgin mean in Isaiah in the Hebrew? Why did the Greek translators of the Septuagint use a different word to translate that word, which is the word we see in Matthew? It's also taking into account the uh the additional chapters of Isaiah. His thought develops from chapter 8 to chapter 9 to chapter 10 to chapter 11 and seeing those chapters together. as a development of God's promise, God's prophecy of what he is going to be bringing about in the one to come. I tend to lean toward viewing the double fulfillment, the near and the far, but I do think both sides make very great points. And it invites our attention to study the word. It invites us to understand Isaiah. And if If anything, Isaiah is quoted all over the New Testament. It is worthy of our study. It is worthy of our understanding. But I do know this, this is certain. Isaiah builds a case that this child is to be called Emmanuel And and and as he's building this story, as he's telling this prophecy, this Emmanuel is someone unique. Because already by chapter 9, The child has the mantle of the kingdom on his shoulders, and he shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace Already there is a development that this is no mere man that Isaiah is talking about This Prince of Peace, this mighty God, will sit on the throne of David from this time forth and forevermore. Something unique is in Isaiah's words. By chapter 11, Isaiah directs the people's hope back to the very promise that the Lord will not forsake the line of David. But rather keep his covenant promise. This future king, a shoot out of the stump of Jesse, will rule with righteousness and faithfulness, and all the Davidic king. that was intended to embody as representative of God's people in the land. This fulfillment will be matched in this person. And more than that, the Lord's Messiah will also recover the remnant that remains of his people that extends out into the land of the Gentiles from all over. And so we're seeing in Isaiah's message, there is something to be had in the near term as Ahaz is facing his insecurity of the circumstances. What is to be of our land? What is to be of my kingdom and my kingship? And God is making promises to say, I will never forsake you, ultimately. There will be a remnant of my people, and there will always be someone who will be on the throne of David. Matthew is rightly recognizing this moment. A young virgin is with child of the Holy Spirit. This Jesus. Do not miss the weight of Matthew's passage. This Jesus is Emmanuel. He is the fulfillment of God's promises. And so for us, friends, brothers and sisters, to we are to consider these things. We are to even consider Ahaz's life And choices. I'm not a king, you're not a king, I was not put in that role, I'm not put in that role now. But to consider what Ahaz was cons um up against. And to see the call of Isaiah's message to faith and hope in God's promises. The invitation was for him to believe and to trust the Lord would carry through. And so for us today even is to consider how that faithfulness and everlasting kindness of God stands firm. What circumstances surround you? What circumstances threaten your sense of security and peace? How do you view the threat of the gospel to the church? These things will tempt you to find alternate solutions to meet that sense of security. How are you tempted to trust in yourself? How are you tempted to trust in others? Jesus' birth. Is the very proclamation of good news that you can trust God. It is God who saves. I know it's a lot of history, so bear with me. Because it's it's thick what Matthew's doing here. One commentator says it really, really well and very poignantly. From the time of Ahaz, there never was again a house of David in the true sense. But only a line of puppet pretend kings under alien domination until at the exile, even they disappeared into the sand of history, never to re-emerge. The name of the overlord power would change from Assyria to Babylon to Persia to Greece and finally to Rome before Emmanuel would be born. But when he was born, it was to share the poverty of his people, to inherit a non-existent throne, and to feel the full weight of the oppressor. You see, the messianic hope of the people of Israel from the time of the prophets all the way to the time of exile and the return to the land and the silence of God for 400 years. was this reality. Every next king, these aren't my words, this is a continuation of quote. Every next king in David's line was the focus of a longing. That would be the Messiah, that he would be the Messiah. And every actual king was guardian of a long longing inasmuch as he might be the Messiah's father. It never came to pass. Good kings came, bad kings came, destruction and judgment still came for their disobedience. sperning the Lord's covenant, walking in the ways of the nations around them, not trusting God's promises. And yet God keeps a remnant. God keeps his promise sure. What seems like it is silent and absent and hidden in the dark, there is always A shred of light. There is always a seed of hope. And so for us, as we see how God fulfills his promise, we get to rejoice that this is fulfilled in Jesus. That he is the promised one to come. Peter talks about this in his first letter, verses 10 through 12, concerning this salvation. God's salvation. The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. things into which angels long to look. This salvation, this gospel is proclaimed in the birth of Jesus. And he indeed is Emmanuel. And this puts us into the next part of this of what is Emmanuel? What does this even mean? And it is that not only does God fulfill his promises, but God gives his very self. There at the end of verse 23, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. One of my professors uh once said in a passing comment, um, if if you are not translating, you are not communicating. Think about that. If you're not translating, you're not communicating. Now we have a sense of what that means when we literally have to translate other languages. We have to work through the meanings. What word am I using in my language that makes sense in your language? But we also have to translate when we speak the same language or come from the same cultural customs. We still make assumptions and presumptions that we have to work through. But so to communicate, you have to translate. And God is a God of translation, my friends. A sister church in Athens, Greece. A church that we have connections with. A church that churches in our presbytery have connections with. That church right now is full of Christians from Afghanistan. And others are coming. To Greece as refugees. And people are coming to know the Lord. And this church, among many others, are serving and welcoming and assisting this refugee community. And we experience this here with our partnership with the Salam Center in the Baltimore region as they seek to serve the needs of the local refugee community. Finding your way in a land that is unfamiliar with customs that are different is exhausting. Language makes communicating a challenge. Simply interacting with people at the grocery store or at the post office is stressful. Understanding government protocols can be confusing. So follow with me. And I hope I do its justice. Normally I don't want to be down in the weeds of like the Greek, because it's it's not really helpful. It's it's um the beauty of God's word is that he translates. I remember a time when I was first learning Greek, and I'm not that great at Greek anyway, but when I was first learning Greek, my professor had 1 John up on the wall in Greek. I don't know Greek. Reading, just seeing gibberish. And he's got a pointer and he's pointing at the Greek words and he's speaking in English. The very word of God. And I find myself crying. Because on the screen are words I don't understand. But the words I hear speak to my heart. This is the God who translates and makes himself known because here in verse 23, this is what's happening, y'all. Matthew is writing in Greek. He's quoting Hebrew through a Greek translation. The name Emmanuel is transliterated. It's taking the Greek letters that just spells the Hebrew letters. And then he tells us in Greek, which means God with us. Through and through this passage, Matthew is demonstrating something. God is knowable because he makes himself known. He reveals himself and he comes towards you. He crosses barriers. He crosses language. He crosses cultures. And he says, I am the living God. I am your creator and I am your redeemer, and I am going to speak. So that you may know me, that you may hear the very words of life. God is a God of translation, and he gives his very self. So this, my friends, is Christmas. This is the gospel. God with us. It is important for us to see that from the Old Testament promises, the New Testament fulfillment. And that thread through and through is God working out his providential care and redemption. The very restoration of all things, and the reconciliation of all that is broken, all that is lost, all that is in rebellion, all that is in enmity with God is brought near to him by his love, because this is who he is. He is God with us. He is not God upon high, although he is the living and almighty God, holy, holy, holy. But he provides the very way that us who are unholy, unholy, unholy can be in his presence. We do not come to him by cleaning ourselves up. We do not come to him by saying, I am with God. We come to him because he invites us to find ourselves in him because he says, I am with you. This is the gospel. So brothers and sisters, this year, this this winter, this Christmas season, this New Year's As we mourn and grieve the world, as we mourn and grieve our troubles, as we mourn and grieve and lament that the world is not as it should be, we rejoice with hope that the world is being made right. That I am being made right. That you are being made right because God is a God who says, I give you my word, and it is trustworthy. I give you myself because I am trustworthy. And I am with you to the very end. And that is, if you remember, how Matthew ends his gospel in Matthew chapter 28. Jesus saying, I am with you. to the very end of the age. So brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ is the promised Emmanuel. Very God, a very God who took on flesh to be with us. We see it traced out. January is around, so you get another chance to start your Bible reading program, I guess. And then you get derailed in Genesis, right? But as you read scripture, there there is not a single page that you do not see this posture of God's character and the very direction of his love toward his creation and his creatures. He moves towards us. The Old Testament often says he tabernacles with us. He pitches his tent and makes camp with us. He lives and dwells with his people. Yo, this is amazing. And to to know that Matthew out of the gate is saying Out of all of the silence, out of all of the confusion and disorientation of the world coming down on both Israel and then later Judah. And the question of how can we be the people of God if we are not in the land? How can we be the people of God if there is no one on the throne of David? And Matthew is saying, I will tell you. There is someone on the throne of David, and his name is Jesus. And there is a people of God, and it's not just in the land, but it is an expansive gospel that proclaims to the outer edges of the rim of the earth. Which is us, by the way. We're not Jerusalem. We're on the outer skirts of the netherworld. of the gospel coming to us where we and our ancestors and our forebearers heard for the first time And God does it again and again and again because God is one who dwells with us. He gives his very self. He fulfills his promises. And he can be trusted. He can be trusted. When you find the temptation to trust in something such as yourself, Or to trust in something else, some other system, some other ideology, something that says this is what's going to bring me comfort. This is what's going to bring me security. Matthew is encouraging us to say the very Son of God, the very Son of David, didn't come in the pomp and circumstance of the courts. He came in a manger. He came in the humiliation of being in a gossiped family that by all accounts looked like it was an adulterous out-of-wedlock experience. And yet two nobody's heard a message of the Lord, and they responded by faith and believed the very word of God. That this child to be born is to be named Jesus. And he is to be the very one that is Emmanuel, that is with us, who will forgive us all our sins. Praise God. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we give you thanks and we give you praise. And we give you our silence, to stand in awe of your holiness. to stand in amazement of your promises fulfilled and accomplished and held true again and again and again and again. The very grace given to Adam and Eve in their sin. The very hope of the one who is to come to crush the head of the serpent. The very one to bring back All that is lost, to push back all that is cursed. And we find that person. Our hope is in Abraham, but it fails. Our hope is in Isaac, but it fails. Our hope is in David and it fails. Our hope is in ourselves and it fails. And we come to the this part of the story with a crescendo of symbols and singing and rejoicing that the one who is to come has come. And it is all being made right. Forgive us. Shape us Move us to hope in this world that you make in the image of your Son. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.