Well, yes, I do usually like to preach from a gospel and uh look at the account of the resurrection on Easter morning. But occasionally, as I'll be reading something from Paul's letters, there will be a passage that will so arrest me in its statement of the meaning of the resurrection that I can't resist trying to open that up. And uh as I was reading this passage which talks about Abraham's faith and that the core of his faith was a belief in the resurrection and a God who could raise the dead And then that he makes the point that our faith is like Abraham's faith. The very core of our faith is believing that there is a God who has raised Jesus from the dead, and that's the basis of our hope. That I saw boy if you know without that there is no hope With that, we need to remind ourselves again and again of what the basis of our hope is. And so if we see this pattern, there's a pattern here, it can change our lives. And uh it meant a lot to me. I hope it'll mean something to you. It's gonna take some kind of working at following what Paul's train of thought is here. So this isn't just a simple story This one's going to take a little engagement, so I hope you're up for it. But notice what it is that Paul's saying. After he says verse 22 This is why it was credited to him, Abraham, as righteousness. Paul makes that point of comparison. He says the words that was credited to him were written not for him alone, not just for Abraham. But also for us, to whom God will credit righteousness, for us who believe in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. And he says then, this is a very personal thing, verse 25, he was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Now, in the context, what he's saying is that's the basis of hope. It was the basis of Abraham's hope, verse 17. As it's written, I have made you a father of many nations. He is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead. That was the only hope that Abraham had That God was a God who could give life to the dead and calls things that are not as though they are. You're the father of many nations. What do you mean? I don't even have a kid. Well, he's calling that as if it already had happened. I have made you. How can you say that? Because he's the God who can raise from the dead Paul then goes on to say, that same kind of faith is the basis of your hope when you are in hopeless situations. Verse chapter 5, he says there in verse 3 and 4. Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings. How do you rejoice in sufferings? Because we know that suffering produces perseverance, perseverance character, and character produces hope. All right, what's that all about? It's a basic pattern in scripture. And I think that's uh probably best articulated in any place I've seen in a little book by Scott Hafen called The God of Promise and the Life of Faith. Now nobody ever has heard of that book. So let me tell you, I tried to distill the principles of that into seven steps of faith that you see in the Old Testament. First of all, God gives a promise. You see him in there in your outline, so you can follow it. God gives a promise. The promise calls forth faith, to believe God's promise. But the faith is always tested, as it was with Abraham, as it is again and again through the heroes of the faith. Then God gives a partial fulfillment on the promise. He gives enough of the fulfillment that it's supernatural. His fingerprints are all over it. You say, well, God had to do that. Nobody else could have done that. Nobody could Bring us through the Red Sea. Nobody else could give a child to a man that's a hundred years old. Nobody could else do one and on. But it's not the fullness. It's not everything you would have wished So what's it do? It impels you to a greater hope. You say, okay, he was able to do that. So he's going to be able then to deliver finally on the full promise. Now that longing itself purifies the hope. We always want God to deliver here, now, in something I can see, taste, feel, gives me satisfaction. And God is always trying to impel us toward something that is beyond that. Toward a hope that is so great, so grand, so wonderful, it can't be delivered on in this life. It thrusts us to the return of Christ and the fullness of that hope in heaven. Now, Abraham is a good example of that. You see Easter is about hope, but it's about hope based on faith, and Christianity is about hope, but Christianity is about a hope that's based on faith. Close connection, hope, and faith. And the faith that Christianity is based on is a faith ultimately as a very core in a God who raised Jesus from the dead. Now, let's see how that's illustrated in Abraham. First point is Abraham. Remember when Abraham was brought out of Ur the Chaldees into Canaan. God gave him three promises, three astounding promises. You see them there up on the screen from Genesis chapter 12. First of all, he said, I'm going to make you into a great nation, going to give you many descendants, great name. So you're going to have a lot of kids, in fact, you're going to be a father of nations. Secondly, I'm going to make you a blessing to all. All the nations through you, through your descendants, through a particular descendant, all the nations on earth are going to be blessed. So all the peoples on earth will be blessed through you. Third promise, God says, to your offspring, I'm going to give this land, this piece of real estate here, Canaan. Alright, so that's God's promise. Great promises, Abraham's looking forward to it. But then his faith is tested in those promises. Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. I believe. What happens? Twenty-five years go by, seventy-five, seventy-seventy-five, when he gets the promise. He's nearly a hundred years old, still doesn't have a kid. God, if you're gonna make me into a into a great nation, it'd be nice if you would start with not one kid. We could begin to get this thing going. No children. Secondly, I'm going to make you a blessing to all the nations. Abraham goes down because of a famine out of Canaan to Egypt for food. And instead of becoming a blessing to Egypt, it becomes a curse to Egypt and to Pharaoh's house. And he says, God, you know, this isn't working out exactly like you said it was going to. And then thirdly he says, you're going to give me this whole land, Canaan. And Abraham can't own a single acre of it. He has nothing. So God um, if this is your idea of fulfilling promises, then um I better look into another source, because you're not doing very well. But what Paul says here is that Abraham believed. He trusted God. Look at he says in verse 18: against all hope. You ever feel like that in your life? You know? Can I really trust God? Can I believe the Bible? Can I really trust it? Is it true? Well, sometimes it seems like it's against all hope, doesn't it? Sometimes it seems like it's in the face of everything you see, against all hope. Abraham in hope believed And so he became the father of many nations. God fulfilled that. Just as it had been said to him, so shall your offspring be. Without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old, and that Sarah's womb was also dead. No children, about a hundred years old. Doesn't look like it's a great time to start a family. You know, it'll be a hundred and thirty when I get to be a grandfather. You know, I mean just it doesn't make sense. God, what are you doing? And so Abraham sees that his body is as good as dead, but God is able to raise the dead. That's his faith. That's the central part of it. That's what he says in verse 17. Verse 20, go back to that first. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith, gave glory to God. God, you're the only one who can do it, being fully persuaded God had power to do what he had promised. He could raise life from the dead. That's why it was credited to him as righteousness. And again, the central part of that is that he's able to give life to the dead. So back to seven verse seventeen. As it is written. Verse 17, next one Keep going. There you go. Okay, you got it. As it is written What was my point? As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. He is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead And calls things that are not as though they were. So, Abraham finally has a child, Isaac. God delivers. He gives him a child. But it's not over. Because Abraham has again to believe that God can raise the dead. God calls Abraham to sacrifice Isaac. He brings him up onto an altar. Isaac looks like he's going to be a sacrifice, and he's the child of promise. Hebrews look chapter 11, verse 19 says that Abraham believed that if necessary, God would raise Isaac from the dead if he's going to deliver on the promise. So again he has to believe second time if God is going to deliver on his promise, he has to be able to raise the dead. Isaac is then delivered through the substitution of a ram in his place, and he's brought back down off Mount Moriah, back from the dead, as it were. And so, once again, God has delivered, he's made good on the promise, but again, it's only partially fulfilled. Hebrews 11, verses 12, 13 through there say The end of his life, still doesn't own an acre of land, still not much of a blessing to anybody, and you know he has uh one son that's the son of promise And so he sees the promises from afar. He can't deny God did something supernatural. That's what gives him hope, even though he hasn't seen the promises fulfilled. Now, there's a number of other promises, other examples like this, but there's one other that's critical to the story that we're following today. And so I'll insert that one. It's the same idea to the exiles. If you fast forward 1200 years, there is another kind of death. It's the death of the nation of Israel and all her hopes. Nebuchadnezzar comes from Babylon, surrounds Jerusalem, lays siege to it, destroys Jerusalem. It's the death of Jerusalem, it's the death of Israel. Death of all the hopes, all the promises. Seems like it's gone, wiped out. Israel is history. But the prophets gave promises. And the promises were spectacular. They said God is going to raise Israel from the dead. For instance, Isaiah 35. Talks about it's a desert, it's a wasteland, but God is gonna bring it back to life and cause a gargo to be here, to flourish. in um streams of water and plenty of crops. Ezekiel uh Jeremiah chapter 33 Talks about the wasteland being restored and people are going to sing songs of joy and they're going to be happy again. And they're saying, you know, in this place where there's only misery and death, there's going to be restoration Or you take the one we looked at last Christmas, Ezekiel chapter 34, verses 34 and 36, perhaps the most spectacular of all, saying, Hey, you've heard of Garden of Eden? God is going to make this like the Garden of Eden. It's going to go beyond your wildest imagination. And so the people are saying, man, we can't wait. How's God going to do that? They're taking away his exiles into Babylon Seventy years later, Cyrus does something absolutely unprecedented in the history of countries and nations and wars. He tells the exiles, who are now an integral part of the Babylonian economy, go home. Go home. Go back and resettle your land. And God has brought Israel back from the dead. So they get back home, about 50,000 of them. And they go back and they try to rebuild it and they scrape and they struggle and they rebuild the walls and then they rebuild the temple. Here's the original temple, here's the new temple, you know, it's just a little fraction of the size. Wait, wait, wait a minute here, God. You said this was going to be like Eden. You said it was going to be, you know, a place that will be the fulfillment of our wildest dreams. Okay, but mm, you know, even given for a little hyperbole, mm this doesn't match it Now, here's the point. You did something supernatural. Can't deny it. You raised Israel from the dead, but you didn't fulfill on the full promise. We're still scraping by. We're still being persecuted by Syria from the north and Egypt from the south, and we've got Antiochus Epiphanes and then the Romans take them over. And so what do they say? They say, well it must refer to the days of Messiah. That's what it must be. God is saying when Messiah comes, then he will fulfill all the promises Then we will not be oppressed any longer. There will be no more injustice, no more wars. There will be peace and prosperity. That's our hope. Jesus is born. He comes and he's Grows up and he preaches, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And they say, that's it. Here's Messiah. He's bringing the kingdom. The messianic age is here. The time of peace and prosperity and plenty. He's going to overthrow the Romans and everything's going to be restored just as God has promised. You know what happens? Jesus is crucified. The Messiah is crucified on a Roman cross. And it's the end of all hope. Where's the promise? Where's the hope? Where's the God who can make good on what he has said he would do in restoration? Three days hopelessness. And on the third day, God raises Jesus from the dead. And when he raises them from the dead, it is not simply that he brings them back to life. Having been scourged and crucified, he brings them back in a new body of power. And they all look and they say, Now the kingdom is here. So Acts 1. 6. Now Lord, you're going to restore the kingdom to Israel. Here it is. You're alive. You have done it. You have raised the dead So the kingdom is here. Everything is going to be restored just as we hoped and expected and anticipated. Wow, now's the time, and what happens 2,000 years later, and you still have prayers that are unanswered. And you've walked with Jesus Christ for years, and you still are in bondage to some sins in your life. And there's still disappointment in broken relationships. And there's still a number of ways, if you're really honest, you'd say I'm disappointed in God. What's the point? It's the same pattern. What God has done is just like Abraham. He is the God who is able to bring back life from the dead. But it is a partial fulfillment, deepening the longing for the full fulfillment, purifying the hope to realize that none of those hopes will ever be fully, completely filled here in this world and in this life. But because God has raised Jesus from the dead, we know that He is able to make good on the final installment, the fulfillment of all the promises when Jesus comes back. And that's the life that you and I are called to live. You see, that is why the Fuhrer over Simca Jakobevichis, however you pronounce his name uh the fellow who's made the documentary on Jesus' bones in Jesus' tomb. You know, we've got these ten little bone boxes, ossuaries, and they had the bones of uh must be Jesus and his family, you know, because you know, Discovery Channel says odds are six hundred to one that this is actually Jesus and and that's probably his wife Miriami and there's you know eight others and they're part of the family and you know and you think you say, yeah, yeah, you're right. You know, when I read that and I see the stuff for that, it's it's I have to smile because I have to realize that's the desperation of unbelief. I mean, think about it. Just think about it Let's suppose that it's true. Let's suppose that these were really the bones of Jesus. You're telling me That with the enemies of Jesus, the Jewish leaders, and the declaration of the resurrection going all around Jerusalem, nobody would have thought to get those bones and just display them and say, you know, we know where his tomb is, right here. In fact nobody knew it, but he's married, had kids. I mean you can did somehow that ha I don't know, you know, he looked like he was pretty busy, but he was doing something else here. There it is, see Disprove the whole thing. It's ridiculous. Of course they would have done that. If those had been the real bones Of course, we all know that the names Jesus and Mariammy are about as common as John and Mary today. So what's a proof? Let's suppose it was true. What about his disciples? You think those disciples wouldn't have either if they were trying to pass this off as a resurrection, wouldn't have hidden the bones There's nothing hidden about this tomb. It's right there. You can say all you gotta do is look. Two thousand years later we find it. Nobody could find it back then. Disciples didn't know that Jesus got married somehow. Disciples lived their lives, sacrificed, and died as martyrs for a lie that they knew was a lie. Come on. One of the most intriguing things to me about all these kinds of discoveries is there's a lot of books being written that demonstrate the validity of the historicity of the documents of the New Testament. The press never picks up on them. Somehow you never see those. Let me give you an example. A book by Berger Gerhardsen. called Memory and Manuscript. One of the basic tenets of these ideas, of these, you know, exposers of Jesus really didn't rise. is the fact that it was when it happened it was passed down through oral tradition and the oral tradition was kind of like whispering down the lane. So somebody started and they started this little story and then it got passed on, passed on. It got twisted and garbled and You know, from this sincere belief in a good man, Jesus, who died, uh there gradually emerges this idea that he really rose and that he is God and all the rest of that, and this whole thing over the years gets fabricated, and all this stuff surrounds it. And a guy like your hartson has demonstrated in this book, Memory and Manuscript, that it goes counter to the whole idea of Mideastern oral tradition. Mid Eastern oral tradition is based on the fact that something that is given by a rabbi or an eyewitness, when it is repeated, it is repeated word for word with absolutely no change of a single syllable. One of the sayings was that the disciple must not lose a drop from his master's cistern Kaim Potok, in his book The Chosen, gives many illustrations of people that are even illiterate who could cite from memory perfectly thousands of Proverbs. The nature of the oral tradition of the Mideast, people memorize the Quran. The idea of oral tradition there is you pass something down that's important and you don't change a word of it. In fact, an example of that is that sometime not too long ago some youth leaders were over in Mideast And they decided to uh introduce this old game that you know you've perhaps played at a party whispering down the lane or whatever it's called, different versions. You know, you start with some message, whisper it into the ear of one person, they whisper it and on and on around into around the circle, and then you find out what it finally comes out to be and everybody laughs 'cause it has nothing to do with what was said at the beginning and everybody thinks, isn't that funny? you know, and some silly thing comes out at the end. They played that in the Mideast. No matter how complicated the message or how long the line was, when it got to the end, it was exactly the same message as they'd started with. The Mideastern kids wondered why it was a game. This is ridiculous. We do this all the time. They could do it perfectly. Teenagers. It's part of the oral tradition of the culture. You don't mess with a story. You pass it on word for word. Now you see, this is not something, it's just a religious thing. This was something that was at the very core of their being. God is a God who raised Jesus from the dead. That faith is the basis of all of our hope. It's the basis, what he says here, that God who has done this, in verse 25, he was delivered to death for our sins. It's not just that God could raise the dead. This was Messiah who was delivered for our sins and raised to life showing that his sacrifice was accepted, so we are justified, declared innocent. And that message has been perfectly reproduced. Now if you have questions about that If you're saying, you know, are the New Testament documents reliable? What is this Jesus? What are they really like? Have you ever read them yourself? Let me give you a challenge. The next four weeks, read one gospel a week. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Four Gospels. Doesn't take that long. And then over the next four Sundays We're going to have a group for a discussion. Nobody's going to teach a class on it. It's going to be a discussion. And you come and 10 o'clock Next week, we'll discuss Matthew. We get to that, Mark, then Luke, then John. Just to see Jesus for yourself. See who he is. See what it's like. See when you read the records, do you say, hmm, that makes sense? Or no, doesn't seem to. You gotta look at it for yourself. Not what some church tells you, not what some book says, not what somebody else does. Look at it for yourself for once in your life Eternity depends on that. You owe it to yourself to check it out. That's my offer to you. If you want to do it, next four weeks. After you come through John, if you want to continue the discussion, that's fine. If you want to quit it there, that's fine too. But this is so important. Now, back to the principle I'm trying to state. God has raised Jesus from the dead, but life is still hard. He has shown you that he is able to fulfill on all the promises because the foundation of it is secure. Jesus has been raised from the dead. And so, like Abraham, you believe that he is Abel, God who gives life to the dead and calls the things that are not. The fulfillment of all the promises, as though they are. In other words, heaven is just as sure as if it's already here, because Jesus is risen. And so you look at your life and whatever the things are that are struggles in your life right now. And I ask, what do you do to have hope? You see, if you don't believe in a God who has raised Messiah Who is delivered to death for your sins and raised for your justification, and therefore is able to make good on all the rest of the promises, you don't have a basis for any hope. There is no basis for hope in any other source. Your hope is only the kind of hope so that I hope someday it's going to warm up. But it's not any assurance. And so the resurrection, finally you see there, is the pledge of heaven. The resurrection is the pledge of heaven. Seven P's to help you keep it in order there. First is the pledge of heaven. Then Three sets of two Ps a piece. First is it is the pattern of partial fulfillment that thrusts you forward Because you say, even though life has a lot of disappointment, there's a lot of things in my life that I struggle with, a lot of relationships A lot of things that I'm disappointed in, still the hope becomes purified. Don't set your heart to see the fulfillment completely in this world. The hope is purified by trial, but secondly, it is the proof of his power sufficient to make the full promise happen. The resurrection is the proof that God has the power sufficient to make it happen. He who raised Jesus from the dead is able to rescue you and fulfill your wildest dreams of glory. Now let's imagine that while I'm preaching this, that at some point here, I gasp and I drop over dead of a heart attack. And a few of you decide to rush forward, see what's happened. Is he breathing? Nope, it's not breathing. Well let's pray. Let's pray that God will restore him. He's dead. What are you talking about? No, let's pray. So you pray. After five minutes, I gasp again, and I get up and I say, Now where was I? Now, what does that do to your prayer life? It may not answer any prayers that you are praying, but you say what? If God could raise Harris from the dead, then I guess he can answer my prayer too Now, what Paul's saying here is we're not just talking about he raised somebody from the dead. He raised Messiah, who was delivered to death for your sins, and was raised As a proof that God accepted that sacrifice for your justification, which opens the way to heaven for you. Therefore, if he did that, he can make good on the fulfillment of all the promises of Scripture beyond. I can still recall 20 years ago, March, 1987, I was going through a hard time I went out to pray, and I was thinking about the Lord's return. It was a cold, bitter day in March. In fact, I was outside praying next to a little stream, and the stream was frozen solid. Then I noticed in this one little spot on the stream there was a little bit of a place where there were rocks. And in this one little spot there was some water that was beginning to trickle over the rocks into a little waterfall. Because it had begun to melt. And alongside the bank, on each side of the stream, right there, were some crocuses that were just beginning to bloom. And as I saw that, it was kind of like the sign and seal to my heart, you know what? Winter has been defeated. Spring is inevitable. It will come. As somebody reminded me after the first service, when Aslan shakes his mane, the spring is sure to come. Now, I'm not saying that the whole eastern United States is experiencing a freeze in April Because of the illustration of my sermon. But the fact that it was 26 degrees this morning on Easter perfectly illustrates what I'm trying to get through, dear brothers and sisters. It's like your life. It's a freeze. It is inconvenient. It is not supposed to be on Easter, 26 degrees, and everything's frozen. And your stuff is dying and your buds are frozen and they're not going to bloom on and you say, oh, you know, this is terrible. But you know what? The daffodils will bloom again. The pangees will come back again. The azaleas are going to bloom because spring is inevitable. The return of Jesus Christ is just, no, it's more inevitable. Because God has raised him from the dead. And therefore, he will deliver on all the promises. The final promises are still ahead. We live in the hope of that because we know Jesus is alive. And that is the basis for the whole thing. Therefore, finally, it is a personal pledge, because his resurrection was for you. In fact, Ephesians 2 says you were raised with him. Not just you saw that he was raised, Paul says you were raised with him to that new life. So you now have the deposit of the Spirit if you are a believer in Jesus Christ who is working in you that hope, working in you that new life. Working in you the fact that you can trust God will make good on every last promise because Jesus is alive. God is able to raise the dead back to life. One of my favorite poems from East about Easter goes like this. If Easter be not true. Then all the lilies low must lie, The Flanders poppies fade and die, The spring must lose her fairest bloom, For Christ were still within the tomb, if Easter be not true. If Easter be not true, And faith must mount on broken wing, Then hope no more immortal spring, Then hope must lose her mighty urge, life prove a phantom. Death, a dirge, if Easter be not true. If Easter be not true, t'er foolishness the cross to bear. He dies in vain who suffered there. What matter though we laugh or cry, be good or evil, live or die, if the Easter be not true? If Easter be not true, huh? But it is true. And Christ is risen And mortal spirit from its prison of sin and death with him may rise, worthwhile the struggle, sure the prize, for Easter. Aye. 'Tis true. Amen. Brothers and sisters, let's say together, Christ is risen, we live in hope. Let's say it. Christ is risen, we live in hope. Let's pray. Our God, we confess, because Jesus is risen, you have raised him from the dead, we can live in hope. It is the only basis of our hope. It is the hope like Abraham's hope. Lord, my body is as good as dead. The only hope I have is that you can raise the dead. And so, Lord, you continue to work in our own lives. Lord, my hopes, my dreams, so many things seem to have died. That if Jesus is alive, none of those things are hopeless. You are purifying our hope You are taking that hope and saying that hope is not ultimately to be fulfilled in the things, the relationships. Even the idols of this life. It is fulfilled in me, and I will make good on every last promise. And the songs that your heart longs to sing will be sung in wildest abandon. And when we gather round that throne where Jesus all of your glory is shown, we will sing. We will sing as those who know not an ounce of disappointment, for you who have raised him from the dead have made good on every last promise. Lord, cause us to live this week in the light of that hope, based on that faith. And if we don't have that hope, if we do not have that faith, cause us to long, to read, to look at your word, to talk to someone. To come back next week and to discuss Matthew and who Jesus is and what he has to offer. For Lord Jesus, you are our hope. Lord, in all the disappointments, as we're honest with them, face them, even in these moments, you are our sufficient hope. Thank you for that. Thank you that you are coming again. Amen and Amen