Sermon, our hearts are where that song took us a moment ago. That's that's exactly the sermon for today. Thank you. Let me open us in prayer. Father, we come to you from a lot of different places, a lot of different mindsets. Each of us has a life, each of us has circumstances, and we come this morning for the common reason that we want to worship you. We come because you have called us, we belong to each other and to you. And yet, Lord Jesus, we come fragmented. We are different individuals brought together in this body by our faith in Jesus And so we ask, Lord Jesus, that you would meet us, that you would reveal yourself to us in greater clarity, that you would pour out your spirit in rich measure in a way that will change and transform us. And we ask, Lord Jesus, that you would accomplish your purposes and that you would build your kingdom, both in us and through us. In your precious name we pray. Amen. I really appreciate what Tim was saying as he was talking about the offering this morning, that we we have come to a time that is quite a shift from, say, the last five years. And in the congregation, it's it's even accelerated, it's accentuated, because not only do we have the common cultural issues of stock market and bank closings and and uh Risk of losing jobs, some of you have have lost percentages of salary. There's a lot of uncertainty that's going on, and we have no certainty that tomorrow is going to be anything like yesterday. We have health issues. People in this church recently have lost loved ones in a percentage and a volume that shakes me. We've lost more loved ones, family members in this congregation in the last six months than I recall in the previous several years. And we have people in this congregation who are battling illness, who are battling serious wounds. Um if you look at the prayer chain and I'm the one who puts the the prayer information together, there are huge needs. And so when we come to a time of uncertainty, when we come to a time where We feel at risk. We try to find some way to make sense, some way to be secure, some way to be safe. And one of the things that we typically do is we look to our performance. Am I good? Should I be affirmed? Does God like me? Does God like me because I'm measuring up? Does God owe me? Will I be safe? Because I can do what needs to be done in order to be safe. The book of Galatians is actually a letter. It's a letter that the Apostle Paul wrote to the churches in Galatia. And In a very real way, that's the focus of the book. And so we're going to look at Galatians 5, 16 through 18. But like Tim said, we're going to look all over the book, and frankly, we're going to look at a number of different places in Scripture. And so to begin with, I want you to look at Luke chapter eighteen. This is a story that Jesus told, and Jesus was addressing the similar kinds of issues that the book of Galatians addresses. There is a story he tells in verse 9, and I'll read it. He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus. God, I thank you. I thank you that I am not like other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers Or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. And that was his prayer. Jesus then speaks of the tax collector's prayer, but the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven But beat his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, the man went down, this man went down to his house justified Rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted The struggle we have is what is the role of law and grace? Can I possibly live up to the law in such a way that God owes me? Can I be righteous in my own strength so that God can't judge me? That's what the Pharisee thought. The Pharisee thought, God, I thank you that I'm not like other men. Yeah, they're sinners, they're sinners. But I'm righteous. When you look at my life, you have to justify me. You have to declare me righteous because there's no other choice. I am a righteous man. Fast. Twice a week. I tithe. Everything I get. Even the little seeds Jesus' comment. Jesus' comment is that the Pharisee did not leave justified And if he's not justified, he's condemned. So this man who believed he had dedicated his life to living after the law, had evidence he could point to for things that he had done to honor and to please God, left the temple condemned. Self-righteous, arrogant, self-focused, egotistical. He was a man who had sins he didn't see. And he was condemned. You see, living by the law, living by the law creates sin. Because if I'm living by the law, if my focus in life is to live by the law, whether it's out of arrogance or whether it's out of fear, when I live by the law, my focus is on me. It's not a God. I'm not looking at how I can honor Him. I'm not looking at how I can serve Him. I'm looking at how do I do what's necessary to be a man God must approve. I'm self-focused and I have a false sense of status. I want to say something here. Living by the law is a form of living in the flesh. Living by the law is a form of living in the flesh And Paul says in our passage, I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. And the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things that you want. But if you are led by the Spirit, You are not under law. If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law So again, I want to force this point upon you. Living by the law is a form of living in the flesh. The scripture says, do not live by the flesh. So we're going to look today at three questions. The first question is: can we keep the law? The second question is, where is our hope? And the third question is how do we live? And the first question is, can we keep the law? Because if we can keep the law, we're safe If we can keep the law, God must look at our lives and justify us because we've lived according to the law. But if you read Scripture, Old or New Testament, any place that you see, you recognize that the answer to that question is absolutely not. Absolutely not. You, me, no one can live by the law. No one can meet the demands of the law. No one can keep the standards of the law but for one. But for one. Scripture says in Romans three chapter or chapter three, verses ten through eighteen, as it is written, no one is righteous No, not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now that sounds really extreme. That sounds really extreme because no one does good, no one seeks for God. We're not that bad, are we? Surely that's not really describing us I was talking to a young man named Anthony this week. And it was a pretty interesting conversation because this is a guy who's done a lot of bad things. And yet the the focus of the conversation that we had was this. I'm okay. I am a good man. Because I can do good things. Look at these things that I've done. Look at what I want to do and I'm I'm working towards doing. I'm a good man because I've done these things and this is what I want to do. I'm working towards it. I'm going to be okay And I started asking him about some of the things that he'd done that were less than stellar. And it was interesting because I watched him, he really resisted thinking about or talking about any of those things that he'd done. Because it shaped his view of himself. And he really only could find himself in a place of safety and comfort if what he focused on was his good. I fast twice a week. I tithe of all I get. I'm not like these people. Yes, we are. Yes, he is. And so was the Pharisee. David says in Psalm fifty one Verses three and four. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your word. judgment. David recognized his sin. Now granted, it took it took the prophet Nathan To confront David publicly with his sin with Bathsheba, which is what precedes this psalm, for David to confess publicly his sin But David was aware of his sin. David knew all along what his sin had been. David knew that his first sin was not to go to war with his men. And it may not seem like a huge issue. He was a good leader. He created a lot of good leaders. He knew that his men were in capable hands and and they would be able to win Without David. So it wasn't really a huge issue that David didn't go to lead his men, but but then David found himself up on his rooftop, enjoying the view of the city, and there on her rooftop was Bathsheba. And David looked. And David continued to look. And David David's sin grew. Not only did David look, but David commanded Bathsheba be brought to him. And David's sin continued to grow. grow. Bathsheba became pregnant. David was afraid. David knew that her husband would know that he'd been at war, that the people would know that her husband had been at war. So he called her husband back and did all he could in order to give some reason for him to be safe and for others to think that this child was not his, but Bathsheba and her husband. Didn't work. He was a man of faithfulness who slept at the palace. He refused to go home and enjoy the comforts of home when the army was at war. So David ordered his men to place her husband at risk and to guarantee that he was killed. battle so that David could bring Bathsheba to the palace and take her as his wife. I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment Let me ask you a question. When you hear the words, my transgressions are ever before me. Can you say those words? Can you say that you see your sin? Can you recognize that you break God's law moment by moment and day by day? When you pray, are your prayers more characterized by God forgive me? And if so, what are you asking him to forgive you for? Or are your prayers more characterized by, God, give me? I want you to think this week as you spend time with the Lord, as you find yourself in prayer Am I more focused on recognizing my sin and my need for God to forgive me? God forgive me a sinner Or am I more focused on God? It'd be really, really cool if you would do we need, we want, please give. The title of the sermon is Am I Living for Myself or Am I Living for Kingdom? When I'm aware of my sin Other things automatically follow. When I'm not aware of my sin, I'm focused on me and other things, which could be good But are tainted by my motivation. Follow. It's good for us to ask God to do things. It's good for us to ask God to give things But but am I asking God to give because I want more? Am I asking God to give because I want his kingdom to advance? I want you to look at the beginning of Galatians chapter five. Because if if you are like me. This is a danger for you. Paul is speaking to the Pharisee Jesus mentioned in the parable. I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, and what he means by that is if you live by the law. The whole battle that's going on in Galatians is, will we be circumcised, place ourselves under the law, and as people under the law, try to come to Jesus, or is it an entirely different way? And Paul says, I testify again to every that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law You are severed from Christ. You who would seek to be justified by the law, you have fallen from grace. You who seek to be justified by the law. Now obviously he's not talking about losing salvation I don't have time to get into that and explain why that's not the case, but but please understand the scripture is clear. Jesus says, No one can snatch you from my hand. My father who's given you to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch you from my hand. from my hand. But that's the danger if we focus on living by the law As opposed to living by the Spirit. Living by flesh, whether it's in attempting to earn our way by human effort or whether it's denying the importance of God whatsoever, when we live by the flesh. We're severed from Christ. So what hope can we have? If we can't meet the law, and if attempting to live by the law puts us in our relationship with Christ at risk, what hope can we have? The hope that we have is we have a savior. We have a savior. We have someone who gives us new life, who meets the demands of the law and gives us the Spirit. Chapter 3 of Galatians Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? How did you come to God? How did you enter into relationship and how do you remain in relationship with God? Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law? Or by hearing with faith. And if you receive the Spirit, and you've received the Spirit only by hearing with faith. Having begun by the Spirit, Paul says in verse three, are you being perfected by the flesh? Brothers and sisters, there's a huge danger for us in the church. And that danger Is that we will see the gospel in this way. We will see the gospel as something that we must acknowledge in order to come into relationship with God. Father, I'm a sinner. I need Jesus. Please save me. And then We begin to believe that we stay in that relationship with God because now we have to measure up. Now we have to live by the law. Now, in order to keep that great blessing that God has given, we have to do And obey. And we do so out of fear and out of obligation and out of a concern for ourselves. Paul says in verse three, having begun by the Spirit Having begun by hearing with faith, having begun with the Spirit's presence in you, having begun that new life in Jesus, are you being perfected by the flesh? And what he means is, are you trying to live up to the law so that God owes you? Are you that Pharisee who doesn't believe he sinned? Who will not look at the sin that entangles him, looks at the good that he's done and believes that he's okay with God, that God owes him. And he leaves the temple condemned. Or will you be or will you be that sinner who recognizes their sin, who confesses their sin, who recognizes that no one but Jesus can save you from that sin? And no one but Jesus and the Spirit can keep you growing in your relationship with the Father. But I say walk by the Spirit. You will not gratify the desires of the flesh, whether it's trying to earn your own salvation or whether it's ignoring God completely. Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. The desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other. To keep you from doing the things that you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law. Why are we not under law? Law is God's good la commands for how we were created to live, for living in a way that honors Him, for being the people that we are intended to be. How are we not under law? We're not under law because we're not under performance. Someone's performance has already secured our salvation. And what you do has nothing to do with your justification. What you do has nothing to do with your justification. Your obedience cannot, cannot procure or sustain your relationship with God. We live by faith and not by works. Chapter 5 of Galatians verse 6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision, keeping a law, nor uncircumcision. Abandon the law counts for anything, but only faith working through love. Living by the Spirit Is living by faith and loving. First of all, loving God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. Secondly, loving your neighbor as yourself And so we live by faith. We live by faith in a Savior who has given us new life, who has given us the Spirit, and has met the demands of the law. God cannot accept two payments. Your debt's paid. Chapter five of Second Corinthians. God made him Verse twenty one God made him who knew no sin to become sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him Your debts paid. And living by the Spirit means now that you live by faith and you live a life intended to please and to honor God. You live, in short, for His kingdom. Not for you. And so the simple answer of how do we live is we live beginning and continuing in the Spirit. Having begun by the Spirit, are you being perfected by the flesh? No. Walking by the Spirit, not gratifying the desires of the flesh. If we live by the Spirit, verse 25 of chapter 5, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Brothers and sisters, the law is important, but the law is important as an opportunity for you to please God. And you don't live by the law, you live by the Spirit who moves you God says in Ezekiel 36, I will place my spirit in you, and I will move you to keep my commands and decrees. You have a counselor. You have an encourager. You have God dwelling in you to lead you in how you live. He speaks to you through this word. He tells you who he is. He tells you what he's done. He tells you what he loves, that he loves you in Christ. He gives you his spirit and he moves you to keep his commands and decrees. So the calling for you today is to be at peace. To live rightly before God peacefully. Galatians 2, that Tim read earlier. I have been crucified with Christ. I'm a new man. The old has passed away. Behold, new has come. I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who lives, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and delivered himself up for me. That's how you live. You live at peace with God, not looking for a reward that you've already got. It's not about your comfort, it's not about your risk, it's not about your position. It's about God. It's about living for Him. Walk by the Spirit. Live by the Spirit Be led by the Spirit. You are a new creature. Live that new life. Not only do you not look for reward, you don't fear punishment. Brothers and sisters, nothing God brings into your life as a believer can ever be a punishment. Nothing he brings into your life comes from him as a punishment, because that punishment went to the cross. It cannot go to you. God will use difficult circumstances in your life. God will discipline. God will shape. God will encourage. And God will build kingdom through your life. But it's not a punishment. It's not something to fear. It's not something to run from Hebrews 11 is a list of heroes of the Faith who went through incredibly difficult circumstances. They went through them by faith because they believed in the character of God who had called them, who had led them, who was superintending their lives And they believed that what he was doing was good and it was kingdom focused. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were three people who went with Daniel into Babylon. And early in their time in Babylon, they were made governors. They owed allegiance to Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar was the emperor, and they were called as governors to serve him. And they could do that to a degree. But when it came to the point where Nebuchadnezzar said, Not only must you serve me as government officials. Now you have to worship my God. They said, no. No, Nebuchadnezzar, this you cannot call us to do. You can punish us for our disobedience, but you can't make us worship a God we don't believe in. You can't make us turn from the God that we do believe in. So They came to the emperor when summoned, and Nebuchadnezzar said, Do you not know if I can kill you? I said, we don't have to give you an answer. But there's no conversation we have to have here. We're not worshiping your idol. Do what you must. Our God can save us. But he may not. This is not about whether we're saved. This is about the kingdom. And the result of their willingness to go into the furnace was that Nebuchadnezzar honored God. They go into the furnace. They may come out in heaven. They may come out in Babylon. But they go in to be with God. And God meets them in the furnace. There weren't three people walking around in the furnace, there were four. And the result was God's kingdom was built. Nebuchadnezzar, the emperor of Babylon, who taken Judah. Into exile, honored the God the world believed he had defeated. Stories of Joseph God was not punishing Joseph when he put Joseph in prison in Egypt. God was building kingdom God did not punish Joseph when he put Joseph in Potiphar's household and allowed Potiphar's wife to falsely accuse him and throw him in prison for years. Brothers and sisters, I know some of what's going on in your lives. I know some. I don't know all. But I want to tell you this. Whatever God brings into your life, whatever God brings into your life is for kingdom. Good. And how do you live? You live by faith, you live in the Spirit, and you trust that the one who is shaping your life is doing so for purposes bigger than you. And God is using you to accomplish his glory. Let's pray. Father, I know that circumstances where we suffer, where we hurt, where we are Rejected, sick, at risk, hungry They heard. And Lord, if it really is only about me and I'm going through difficult times, then you failed. But I pray, Lord Jesus, that in my life and in the life of my brothers and sisters, you would open our eyes to see that your kingdom purposes are so much grander than my life. Than their life. That you have not failed, we have not been abandoned, we are not being punished, and that you are building your kingdom And Lord, I pray that not only would we gain perspective to know that you're building kingdom, but Lord Jesus, you'd change our hearts. So that the desire of our heart would be that your kingdom Expand. That your name be honored and that you build in the lives of the people around us. We can't do that. We don't have the Strength, we don't have the power, but Lord, as you give us the grace to live by the Spirit, as you diminish the influence of the flesh, our old nature, our desire to be in control Our desire to be safe in our own right, our desire to have our own pleasure, our desire to be the world's focus. As you diminish that influence on our life, Lord Jesus, you build your kingdom. And so we pray, build your kingdom and use us. In Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen.