Amazing love, oh what sacrifice, the Son of God, given for me. My debt he pays, my death he dies, that I, that you, might live. That's a tremendous song, thanks. And um if you uh missed the middle hour, let me um urge you to talk to somebody who came today and see That video that we saw, part one, part two will be next middle hour on what God is doing in the world in a couple of cities. Where believers have become desperate and joined together and prayed for the power of God and to see what God could do, to see that revivals aren't just the thing of the past. But the gods can do amazing things today. So come and remember that in the afternoon we've set that time aside. for a couple of special needs, urgent and special needs, we'll be calling upon God for as a congregation. It's in the bulletin board, so check that. But make sure so that next week, oh I didn't know about that. There it is, right there. Check it out. Arrange your schedule to be with us for at least part of that time. Now, next Sunday we will be also celebrating, along with millions of other Christians, not celebrating, but observing Sanctity of Human Life Sunday. And uh I say, observing rather than celebrating, while we celebrate life, of course, we use the occasion each January around the 20th because that is when back in nineteen seventy-three that the Supreme Court passed down the decision on Roe versus Wade legalizing abortion in America And so we will observe that time and think about what is the status of that issue today and where we are as Christians. Uh I remember that last January 22nd, on the day that they had the march in Washington I happen to be driving and listening to NPR, as I do from time to time. Get the slant on their slant on life. And uh they were having a special day, uh number of interviews and uh various things about abortion and the right to life and all the rest of this because of the march. And they quoted a recent study which as soon as I was able to pull over, I uh jotted down to make sure I got accurate, didn't run off the road doing it. But they uh quoted a study that said of those that had just been polled, thirty-three percent said that they favored abortion on demand, abortion freedom. Yeah, it's good news. One in three Only one in three last year supported abortion freedom, the right to choose and do whatever you want on that. Twelve percent were against that. Twelve percent would favor the illegalization, the uh prohibition of abortion. And that left fifty-five percent, um, roughly, besides the underscited. What what did they believe? Well, fifty-five percent had the position. I am personally against it, but I want others to have that freedom. And so that's the majority view today. I'm personally against it. But I want to make sure and protect that others have the freedom to choose to do what they want. That's considered to be the tolerant, non-judgmental option. In the program, they went on then to interview a number of people, and one person they interviewed was an Asian American woman who described herself as a Christian. She said, I'm a Christian, and so I think abortion is killing. I believe it's wrong. And so NPR followed up with a second question. Would you vote to repeal Roe v. Wade if you had the choice, if you could do that? And her answer was, I'm not sure. Personally, I would never have an abortion, but people need to make that choice on their own, which is basically the 55% option. Which reminded me that the issue in 2000 is not the issue of whether abortion is the taking of a human life. The issue today is the issue of tolerance. Wanting to outlaw abortions is simply seen as an intolerant position. And intolerance is the last great sin left in America. In fact, intolerance is the only thing that will get the consensus of condemnation among most groups. It is wrong to be intolerant. I'm not sure what that exactly means, but it's wrong to be intolerant. In fact, as Daniel Taylor said in Christianity Today, 1999, in January He said, America is sick of intolerant people and it's not going to tolerate them anymore. And that's pretty much the position today. I would like to think through this issue of tolerance with you from a Christian perspective. What does it mean? What is tolerance? Is that a Christian virtue? How should Christians respond to this? And look at the example of Jesus as our model in this very difficult and practical struggle, whether it's a matter of sanctity of human life or any or many other moral issues today, we are all confronted with this pressure to be tolerant And without really thinking through what does tolerance mean. Now, I mentioned to Tom this morning as we just before the couple minutes before we began the first service, what every worship leader dreads to hear. I said, Tom, this sermon's a nightmare. And uh, you know, whenever you hear that, oh no, here we go. How do what do I adjust? And the reason I say that is because I really have an hour sermon. And I realize I don't have an hour to preach it. And if I had my choice, what I would do is I'd preach an hour this morning. And then I'd say, I'll forgo my opportunity next week. Let's just pray, sing, pray next week, and I guess it I gave it up. But I I need the hour, you know So my, since I didn't think that would get brave reviews from y'all, uh, my only other option is I've just got to cut this thing at the midpoint. So I've got to give you half this week, and then we've got to stop, hold that thought, and we're going to come back to it next week, and I'll try to make sense out of it, do a little review next week, but try to bring it to a some sort of conclusion this week So there's a long introduction here, longer than normal, because I want us to understand the issue that we need to address, the issue of tolerance. And we're going to look at Scripture, and then next week we're going to look at Scripture again, and we're going to try to apply it. So, first of all, let me give to you my six observations about tolerance in order to see the issue that we need to address as Christians. Point number one, they're in the bulletin outline notes. There's no blanks to fill in this time. I just want you to be able to follow along because we're going to move rapidly and it's more complicated, so just you know hang in it Point number one, real tolerance requires that one have objections. Real tolerance requires that one have objections. No one is tolerant of something unless they object to it You don't object to something. I mean you don't you're not tolerant of something if you're indifferent about it. A lot of people say today that they are being tolerant when in fact they're simply indifferent. And tolerance can be a positive spin on moral bankruptcy. It's like the uh old thing you heard about the guy in the street goes up and says, Sir, what is apathy? I don't know and I don't care. Well, you see, you have to care to be considered tolerant. If you don't care, you're not tolerant. You know, give a rip. Tolerance, really, the way it's spoken of today, is simply an outgrowth of the disease of relativism where truth is only opinion, and so who am I to judge? One of the best examples of this, the guy I quote often, John Leo from U. S. News and World Report, one of his best uh articles was a while back where he talked about this fellow professor, Robert Simon, who teaches history in college, college level, and he says in twenty years he's taught on the Holocaust, he's never seen a student who denied that the Holocaust happened, but what he is seeing currently, he says, disturbs him even more, namely students who acknowledge the fact of the Holocaust, but can't bring themselves to say that killing millions of people is wrong. Simon reports that 10 to 20 percent of his students now hold this position. Usually they deplore what the Nazis did, but their disapproval is expressed as a matter of taste or personal preference, not moral judgment. Of course I dislike the Nazis, one student told Simon, but who is to say that they're morally wrong? Some students are unwilling to oppose large moral horrors, including human sacrifice, ethnic cleansing, and slavery, because they think that no one has the right to criticize the moral views of any other group or culture. which is what he calls absolutophobia, the fear of any absolutes. That's not tolerance You see, tolerance requires that there's a principled disagreement, but I refuse to silence your opinion or coerce your behavior. That uh doesn't mean I can't express my convictions, can't seek to persuade you. And so if somebody says you're not tolerant because you're simply seeking to persuade, that's a misunderstanding of it. A tolerant person has an objection. They just don't want to force the other person, uh, coerce them uh uh in agreement Secondly, the one person, second point observation, the one person who is not tolerated today is the person with convictions. NPR had another program where they had a discussion about Southern Baptists And uh they're discussing the Southern Baptists and what they believe, and uh one liberal tolerant guest objected strenuously to the Southern Baptist, we'd say Christian, belief that people without Jesus Christ or going to hell. And he said these words on radio. The evaporization the evaporation of four million people who believe in this blip would leave the world a better place. Not so much for tolerance there. People with convictions, you see, are generally lumped together with hate mongerers, militia types, um wild-eyed fanatics. Even if you're peaceful and try to be reasonable in the expression of a conviction, convictions aren't very popular today. Opinions are very popular. But convictions are not very popular, seen as a threat to our peace. Point three is that number two is not really true. Because no one tolerates everything. Everyone has issues they believe are wrong. Whether it's racism or sexism or raping my mother or sister, there's something that I believe is wrong. The real issue is simply what is on today's tolerance list. And that is generally what is put forth by the media Whether it's environmentalism or animal rights or what these things it's good to be absolute about, but not about issues like the sanctity of human life. In the same article, Leo quotes a woman, Kay Hogard, who teaches philosophy at Hamilton College, upstate New York. And uh she uh was uh absolutely stunned, she said. Um at one point she teaches this course philosophy and she uses this short story called The Lottery which is about a small uh American farming town where they practice human sacrifice once a year in order to make the crops grow. The point of the story is the pressure of human uh peer pressure to conform when something that's obviously wrong. The problem is she can't students get students to agree that this is obviously wrong anymore Uh one student who had written passionately about saving the whales, a concern for rainforests and a rescue of a tender care of a stray dog, said she was in no position to judge whether human sacrifice was wrong or not. She said, if it was a long-standing tradition that they had, who am I to say? Okay. Save the whales, but not the people. And this then is the kind of inconsistency in the the sort of position that we're in today. Talk a little more about that next week. Um the th the fourth point that comes from that is that the greatest offense of tolerance, of course, is the uniqueness of the gospel. That's what puts us in such a bind. You recall for those who have been around for a while back in the early 80s when in the meeting house it became apparent um to those that we shared that facility with, that we believe that a person um who did not receive Jesus Christ on the basis of his finished work, his sacrifice, shed blood for sin would be under God's judgment and not be with God for eternity, but rather suffer the consequences in hell, um, that all the other seven very tolerant congregations decided seven to zero to not renew our lease. Not because we had done anything wrong, but simply because we held that opinion, believed that, had that as a conviction. But let's not get too paranoid about that. It's not just Christians that get this. Dr. Laura says she gets her fair share of hate mail for the moral absolutes that she holds on her radio show, and she's a Jew. It's the idea of somebody holding absolutes. Um and the other side of that is that number 5. 5, the charge of offensive tolerance against evangelicals has some truth to it. I'm ashamed to say it, but I believe it's true. I still recall Philip Yancey talking about how shocked he was and all the hate mail he got from Christians when he met with President Clinton. And uh he said, Well, you know, one of the people disagreed with me. It was the names they called me. It was the way they attacked me. He said, These are supposed to be my brothers and sisters. You think of what Paul said in Galatians 5. 15, beware of devouring one another lest you destroy one another. And so it's an old problem, but it's still with us. Just this week I received a fundraising letter from an organization that I respect, but it was blatantly not only opposing someone with whom I would violently disagree, but it used sarcasm, sarcasm and and caricaturing their position, using fear and anger to get me to write a check. And I found that that it was offensive. I'm ashamed to say that we're often guilty of the charge from those with whom we disagree that we are offensive in our intolerance over things that are wrong. I still recall some years ago the convenience store that I frequented, I've told some of you about this that held uh had a rack of magazines and some of them were pornographic and I it bothered me more and more. I believe God was just bothering me with this thing. So I went in and I one day I said uh Could I talk to the manager? And uh, you know that's they always hate to hear that, but they got the manager and yeah, what's your problem? And I told her, um I'm uh I'm offended by these magazines here. I don't think that they're doing a service for our community. It's pr uh it's um counterproductive to what you want to do as a store if you're serving here and I I just wish you'd remove them. And she said, I'll get back to you, come back in a week. He said she had talked to the store owner. I came back in a week and the magazines were gone. And um so I said to her, um, what persuaded you to remove the magazines? And she said, I gotta be honest with you, in all the years I've had this story, I think I was talking to the owner at that point. She said, In all the years I've had this story, you are the first person that ever came in that objected to them, that reasoned with me as a human being. So I'm used to being called names cursed at for things that I do that people don't like, particularly the magazines I help. But she said you were the first person to talk to me about why you thought it was the wrong thing to do, and I think your arguments are Persuasive and they're gone, they won't be back. I think sometimes we as Christians have a kind of paranoid view of how our views will be received. And so we polarize when we don't need to. Therefore, what should be our model? What should be our model of holy tolerance? And of course, we need to go to Scripture for this, God's Word, which is our only rule of faith and practice. And particularly we need to look at the Lord Jesus as our model because what he did we know is right. We don't have to evaluate it. And fortunately, we do have a scripture about how Jesus responded in a way that I think is very relevant to this on a very controversial occasion, a very controversial issue. in very controversial passage. John 8, verses 1 to 11 that Tom read. Everything about this passage is controversial, even whether it should be included in Scripture. In fact somebody asked me, why are you going to preach on that? That's not in the Bible. Well, I don't have time to defend it altogether. I believe it should be in the Bible. I think there's a very excellent defense of this in James Boyce's commentaries on the Gospels of John. Um but because I'm already having to cut this thing in half, I'm not going to go into that much. But let me just sum it up by saying that I believe that um Even though it is absolutely clear, as the NIV says, the earliest most reliable manuscripts, so their ancient witnesses do not have this, While that is true, no question about, it's not in the first couple of centuries of manuscripts. Nevertheless, there are a number of references to it in the first couple of centuries by other writers, so it seems like it had been there. Secondly, it fits the context. If you just take 753 to 811 out and then read up to 752 and start at 812 on, that makes sense. Something's missing. You know, just there's a gap. There's something it looks like should have been there. Even more than that, it fits the context and the flow of John's argument Even fits the pattern of it. If you looked in chapters 5 through 9 of John, the pattern is at the beginning of each chapter there is some interaction with Jewish folks or the leaders. And that leads to a discourse, a sermon that Jesus gives that's prompted by that. You have it in five, six, seven. Well, if you take this out, you don't have it in eight, and then you have it again in nine And so, why not? Uh it seems like something should be there. This is what prompts what then continues on after that. So I believe that it's right to be there, and you might ask, well then why isn't it there? Why did it get taken out of those early manuscripts? Well, one commentator has speculated, don't know this for sure, but in the early uh those early days, of course, moral issues were a big thing because um immorality was simply basically accepted. And uh that uh as Christians sought to um to enforce God's standards, uh that people would have referred to this passage as an out. Well, you see, Jesus didn't condemn the woman caught in adultery, so you know, why are you guys doing that? And it was being misused so much that some Christians just simply took it out and they um they just found it too hard to deal with and that it was later then restored. Um, don't know if that's true, but I do believe that um it's consistent with the nature of the Lord and the context and what John is talking about, we should consider it as scripture. Tom read it already. I'm not going to read it again, but I hope you were able to use your imagination. If not, I want to help you a little bit on that as we begin to look at this passage because it's again very important. as we've talked about in others recently, that we read scripture with our imaginations engaged. Picture the scene that's going on here. Jesus has come from the Mount of Olives. He's in the temple courts in a very public place now. All the people are gathered around him. And so at this point, the leaders want to catch Jesus and they want to trap him. They want to embarrass him. And that's clear from verse 6. Because it says the question they used was just as a basis for accusing him. And so what do they do? Well, while he's teaching there, they drag this woman in, there's a disruption, you know, and I realized kind of caught with all this disturbance going on, and they they kind of drag this disheveled woman at her snarling in their self-righteousness and their contempt for her Something like, you know, this is what's wrong with society today. You see how things are going down here? Look at this. We caught this woman right in the act of adultery. Here she is, you know, look at this and what you Okay, you know what the law says, you know? And they could have quoted it, you know, it's Leviticus chapter twenty-two, left chapter twenty, verse ten, or Deuteronomy twenty-two, twenty-two. It says man and woman are caught in the act of adultery, they should be stoned. You know the law of Moses. What do you say, teacher? Well, you know, you look at that And you see how terrible sin is. How terrible. I mean, what this woman did was wrong. I mean, let's let's admit that she was caught. She's guilty. Um It's hard for me in the years that I've been involved in working with marriages to tolerate the view that no nobody's really hurt. Yeah, what she did, you know, probably it was a bad marriage. Who knows, you know. Bridges of Madison County, maybe it'll help things out. You know, I mean this kind of stuff. What she did was wrong. There's hurt, great pain in that kind of betrayal. Um we cannot minimize that. It destroys relationships. Bitterness, brokenness. But when we look at this, what is so much worse is the sin of these leaders. As they bring her, the law called not only for the stoning, but God's word is clear. While there are many reasons for capital punishment in the Bible, in the Old Testament law. What's also very clear is how the guilt of the person had to be established beyond any doubt. There had to be multiple eyewitnesses. And so it's pretty hard to imagine, since verse 6 says they did this to set Jesus up, that the woman wasn't set up in this matter also. That they hadn't gotten somebody, some guy, who put this woman in this compromised position, that he was an accomplice And that he's then let go. You see there are hypocrisy in this, because if you read both the Leviticus and the Deuteronomy passage, it's absolutely clear when a man and woman commit this, the man and the the woman and the man Are to be stoned. And so you have here the classic double standard where the man is let go and the woman is brought in to be shamed. They're hypocritical, they're vile, they're conniving, they're doing what is despicable, and they're coming in with self-righteous indignation. What rotten hearts we have. The sin is betrayed. It's sick and it's ugly. They want to trap the Savior because they figure they got him in the perfect position of compromise. He can't get out of this. You see, the point is, John doesn't state this, but just think about it. If he says, well you're right, we need to stone him. Absolutely. So Deuteronomy and Leviticus 8. What's gonna happen? Well, two things will happen. One is the people won't follow me anymore because here's this Jesus that's taught compassion. Come to me who are labor and heavy laden, I'll give you rest. He has spoken of his tenderness, he has healed people, he has shown all and he says, well, go ahead and stone this woman. The reason that would be difficult is because, in fact The capital punishment of stoning was very, very rarely carried out. The Jews had continued to add more and more qualifications for the circumstances under which it can be done, so it was practically never done in those times. In fact, one writing in the Thomid talks about the bloody Sanhedrin who were condemning as many as one every seven years And so it wasn't done very often, you see. So to do this would have shocked the people for Jesus to have approved. It also would have gotten him in trouble with Rome because the Jews weren't allowed to execute people So they figure if he says stone her, we got him. People will stop following him and they'll be in trouble with Rome. On the other hand, if he says, let her go. Then we'll simply say, oh, it's clear this guy's a false prophet, because look at Deuteronomy and and Leviticus say they require that the man and the woman, we'll forget the man part, we'll require that the woman be stoned, you see. So they got him. Now before you know what Jesus did, you know you gotta you gotta feel that a little bit and say, what's he gonna do? I mean there's a breath there's a whole crowd here, you see, and they're all watching. How's he going to respond to this? Probably some of them know it's a trap, but they're thinking, how's he going to get out of this? What's he going to do? And so we see in verse 6 that Jesus bent down, he started to write on the ground. Is he looking for some time? Is he thinking? Well, we don't know. We don't know what he wrote. Nobody knows what he wrote. But as he begins to write, they keep on, it says in verse 7, questioning him. It's sort of like snarling, barking dogs, you know, they come and are And he you know and he he's writing and he's thinking and they just came one, come on, come in, give us an answer. What are you gonna say? Come on, I'll do that for anybody. What do you what are you gonna do? Come on, come on. You know, really mm. And so finally He straightens up and he says to him in verse 7, Well, if any of you is without sin, let him be the first to throw the stone at her. You can hear the tolerant crowd back here cheering. Yeah! Hey, that's good, good answer. And then again, he stoops down and writes on the ground. Now this is really amazing to me. You see, he's stupid now. He writes on the ground again. Now these people are strong, barking around. At this verse 9 Those who heard began to go away one at a time. Now, as I say, nobody knows what he was writing. My own personal opinion for what it's worth, which is not much But you know, 'cause you won't find any other two people who would agree on this. I tend to think possibly he was writing things that revealed their sins. He was writing things that when they would look, they'd say, Whoa, that was my heart. And so, even with all this planning and plotting and all the rage and all that they've worked up, this prefigurement of the final judgment, when there will be no answer. No blame shifting, but every heart laid bare is revealed in this majestic verse that began to go away. That's it. He's utterly undone them. And so they leave, and finally it says, the older ones first, they had more to deal with. Until only Jesus was left with the woman still standing there. At that point, Jesus straightened up again, and he asked her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you. No one, sir. And then Jesus answers, Then neither do I condemn you. Second cheer from the tolerance crowd. Yeah! Good! Hey! No condemnation! Boy, that's great! Now, yeah, I mean be honest, doesn't Jesus sort of sound like a contemporary, relativistic, tolerant person here, you know? Well, they don't condemn you, neither do I condemn you But then he adds this Go now and leave your life of sin. Ah, groans from the tolerant crowd. Oh man, you were going so well. What happened? Uh-huh. Yeah, to go ahead and add that again. Yeah, gee. Well, notice the order of this. First, there is the statement of forgiveness, and then the command for holiness. I don't condemn you. Stop sinning. You see, the tolerance crowd says, hey, adultery, abortion, homosexuality, whatever it is, no problem. Do what you want. Dear opinion, dear life, no one should impose their values on you. Unfortunately, there is no release from guilt and bondage. There is nothing to hold the social fabric together. Things deteriorate. Lives are still in bondage, betrayal, and things are sick. But you see The religious law option would say, stop sinning and I'll bless you. The gospel, in contrast to that, says, I have blessed you, stop sinning. And I suggest to you there is a world of difference between those two statements. Stop sinning, and I will bless you. The law says, if you do this Then you'll be blessed and forgiven, and I won't condemn you. That's not what Jesus says. Because you see, you and I are unable to stop sinning. We're unable to meet his standard. What the gospel says is I have blessed you. Now stop sinning. And you see, in that what we see is that Jesus here does not simply tolerate the woman. He loves her. That Jesus will give his life for a woman like this when he goes to the cross. And when he goes to the cross, he will endure something which is not simply stoning, but far worse. He will endure at that point. The full penalty of the judgment of a righteous and holy God who hates sin because he sees not only how it destroys us, but it offends his holiness. And Jesus will endure the full weight of that wrath upon himself, so that he could say to you and to me, I don't condemn you. I forgive you. Now turn in my power from your sin. And so, the Bible calls you and me to a far higher standard than tolerance. It calls us to love. And that's what we want to explore next week in what it means. But let me leave you just with this as we end this part of the message for this week. As you look at that story, who do you identify with? Maybe without realizing it, you identify with the rulers. We look at the rulers as a bunch of heartless evil villains. But you see, the rulers, the Jewish rulers at that time were the evangelicals who were the moral people. They were those who were simply trying to argue for holding up the standards of traditional morality. But in their hearts, their critical, bitter spirits, they needed to establish their own records, and so they always had to find someone else with whom they were superior. And that's what happens in religion. You've got to establish your record. And so you've got to always establish your self-righteousness by criticizing and condemning someone else. And you think that you're resisting the relativistic tolerance, but it could be something that's worse. Self-righteous moral legalism. What do you identify with the crowd? The crowd that watches all of this, but never enters in and participates in receiving the forgiveness. Or do you identify with a woman? Where you're caught in your shame. You can't excuse it, you can't escape, you can't squirm out of it. All you can do is stand before Jesus. And bow your head as you receive his words based on your confession, your acknowledgement of your sin. I don't condemn you. Now leave your life of sin as I empower you. That becomes the basis of how we deal with the sanctity of human life next week. Let's pray. Father, we come before you as those who realize that we are in the place of the woman. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to see that we are. That we are those who, whether we've committed adultery or not, we have committed lustful things in our hearts and thoughts and minds, gossip. Bitterness, murder. We've done things, Lord, of which we're ashamed We thank you so much that the words of the gospel are not stop sinning and I will bless you, but rather, I have blessed you. Now, stop sinning. Lord, work in our hearts to understand the difference of that, and how that is so much more precious than tolerance. Work that in our hearts, we pray, that we might go free this day in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.