We have just passed the twenty-seventh anniversary of Roe vs. Wade. And Frederica Matthews Green, one of the most outspoken and articulate voices of the pro-life movement in America, says that she has some bad news for us. She says the abortion debate is over and we lost. In an article in December last month She says these words. For a couple of decades it was the hot topic The subject of television debates and flashpoint of political campaigns, many a punditorial brow furrowed over this difficult controversial choice. And then the public got bored and saw only two possible positions: thoughtful, regretful, pro-choice. And hysterical prudish pro-life. Pro-lifers, the average person thought, did not realize that life is tough and women deserve compassion. Never mind that pro-lifers began establishing free care centers to support pregnant women eight years before the Roe vs. Wade ruling. And I would add to her reasons that the issue today is that proliferers are seen as intolerant. And that is the last great sin in America. Larry Crab said that thirty years ago the most familiar verse to Americans was John 3. 16 For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Today, he said, the most familiar verse to most Americans is Matthew 7, verse 1. Judge not, that you be not judged. Last week we looked at this matter of tolerance and saw that a recent survey concerning abortion last year Found that 33% of Americans surveyed said that they agreed with abortion on demand without qualification or any prohibitions. One out of three. Only 12% agreed that abortion was wrong and should be outlawed. The majority, 55%, held the position While I personally believe that abortion is wrong, I believe that others should have the right and freedom to choose to do as they wish. That's the tolerant option. And as we said, America is sick and tired of intolerant people and it's not going to tolerate them anymore Tolerance can often be really simply another term for moral relativism. The idea that there are no moral absolutes and there is no absolute truth, except this one, that there is no absolute truth. Never mind the internal contradiction. And so on the whole, we find today that Americans are uneasy about abortion but want it available. But only for three reasons, according to Kate Nickelman, one of the pro-choice leaders. Rape, incest, and my situation. So we see that that's the popular position where tolerance is a must. However, there's a quandary. It's not quite so simple. And I think that that was best illustrated recently on the show Inside Washington. Now you gotta know that in our home, we don't watch television very much. Kathy and I don't watch it very much together, but there is one show that is tradition for us. Every Saturday night, 7 o'clock, we watch inside Washington. So if you want to bug us, call between seven and seven thirty and you know. Who's calling now? We watch that every every Saturday to see what's going on. Well on January the first To kick off the new century, they uh focused some discussion on that. And they uh talk about the 1990s, this past decade, as the golden age of America They talked about uh how uh we we saw the death of communism, uh that there has been uh a growth in the economy and its health beyond belief that um crime and violence is down, the cities are being reborn, technological advances are unsurpassed, and it raised the question, how long can this last That's a good question, actually, when you consider how long can God continue to bless a nation that has killed in the last twenty-seven years Uh thirty-seven million pre-born babies. The arrogance The disrespect, the blasphemy of the current generation is almost without bounds. An example of this that I saw just recently. I think just kind of sums it up, you know, one of those little vignettes that's very uh symbolic. January seventeenth, Time magazine talked about the fourth appointment of Alan Greenspan to the Federal Reserve Board chair. And so they uh had a picture of the quarter on it and instead of uh George Washington on it, there's Alan Greenspan in his typical pose, you know. And over on the side there, the motto is in Alan we trust. Whatever time believes about it, I think they captured the sentiment of America today. There's no sense, whatever the platitudes are by politicians and general focus in the media, there's no real sense that we are dependent upon the God who made us And who judges evil. The Tim Helen we trust. Well, if he's the head of the Federal Reserve, man, that's okay. If you ever die, somebody said they'd stuff him and prop him up in a chair Um, you know, it's an Allen, and I don't mean Harris, that we trust. In time, Washington went on to talk about the challenges of the next century What are the challenges of the future? And they agreed that the basic challenge was bio and genetic engineering. And then Gordon Peterson asked the question: what do you think is most needed in the next century? What does America most need? Jack White from Time Magazine gave this answer. What we most need is a philosopher who will tell us how to use the awesome powers that we are developing. And as I heard that, I thought, how silly. Don't you realize, Jack, we live in an age of tolerance, and I don't care how articulate the philosopher is, it's still only his opinion. People would be incensed that someone would have the schutzpa to say, you must do this or you should do this No philosopher will be able to persuade America to a consensus of values. What you're really saying, Jack, is that we need a mephora who has the authority to both teach and to rule what is right, just, true, in wisdom. What you see Jack White and Inside Washington were saying that America needs more than anything else in this next century is Jesus. I recommend indeed. I mean they weren't saying that, but he was saying it, wasn't he? You see, nothing less than a Messiah is going to be able to speak with the authority about moral values. And you see, Jesus is even better than Jack White was saying that we need, because Jesus hasn't simply spoken to what we should do and must do Jesus has also come and given his life to forgive us for what we haven't done and to change us so that we can follow him. And therefore, as we look at this issue, we're looking at Jesus as the example of how to deal with this seeming tension between truth and tolerance. John chapter 8 I already gave my defense last week for why I believe that even though it's not in the earliest manuscripts, it should be in our Bibles. Let's go back and review the story once again briefly. Beginning in chapter 7, verse 53, remember that this is just after the debate at the Feast of Tabernacles. And so it's in Jerusalem, each then went to his own home, but chapter 8, verse 1, Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Adorni appeared again in the temple courts where all the people gathered around him, and they sat down to te he sat down to teach them. There was a lot of people around. The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman caught in adultery. They made her stand before the group. And they said to Jesus, Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. In the law, Moses commanded us to stone such a woman. Now, what do you say? They were using this question as a trap in order to have a basis for accusing him But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger. When they kept on questioning him, he straightened up and said to them, If any one of you is without sin, let him be the first to throw a stone at her. Again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. At this those who heard began to go away one at a time, the older ones first, until only Jesus was left with the woman still standing there. Jesus straightened up and asked her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? No one, sir, she said. Then neither do I condemn you, Jesus declared. Go now, and leave your life of sin. We saw how the Jewish leaders were hypocritically using this woman simply to trap Jesus, to put him in a no-wind dilemma. If he says That the law says stone her, so that's what we gotta do. Take her out and stone her. Then they know that this one whom the people all follow because they see him as compassionate. as a shepherd, as one that they can trust and find refuge in, will lose all of his following. Because capital punishment was very rarely actually carried out in the Jewish nation at that time. The structures for it, the requirements to prove someone guilty were so narrow that hardly anybody was actually executed. And so they figure if he is going to support that, they've got him. The crowd will leave. On the other hand, it seems that verse six indicates that they inclined to believe that he won't take that option. And so if he says, no, we're going to show compassion on her, you're not going to stone this woman. Then they'll say, he's a false prophet. Because Leviticus chapter 20, verse 10, and Deuteronomy chapter 22, verse 22 both say explicitly, in a case like this The woman should be stoned. Never mind that it also says that the man should be stoned. They've let him go. So they figure they've got him, either way. And Jesus stoops down and he begins to write. And they keep at him and they keep at him. What do you say? What do you say? And though nobody knows what he wrote, I told you my own personal opinion for what it's worth is that he was writing things that indicated their sin. And so we read that amazing, after all their conniving and all their planning, they melt away. The oldest first, realizing the things that he said are true. Such authority, such majestic authority. And so they leave, and Jesus is standing there with a woman. And seeming like he's caught on the horns of the dilemma of tolerance versus truth, Jesus in fact demonstrates a third way, the way of love. Sacrificial love for a sinner who was in fact guilty. Which leads us to the observation that there are three controlling ways of seeing life. For you and for your friends, your family. All of us inclined to one of them. None of us are absolutely in any one. But first of all, there is the tolerance view that says, who's to judge? There isn't any absolute right or wrong. This was her lifestyle. She chose it. And so they identify with verse 7. Who are you to judge? You think you're gonna have sin? Then you can condemn her. But that's not our right, and so just let her go. This has no absolutes, this point of view has no values by which to control any sense. Of commitment toward one another, you simply do what you feel like. Chaos. The second option is law, the moralist. These were the religious leaders, as some people have observed, people who follow the strict religious codes that they're committed to. Generally, tend to focus on sexual sins as those most worthy of condemnation. Let me not be misunderstood here. Fornication and adultery are not only absolutely wrong and against God's word, they are also Sins which produce very painful consequences, never to be excused, mitigated. We're looked at lightly. The pain that comes from that is terrible. Nevertheless, sometimes Religious folks, even evangelicals, can see sexual sins a bit out of balance compared to things like gossip, criticalness, hatred. But the third way is the way of the gospel. And the gospel is demonstrated in the order of what Jesus says in verse 11. Neither do I condemn you, then go now, leave your life of sin. You notice he did not say, Go leave your life of sin, and I won't condemn you The law says, Do good and I will bless you. The gospel says, I have blessed you. Now do good. And there's all the world of difference between those two, isn't there? It's the difference between freedom and bondage. The bondage of if I can only be good enough, God will bless me. And the statement of Jesus, I don't condemn you. Now, go do good. That was not a light or cheap thing which he said. It cost him his own life. For Jesus, as we see going on in the Gospel of John, does not simply endure stoning. He endures the very wrath of a holy God taking on her adultery and your sin and my sin, the most shameful parts of us. That we cringe to even remember. He took that on and he died, bearing the consequences, so that he could say to you, I don't condemn you. Now, follow me. And that's the gospel. It reminds me of an illustration of what happened once during World War One It said that General Douglas MacArthur was speaking to a major before a particularly dangerous, desperate charge that needed to be made. This Major needed to lead his men, and MacArthur said to him. Major, you have got to be the first over the hill to lead so that your men will follow you. I'm counting on you to do it. And then he did something unprecedented. He was wearing his distinguished service medal. He unpinned it from his uniform, and he pinned it to the major's chest. A statement of grace and anticipation And it said that the Major heroically led the charge and succeeded in the mission. Do you see how that's the gospel? God says to you and to me The judgment has already occurred in Jesus. And I give to you now the statement of my approval. Now, follow me into a world of moral confusion Where people say there is no right and wrong. And Jesus becomes our model, and this is the point that you see the C's in there for the rest of the outline. Jesus becomes our model of conviction with compassion. And I believe that's the model he has for you and for me, whether it's in the matter of abortion or homosexuality or any of the other moral issues today. Convictions with compassion First of all, it's obvious that Jesus had convictions here. Jesus spoke uncompromisingly about fidelity. There was no question where he stood. He said, even if you men look at a woman to lust after her in your heart. Then you have committed adultery and you are guilty. If you're keeping magazines hidden that you look at from time to time, and you know that those magazines Produce fantasies and things that you shouldn't be thinking about. Jesus says that's out of bounds. If you're going on the internet and you've stumbled on, but now you purposely go to certain sites. In order to see the images, both still and moving, and you store them, and you salaciously go to them in order to fantasize Jesus says that's wrong. You look at women as objects. And that's wrong. There's no question where he stood on that. In fact, he even said, if your right hand leads you into that, cut it off. And some people would say, hey, there's no way I can not use the internet. It's my right hand. Yeah. And Jesus says, get out of the internet. He said, I can't get out of it. He says, look, I said if you cut off your right hand, it's more important that you not fall into those temptations that lead you away from God. And trusting Jesus. Receiving the life that He gives to you that causes you to realize that those things are not only wrong but harmful And you say, well, pretty clear where he stands. Sin brings consequences, both to individuals and to us as a nation. But Jesus also had compassion. It's the amazing thing. He shows this woman compassion. Now, why did he show her compassion? Well there's a couple of things that may be involved. First of all, that's the A there. Jim Boyce points out in his commentary that Probably this woman, we're told of here, was a teenager. Probably 13 to 15 years old. They say, give me a break. How do you tell that? You notice in verse 5 It says, teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. In the law of Moses, in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. Now, I told you there's only two passages in the Old Testament that relate to this, Leviticus, Deuteronomy. The Leviticus passage simply says if the man and a woman are caught in adultery, they should be both put to death. Doesn't say how. The contemporary Jewish means of execution at that time was mostly strangulation But they specifically say she should be stoned. So they are clearly referring to Deuteronomy 22, 22 to 25, which says that if a woman is betrothed, not yet married, but betrothed, promised, to a man, and she is unfaithful with another man, then that man and she should be stoned. So they're implying that this woman's never been married, and since Jewish girls were married somewhere around 15, were patrothed somewhere between 13 and 15 generally, this is likely just a young girl that's standing here. And although she is sinful, Jesus realized this is probably something, and she knows her heart. She was likely seduced, and this is not somebody who's been involved in a lifetime of this kind of behavior. She also realizes, secondly, the B there, that she's been used by the man. It's almost certain that the Pharisees arranged so that they could witness such a thing. for a man to seduce this girl and for him to bring her into this position of compromise And of course the man's not there. And so if you and I are incensed by the double standard of letting the man go and shaming the woman, how much more? The perfectly righteous Jesus. The Lord of Glory would be incensed by such hypocrisy. Thirdly, these men who brought her were supposed to be her pastors. To look out for her spiritual welfare. And they use her for their agenda. How much that must have incensed the Lord Jesus! And so while we in no way minimize her sin, nevertheless, their sin is so much greater. And yet none of that really explains his compassion toward her, does it? It may help us to understand a bit of tenderness. But what can explain the compassion of Jesus, who says to an adulteress, I don't condemn you? It's the same love that he has for you and for me. It's the same love that is beyond explaining. You know, when when our kids were young, we used to have a little book, it was one of their favorites, I think we still have it, about a family of bears. It's not the three bears and Goldilocks. This was a book that I hadn't seen other places. I don't know if any of you kids have seen this. But uh the the thing goes through page after page you open up and the mama bear is saying to the little baby bear Why do I love you? And the baby bear says, Because I'm cute. And the mama bear says, Well, no, sometimes you're cute, and sometimes you're not so cute. And old baby dad says, because I'm good? Well, no. Sometimes you're good, and sometimes you're not so good. And it goes on like this. You get to the last page. And the mama bear says, You know why I love you? Because you're you. And then we'd always give a big hug, you know. That's part everybody loved me. Don't read it again, read it again, read it. You know, we go through the same thing, you know, a hundred times, you know. You don't you know what's the story you think you could tell us? You know, if you missed a word, they tell because there was that sense of being loved. I love you because you're you, but you know, even that doesn't get to the heart of it Jesus doesn't just love you because you're you. He loves you because he set his heart on you. If you've responded to Christ and you belong to him, there is no explaining his love for you. He loves you like he loved this woman at the cost of his life And you see, if you and I have experienced that kind of love and compassion, so undeserved From Jesus Christ. It shapes how we deal with the contemporary moral issues of today, doesn't it? We deal with them from the position of the gospel. The position of convictions with compassion. And so The abortion debate may be over, but the cause is not. And through the ages, the church has always responded to such issues when it has been. Responding as it should, successfully, with convictions shaped by compassion. Let me give you some examples of what that would mean today. Number one, for instance, involvement with our time and with our money in crisis pregnancy centers. There's two that we're particularly associated with, the one in LOL, and if you look in your bulletin board, you don't need to do it now, but color you can't miss. There, this the lower crisis pregnancy insert gives you a number of ways that you can be involved, both in giving, giving things, giving money, giving time, need for counselors, various other things. A way of Working out your convictions following Jesus, that we see in Johnny, by also compassion for those who are in crisis and are looking for help. We have uh given this Lowell Crisis Pregnancy Center is on our budget and last year we gave $1,500 to the Crisis Pregnancy Center. We've upped that to $1,700 for year 2000. I don't know if that was because last year we had the bottle campaign for the Baltimore, Greater Baltimore Pregnancy Center, and you'll hear a little bit more about that from Martin Yehiro. But last year, just through the change in the bottles, we were able to give 17 over $1,700 to the Greater Laurel Pregnancy Center. So I don't know if the lesson of that is don't get in the budget, just put out bottles, you know, you do better or something. But you know, so now we're up to seventeen hundred. So that means we gotta give nineteen hundred or two thousand, I guess, to greater Baltimore in the bottles this year You'll hear more about that in a few minutes. Counseling, whatever else it is. Secondly, the adoption. We've had a number of our homes in our congregation that have opened themselves to adopting children. who were put up for adoption. Um the idea that Christians simply yell Save the babies um and condemn the women and then don't care for the women or the babies is utterly without merit. When you see what is going on within the pregnancy centers and you see the number of homes I read of Bethany uh services with adoption Christian Adoption Agency. Recently of two cases of babies with spina bithida Who were adopted by Christian homes voluntarily taking in these children to love them, to care for them We have uh families right now that are looking to adopt in our own congregation, seeking to give homes to kids. So we need to be as a congregation adoption-friendly, realizing we've all been adopted by God as our Father. not by our own inherent right, but be through through the gospel. And therefore adoption is something that we support and something that we uh s that we seek to gather around and uh give whatever support we can to it. Thirdly, the abstinence education issue. This is apart from the march tomorrow, the legislation, other things. I'm not even dealing with those, but these are just kind of ongoing things. Abstinence education and the Howard County School System, other school systems in the area. Abstinence is often looked at as kind of the, well, we gotta say this negative approach. And it takes Christians in the school system to push this as a positive alternative. as that which has dignity is not something to be smirked at as, yeah, well, you know, for those of you who don't live in the 20th century or 21st century, you know, there's this option but rather to promote this as something that has value and dignity and is accepted among kids with greater favor, from what I'm understanding. Praying that God who hears our prayers, we've seen those of you been here in the last two middle hours of amazing prayers that God has been answering in cities around the world, in the United States and other places, and bringing renewal and revival. Transformation of values. And do we believe that God can do that here? Do we believe? That God would hear the prayers of his people as we repent and as we ask him to turn the values here in the Howard County region and within our nation to be more valuing the sanctity of human life. If you believe that, as well as the other things we're praying for today, special day of prayer that we're calling this afternoon, 12. 45 to 4 p. m. Downstairs, gather with us at any point, beginning, end, middle, whole thing, part of it, whatever you can do. As we pray together that God would be merciful, that He would bring the value of human life. You told me you already told us the beginning of the abortion debate's over. Well that's the bad news. But there's good news. The other side of it is that Frederica Matthews Grew ends her article By these words. The abortion debate may be over, but the abortion debate is being is re-emerging, transformed. Pro-choice leaders mourn the disapproval of abortion is rising, mourning that the disapproval of abortion is rising, while their own troops are grain. The average member of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League is 55, while college freshmen have dropped their support for legalized abortion from 65% to 51% since 1990. A 1996 poll found those most likely to agree that abortion is the same thing as murdering a child, a stunning 56% The age range most likely to agree with that statement are between 18 and 29. No wonder young people oppose abortion. Anyone younger than 27 could have been killed this way A third of their generation was. People longed to be in the pro-choice in crowd and avoid pro-life stigma and to keep abortion handy. Yet deep inside they knew it was wrong. And a rising generation appears ready to tell us so. Columnist Paul Greenberg put it best. Some questions will not be answered until they're answered right. And that right answer gets clearer every day. The point, brothers and sisters, is for you and to me to simply remain faithful to our Lord Jesus within this. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, I know in a group this size that there are women who have had abortions We thank you for the gospel. That is not the unpardonable sin. Lord, may they hear the words as they come to trust you, Lord Jesus, your shed blood, your finished work. I don't condemn you. Lord, for all those shameful things that we've done, we come before you now, the God of truth And righteousness, who is also the God of compassion through Jesus Christ, to realize that we can have that forgiveness that you offer. May none of us miss out on it. Lord, help us to follow you, to be in touch with the compassion that we have received. That we would not be sucked into the tolerance, intimidation But that we would be people of convictions, who are nevertheless people of compassion, and speak unashamedly Of what we believe and who we believe in. And Lord, that you would give us grace that we might show that compassion as we're involved in these issues in the unique and particular ways that you lead us to be. Lord Jesus, how we love you and how we thank you for your great love to us. Give us grace this week that we would reflect that. We pray in Jesus' name.