Indeed a joy to be with you again this morning to share from you with you from God's Word. Those of you who've been with us for a few weeks know that we had uh talked in the last three weeks about God's global purposes as he revealed them to Abram. And um in seeing Re and Craig back here from Japan Uh we have a lot to learn from them, I'm sure, about their short-term missions experience and we'll look forward to that in the weeks ahead But it is such a delight to see you back again this morning, Craig and Reed. This morning we look at a Proverb. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 29, verse 25. Proverbs twenty nine, verse twenty five The word of the Lord to us is this fear of man will prove to be a snare. But whoever trusts in the Lord is kept safe. It seems as though a certain sense of security A certain sense of safety is one of our most basic human needs. Child psychologists like uh Dr. James Dobson tell us that children from a very early age Need to know that their parents are in control of the household. They need to know who's in charge And Dobson tells us that a child who is repeatedly provided with the information that not he or she himself, but mom and or dad are in control That child is much more likely to be well adjusted and grow up with a real sense of security and safety in their lives. And hence a strong and decisive but not a harsh parent provides a child with the sense of security that he or she needs. And out of that security flows a freedom and a joy in living. that other children deprived of that don't enjoy. And it seems as though that need for a sense of security in life remains as we grow up and mature into adults. But the question is, where do we look for that security? Where do you and I look for that sense of security? People today look for that sense of protectedness, that sense of safety and security in many, many different places. And one very common but very risky. Place to look for that security is in men's opinions of you your reputation or image as the term is used today. So important is cultivating the right image in our society today that that you can go to an image consultant today and not just uh on a collective basis but uh individually You can go to an image consultant in Baltimore or Washington who will, for a not-so-nominal fee, help you uh carefully cultivate your image and so catapult your career uh to uh uh greater heights by manipulating other people's opinions of you, by carefully controlling people's perceptions of you. And while most of us wouldn't go to such an extreme to talk to an image consultant about how we're coming across to other people. Such looking for security in what other people think of you is something that can creep very subtly into our lives. And the writer of Proverbs would caution us against looking for safety in the wrong places In fact, the writer of Proverbs 2925 would tell us this morning that security can be sought in two different places, two very different places. The one leading to a false security, the other leading to true security. Indeed, we must not feel man, but rather trust in the Lord to find true safety. And so we we'll pick apart this proverb this morning together. First, it's not the fear of man that true security is to be found in. Look at the first part of that verse. Fear of man will prove to be a snare. Now in the Old Testament and in some places in around the world today, that fear of man is to be taken in the sense of a physical threat to your bodily person. I was informed recently in China that today there is actual torture going on of Christians who make Christ known in China. It's something that we'd rather think like to think doesn't happen today, uh, in this day and age, but it's happening in China. And yet for most of us here in the US It's not physical threat that we fear from other people, but it's fear of what other people think about us. Fearing for our reputation, fearing that our image before other people will suffer. Fearing that others will look upon us as incompetent or weird if we do or don't do certain things. And so this fear of man literally gives or brings a snare Or a trap. Now the NIV nuances this verb here. Fear of man will prove to be a snare. But literally the verb is gives or brings. And you see, the idea is that no matter how innocent or even helpful the fear of man appears at first, it will prove to be a snare. Without a doubt, it's a guarantee. You see, the writer of Proverbs realizes that man fearing does not usually appear to be a problem. It doesn't usually appear to be risky. In fact, it appears to be reasonable and safe and even the normal thing to do. After all, everyone else is doing it. No problem. But you see, any good trap doesn't appear nasty at first, does it? A good trap always appears safe and innocuous. If it appeared for but forbidding, it wouldn't do its job very effectively. And so the writer assures us that no matter what the appearance of fearing man No matter how attractive it might appear in certain circumstances, failing man will result in a trap or a snare. You can count on it. And let's consider that snare or that trap metaphor a little bit and think about that together. That verse says, fear of man will prove to be A snare. What do you think of when you picture a trap in your mind? I don't picture pretty things when I think of a trap in my mind. The most recent contact I've had with traps are these little uh bug catcher boxes that we've used in our kitchen from time to time. They're advertised as roach motels, you know. The idea is there that roaches check in, but they don't check out. You've heard that advertisement probably. Well, uh that's the idea. This roach motel is a pretty attractive thing for a bug. There's some bait inside, you know, and uh It's got an alluring scent that bugs really like. You could picture in your mind whatever it really attracts you, whether it's fresh ground coffee in the morning, smelling that aroma, or the aroma of Domino's pizza. a little later in the day. Whatever uh really pushes your button, consider that. And it's that kind of alluring, attractive type bait that's in that little box there. And little bugs crawl in and then they get stuck in there on some sticky fly paper kind of substance and they can't move and eventually they die You see, this trap metaphor I think signifies for us several things. A snare means no freedom. No freedom. Only restriction. You see, like that bug caught in the Roach Motel there, it you can't move when you're in a trap. A cage with no escape is what the res uh is what results there. And so what appeared so attractive and so safe turns out to rob you of freedom, turns out to rob you of mobility, and results in slavery, in bondage, a trap. And the trap metaphor also signifies a lack of security. No real security Only insecurity. In other words, there's no safety, only nervousness as you just realize that you're caught in a trap. No joy, only anxiety. No peace, only frustration. No rest, only feverish struggle to survive. A trap signifies all those kinds of things, and ultimately a trap signifies no life. Because the end result of most traps is destruction. Only death is the final goal of a trap And so you see, fearing man will prove to be a trap. That's what the writer wants us to understand here. And we see this over and over again in the scriptures. One Example of this very clearly is in found in Saul's life in 1 Samuel 15, chapter 20 24. Saul learned this lesson that the fear of man will be a trap in a very powerful and painful way. You see, God had given explicit instructions to Saul. to destroy all the livestock that was to be found with the Amalekites when they conquered the Amalekites. Every last piece of livestock, all the cattle, all the sheep, all the goats, all the chickens, whatever. were to be killed as an act of devotion to the Lord. Total destruction was called for. But Saul received some pressure, you see, from some of the Israelites not to kill some of the best cattle, some of the prize Holsteins or whatever they were. He received a lot of pressure to keep back some of the best cattle and don't kill them, at least not right away, but add them to the Israelite herd. They were a very precious commodity back then. And so Saul eventually gives in to this pressure. And some of the cattle are saved from immediate destruction. And later, Samuel calls Saul on the carpet for this. And he says to Saul, Saul, you've blown it. And so serious is your sin that God has rejected you as Israel's king. And Saul is moved to confess his sin, and he says there in 1 Samuel 15, 24, I have sinned. I was afraid of the people, and so I gave in to them. You see, Saul has experienced the snare that man-fearing is in a very painful way, a way that cost him the kingdom. In a very disastrous way. And personally, I learned in college An important lesson along this wal along this line, that fearing man will prove to be a snare. I went to a college that was dominated socially by a fraternity and a sorority system that had our stranglehold on the social life of the campus. And it seemed to me, as to everyone else who was a freshman entering the college at that time, that the thing to do, if you didn't want to be a social outcast, was to join a frat, was to join a fraternity. And it seemed to me that pursuing membership in one of these in one of the best fraternities was a reasonable thing to do. It seemed like it wouldn't force me to compromise my commitment to Christ In fact, I'd met a couple very committed Christians in this one fraternity, and I thought I could even have a ministry there. And it seemed like it pro would provide me with significant freedom. A different kind of place to live, certain social freedoms, an opportunity to develop leadership skills. It offered a sense of security and an established service and social organization. And I would be able to develop a sense of identity by being belonging to this group. And after all, everyone else was joining. So I did join a fraternity, and yet once in that frat, I found myself really more trapped than freed up. And it really surprised me. My schedule became crammed with meetings and activities, many of which were of dubious value. And I found that I had more obligations and responsibilities than I ever imagined. They were hemming me in virtually. It took me some time to realize that I was really in a snare. With no freedom, no real security, and my spiritual life was really drying up. And I eventually wrenched myself free from this trap, but it was a very, very painful experience, one that I'll remember for a uh a long, long time. And looking back now, I see how much I was influenced. By other people's opinions in that decision. I see how much of the fear of man was involved in my decision to join that group. My wanting to be well-liked and accepted by my peers. Fear of man had proven to be a snare to me. Not that my being in the organization was a total waste, of course. I'd learned much about myself. I even saw one guy commit his life to Christ through my ministry there in that house. But I looked for security in the wrong place. I feared other people's opinions, and it did indeed prove to be a snare to me. Now, what is it in your life that's tempting you to fear people's opinions today? Perhaps you're in school, whether it's middle school, high school, college, or uh some other setting. And perhaps you're faced with intense peer pressure there. Pressure to drink, to do drugs, to have sex, to cheat on exams, to choose only certain friends To wear only certain fashions. Or perhaps you're faced with pressure on your job You're tempted to fear man on your job because you're faced with pressure to pander to your boss, even when you know that what is right ethically involves something else. Maybe your boss is a gossip and he ex he or she expects you to engage in that. And so you feel that pressure. Or perhaps you're faced with pressure to carefully cultivate and maintain a certain image on your job, a certain image of competence and respectability and excellence and performance. Or perhaps in your family you're faced with pressures to fear men's opinions. Perhaps you're under really intense pressure because of your outspoken commitment to Christ. And your other family members don't like that. Or perhaps you feel pressure to pursue a certain respectable career That's usually translated middle class career or lifestyle. Perhaps you feel the pressure to get married or to have or not have children. Or even in the body of Christ, if you're a Christian, perhaps you are tempted to fear man. Perhaps when you're asked to lead In some specific situation you say no just because you fear failure. Just because you're afraid of an imperfect performance that would tarnish your reputation before other people. Perhaps you shrink back and let your gifts atrophy in disuse because you fear what other people will say. Or maybe in the body of Christ you shrink back from confronting sin in another brother or sister's life. You shrink back from our command to confront others with their sin because you fear others will think ill of you. They'll think that you're a killjoy, or they'll think that you're more self-righteous, you're more righteous than they are. The fear of man you see in any of these kinds of situations will prove to be a snare. So what's the alternative? What's the other option? What better place can we look for our security than in the fear of what other people think of us In other people's opinions. While the writer of Proverbs draws for us a very sharp contrast here, as he points to the alternative, we must not fear man We must not look for our security in men, but rather trust in the Lord. Trust in the Lord. Look again at the second half. of that verse in Proverbs twenty-nine. Whoever trusts in the Lord is kept safe. Whoever, that is all who call upon him, all who look to the Lord God Whoever trusts in the Lord, the Lord Almighty, the Holy One, the protector of his people. Whoever trusts in the Lord is kept safe. An interesting verb there. If you've got the New American Standard Version, you'll see the verb translated Whoever trusts in the Lord will be exalted. And that's an okay translation, but the sense of exalted is in a very specific sense. Because the verb literally means to be inaccessibly high or raised up in safety, raised up in security. The derivatives of this verb are used to talk about high places, places that are elevated, or a lofty city with unscalable walls all around it. That's the sense that this verb conveys. And I think uh when I think of this uh sense of being inacces inaccessibly high, I think of what I do when I child proof our home when visitors come who have toddlers. You know, I take that candlestick there with the glass globe on it, and I raise it up to the very top of the bookshelf. So that it's out of the line of fire, if you will. So that it's out of the way. I I raise that to a place of security that's high and lifted up True safety, true security comes from the Lord who raises us to safety in that kind of way. Elsewhere in Scripture, trusting in the Lord or fearing the Lord is shown to lead to real security and all the other benefits that flow from that security. Flip over with me to Proverbs chapter 29. I'm sorry, Proverbs 19, verse 23. Fascinating verse. Proverbs nineteen twenty-three says, The fear of the Lord leads to life. Then one rests content, untouched by trouble The fear of the Lord leads to life, not death. It leads to rest, not struggle. It leads to contentment, not a vague sense of insecurity. It leads to freedom, not trouble. And all of this flows from trust in or fear of the Lord, you see. Trusting in or fearing the Lord Brings these things. Elsewhere in Proverbs, Proverbs 14, 27 says, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. A fountain of life turning a man from the snares of death There it is again. The snares of death. The fear of the Lord is abundant life, a fountain of life, overflowing with life. Saving man or turning man from the snares of death. Again, abundant life, not death in some snare, is the result of trusting in the Lord Almighty. And you see, from our New Testament perspective, we know that true security, the security that the Proverbs writer is talking about, is found only. In Jesus Christ. True safety is found only in Jesus Christ. Real eternal safety is found only in trusting Him. Ephesians 2, 14 puts it this way. He himself is our peace, who has destroyed the dividing wall of hostility between God and man. You see, eternal rest, eternal security is found only in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as God says in Isaiah, and then again in 1 Peter 2, verse 6, he says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. True eternal security comes from only only comes from trusting in Christ, you see And as Peter speaks of this in Acts 4, Peter talks of Jesus there and he says, He is the stone. The stone you builders rejected, which has become the capstone. Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven. Given to men by which we must be saved. You see, Jesus alone provides us security Now, how does he do that? Well, supremely it's because of his work on the cross that we have that security. Because it's on the cross that Christ took the full wrath and judgment of God upon himself that was due sinners. Christ on the cross received the full punishment that sinners deserved for their rebellion. And he bore it perfectly in his body. So that sin's penalty, which is death, is paid for. The wages of sin are poured out on Christ. Death is dealt him. So that sin's penalty is vanquished and paid for. And sin's power, moreover, is crushed and broken on the cross. The curse is removed, the curse that is due on each and every one of us because of our rebellion, because of our seeking security in other places. Jesus received that on the cross. And Christ on the cross, one there eternal security and safety for all sinners who will trust in Him He is our security. You see, on the cross, Christ really raises sinners to a place of security. If you think of God's judgment and God's wrath as it's pictured in the Old Testament as a raging torrent, a flood of waters. Think of Jesus Christ raising sinners out of that raging torrent, out of that flood that would wipe them to destruction. Jesus raises sinners on the cross out of that and into safety. Christ alone, you see, as some hymns describe him, is the solid rock. He is the sure foundation. He alone is the cornerstone that is fully trustworthy. Fully trustworthy. It's in Christ that God provides salvation from his judgment And his resurrection seals that safety, seals that security for all those who will come to him, who will trust in him alone. And so if you're here today and you're outside of Jesus Christ, and you've never come to the place where you've trusted in Him alone to be your security before God, and you're still trusting in what you can do to please God. Or are you still trusting in what other people think of you? I urge you today to flee to Jesus Christ Flee to him, the one who alone can lift you up to a place of perfect safety, the one who will be your security The one who alone will save you from the trap of death. You see, ultimately, your sin in fearing men's opinions will lead you into the trap. Will lead you into bondage. No freedom, no peace, no security, no life. Eternal separation from God and death That's what awaits you if you do not come to Jesus and trust in Him as your security. Fear God and come to Christ. He alone offers you safety. He alone offers you true freedom, true peace, true rest from your struggle. He alone offers you contentment. And if you are here today and you have already trusted in Christ as your Savior, and you're seeking to follow Him, but you've fallen. into the fear of men's opinions. And you've fallen into a very uh cautious concern for what other people think of you, and you've succumbed to the pressures of seeing your security there. And I offer hope to you today as well. You see, if you have man fearing to repent of, Look to the cross. Look to the cross. See there that Jesus died for all your sin. See there that Jesus died for all your failures, all the times that you've succumbed to the peer pressure, the pressure to bow the knee to what other people think of you. The pressure to cultivate carefully your image. If in your job or at school or in your family, Or in any relationship with Christians or non-Christians, if you've fallen into that fear of man, there is hope. There is hope in the cross of Jesus Christ. You see, bring that to the cross. Bring your sin in humble submission to Him. And claim there Christ anew as your security. Claim there the safety that you have before God because of Jesus' finished work on your behalf. Claim the power that is yours already to overcome the temptation to fear men's opinions. The power is there in Christ's resurrection. It is yours as you trust in him. Claim that strength to put off the fear of men's opinions and trust in Christ alone in new obedience, new faith, new trust this week. See your identity in Christ on the cross. And count yourself dead to sin there. Count yourself dead to what other people think of you. And alive to God in Christ Jesus. The power of other people's opinions, you see, have been broken in Christ. You're free Live in that freedom. Claim Christ's resurrection power already yours for new life. I'd encourage you this week, if you've struggled with fearing men's opinions in this past week, to meditate. on your eternal safety in Jesus Christ. Meditate on a section like Ephesians 2, and let the thought of it free you from the trap of fearing other men's opinions. Let the joy of knowing that you have safety and security in Jesus Christ free you from the bondage of fearing what other people think of you. Let the remembrance of your eternal security fill you with joy, with contentment, with rest, with peace, as you meditate on your safety in Jesus. I know of a very well-respected man, a man successful in Christian ministry by almost anyone's standards. He had a PhD and he was a seminary professor. And yet he says that it wasn't until he realized that he was crippled by liking to be liked. That's the way he put it. Crippled by liking to be liked. It wasn't until he realized that and repented of it that he saw the power of God unleashed in his life in a dramatic way. After he saw his sin in fearing men and repented of it, he saw more people converted in two years. than he had in the past twenty years of his life of witness and ministry. Call on Christ's power To help you see your security and your identity in Jesus in the proper place in his perfect and finished work for you. Let's pray together. Lord, show us ourselves as you see us. How often we fall into the bondage of other people's opinions Trapped by the sin of fearing man, crippled by liking to be liked And only you, Lord Jesus, can free us from that. Only you can break that snare and provide true safety Lord, for those who don't know you here this morning, I pray that you would show them the treachery of fearing other people's opinions. Show them that looking for security in such places will only be a only be a snare. Bring them to saving trust in the Lord Jesus as King. And for all of us, Lord, here today who Have trusted in the Lord Jesus, are seeking to follow Him. Show us your power to die to fearing people's opinions Show us your great strength that we would claim our freedom in Jesus. That we reclaim our security and our peace and our safety in Him. Help us, for we are weak people, Lord. Help us to trust In you, Lord Jesus, alone, in this coming week, that we would be free from fearing other people's opinions. For your global glory, we pray. Amen.