If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Isaiah chapter 55. And if you do not have your Bible with you, the words will be on the screen and Oh, I was going to say they're in the bulletin, but they're not. But they will be on the screen, and you probably have access on your phone. I'm going to read for us Isaiah chapter 55 verses 1 through 5. Not typically considered an Easter text, but I hope that by the end of our time here you will see that it is, in fact, an Easter text. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks for your word, for its truth and its beauty. We thank you that it is uniquely able to help us to go forth. with joy and with peace, with great joy and peace. And Father, we ask that you would bless the reading of your word to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is faithful to who you are and what we need to hear, Lord bless that as well, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Isaiah chapter fifty-five, beginning with verse one, the word of God. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and he who has no money, come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food Incline your ear and come to me, hear that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you. Because of the Lord your God and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. This ends the reading of God's Word. So 30 years ago, I was an intern here at CPC, and I had developed a relationship with a guy named Ed. Who was a retired U. S. Marine who operated Castle Bookshop if you went up 144, up the hill into Catonsville, right there downtown. Anybody remember Castle Bookshop? No one. Well let me tell you what. Some of you may have heard the name Roger Nicole. Roger Nicole, one of the most probably well-known 20th century uh Reformed Baptist theologians spoke nine languages, two different Chinese uh languages uh brilliant, brilliant scholar. And he taught a one-semester course in which he encouraged young seminarians like me to always befriend used bookshort store dealers. And I I did that. I had to withdraw from seminary after the one semester I spent under his and others like him, under their tutelage, and I came back to Columbia And I immediately say, okay, where's the used bookstore dealers? Found Ed at Castle Books. He had a wonderful section on religion. And I said, hey, uh, Mr. Ed, my name is Bob. I'm a seminary student. Do you ever get pastors' libraries? He said, oh yeah, I do. I said, could I could you let me know when you get them Take notes. I know we've got a lot of seminary students here. I discovered a gem 30 years ago. It was a little. Hardback book with a blue bottom and a white top on the dust jacket, orange lettering that said Orientalisms of the Bible by Bishop C. K. Pillai. The reason I describe that so carefully is I've lost that book. And if any of you see it, I would sure like to get it. I probably read that book four or five times and it blew my mind. Bishop Pillai had grown up a Hindu in eastern in in the western part of India. And he came to Christ later. He was a historian. And he understood at a deep and experiential level, having grown up in a small village, the paces and the rhythms of an ancient Eastern life. And he published a number of books detailing what some of these different scenes of the Old Testament meant in an ancient context. And some of these old texts came to life for me in ways that they hadn't, not that I didn't understand the main point before, but I hadn't picked up on the flavor. And so I want to take us back to that marketplace and help you to understand exactly what is happening here. Ancient villages and towns and even cities had marketplaces. They were large open areas where people would bring in produce from their farm or if they had a trade things from their trade, and they would sell them from their stalls. There would often be a tax collector's booth set up in the marketplace that is referenced in the Gospels. And different people would sell different items. Now, in the Eastern world of the we call the Mideast, There were seven months of the year where they got very little rain, and there were water cellars. And there were also people that sold milk. There was no pasteurization, so it had to be fresh every day. And there were places where you could buy wine. There were places where you could buy various Agricultural products, bread, even meat or fish, garments. And from time to time, somebody would throw party. From time to time, somebody would have a child recover from a terrible illness, and they would want to celebrate. Maybe they had a child after having tried for many, many years and they wanted to celebrate. Maybe it was a birthday And so they'd go to the marketplace with a handful of shekels, and they'd go up to a market stall, whether it was milk, or whether it was honey, or whether it was water. and they'd plop the money down and they would declare with a loud voice, Come, come and buy water without money. And they would stand there by that booth, and out of that deposit they had laid at the table Give drink to as many as came until that money ran out. Let me read you a description of that from an article based on his writing. Why does the seller still say buy when you come to the counter or to the booth or to the market stall and don't have to pull any money out of your pocket? In the Eastern way of thinking, the vendor is still selling. The goods aren't free. The celebrant Paid the price, and the person who gets it is still buying it, but without price. The man celebrating stands there to make sure that the vendor sells rightly, that he takes no additional money. And as the thirsty people come and buy, they thank the man who is celebrating. Everyone fills their containers, walks to the man, bows, and says, Thank you, sir, for paying the price. Come, ye who are thirsty, and drink, you who believe, says Jesus in John 7. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, come if you have money. No, no money, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why? Because somebody who is celebrating has paid the price and it's right on the table, and you are invited to come and partake. In the ancient market, the felt needs are addressed. An ancient rabbinic tradition The idea of water, milk, and wine were representative of that which you need for life, water. For nutrition or growth, milk and wine, exhilaration and joy. Their words, not mine. And here we have a picture of this sovereign servant of the Lord himself inviting you to come to the table because he's paid the price and he offers you everything you need. Life, health, and happiness. You won't find it at the Columbia Mall. You're not going to find it in Camden Yards. I didn't hear any amens. You're going to find it in the company of Jesus. And if you truly want life, abundant life as the Gospel of John describes it, You are going to come into the marketplace of this universe of your world, and you are going to hear the voice of someone saying, Come and buy without money. You're going to come humbly and see that he's paid the price, and you're going to partake. Then you're going to bow your head and say, Thank you, Lord. For paying the price that I might live, that I might grow, that I might have a happiness that can't be robbed or shaken. You see, the alternative is to try to feed and nourish yourself, to sate your own thirst. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Oh, the sadness and sorrow of the human life, in which we continually grind our gears and spin our wheels. And desperately try to accomplish for ourselves satisfaction in the face of a universe that is cold and seems so very empty We think, well, if I get this or buy that or achieve this, well then I'll be happy. And we achieve it, and we might be happy for a day, for a season, for a month, a year. And then that too fails to deliver. I've raised four kids with my wife Carrie. And you learn a lot, not only about yourself, but about life when you raise kids. And the kids at Christmas or on their birthday would so want a particular toy or gift or model. And when they got that gift or toy or model and unwrapped it, they would be so happy. So happy. They had everything they wanted. How long would that happiness last? It would last until they had green beans on their dinner plate. I want you to think about your life. I want you to think about how you have so desperately tried to acquire your own peace, your own happiness, your own calmness in your conscience. And all of those quick fixes and jury rigs ultimately give way to the hopelessness that sin has inflicted upon the human condition. The oppression that you experience, knowing that you are at an infinite remove from the living God. Because something inside of you is broken. And you don't know how to fix it. There's something outside of you that you need. And you don't have what it takes to buy it In the ancient marketplace, you are offered free satisfaction. If you would listen to the voice that invites, Listen diligently to me, the servant of the Lord says, and eat what is good, and delight yourself in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me here. that your soul may live. The ancient marketplace, we hear an offer of an everlasting covenant. Notice what verse 3 says. Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David. Oh, there's so much packed into that, just as there was in the ancient marketplace image. This isn't a guarantee that your soul may live. Your soul in the Hebrew imagination was who you are forever. Your soul wasn't just that part of you that does this when the right song comes on. Your soul isn't just a culinary category. It is who you are forever, exhaustively. Knowing your soul is to know you as intimately as possible. Preserving your soul means that you are kept by the living God from all harm, Psalm 121. To have life in your soul means to have life without exception, without cutout, without fine print. Come, that your soul might live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast sure love for David. An everlasting covenant. A covenant is more than simply a legal agreement. A covenant in the ancient world was more than just some kind of HOA thing you have to sign. A covenant was a binding treaty made between a suzerain or a sovereign or a lord or a king with a vassal state that was sealed in blood. It was inviolate. It could not be abrogated. And that fact is doubled down on when it's described here as an everlasting covenant. The terms of the agreement between the living God and the suffering servant are such that any who come and partake of what he has purchased can never have their relationship with that living God changed or altered in any way. David was promised in 2 Samuel chapter 7 by a covenant that he would have a son who would reign forever. whose kingdom would have no end, who would be marked by justice and mercy and peace and truth in ways that no human has ever even come close to aspiring to. It is according to the steadfast sure love for David in covenantal language referring back to that promise which is going to be fulfilled in this everlasting covenant. The true son of David will come. You see, he is the one standing at the market table. Who is called the Son of David in the New Testament? Jesus. Who is the suffering servant? The same suffering servant described in Isaiah chapter 53. Who will bear our iniquities and will be crushed by God that we might be counted righteous because he has interceded and paid the penalty for our sin. It is Jesus Christ. And it is Jesus who says, come, I have paid the penalty. I have paid it in full. It is finished. Come. And live. And if you come and live, the covenant that I will make, that I God has made this covenant with Christ and all who have come to Him It can never be changed or altered. You can have life and have it fully forever. You can finally have peace and rest. And as often as your conscience condemns you, you can say, Lord Jesus, thank you for paying the penalty. As often as sin rears its ugly head in your life or in your family, you can say, Lord Jesus, thank you for being stronger than that. Give me the victory in Jesus. As often as you struggle with what to do, you can turn to his word and say, Lord, what is the wisdom you would have for me? I would ask of it. The benefits of coming, buying and drinking without money, and being satisfied and having a soul that lives cannot be underestimated. They cannot be counted fully. They are as infinite and as complete as the Savior who purchased that salvation The ancient marketplace shows us the offer of an everlasting covenant. Where do we see an Easter message in all of this? Let's go back to that marketplace. Let's imagine for a moment that you and I are painfully aware of the fact that we are barely holding on to life. We need water, that we have not grown appreciably and forever, if ever, and we need milk, and we have no real joy in our life that can't be completely robbed by the next news cycle, and we need wine. We need food. We need the bread of life And we hear a voice saying, come buy and eat. Stop getting all the knockoff varieties, the short fixes. Come and be satisfied. And we come to find out who has who is celebrating what? What's the price that's been paid? Can I get there before it runs out? And you show up at the table and you see what you need, forgiveness. Peace with the God who made you, and where is the man to whom you should bow and say, Thank you, sir? Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold your God, your saving Lord, the one standing there, inviting you to come and partake of that which he has purchased. And he is a witness. He is a leader. He is a commander. And I want you to think about Jesus Christ this way for a moment. He is a witness. We see multiple references to Jesus as a witness in Revelation 2. In particular, we find chapter 1, verse 5 of the Revelation. We also find Jesus described as a witness in the Gospel of John. And there in chapter 18, he's described as a witness against people pointing out their sin. I want you to think about this. The living God, in his triune, infinite mystery and majesty, has determined that the Son of God, who is the servant who dies in our place, Jesus Christ, our Lord. The first thing about him is he's a witness. He's a witness not only to truth, but to our brokenness as a part of that truth. And he sees me in all my hunger and my thirst and my desperate need. And he is a witness against me. And he says, as it were, spotting me in the crowd, Bierchus, I see you. And I know for a fact that you're a sinner falling short of the glory in God, justly deserving the wrath of holiness to come upon you and crush you. But Birkis, if you're visiting today, that's me. Here I offer you. Come. I'll pay the price and live. He is a witness to my condition and the truth of what he offers. The Jesus of the New Testament Does not simply, in fact, he doesn't in any sense tolerate sin. He calls it out. But calling it out, he invites you to come and find forgiveness. And victory over that sin. He is a leader. That's where the victory comes in part. He is the first of many. He is the one that forges the path. He is the one that says, follow me, over and over in the Gospels. Follow me. If the message of Jesus can be summarized by the Holy Spirit in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John as being repent or repent and believe, he is a witness first. He is a leader who says, follow me. And he shows us what is good. He models for us the life that we can have when we are at peace with God, depending upon his spirit, taking full advantage of the counsel that we find in Scripture. He leads us. And doesn't he lead us gently yet firmly? As Edward mentioned on Palm Sunday without breaking the staff or snuffing the wick. He is a leader. And he's also a commander. And I want you to notice this The word commander is a word that in every ancient Near Eastern sense, and it's a very common word that has kind of uh cognates and other ancient Near Eastern languages, it's a military term. Do you think about Jesus of Nazareth as the captain of salvation? As the rider on the white horse? As one who wields the sword of truth and justice, as a mighty one who can overcome all of your and my enemies, who grinds underfoot all that would oppose him The might and the power of Jesus Christ is such that were he to appear here, we would not think he was cool. We would fall down on the ground and worship. This Jesus, in all of his infinite might and power, this Jesus In all of his tenderness and desire to bring you along, this Jesus, despite knowing everything about you, is inviting you to come. He's the one before whom we bow our heads and say thank you for giving me everything And this voice from heaven, as it were, the voice crowding out the other voices in the marketplace, doesn't simply say to you, behold, it then turns and says to this one. The Messiah, the suffering servant, he says, behold, you, Jesus, shall call a nation that you do not know, a nation that isn't from here. You shall have a nation that did not know you run to you. This never happened for King David. Because of the Lord your God and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. Think about that for a moment. He has glorified you. The Gospel of John falls into two parts And it's been understood to fall into two parts since the first generation of the church. And the second part of the Gospel of John. Does anybody know what it's called? The book of glory. That's what the second half of John has been called for almost 2,000 years. And it's because Jesus says again and again, glorify me. To his Heavenly Father. Take a Bible concordance when you get home, open it up, or Google the word glory, glorified. In the Gospel of John, and you will see throughout those chapters, beginning in verse chapter 12, it is the theme. And what is the entire scope of that glorification? It is the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is glorified when after laying down his life to pay the penalty for sins, he is raised. He is glorified. If you are in one of our community groups, which I'd urge you to consider, I would invite you to take a close look at these texts I list out in the bulletin for you, John 12. John 17, Acts 3, 1 Peter 1. 21. Each one of them specifically says Jesus, whom God glorified with reference to his resurrection The fact that after he had been utterly reduced on the cross to an object of God's wrath, he is exalted in giving the name that is above all names in his resurrection and ascension. And so, dear friend, this is an Easter text because it is an Easter message. The risen Jesus, having paid the price, stands at the table, and he says, come. I've paid it all. And because he's been raised, he is able then to stand and offer. And you are able to come and partake of all that you need for life and godliness. Everything that you didn't get because of your history, a broken home. A physical limitation. An emotional difficulty. Everything that prevents you from life. the deep claw marks of sin in the very depths of your soul. He is able to offer you life despite all of that, that you might be more than a conqueror in him that you might follow him safely, that you might know and be known in ways you desperately desire. And a nation that did not know you shall run to you. There is a voice crying out in the marketplace today, the marketplace of ideas, ideologies, dogmas. Political messaging. And it is a voice that is sounding from pulpits like this one all across the world on Easter Sunday. And it says, Come, partake of the fruit. Of the living God who has come in Christ, died to pay the penalty of your sins, and has been raised again, glorified, that he might offer you everything. And so what will we do? Will we run to Jesus? Will we be sure we get there before the offer closes and our life is snuffed out? Before that silver cord is broken and the bowl is shattered at the wheel? Will we come running to Jesus Because he's standing there at the table, the price has been paid, and you are invited to be satisfied and live. Will you join me in running to Jesus? Because he is risen. Almighty God, we thank you for this Easter Sunday when we can focus on your resurrection. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would give us the humility and the wisdom to hear the truth. That the witness, Jesus, the Messiah, the suffering servant, declares, to hear the invitation to follow and to truly have a leader for the first time in our life who will truly lead us. To have a commander who is able to utterly defeat all that oppose us, and in whom we ourselves can be conquerors. O Lord Jesus, draw us to yourself as you stand in all your resurrected glory with the price paid and the invitation Echoing in every corner of creation, come and live. Forgive us for our sins. We bow our heads and we say thank you. Thank you, sir, for the fact that you paid the price. And we are safe. We pray in Jesus' name, amen.