Well, if you have your Bibles with you this morning, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. Remember that? I was telling Stephen Smalley this morning how excited I am to be back in the Gospel of Luke. We've been going through the Gospel of Luke for just over a year now, and we are all the way up to chapter 7. Chapter 7 verses 1 through 10. And this week and next week, we will be looking at uh Luke chapter 7 uh verses 1 1 to 10 this week, 11 to 17 next week. Then we'll be breaking for uh a Palm Sunday message and an Easter message And after that, we'll be right into chapter 7, verse 18 again, and we'll be in Luke for a good season. But I am excited to be back. And back into Luke. So let's bow our heads and pray and ask the Lord's blessing on his word. Father, thank you. Lord, again for your word. Lord, we thank you that you are the God who has spoken. And Lord, we thank you that you give us ears to hear, eyes to see. And so, Lord, do that work in us even now. Lord, help us to see even more clearly. Help us to hear even more loudly and clearly. Lord, help us to encounter you in the reading and in the preaching of your word in ways that will send us out differently than we arrived this morning. And Father, we ask your blessing on the reading and the preaching of your word, that Christ might be honored in our lives, and that we might more and more put our faith in Him. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 7, beginning with verse 1, the Word of God. After he, Jesus, had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum Now a centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him. When the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue. And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. Therefore I did not presume to come to you, but say the word and let my servant be healed. For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, go and he goes, and to another, come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him. And turning to the crowd that followed him, said, I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well. This ends the reading of God's Word. So if you go back with me a month before things like vacations and uh I can't remember what other case oh we had a missions conference then we had a message on tithing so it's been as the cool kids say it's been a minute since we were in Luke We just finished looking at Luke's Sermon on the Plain, where Jesus had presented the people, all of the crowds, whether they were just seekers as we'd understand it. Gentiles from places like uh Tyre and Sidon, or whether they were uh Israelites, Jews from Jerusalem and Judea. They had gathered on the plain there, right at the flat part at the bottom of the mountain there in Galilee, and they'd heard Jesus preach. About what it meant to be a disciple, what it meant to believe in him and follow him, what it meant to have life. And he leaves there after completing all these sayings, and he goes into Capernaum, and this encounter he has focuses us on A superlative instance of just what he's been talking about in his sayings on the Sermon in the Plain. He talks about faith, an extraordinary faith, an exceptional faith, a faith so great That though it is from the unlikeliest of sources, a Roman military man, part of the occupation, a centurion, an officer, It is a faith that he has not yet seen even among Israelites. After this we see an instance of Christ's great compassion. We'll look at that next week. And just to give you a sense of where this account fits in the grand scope and development of Luke's picture of Jesus, It is after this instance of the greatest faith from the unlikeliest source, which we're looking at today. And next week, this great compassion and the radical love of Jesus, it is after these are demonstrated. that John the Baptist himself, the greatest of those born of women to that point in human history says, are you the one Jesus? Or should we expect someone different? That's important to notice now as we look at these two passages, the centurion's servant's healing, and the raising of the widow's son next week. Because this extraordinary, unexpected, exceptional faith is not what we would look for. And it might not even but be what we would marvel at. And the healing of the widow's son that we'll look at next week. See, I'm adding all these teasers in, so you'll be sure to be back next week. Is not what we would expect either. We would never in a million years expect our Messiah. To touch an unclean coffin And it's easy for us to doubt Jesus because he doesn't value and pursue the values and pursuits that are important to us. And we see something of the values that Jesus has in this text I've just read for us. This entire text is really about faith. It's not about whether or not we should like centurions or serve in the military. Those are all great things, and you can deduce wonderful truths about them by looking at this text, but that's not the purpose of this text. This entire text, verses 1 through 10, focuses on Christ's response to what happens in this conversation. He marvels at a faith unlike anything he has yet seen. This is the passage about faith. And in talking about faith, I want to say something that probably you've all heard, but we all need to be reminded of, is very important. Faith is not a constant in the Christian life. And by constant I mean a value that stays the same. When I think of a constant, I think of the fact that my father's house is always 68 degrees. Whether it's January or August, it's 68 degrees. And if you're not comfortable, strip down or put a sweater on. That is going to always be the same. Very, very strange. Your faith is not a constant Consider some of the things that the Bible says about faith. In the first place, Jesus over and over and over again says even to his disciples, ye of little faith. So it's possible to have only a little bit of faith. It's also possible to have great faith. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the Apostle Paul says, though you have faith even to move mountains. It's possible to have a weak faith. In Romans chapter 14, verses 1 and 2, we are encouraged as Christians to receive or accept the one whose faith is weak. We can also have strong faith, Romans chapter 12, a faith that enables us to do all things. Our faith, and let me stop right here and say, okay, up to this point you might think, well, we get assigned a certain amount of faith by the wisdom of God, and some of us just have a really strong faith, and some have a weak faith. Not that simple. Our faith can be weakened, and our faith can be strengthened. In Acts chapter 16, verse 5, it is the mission of those sent out by the church to strengthen the faith. We see that same idea again in 1 Thessalonians 3, that faith is strengthened, and that's one of the reasons that Paul writes. Our faith can also be weakened. 2 Corinthians, we find a reference to when Christians have their faith weakened. Faith can be worthy of imitation. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7. Imitate the way of life and the faith of others. Referring not only to current leaders in the church, but even back to those from chapter 11 that we read about earlier, those heroes in that hall of faith. So think about your faith, Christian. Your faith goes through certain changes, the vicissitudes and the circumstances of life. There will be times when your faith is very strong. There will be times when your faith is weak. You might have a chronically weak faith and need to be strengthened. You might have by God's grace, a robust faith from the very beginning of your walk with Christ, and experience periods of weakness. I hope you're comforted by that. I hope when you think of your loved ones who professed Christ But are going through spots and periods and chapters and maybe decades of life where their faith is barely discernible, it encourages you not to lose hope. And not to condemn for the lack of strength, but to strengthen with love the spark that remains. I hope that you who feel sometimes like you're barely holding on to faith are encouraged to know that you ought not to be surprised as if something is strange happening to you. But our faith ebbs and flows, waxes and wanes, because we are, after all, dust. We are not constant. And in this passage, we are given a picture of someone whose faith we can aspire to. Someone whose faith is like that of those in Hebrews 11, or like the leaders of the church referred to in Hebrews 13, it offers us a faith we can imitate And it shows us something that causes even the Lord of glory to marvel, something that is available as an option for you and to me. And just to think that the Lord of Glory might marvel at the faith of a created being, that he could marvel even when he considers you in your walk with Christ as you go from glory to glory, grace to grace, and strength to strength But this passage about the faith of the centurion, really, although many things could be said about it, I think primarily there's only two things that rise to the surface as features deliberately drawn out and put right in front of us by the Holy Spirit speaking through Luke, his servant. And the first concerns the radical humility of an amazing faith. The radical humility of an amazing faith. Look at what this centurion does. It's the one thing we have from him more clearly than anything else. We don't know, for example, exactly what illness his servant suffered from. He doesn't offer that detail. He doesn't say, uh you know, tell him that he's been struck, he's paralyzed, or he's deathly ill, he's got a fever, he's we don't know. All we know is he's very valuable to the centurion, he's sick, he hears about Jesus coming to town. And he says, via messengers won't you heal my servant? Now Notice, when he finds out that Jesus is on his way to his house, the centurion says this, Lord, do not trouble yourself. For I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. Therefore I did not presume to come to you. Radical humility A radical humility. Men, have you ever felt unworthy of the wives who deigned to marry you? Or wives, to put it the other way, have you ever felt unworthy of the men who pledged their lives and their love to you? You know, sometimes in our human relationships, it's healthy for us to recognize that there's something just utterly incredible about the fact that another human being would so commit to me that they would basically sign that permanent binding covenantal obligation to in sickness and health Poverty and riches, richer and poorer, good and bad, rain and sunshine, all the rest be yoked with you. Isn't that an amazing thought? Now stop and think, isn't it something that the eternal Son of God, by whom and through whom all things that are, were made? That the author of life Himself would be so committed to you that he took on flesh like yours and died in your place? Do you ever ever feel unworthy of that? Because to the extent that you feel unworthy of that, you will feel loved by Christ. I want you to think about this for a minute. To the extent that I recognize that there is nothing attractive in me that is essentially mine, That makes Jesus say, oh, wait a minute. That guy Bob Burkis, born back in 1968, that's a boy, that guy's a keeper. There's nothing there. All I have before the eyes of the living God are the defaced image of my Maker and the guilt of my sin. And he loved me first. And there is a sense in which the response of faith to that Is a deep sense of the fact that I am the luckiest, most fortunate, most blessed man in the world because I am utterly unworthy. Of the gift of Christ's love. Utterly unworthy. And there are pulpits all throughout the West right now. where it seems to be that the object of the preacher is to make the people of God feel worthy of his love. And I want to do the exact opposite. Because I read the Bible carefully, and it tells me that I am not worthy of the love of God, but that I have it to an extent I could never imagine because of grace. So allow me to boldly say that this centurion was exactly right. He was not worthy. Neither am I. And oh dear friend, crucify that evil idol of the imagined worthiness with which you come to Christ. You have none. We are utterly unworthy to come before God. We are by nature enemies, justly deserving the wrath of God. And yet He sovereignly chose to put his love on us. That is a shocking, shocking thing One of the very first instances of me ministering the Word of God at Columbia Presbyterian Church happened when I was 19 years old. I was a sophomore commuting down to University of Maryland College Park And Dan Wecker, some of you remember, he's now the owner-operator of the Elkridge Furnace Inn. He was an elder at this church at the time. And he was the youth group leader training me to take over the youth group. And he invited me to lead a Bible study. And I led a Bible study. The first Bible study I led was on Philippians chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. And I can remember reading that text, ending with the verse, in humility consider others better than yourself. And one of the girls who I will not call out, she's no longer here. She's moved far away. This is a long time ago. One of the young girls, probably a sophomore in high school at the time, raised her hand. straight up like this, not one of the kids that usually participated. Raised her hand straight up and I said, yes. And she said, and I quote, what if they're not? What do you mean? What if you You said consider others to be better than yourself. What if they're not? Has the first Bible study I ever led at CPC. And that young girl exposed the heart of the human that resides within every one of us. Deep down, don't we hear that and think, oh, that's going to take some doing because they are not better than me You see, we have this default sinful setting in our human heart that says, I am worthy. I deserve the love of my wife, the respect of my kids, the admiration of my neighbors. I deserve the blood of Jesus itself. None of that is true. Not if we would live radical lives of humble obedience to the word and doctrine of the gospel. You see, this guy gets it, the centurion. And you might think, well, but you know, there's good things in your life that are worthy of admiration. I mean, you could say, Uh Bob, you know, let's y you know, you you've got a winning lacrosse record. You you uh uh you see pretty well out of part of one of your eyes. You uh you know, you got some things going for you. You're really worthy. And we love to hear that, don't we? Well think about this guy. This guy was a centurion entrusted on what would have been a very critical detached duty. Now you might think, whoa, where are you getting that from, Bob? There was no legion stationed in Capernaum. But there were instances in which centurions, who were commanders of 100, often not born from the nobility, but working their way up through the ranks of the Roman legionaries, he had attained the d rank of centurion, and he was evidently stationed in a town where he was on a highly sensitive detached assignment concerning uh the the people in a region that was hostile to the Roman Empire That's who this fellow was. And he was beloved by the elders. This isn't the synagogue. This isn't the Pharisees and Sadducees from Jerusalem. This is the Jewish leadership, the elders of the synagogue in Capernaum. He's so beloved by them that they go on his behalf and they say to Jesus, this man is worthy. Because he even paid to build our synagogue. He is a friend to your covenant people, probably one of the God-fearers described in Acts. And this centurion understood better than those rabbis and those elders of that synagogue than no, no, I am not worthy. But yet I'm asking. despite great personal accomplishments spiritually in recognizing The sovereignty and supremacy of the God of Israel, despite his pagan upbringing, with all the whacked polytheism and syncretism of his world? Spiritually, professionally, rising up in the ranks, being entrusted with great responsibility. He had a lot that he could presume made him worthy. And yet he says, I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy that you, O great rabbi, you, the teacher of Israel, that you, the Messiah, would come into the home of a Gentile. and make yourself unclean. I understand authority. I have it. You have authority and you can simply say the word. That's the second characteristic of the Centurion's exceptional, extraordinary, remarkable faith. It is a radical conviction. Many of you remember Elmer Dortzbach. Back in the 1990s, he was in semi-retirement here at CPC. How many of you were ever part of the Nifty 50s? And some of you are uh you know who am I kidding? I can't see hands. Back in the nineteen nineties, there was a ministry here at this church called the Nifty Fifties because Columbia was a a brand new city. And so there were like growing up, the oldest people in the church were the same people who are all the oldest people right now for me. It was Dad and Mom Williams. The church was all made up of, you know, thirty-somethings having their kids. Twenty somethings having their kids and it grew from there. And so there weren't a lot of older people. So the when the first people started turning fifty, they formed this group the nifty fifties, and Elmer Dortzpach was the ringleader because he came in retirement too. to be part-time uh focusing on the nifty-50s and he would preach at all the retirement homes. And I still had my driver's license And I used to drive him from one retirement home to another. And he was he was blinder than me. And uh He couldn't read his own Bible. And so I would offer to read the Bible for him. And he said, no, no, no, no, I'll be fine. And he'd recite whole chapters from memory. I was just really As a young man seminary student in awe of this man, but uh he preached a sermon on Hebrews 11 once, where he said that faith is the demonstrated conviction of God's integrity. That's his definition. I never forgot it, never will. I can still hear his voice saying that from 35 years ago. Faith is a demonstrated conviction of God's integrity. Faith is demonstrated. It's actually Putting your money on the barrel head. It's something that we commit ourselves to and entrust ourselves to. Faith hazards everything. Because we are absolutely convicted that God is true and honest and faithful. And if he says something, he will do it. And isn't that what we see here? We see this centurion absolutely convicted. to the fact that Jesus can and will do whatever he chooses to do. And what's remarkable about that, and this to me is truly remarkable, this go takes me back several, well, many years. Many years ago, I was reading through my Evangelical Theological Society journals, and I came across a very academic article about the healing methodologies of Jesus of Nazareth. You might think, well that that is I'd rather go to the dentist. Forgive me if you're a dentist. I love dentists Fascinating article. Because the whole point of the article was saying something I had never noticed before that when Jesus performs healing miracles throughout the gospels, he is always doing them differently. Sometimes he's touching, sometimes he's saying words, sometimes he's present, sometimes he's not. Sometimes he's saying get in a pool. Sometimes he's saying nothing about a pool. Sometimes he's spitting in mud and making a little plaster and putting it on eyes. Other times he's just saying the word and the eyes are healed. The point of this article that had never, ever, ever, ever, I'd never even begun to consider this. There are many ancient texts describing many people at the time of Jesus who had healing ministries. Now, we can think what we will about those healing ministries. Some of them were quite notable and were written and described in some detail by people at that time. And whether it's psychosomatic responses, pure chicanery, or whether it was actually spiritual things happening, irrelevant to me. The fact is that this research demonstrated that healers had very, very specific particular ways of doing things. And if you wanted to mentor or apprentice yourself to one of those healers, you learned their techniques. And the point of the ministry of Jesus and what this guy gets at in his cultural context, which blows my mind. Jesus Christ's ministry was done in such a way that methodology and technique is irrelevant. Utterly irrelevant. It doesn't matter if Jesus spits or not. The power is not in his DNA. It does not matter if he touches or not. It doesn't matter if the hem of his garment is tugged on All of those things are seen to work in different contexts, but that's not where any, any of the power resides. The power and the authority reside simply in Jesus. And the centurion understood that. The centurion somehow understood that despite all of the other healers out there who had their methods and their techniques and their processes and usually their fees, this one had the authority who could say what he wanted to and have it come to be Isn't that remarkable? I can't tell you how many times I, as a gospel minister, am tempted by the mailings I get and the emails I get. To think that methodology is everything. And if only I would do things a certain way, if only I would organize the service a certain way, if only I would preach a certain way. If only I would do X, Y, or Z or wear skinny jeans and flip-flops. Then, oh boy would God show up. You will never see me in skinny jeans. Can I get an amen? You don't want to see these legs. That was unnecessary. But anyhow, I I feel you, man. Bottom line is, do we have the faith of the centurion to recognize it Yes, you have to have a method, clearly. You got to do something. But do we put our faith in methods? Do we put our faith in technique? Do we put our faith in our gifts? Do we put our faith in our worthiness? Or do we like this centurion, this remarkable, blessed, beautiful centurion? Simply say, I am utterly unworthy of the saving power and the grace of the Lord Jesus. But I know He is God most high and can do whatever He wants. And he has made himself available to people like me with six servants like mine, and I'm gonna ask. I am not worthy and I'm not kidding myself, but here I am. Would you heal my servant? Do we have a faith like that? Completely untethered to things that we value That we expect, utterly committed simply to who Jesus is and what he can do in whatever manner he chooses. Because he is Jesus. How is your faith doing? I want you to know that all of us in this room have faith that are sometimes stronger, sometimes weaker. Sometimes robust, sometimes fail, frail. Perhaps we have had a faith that's been weakening over the Days, months, years, decades, perhaps we've had a strength that's uh a faith that's been strengthening. Well this text is for all of us Because it invites us to grow more and more into a faith that Jesus Himself marvels at. To lay hold of the radical humility, to set your heart free, knowing the simple fact that Jesus loves you because he decided to. And there's nothing you can do about it. Jesus loves you. And Jesus, with all of his holy glory, has the power to do what he will. And he does not depend upon the methods or the techniques or the psychotherapies or any of the other things that you might think you need. You can come to him as you are and say, Lord Jesus, forgive me, change me, grow me. And we too rarely think about Jesus as if he has that authority and acts despite the unworthiness that deep, deep down we recognize is actually ours. The good news of the gospel If I can quote everyone from John Calvin to Jack Miller, cheer up. You're unworthier than you ever thought you were. But Jesus loves you and has more power than you ever imagined. Is Christ increasingly exalted over even you in your faith's growth? Put Christ first. Are you tempted to condition your faith by anything other than Christ and his authority? What the world thinks, how popular you are, how much money's in your bank account, how healthy you are? These are opportunities for you to really consider laying all of that aside, putting it out of the way, and simply looking to Christ and saying, Christ, give me what you will. Bless me, heal me, restore me. Remember, his ultimate goal is to have you in heaven next to him, not a millionaire down here. One of the reasons I listed out all of the texts up there under point one is I would really encourage those of you who are in small groups, if you're in community groups, first of all, if you're not in one, talk to Jeff Gropp. You're missing out on a wonderful opportunity to be blessed. And take a look at those texts and think about what the Bible says about our faith and how we can grow in it. And if you're here this morning. And you don't have a relationship with this Jesus Christ, I want to invite you to do that very thing. I want to invite you to consider that this Jesus who can speak and have it happen speaks the word come over and over and over throughout the Gospels. And that invitation, that command, come. Is made to people just like you and me. As unworthy as you could possibly imagine. But it comes from the very heart and the mouth of Jesus Himself. And he who says, come and I will forgive your sins. I will give you rest for your soul. He who speaks is able, because he has the authority. He is the Son of God. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you for this blessed man, the centurion, about whom we know on the one hand so little, but on the other so much. Lord Jesus, we thank you for the challenge of his faith. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you by your spirit were willing to record that you marveled, that you were astonished at the faith of a Gentile like him. Despite his great accomplishments and beloved status even among the Jews, he recognized his unworthiness. And he recognized, despite all of the cultural conditions and expectations regarding experience and method, that none of that had any relevance whatsoever. The one thing that mattered. was the word and will of Jesus. Oh Father, we believe, yes. Help us in our unbelief. And grow us that we might be mighty men and women, boys and girls, mighty in faith, humble in heart, committed to the Savior who loves us. We ask in Christ's name, amen.