If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Leviticus chapter 8. Now I had received a very fine compliment this past week that I preach with energy. So I I'm not sure I'm gonna do that today, but we're gonna we're gonna give it our best shot. In our Book of Church Order, which is a book that kind of helps us in the Presbyterian Church in America, and most denominations have something like a Book of Church Order that kind of defines what the different roles and offices in the church are, what the pastor should do, how the congregation conducts itself. We read this statement on the ordination and installation of elders and deacons. It says, the day having arrived. That's today. And the session being convened in the presence of the congregation, a sermon shall be preached. So we are going to do that. I would like to invite, if you are a member of the session, even if you're on sabbatical, to come and sit in the front row. These are men who have been called by God and elected by the congregation to serve you as elders, to be shepherds of the flock. To be in prayer for you, to be mindful of your spiritual well-being, to be attentive to the condition of the flock. And it's important for us to remember who they are. And not just that they're elders, but they are children of the living God. They are gifted and called to do a difficult work, a sacrificial work. A work for which not a single one of us apart from the grace of Christ could ever dare to consider aspiring to Today we are going to be adding two to this number, two who were overwhelmingly elected to join this uh this group of Under-Shepherds. And the sermon that I will be preaching, and just so I know where they are, so I can give them the old preacher's eye during the sermon. Evan, where are you? You're right there. Joel, where are you? Say it again? Right here. Using my echo locution. There you are. Okay, so now if you guys are wondering who why I'm looking here and here all the time. But this is a sermon for all of us as well Let's look at the word of the Lord beginning with Leviticus chapter 8. First I will pray. Father, we thank you for this day. Lord, it is a day that has arrived. This is a big day. It is a good day. It's a beautiful day Because you are at work providing for the needs of your people. And we give you thanks and praise for the deacons and elders you've raised up, even as we thank you. for all of the different offices of general believer that make this body of Christ such a beautiful and wonderful place to belong, to be known, to know, to serve, to love. And Father, we ask that as this scripture is read for us, you would bless it to us. Help us always to hold your word higher than anything else but your name itself. Bless it to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, Lord, we pray that you would bless that also. Lord, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, Lord, make it helpful and memorable. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Leviticus chapter 8, beginning with verse 14, the Word of God Then he, Moses, brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering, and he killed it. And Moses took the blood, and with his finger put it on the horns of the altar around it, and purified the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar, and consecrated it, to make atonement for it. And he took all the fat that was on the entrails and the long lobe of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar. But the bull and its skin and its flesh and its dung, he burned up with fire outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he presented the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram, and he killed it, and Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. He cut the ram into pieces, and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fat. He washed the entrails and the legs with water, and Moses burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering with a pleasing aroma. A food offering for the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he presented the other ram, the ram of ordination. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram, and he killed it. And Moses took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear and on the thumb of his right hand. And on the big toe of his right foot. Then he presented Aaron's sons, and Moses put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears, and on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the big toes of their right feet. And Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. Then he took the fat and the fat tail and all the fat that was on the entries and the long lobe of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat and the right thigh. And out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the Lord, he took one unleavened loaf, and one loaf of bread with oil, and one wafer, and placed them on the pieces of fat, and on the right thigh. And he put all these in the hands of Aaron, in the hands of the sons, and waved them as a wave offering before the Lord. Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar with the burnt offering. This was an ordination offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the Lord. And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the Lord. It was Moses' portion of the ram of ordination, as the Lord commanded Moses. This ends the reading of God's Word. So how often have you had a quiet time on that text? We don't think about things like this a lot as Christians. And when we do, sometimes it makes us feel a little bit uneasy. It's a whole lot of blood, a whole lot of talk of entrails, and the lobes of various internal organs we don't generally think about or talk about at dinner time. And a lot of things we don't really understand the technical significance of things like a wave offering or a burnt offering or a sin offering. But I think it's helpful for us to take some time and think about that on an exceptional event like the one we are observing today. And I say exceptional, not that Every other Sunday isn't a great and heavenly event, but exceptional in the fact that it's an exception. An ordination is unusual. It's something that happens once in the life of a man. It doesn't happen twice. When we ordain Evan and Joel today, if they get called to move to Nebraska or Hawaii, They probably would prefer Hawaii and get called to serve at a church there. They would not be reordained. We believe ordination is perpetual, that is significant, is not repeated, it's real And so it's helpful to us to go back and think about the very beginning of the priesthood as we understand it and how God commanded that it be considered and enacted. The book of Exodus, which gives us a parallel account of this, and if you've noticed from your own Bible studies, just like many of the accounts and narratives and stories of the gospel of Matthew are repeated in Mark or in Luke, or vice versa. You'll find it in the Pentateuch, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. There are especially from Exodus through Deuteronomy several accounts that get repeated in different ways for different reasons. In Exodus chapter 29, we have a description of the ordination of the priests at the very beginning of the priesthood, and it begins with this one verse, take one bull of the herd and two rams without blemish. And you see, this sacrifice of one bull and two rams is in a sense at the very heart of the ordination. Prior to this, in the verses I didn't read, Leviticus chapter 8, verses 1 through 13, we have descriptions of the vestments, the clothes that are to be worn, the anointing of the clothes, uh the the consecrating of those things, the gathering of the people. All of those things are very important and worthy of another sermon. But folks prefer it if I preach for half an hour. We're going to look at the heart of this ordination to see what it is that is so significant for us today. There were three major offerings in the Old Testament sacral system. The burnt offering, the sin offering, and the peace offering. And when a man was ordained for office, it required all three of them. Not just one. It's as if to say, when a person is ordained and set apart for sacred ministry in the church It requires the totality of all that the sacrificial system offers to the people of God to be recognized and applied deliberately, explicitly, publicly. There was a song that goes back to your grandparents' day. It was called All of Me. And some of you know I had a stint as a jazz musician back in the late 80s and 90s. And uh this was in all the great American fake books and songbooks The words of that go, all of me, why not take all of me? Can't you see? I'm no good without you. It's a great song. And if we flip a couple of words, it would be very appropriate if Christ sang it to us. All of me, why not take all of me? Can't you see? You're no good without me. I've often thought about that. I used to think about that when that number got called up in clubs and bars and uh different uh lounges where we would play. We can't take part of Jesus. And it is especially the case that when it comes to ministry, We cannot take only part of what Jesus, the Lamb of God, who takes away his people's sins. Jesus, who is the scapegoat. He is the ram driven into the wilderness, slain for his people's sin. Jesus, who is the bull of the sin offering. We can't just take part of what he offers us as the sacrifice for his people. We have to take all of it. And that means several things for us. It means that when we approach ministry, whether we're ministering through our husband or to our wife or to our kids or to Our Sunday school classes or and please remember that we all are called to minister God's grace in its various forms according to Peter's letter. We are all, as Revelation 1 says, a kingdom of priests. We all share in this sense of being called and set apart to do work for the glory of God and the blessing of our neighbors. And in as much as we're going to do that well, we have to take hold of every part of all that Jesus offers us. All of these sacrifices pointed to a specific part of what Jesus offers us. And so let's look first at the sin offering. That's the first thing that has to be offered. We read in verse 14 that then he brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering. And they did that to identify themselves with it, as if to say visibly in front of all of the gathered congregation This bull is about to receive what I deserve. And there is a substitutionary atonement taking place here. That bull is about to die in my place as an expiation for my sins. That's a big word. Kids, if you're here today and you want to think, what can I tell the pastor at the welcome desk later? Tell me what expiation means. What does it mean? Here's what it means. It means to purge or to cleanse the guilt of sin from you. Think of if you're in a criminal court and you have your record expunged. You have your crimes erased. To have your guilt expiated means that your sins are washed away. Remove far from you as the East is from the West. Because the penalty your sins deserve And we're all sinners here. The penalty that all of our sins deserve is death. For the wages of sin is death. The free gift of God is eternal life. And so there's a sense in which when in ordination, God's servants, on the very cusp of their ordination, are publicly affirming the fact that they are sinners in need of a substitute. And they are laying hold of the one thing that can remove the guilt of sin from them. The guilt of sin. What a heavy thing Many, many years ago, I remember a sermon that Alan Harris preached back when this church met at the Oaklands Village Center. And he was telling in that sermon about how someone complained to him that the Old Testament was so bloody. And Alan Harris said in that sermon, the Old Testament is so bloody because people are just that sinful. And we don't think about sin as being something that destroys life, that erodes humanity, that corrodes the soul, that breaks down. and steals, something that is utterly abhorrent and disgusting, not only to a holy God, but to any hope of human relation. St. Anselm, nearly a thousand years ago, put it this way to a critic of Christianity back in the Middle Ages. If you don't understand the need for a blood sacrifice, you don't understand what a heavy burden sin is. Sin is great in the worst possible way. Heavy. Deadly. Relentless From our human perspective, utterly indelible, permanent, crippling But then there's something called the blood of the sacrifice. And in the sin offering, there is a phrase that appears in association with the sin offering throughout the entire Pentateuch. That when the sin offering is performed, the blood is sprinkled, cleansing, as if it is a detergent that can wash away the effect and the stain and the stink of sin from anything. We don't think of blood as something that washes stains away. We think of blood as something that itself stains. But the blood of the sacrifice is sufficient to wash away the guilt of sin. The blood of the sacrifice alone is the solvent that can take away that guilt. The living God says in Isaiah chapter 1, Come, let us reason together, though your sins be as scarlet. Now that word scarlet in the early English translations of the Protestant Reformation was translated from a Greek word dibasson, which meant twice dipped. And the second dipping of that scarlet color fixed the color. So in the mind of the Protestant reformers, this, though your sins be as scarlet, in the minds of the ancient Israelites who heard Isaiah's sermons. That's permanent. That's more permanent than a tattoo on your forehead. But God says I can wash them completely away. And this is how the sprinkled blood, the sprinkled blood of the sin offering. After the sin offering has the blood sprinkled, and the altar is purified. We find the burnt offering. Now the burnt offering is the second of these required mandatory sacrifices in the life of the Israelite. The burnt offering offers atonement through propitiation. Kids, if you want to get extra credit, propitiation is another big word, and it's a helpful word for us to know as Christians. I remember when I was in Abilene, Texas as an intern back in 1991, I remember Neil Lodge, my supervising pastor, who is now with the Lord. He preached a wonderful series of sermons. The series was called The Sons of the Cross, S-H-U-N, because these are all ideas that we As humans, we don't like the fact that we have to have our sins expiated because expiation is one, satisfaction is one, propitiation is one. And this idea of propitiation is also troubling to us. How often do we as people think what the Bible teaches, that God is not pleased by sin? How often do we think about that? How often do we think about the fact that God says his wrath is kindled against sin? In the ancient Israelite Hebrew idiom, his nostrils flare, his eyes burn. His gaze is fixed. Last chapter of Amos. When we think about the fact that the wrath of a holy God against sin is utterly pure and absolutely right. We realize that not only does our guilt need to be removed, but there must be an appeasing of justice. And propitiation has just that effect. To propitiate means to take someone who is righteously angry and to satisfy them such that they are now pleased with you. When you come across references to the burnt offering in the Old Testament, in every case but one, This phrase is associated with the burnt offering, and it was a pleasing aroma to the Lord. It satisfies him. The fact that we recognize in the ancient economy of the covenant of grace and the way God dealt with his people of old, that yes, the sin offering takes away our guilt, and the burnt offering takes away uh reconciles us with God. We see those two things beautifully wedded in the fact that Christ has displaced and absolutely fulfilled both of those sacrifices. Jesus Christ in the offering of his one holy perfect divine human life, he is the sin offering and he is the burnt offering. In him we find the wrath of God utterly poured out such that it is completely satisfied. Dear friends, never think that your sin is a light issue or that it's no big deal. It's a very big deal. But always remember that it has been completely, completely resolved. The guilt has been removed because Jesus died for you and the Father now pours out his love upon you. because his wrath is utterly satisfied. There's no lingering grudge. There's no keeping of a record. There's no scornful, derisive expectation that you're going to fail again. He is utterly propitiated towards you, and he delights in you who have come, laying hold of the sacrifice that is a pleasing aroma to the God of heaven. And the Redeemer of sinners like you and me. And so as we come to the ordination, we publicly recognize and we rejoice as Evan And Joel publicly recognize that they are utterly dependent upon the sacrifice God has provided, namely Jesus Christ, to remove the guilt of their sin, to sprinkle their whole life. Washing it. And they are utterly dependent upon Jesus Christ. for their sense that God is pleased with them. It is by grace through faith they are saved and sanctified alike. Because they recognize that all of God's acceptance of their continually frail and struggling works Is because they are united by faith with Christ and are in him. And Christ has made God Completely empty of all wrath against your fallness. That's a powerful thought. And it cuts against the grain. Of our thinking that we're pretty good people and do pretty amazing things for the Lord. When we come to ordinations, we remember That Jesus died to pay the penalty for our sins, and Jesus died that we could be pleasing to the Father. There's no other way to accomplish either of those things. Would you be pleasing to the Father? Lay hold of the death of Christ. Would you have your sins forgiven? Lay hold of the death of Christ, and believe on him who loved you even to death. Now the third of these offerings is the peace offering And it is the third of the great sacrifices featuring in the Old Testament economy, and it also points to Christ. And Christ also perfectly fulfilled it. And the peace offering is different from the others because it was not required in the Old Testament. You could live your life as an utterly faithful, obedient, ancient Israelite and never offer a peace offering. It wasn't specifically required at certain times of the year or if certain things had happened in your life. But the peace offering was rather used at specific times in an elective manner when confession of certain things was made or vows were taken or you were thankful that God had done something particular in your life. It was something you could do, say, when God gave you a child when you were barren. We see a peace offering in that context. And here in ordination, a peace offering is required. So if you're going to be ordained, you must, because you are making vows, because you're giving thanks publicly for the work of God in your life, you are making a promise. And where do we see that promise? We see that promise in the fact that the blood of the peace offering is applied to the right lobe of your ear, the right big thumb, and the right big toe. So Evan and Joel, we're gonna need you to take one shoe and one sock off later. What in the world does that mean? Wayne was right. We didn't plan that little back and forth where he said he was hoping that would be explained. What does that mean? What in the world's going on there? There is a sense in which, when you come to be ordained, you are publicly making a vow that you are going to be utterly sanctified and consecrated in your interactions with the world around you. The ancient world was an audio world more than a visual world. You learned things, you gathered data, you grew intellectually by what you heard, not by what you saw. There was no YouTube. There was no live streaming. There weren't really even books in those days. There were scrolls, yes. And there were monuments with pictographs and carvings, yes But in the ancient world, in the Near Eastern world, the ancient Near Eastern world I should say, much to the delight of people like me, to have big ears was associated with wisdom. I used to like to tell my kids that. Don't think they ever believed it. It meant you were great at listening. To put the blood of the peace offering on your right ear, to make that vow in the the right, and again my apologies to all of you who are left-handed, right was the side of dominance in the ancient imagination. It meant that you were going to be overwhelmingly committed to listen through a sanctified ear and to be careful about what came into your head that it might pass through the blood of the sacrifice. And that what you are exposing your mind to, your very soul and heart to, is something that would pass the test of the atonement. And ultimately, in our day, something that Jesus Christ Himself would lend his approval to. Not only what you expose yourself to, but what you do with your hands It's not for nothing that our poseable digits are considered such an amazing feature I'll tell you something that shocked me to my core when I was 13 years old. I went up to Minnesota. And I was going to help Grandpa Birkas on his farm with my older brother Doug. And my Grandpa Byrkus wanted to take us to visit our great-greatuncle Arnie. Yes, that's two greats. Because Grandpa Byrkus loved great-greatuncle Arnie and great-great uncle Arnie was struggling with uh and affection for a certain cult that was prevalent in uh at the time northern Minnesota. And when we met Great Uncle Arnie great great Uncle Arnie, I was appalled by the fact that he had no thumbs. He had spent his life during the World War I eras as a lumberjack. And that's before there were mandatory safety standards on things like chainsaws. So if you had a long day and your hand was sweaty, you lost a thumb. So you lose your thumb. What do you do? Well you just get a left-handed chainsaw. And then what happens? You lose your other son, and then what do you do? Nothing. Disability. He was very frustrated in the things he could do, so he was turning to any source of any kind of comfort or hope he could get, and unfortunately he turned to something very unfortunate, something that denied. the eternal deity of the Son and his coming as God in the flesh. Now, I don't know how my great-great uncle Arnie closed out his life. I hope you did it well. But I do know that I've always thought differently about thumbs. Thumbs are something that we need. Thumbs are something without which we find we're frustrated in all that we do. Thumbs are something that must be utterly consecrated to the living God. To put the blood on the thumb meant to say that all that I do, I'm going to do with the sacrifice in mind. I am going to do it for the glory of the God who provided the sacrifice. And I'm going to do it mindful of the fact that I will not dishonor the life of the sacrifice. So in your ordination, You are to be consecrated in what you hear, in what you do, and in where you go The book of Proverbs tells us that we are not even to go down the street where the harlot lives. And as ordained people as called consecrated people, as a kingdom of priests which includes all of us, we need to be mindful of the fact that the peace offering offers us this sanctifying, consecrating. That means it makes us holy, it sets us apart, this presence of God by His Spirit in our very souls. that helps us by the grace of God to say no to all ungodliness. Titus chapter 3. And it helps us to say, I'm not going to watch that, I'm not going to listen to that. That's not entering my world into my head, into my heart. I am not going to do that. That is dishonoring to the Jesus who died for me, the Jesus who is God and flesh, Christ the Son of God. And I am not going to go there where I will be exposed to that which is utterly devastating to the prospects of godly health. And so we need to be committed to the personal transformation, publicly committed to the personal transformation that the life of God's children requires. and is particularly important in the life of an ordained servant. And so a question for all of us as elders. Are we publicly remembering the fact that we are publicly demonstrating, as often as we exercise office, the fact that Jesus had to die for us? He did. And he had to. I can speak for myself and say that apart from the grace of the Lord Jesus, I would not be someone that is even worthy of your consideration or respect. Carrie tells me if as a young believer I was simply not marriageable. Uh and and I've come to believe her. Uh There's a sense in which we desperately need the death of Christ to expunge, to expiate our sin. We desperately need the death of Christ to satisfy God that he might be delighted in us because we are united with Christ. And we desperately need the blood of the sacrifice, that sanctifying blood of Jesus to strengthen us and to renew our wills to serve him well, to look at and to listen to what he would have us see and hear. To be active in pursuing those objectives he would have us to do, and to go to those places to which he has called us. And it's not too late, Evan and Joel. But when in a moment I call you to come up here, you are in a sense publicly Putting God's blood, the blood of Jesus Christ, the blood of the sacrifice, all over yourself. And you're going to be recognizing that you are on your own and in your own strength, utterly incapable of any anything. That could bounce back or to redound to God's glory or to be a blessing to others. You are demonstrating your utter reliance upon what the sacrifice has done for you. Jesus Christ, the sin offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offering. Jesus Christ. And for all of us, I would ask us to consider whether or not we're resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ. If when we deal with our guilty consciences or our fear of death or are wondering what's going to happen when we die, we look to a place other than the fact that, yes, death should be frightening. Because we're sinners and God is holy. But the good news is that God has come in the person of Christ to pay for all of your sins To give his life, that your guilt be removed, that God would be delighted with you, and that you might live in a renewed manner because of what he's done. And follow these elders, these servants of the living God, as they imperfectly, yet increasingly Reflect the sacrifice, Jesus, and the life they live. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you fulfilled all of these sacrifices. And Lord, we thank you that we don't have to over and over and over again take the life of an animal in a symbolic, typological way that points us to a later coming Messiah. But Lord, that you came. And you once for all abolished the sacrificial system because you, Jesus, were the sacrifice to which all those other sacrifices they simply pointed towards. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your gifting and calling of others by your Spirit to take different roles in your body Lord, we thank you for these two wonderful brothers in Christ who are going to take their part and being members of the session that tends to the spiritual needs of this church. We pray, O God, that you would make them mindful of the blood of Jesus every day. And Lord Jesus, we pray that you would bless us and help us to receive the ministry of these men humbly and with joy and great expectation. Help us to support them and affirm them, each to the best of our ability, according to their need, recognizing that, Lord, on this side of heaven, nothing will be done perfectly. But everything will be done ultimately in a way that you are able to bless and redeem, for you work all things together for our good. Give us hope and peace. We pray in the name of Jesus our Lord and Savior. Amen. At this time I would like to invite Evan