Our uh text this morning comes from Mark chapter four. So if you would turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter four verses 35 through 41. You can find Mark chapter 4 in the inserts in your order of worship and also on page 710 on your red church Bible. So please turn with me as we consider Mark chapter 4. Before we go to God's word, let us go to Him first in prayer. Oh great God We do thank you that you are not a silent God, that you have revealed yourself to us in your word, that we might know who you are and how you work and how we might be saved. through our Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, I ask that you would help us to be a people this day who do not come to worship you and simply form Or is simply a tradition that we do on Sunday. But this day, Lord, let us worship you in true faith and true love in our Lord Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 4, verses 35 through 41. People of God, hear God's true and living word for you this day. On the same day when evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side Now when they had left the multitude they took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so that it was already filling. But he was in the stern asleep on a pillow, and they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. But he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, Who can this be that even the wind and sea obey him? May God bless the reading and the hearing of his word. Have you ever faced an unexpected storm? Have you ever been in a situation where you fell out of control unexpectedly? If you've been in a any kind of car accident, you might know what I'm talking about, or Maybe you've acquired some type of medical bill or some kind of debt at all. Maybe you face a broken relationship. Or maybe there's been a sudden death or illness not only in yourself, but maybe in someone very dear to you. Or maybe things with your job have all of a sudden come crumbling down. And some of you can reflect back on a time when you felt overwhelmed, but many of us, even today, find ourselves presently overwhelmed with confusion and hurt. We face many unexpected situations in our life that will seem to overwhelm us. In a sense, we could say we should be expecting the unexpected, but we never really do until those times come upon us. So the question I will not be asking this morning is how to avoid these unexpected circumstances because that's an impossibility. But what I want to consider with us this morning is When these moments come upon us, how will we respond? What will you do? What have you done? Have you found yourself to be a person who when these storms come upon, when these trials come upon, that you shut down and that you simply ignore the mess you find yourself in Or do are you a person that gets frustrated? Do you get angry and even lash out at others Or do you feel sad? You feel depressed? And allow yourself to believe that no one else has ha ha has been in the difficult situation that you've been in. That no one can understand the difficult situation that you face. Or do you respond to the unexpected storms of life by faith And a God who was both absolutely in control and who was absolutely good. Well, here in our text, we see the disciples encounter an unexpected storm. Literally. a massive storm of the Sea of Galilee that seeks to threaten their very life. And we would ask, what should they do? How should they respond? Well, the text this morning tells us clearly not only how they should respond, but how we should respond to these unexpected storms of life. And the answer is, we ought to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So we'll be considering three reasons why we ought to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We see we have to have faith in Jesus because of what he does, because of who he is, and because of how he cares. So we have a what, a who, and a how. And the first answer to this question of why we ought to have faith in our Lord Jesus Christ is considering what he does. It had been a long day for the disciples and Jesus. From a boat offshore, Jesus had been teaching probably most of the day. And afterwards he takes his disciples aside for private instructions. And finally, here in our text, as the day comes to an end, that they gather into a boat and they cross the Sea of Galilee. But they did not expect the storm that they were about to face. You see, the Sea of Galilee is located in a valley that is surrounded by hills. And cool currents would rush down from the mountain and collide with the hotter air above the sea. And those rushes of wind would be unpredictable. Violent winds would begin to whip about the sea, causing a fury of high waves and crashing waves on the boat of any vessel that would seek to be maneuvering on that time. The storm is referred to as a great wind or a whirlwind in verse 37. Matthew's account even describes the storm as a great seaquake. And you think for a moment that this must have been a great storm Because many of the apostles were experienced fishermen on this very sea, and we are told that they are terrified. I want you to notice something here. That Christ's service does not exempt his servants from storms. These disciples were following Jesus. They were attending to his ministry. They were testifying to the world of who he was. They loved Jesus. But here we see the men tossed up and down by the storm and in danger of being drowned. You see, God doesn't promise that our journeys will be smooth. Doesn't promise that our course will be easy and that we will be free from trouble and care So they frantically wake up Jesus during this storm and say, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And here, right away, you see a contrast between the disciples and Jesus' behavior towards God and the situation that they find themselves in. The disciples are frantic. And full of fear. But Jesus is calm and not afraid of the s situation they find themselves in. And take note that Jesus is not facing a different storm than the disciples. Jesus isn't on a different boat, facing a different trial, facing a different circumstance. He is in the exact trial the disciples are, but we see a very different response. So in verse 39 we see the boat is threatened by the storm and the waves are crashing over its bow. And Jesus rebukes the winds and told the sea to be silent. He says, peace, be still. And at once There is peace. Even in a regular storm after the wind has stopped, there continues to be uh some agitation of the sea. Um but not here. There's peace. There is immediate calm. There's safety Jesus had the power in his voice to reach the elements, power to stop the storm. He speaks to the waves, and they obey him. You see, he's greater than they ever imagined. He exercises control over audiences, over sicknesses, over demons and death, and even here in our text over the elements of the earth. So why do the disciples not have faith when they have seen and heard all that Jesus has done? I sometimes think if if I was one of the disciples and I had already seen the things that Jesus had done, if I had seen him heal a blind man from birth. If I had seen him cast out demons, if I had seen him here uh heal leprosy, if I had seen him raise a dead man and bring him life. Well, how much stronger would my faith be? It would make this Christianity thing so much easier if I had an opportunity to see what the disciples saw. So why is it that the disciples saw these things, but yet we see their faith is so little? Well, you see, it's because Fear often causes us to forget. It causes us to forget the things that Jesus has done in our life, to forget his faithfulness, to forget his past power demonstrated to us. It's like a soldier who is frightened in battle. He'll forget everything he's been trained to do. And the disciples have forgotten everything Jesus has done. And we do the exact same. We say God, I know you've been in control and you've been good since the foundation of the world. But when we see the wave of trial before us, we forget And we fear that somehow, for the first time in a history, God forgot to care. He forgot to care about me, and he forgot the situation that he left me in. He forgot the relationships he put me in. He forgot the financial burden that I have in my life. He forgot the pain. You see how fear makes us forget these things? Jesus reveals his power over creation and of all things. There is no storm too great. He can say to the heaviest anxiety, peace be still. He can scatter the clouds of guilt. He can drive fear away. Their faith, the disciples' faith, as you see in the text, needs to be strengthened before and after this miracle. Before you see they're frightened by the storm. But now we see them filled with terror because they are in the presence and power of the one who had suddenly and completely calmed and stilled the storm. So we should have faith in Jesus because of his power, because of what he does and what he can do. But what he does and what he can do points us to who he is. So let us consider not only should we have faith in Christ because of what he does, but also because of who he is. And who is this Jesus? I mean, that's the question that the disciples ask at the end, isn't it? Who is this man? Who is this person that holds the power over the seas? Well, Jesus reveals that he is God Himself. It is God who made the sea and God alone who controls it. Listen to Psalm 107, verses 23 through 26. Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business on great waters, they see the work of the Lord And his wonders in the deep, for he commands and raises the stormy winds, which lifts up the waves of the sea. They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths. And again listen to Psalm eighty nine, verses eight through nine. O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty like you, O Lord, your faithfulness surrounds you. You rule the raging sea. When its waves rise, you still them. And even if you reflect back upon Scripture, all the way back to the creation account in Genesis, we see the image of chaotic waters filling the earth. And without struggle and without difficulty, God simply speaks to create and to shape things according to his will. He simply speaks. Speaking, emphasizing the the very uh effortless action of man for our our speech is so effortless. in words and in breath. You see, here in our text, nature knew the voice of its maker Jesus reveals that he is the same God who said, let there be light, and there was light. He is the one who spoke all things into existence and even controls it still to this very day. Nothing happens without his permission. Jesus possesses and demonstrates the power that only God can have. And the irony, if you look through the Gospel of Mark, as the disciples ask, who is this Jesus? It's the demons who show that they know who Jesus is. They say, earlier, what have you to do with us, Jesus, son of the Most High God? You see, again, the disciples' fear quickly changes from the storm to Jesus because he demonstrates to be Almighty God. It is God alone who could bring about such a sudden and radical change to bring peace To bring calm to the storm. Though our storms may be large and our temptations great, we can face them knowing that the final victory is Christ. Greater is he that is for us than all they who are against us. And not only does this text show us who Jesus is to be God, but it also shows us who he is to be man. He had a body like ours. He sleeps. He was weary and fatigued from a long day of work. He was hungry, he thirsted, he was tempted. In every way we are, yet without sin. He knows the trials of men, for he experienced them. It's important for us to remember that he was truly man. He's not only a great high priest, but he's also a feeling high priest. He's not only A great Savior, but a sympathizing Savior. God has given us a Savior who is not only strong enough to pluck us out as brands from a fire. but to be sympathizing, so that we, the laboring and the heavy laden, can find rest. What marvelous love for Christ, to condescend to go through our weaknesses. And humiliation for our sakes, for us the unfaithful, for us the disobedient, almighty power. And deepest sympathy are all met together in the one glorious person, Jesus Christ. So finally, we ought not only to have faith in what Jesus does or in who he is, but also because of how he cares. We often feel as the disciples did, don't we? That God is somehow not aware, that he is somehow not watching us That he's sleeping and we must get him up to take care of us? God, would you wake up? Would you see the circumstances that we are in? And would you do something? Would you take care of us? Usually when we go through a tough time, we are often tempted to doubt that God is in control of the situation or that he's good. It's easy for us to feel like we're getting the B plan of life, that somehow we've fallen from God's good and perfect plan for our life because of maybe past sins or decisions. Because if God really loved us, right, we say this. If God really loved me and was good, my life would not look like it does. My life would not look like this if God had the power to change these circumstances. If He really loved me, I would have a lot more money. I would have perfect relationships with my friends and with my spouse. My child would win first place at everything they did. When you find yourself in a time of trial, stop and think whether you're tempted to doubt that God has the power to change your circumstances. Whether you're tempted to doubt that he's actually in control absolutely of everything in your life, or are you tempted to doubt that he's actually good You tempted as the disciples to say, Don't you care? Don't you care, Jesus? So they went to Jesus for help, right? The disciples, when they face their trial, when they face their storm, and that's a good thing. When we face trials, when we face things in our life, we ought to go to Jesus. But what's the problem? It's the spirit that they had, the claim that Jesus does not care for them. As if Jesus didn't care what happened to his disciples, to his children. Do we mean so little to you, Jesus? With death in our face, how can you sleep? Don't you care? And if you read through the Gospel of Mark, the interesting thing is that these are the first words recorded out of the disciples' mouth. Jesus. Don't you care? And I wonder, are those the first words that you say when you face a trial, when you face a storm? Jesus, don't you care? Fear that awakens faith is not in itself faulty, but it's when it goes too far. When it goes too far to say how that God does not love us, should we not rather on our hearts say something along the lines of, Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. You see, they didn't realize who Jesus was. The very fact that he was with them shows that he cares, that God would take on flesh. They didn't realize what he came to do, that he would be betrayed, that he would be beaten, that he would be nailed to a cross so they might live And they certainly had no idea how much he cared, because if they knew, they wouldn't have asked such a ridiculous question. And you see, this incident on the Sea of Galilee was actually a foreshadowing of what would happen at the cross. Jesus would stand and look death. In the face. He would look in the face of all those that seek to take his children, but seek to overwhelm us and say, No, you will not have them. I love them. They are mine. But you see, the great calming of the storm, the great calming of death, of opposition, of trials in our life was at the price of his death. He would allow the waters and the waves to take him. He would be taken. He would be tossed overboard so that we might live, that we might have hope. in this life. His death for all our unfaithfulness All the times we've turned against God and sought to help ourselves, doubting God in the circumstances we find ourselves, doubting that he really cares, that we would do a better job and that God is failing. And and that we should be doing what he's doing, because obviously he doesn't know what's going on down here. You see, the disciples thought of nothing but their present peril. And we do know better. How many of us have said with an even greater voice, God, don't you care? Don't you care about our broken relationships? Don't you care about my illness? Don't you care that those I love are dying around me? Don't you care that her church is losing staff? Don't you care that I'm losing my job? Don't you care about the debt that I find myself in? Don't you care, God? But let those words never be heard from our lips or from our hearts again. He went through hell for you. He cares. He gave his life that we might live As I conclude, I ask you the same question that Jesus asked his disciples. Where is your faith? Where is your faith? What is the benefit of trusting if you will only trust your master in sunshine and not in storms? And is it not true when we face these things in our life that we discover if our faith is real? Or if it's simply form or show? That it's simply tradition that we do these spiritual things and say that we believe in a God that we believe in But if the disaster of your life or the distress grows to such a height to almost overwhelm us. Let us know and let us believe that there is this divine purpose, that there is design in our sufferings You see, our faith is being tested. And let us prove to be successful. That God is in control of all things. And many of us still, even after crying out to God, We still face the storms of life, but we know that his grace is sufficient, and we believe that one day the storm will indeed be calmed. That there is purpose, that he has not left you alone, that he is absolutely in control of every circumstance of your life. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is in the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes. for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. God has never promised that our lives would be empty of pain, of disappointment, of storms. But Jesus calls you to faith now and in the storms that you're going through. He's watching. He knows. He cares. For you who do not have Christ, know this. The storm of God's judgment is coming, and you will be overwhelmed. You will be crushed. You see, your greatest need is not perfect relationships. Your greatest need is not financial stability. Your greatest need is to be delivered from the coming wrath of God. And that has already been accomplished in the work of Jesus Christ. If you would only believe. Many of you might recall recently even the story of Horatio Spafford in the nineteenth century who lost his four daughters when an ocean line li liner sank in the Atlantic Ocean. His wife only surviving, sending him a note that said, Saved alone. You see, here was a storm. That would seemingly overwhelm him. But what did he write as he comp them contemplated what had happened? Well that first stanza tells us much, doesn't it? Along with that well-known chorus, When peace like a river attendeth my way, When sorrows like sea billows roll, Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul. Have you been tossed to and fro by the storms of life? Come and believe this day that there is one who can give you rest. Jesus can say to your heart, whatever storm you face, peace, be still. Put your faith in Jesus Christ because of what he does, because of who he is, and because of how he cares. Let us pray. Our great father We sink in the deep mire beneath storms and waves, in horror and in distress and in fear. Help us, O Lord. Help us to throw ourselves absolutely and wholly on you. In our distress, let us forget that you order. Let us not forget that you order all things. That you have never forsaken us. Help us to remember that you bring real good even out of seemingly evil Oh Father, forgive us for being people of such small faith. Would you make our faith grow? Would you strengthen our faith in our Lord Jesus Christ? And it's in his name we pray. Amen.