Last Sunday I spent uh Independence Day weekend, the message, trying to make a case for the fact that Psalm hundred and nineteen, verse one twenty-six Is a verse that the church can particularly acclaim, claim in America in 1995, especially appropriate for us. Now how many remember that verse? It begins with the word it. Let's see if you can say it from last Sunday. It Yeah, some of you got it. It was a little thin crowd here last week, you know. But it is time, just in case the rest of you didn't hear that, it is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. We need eyes, I believe, to see the situation in America from God's perspective, to be able to understand how He views this country and the church in this country. I believe very few of us really have any clue of how the Lord is really looking at us. We need to heed Scripture's warnings, imperative warnings, as well as promises for our situation. It reminds me of what I read about Chernobyl in 1986. Let me quote to you from the University of Pacific Review. There were two electrical engineers in the control room that night, and the best thing that could be said for them is that what they were doing was playing around with a machine. They were performing what the Soviets later described as an unauthorized experiment. They were trying to see how long a turbine could freewheel when they took the power off of it. Now taking the power off of that kind of a nuclear reactor is a difficult, dangerous thing to do, because these reactors are very unstable in their lower ranges. In order to get the reactor down to that kind of power where they could perform the tests they were interested in performing, they had to override manually six separate computer-driven alarm systems. One by one, the computers would come up and say, Stop, dangerous, go no further. And one by one, rather than shutting off the experiment, they shut off the alarms and kept going. You know the results. Nuclear fallout that was recorded all around the world from the largest industrial accident ever to occur in the world. Scripture's warnings are just as clear to us in our own situation. And we ignore those warnings to our peril. The warnings are given to us in a number of places. One example of just such a warning is in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And that's what I want to look at this morning. I want for us to see a warning that Paul gives based on an anatomy of Israel's apostasy in her time. As he traces her slide from privilege to punishment, from favor to judgment Twice Paul says in this text, in verse six and eleven, these things are given as warnings, alarm bells, for you and for me, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. These are warnings for us. Serious warnings, brothers and sisters. Last week was not simply some passion for the Fourth of July. Okay, now we got through our kind of Independence Day message. Let's move on. I'm following up with that because I mean it. I'm very urgent. I couldn't be more earnest in what I'm saying to you. We are ignoring God's Alarms and his warnings to us in Scripture at our peril. America is basically playing with God. The church in America plays with Christianity. And our God will be sought. Our God will be merciful. But he will not be played with. And this is a warning for us. And so let's read from 1 Corinthians chapter 10 what God says to you and to me as part of the church in this country in our day. Paul says, this is God's word. Let's give it our attention. For I do not want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud and that they all passed through the sea. They were all baptized into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea. They all ate the same spiritual food and drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. Nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them. Their bodies were scattered over the desert. Now these things occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did. Do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink, and got up to indulge in pagan revelry. We should not commit sexual immorality as some of them did, and in one day twenty-three thousand of them died. We should not test the Lord as some of them did and were killed by snakes, and do not grumble as some of them did and were killed by the destroying angel. These things happened to them as examples and were written down as warnings for us, on whom the fulfillment of the ages has come. And so if you think you are standing firm, be careful that you don't fall. No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. And God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Therefore, my dear friends, flee from idolatry. This is the warning Now let's consider what this says to us, brothers and sisters. Four points I want for us to see from this. First of all, to look at the advantages that Israel enjoyed. Secondly, To see the judgment that they suffered, thirdly, to see the apostasy that they fell into that caused that, and fourthly to notice the warnings for us. Notice, first of all, that this is written to the church. It is not written to America. I always feel like I need to make that clear whenever we deal with a passage like this. This is not written to America. America is not Israel. They are not equivalent. This is written to the church in America. God's people. It is us who have this warning. This is not for those guys. It's not for them. It's for us. We are the key to the work of God's Spirit in America. God does not work through the unbelievers. He works through us. If he's going to bring revival, if he's going to answer the prayers that we prayed last week, it's because we are going to be a people who are purified and ready for that. This warning is for us. Notice that the apostasy that he describes is particularly damnable. Because of the advantages that the church had enjoyed. So look at that as the first point. The advantages that Israel had enjoyed, and how that applies to us. He lists four advantages that particularly were Israels at that time. First of all, he said they enjoyed Direct guidance by God. I don't want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud. Now what does that mean It's referring to the cloud that led Israel through the wilderness. What it's saying was basically that Israel was led directly by God, by a cloud by day, a pillar of fire by night. And amazing to think that they never had a wonder. Should we stop? Should we go? There was this cloud or this pillar of fire to directly tell them. They never had a wonder should we go to the east or to the west to the right or to the left? There it was, direct guidance. But God has given to us the church in America a much fuller guidance. We may not have a cloud to tell us whether to move from Columbia or not. But we do have scriptures that give us God's will and God's mind on all kinds of moral issues and value issues in our lives. And so if, as Ephesians 5, verse 10 says, we learn what is pleasing to the Lord by immersing ourselves in Scripture and obeying it, we learn His will and we understand it. And America has had more Bibles and more homes than any other nation on earth. We have the access to his will. Secondly, Paul says here that they had the advantage of his dramatic deliverance from Egypt. They were a people who had seen God bring them out of Egypt. After he had brought them out, they were faced with the Red Sea. And they were stopped there. They were not able to cross. But what does he say? He says in verse 2, at the end of verse 1, they were under the cloud, and they all passed through the sea. They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. They saw God bring them to that sea, and then they saw the sovereign God part those waters so that they were able to walk through on dry land. They saw him accomplish a wonder no one had ever seen before in order to accomplish their redemption from the slavery in Egypt. What have we as believers seen Jesus Christ do? We have seen ourselves stopped and blocked by the guilt of our sin and the bondage of it. But Jesus Christ came in the flesh, God in the flesh, and he fulfilled the law and kept it on our behalf. And when we were Kept from going any further, Jesus Christ hung on the cross and he took our sin. He died for the guilt that would be taken away. He released us from the bondage so that you and I have been freed. We have passed through the sea. We have seen God do a work, and we have seen in the church in America millions testify to the saving work of Jesus Christ. We've been surrounded by witnesses of the power of Jesus Christ in our lives. Thirdly, you notice that they enjoyed particularly effective leadership. Verse 3 of verse 2. They were all baptized into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea. Now we saw earlier at Abbey's baptism that this refers to their being under Moses' authority. And so Moses was their pastor. What a pastor to have. I mean this guy got his messages direct from the face of God up on Mount Sinai. Imagine what kind of messages those were. And what an intercessor, pleading on behalf of them to God, to save them. Much more powerful an intercessor than I'm afraid I have ever proven to be. And a man who was such an effective pastor, effective leader, to lead these couple of million people through the desert They couldn't complain, they did, but they couldn't complain about his leadership as one who was qualified. God had fulfilled him fully for all that was needed to lead these people. And in America, the church in America has enjoyed unusually godly gifted leadership. Uh certainly there have been the scandals, there have been those that have brought shame upon the name of Christ, but from The days even before our independence and the Great Awakening, and leaders such as Jonathan Edwards, considered one of the greatest theologians who ever lived, and one of the greatest pastors. Down to our own day, Billy Graham acknowledged worldwide as one of the great Christian leaders of all time. God has blessed America with effective spiritual leadership. Fourthly, we see that Israel enjoyed the direct provision of God. He enjoyed the provision Both physically and spiritually. Verse three, they all ate the same spiritual food and drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. Spiritual there means of the Spirit. They were provided by the Spirit, physical food, the manna, and the water in the desert. But man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. And so they also were fed spiritually from the spiritual rock that accompanied them. And so it is that not only was Israel particularly blessed in this way, but the church in America. Again, I say that we've had more Bibles in this country, and we've been blessed more physically than probably any other nation on the history of the earth, of the planet. We're a people blessed Physically, materially, and spiritually, in our provision from God. And with all this, you would think that inevitably they would be a people who prospered spiritually. That they'd be a people who therefore were following and trusting and serving the Lord. But verse 5 tells us, nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them. Their bodies were scattered over the desert. Of a couple of million Jews who left Egypt, only two entered the land, Joshua and Caleb. The rest died in the wilderness, including Moses. Certainly we don't think that that means that they didn't go to heaven. We certainly know that a number of them did. But many of them did not. Who were members of the church? Who were part of Israel. God was not pleased with them. And they did not go to heaven. There was a judgment that they suffered. And the church as a whole suffered, rather than being powerful and conquering the land and entering into the inheritance that God intended for them. They're wandering around in the desert. Waiting for a generation to die off that was without faith. Weak. It's been said many times that the church in America it's a mile wide and an inch deep With so many people that claim to have Jesus as Savior and Lord, what a pitiful effect we seem to have upon our culture. The church is in the wilderness. The church is under the disfavor of God in the sense that we are not affecting this culture and winning the nations to Christ as God has equipped us and given us the resources to do. I got the idea for this message out of a book by Joe Aldrich, some comments he makes on this passage from his book, Prayer Summits, calling pastors to prayer for renewal and revival in this land. And in that book he quotes from a fellow, Alexander Fraser Titler, who wrote a book in which he describes the rise and fall of nations. He talks about the Nations progressing. This was back in the 19th century. How nations progress through following nine-step sequence. One, from bondage to spiritual faith, two, from spiritual faith to great courage. Three from courage to liberty. Four from liberty to abundance. Five from abundance to selfishness 6. From selfishness to complacency. 7. From complacency to apathy. 8. From apathy to dependence. And nine, from dependence back into bondage. If you think about where we are as a nation now in those steps It's a shuddering thing, chilling to consider how quickly we are moving toward that ninth step. It's not inevitable, but it is the track in which we're headed at this point. The judgment that they suffered, and why was it that they suffered that? And that's where Paul is bringing to us this warning. He says there's four reasons that they suffered that. And that's the third point, the apostasy that they fell into. Four things, four kinds of sin that led to their downfall. The first in verse 7 was idolatry. Paul says, do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and got up to indulge in pagan revelry. This is referring to Exodus chapter 32. In fact, that's a quote from Exodus 32. It's referring to the incident of the golden calf. The people said we need an aid to worship. We need something material to satisfy our needs. A spiritual God that we can't see is not enough. He doesn't fulfill our needs. We need a substitute, something we can see and feel and touch, something to indulge our strongest natural inclinations and desires without guilt. And in the progress of that, they redefined God's nature. And so it is in America. We need a substitute for this spiritual God. We need something material, something that's going to aid us in our worship and the fulfillment of our desires. And so in the process, we redefine God and we produce a man-centered Christianity in place of a God-centered Christianity. A Christianity that is need-oriented to satisfy us, to be upbeaten, to fulfill our longings, rather than to center ourselves around the living true God, as he defines himself. All these years going through since 1989 plan to finish this thing in fall of the Names of God series. We see the true God as He is and understand His nature and character Secondly, he says they indulged in sexual immorality. Verse 8. Look what he says. We should not commit sexual immorality as some of them did, and in one day 23,000 of them died. Do you recognize that? That's referring to what we looked at in the beginning of June. You remember the incident in Numbers 25 with Noab, where they lowered God's standards of sex. from something to be practiced within and after marriage. And so they indulged in sexual immorality And so today we see the same lowering of standards, the rationalizing of pornography Interesting that Joe uh Joe Aldrich says that in every pastor, almost every pastor summit that he hears about or participates in. There's at least one pastor in the group who will stand and confess addiction to pornography. And if that's true of pastors, certainly it's true of a congregation this size. That there would be some of us who are struggling with rationalizing pornography, rationalizing an addiction to sexuality. to titillation in it, to lustful uh videos, um, whether it's magazines or whatever it is. Rationalizing, saying, well it's okay, it's not so bad. I'm not being unfaithful or whatever else it is. But indulging in sexual immorality. Interesting about that message. When I preached on that and spoke of God's severity of judgment against such things. There were at least three families that were there visiting that Sunday back in the beginning of June. who made it a point at the door to seek me out and to commend me for courage to preach that kind of message in America today. Three local families. Not one of them has been back. We hear what God says. But do we really want to hear it? Or are we saying, yeah, that's, you know, we know you need to say that. But is the Spirit of God speaking to you? Now to say, I'm speaking to you about how you indulge sexual fantasies. Thirdly, Paul says they were guilty of ingratitude Verse 9. We should not test the Lord as some of them did, and were killed by snakes. This is, of course, referring to the incident in Numbers 21, where the people said, We're sick and tired of the desert. We're sick and tired of having nothing but manna, manna in a bowl in the morning, manna burgers for lunch, and manna on a plate for dinner And just water to drink, and we wish that we were in the land, and you're bringing us out here to die, and we don't have enough. And as a result, God sent snakes to bite them until he sent and and they produced the bronze snake as a symbol of Christ to save them. But dissatisfaction, an ingratitude for what God had provided, a desire to have more material things. In order to be satisfied. And then blame shifting, saying that it's not our fault. Why were they in the desert in the first place? Wasn't God who had intended that. It was because of their own sin that they were there, but they refused to own up to their own sin. They said, God, it's your fault that we're out here. And how we see mixed with that ingratitude, such blame shifting today. I read in the news about a fellow who was acquitted of flying illegal drugs in the United States, into the United States, this fellow name of Michael Tyndall. His attorneys argued that he was a victim. He was a victim of action addict syndrome. You want to make sure you file that one away. You may want to need that sometime. This is an emotional disorder that makes a person crave dangerous, thrilling situations. Tyndall, it was argued, was not a drug dealer. He was simply a thrill seeker. He was acquitted. We're victims. Somebody else's fault. We grumble and complain against God. Paul says fourthly, the nation was guilty of rebellion. Look what he says in verse 10. Do not grumble, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel. This of course is referring to number 16, Korah's Rebellion. Korah's group was a group of the original Quakers. They said there's no authority. Everybody's his own authority. We all have a direct line. Who do you think you are, Moses, setting yourself up as authorities over us, you and Aaron? And as a result, the earth swallowed them alive for God to vindicate the authority that He had placed. And so there is today this idea that nobody's going to tell me what to believe. I determine truth myself. That's generally true among Christians. Yeah, I have a Bible, and we've taken this notion of the priesthood of all believers, and we've distorted it into the papacy of all believers. This idea that I alone with the Bible decide what's true or what's false, and I don't have to consult with or listen to the teachers of the church, and I just simply decide. And if you disagree with me, that's too bad. No concept of God establishing authority over us. And that's why when we have a baptism like Abbeys, it's There is within this text, you see, the description of the fact that Jesus' authority is over us, and that's through spiritually, the elders of the church and other authorities that he places over us, but what's the bumper sticker today? Question authority. And so we live in a day of rebellion, a day of people who follow after Korah and say, we're our own authority. Now, Paul says that these four things, seeking after idols, the lusts, The ingratitude and the independent spirit were the causes of Israel's downfall. Now, what we need to see finally is the application of this to us, and you see it In verses 6 and then 11 to 14. Now these things, verse 6, occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things, as they did. Not just historical interest. Not that, you know, these are nice Sunday school stories with some moral lessons. This is saying there's direct application. Then verse 11, these things happened to them as examples and were written down as warnings for us. on whom the fulfillment of the ages has come. And so if you think that you're standing firm, be careful that you don't fall. No temptation has ceased you except what is common to man, and God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. When you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Therefore, my dear friends, flee from idolatry. That verse 14 is connected to the previous discussion. Three points to notice here then. First of all, beware of setting your own heart on evil things. Beware of you, me, setting our hearts on evil things. Verse 6. These occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did. What evil things? The four evil things I just talked about in verses 7 to 10, that's what he's talking about. Creating a God's substitute in your life. A craving and a demand to be satisfied sexually, the craving for material things, and an ingratitude for what God has provided for you materially. And then a craving for power and independence. These four things. God substitute, sex, material things, and a craving for power and independence. Let me just give you one example from my own experience of how things have changed over the last generation in the church in America. I remember when I was a teenager back in the 50s. Down the fifties, uh let's see. Uh well, you know, uh I was just going into my teen years back then, as a matter of fact. And uh In our youth group, I can recall that one of the big issues that we would discuss is should a Christian go to movies? Anybody ever been in those kind of discussions as kids? You know, probably you've got to have some gray hair to remember that kind of discussion, right? Should a Christian go to movies? Now listen kids, this was not should Christians go to R-rated movies. They didn't have ratings back then. This was should Christians go inside a movie house the idea of even uh giving any kind of uh uh funds toward the movie industry. I mean we've talked we've debated going to Disney movies. Of course Disney movies now aren't what Disney movies were then. Back then Disney movies were pretty uncon in controversial. But should a Christian go see the living desert or something like that, you know, then of course we won the battle for our freedom to go to movies. And we said, but you can't argue against and be legalistic and all the rest. So we went to movies. And then it went to PG-13 and then R-rated movies. And now I am appalled at times when all of a sudden I'll be shaken to see in our own home things going on in a movie that's a class movie. I mean, not some sleazy thing, but a movie that has been highly rated to see what would have been considered in my own teen years as pornographic in a movie. Explicit sex. And we don't think that much of it. It's a non-issue to us in the church today. We have so desensitized ourselves to the sexual infusion of the images that we've taken for granted. We're so sophisticated. Paul says that That lowering of standards, that not being innocent, is wreaking havoc on the spiritual strength and vitality of the Church of Jesus Christ. Then he warns us secondly here against complacency in these things. This is not something you just to hear about and then you you know sort of say, Well, yeah, that's too bad that that's the kind of generation we're in. Paul's saying, It's time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. That's that's the basis you see. You and I need to take this warning, and we need to come before God to seek his standards. That there would be a new sense of holiness and purity in the church. If we're going to see power in our prayers. Paul says, Well, let me ask you the question first. Do you think that you're standing firm in Jesus Christ this morning? I hope you are, but are you sure that you are? If you are, then read what he says in verse 11 and 12. These things happened to them as examples were written down as warnings for us on whom the fulfillment of the ages has come. So if you think you are standing firm, great. No, he says, be careful that you don't fall. What's the difference between a biblical assurance that says, yes, I think I'm standing firm in Jesus Christ because his record is sufficient for me and I believe I'm trusting him? What we see in America is not that, but a cocksureness that says, I'm a pretty good person and I believe in Jesus. So what's the problem? A goodness to our assurance, a complacency. And Paul says there needs to always be that humble self-examination. He goes on in the Lex letter in 2 Corinthians 13, verse 5. It says, test yourself, examine yourself whether you're in the faith. For don't you know that the living Christ is in you and that's got to make a difference? Unless you fail the test? Are you standing in Christ, following Christ? Are you seeking daily to believe him and to obey him, to struggle against him? Complacency, the plague of the American church. In my own life, such an easiness to drift into that as a person that deals professionally with holy things and God's Word. But all of us. Need to be shaken from our complacency concerning sin. And then finally, there's the promise he gives of deliverance. The promise of verse 13 says. No temptation, brothers and sisters, has seized you. Except what is common to man, and God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, He will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. Therefore, my dear friends, flee from idolatry. You see there there are two things going on. First of all, what God will do. He will provide for you a way out No temptation, there is no situation, no trial that anybody in this room is in that is beyond what God is giving you grace to bear. I can say that categorically, even though I don't know what you're going through, because God's word says that. He will provide a way out for you. Jesus Christ stands here this morning to meet that need when you are feeling overwhelmed. It's not going to be easy. I'm not saying That there's a way out and no Christian has to sweat and struggle. It's through sweat and tears and crying out to God sometimes when we feel like we're absolutely flattened I can't go on another hour, not another day in this situation. We cry out to God. And when we look to Him, we find that what is impossible for ourselves. And the strength of Jesus Christ becomes something possible for us to bear and to make godly decisions in how to respond to. And so the marriage doesn't fail. And we don't lose our integrity at the workplace. And we don't become bitter about the ways that we've been wronged. And the world sees a Christianity that is real, that can't be explained in human terms They see a living Christ operating through God's people that attracts them to something that's beyond anything that they know about. God will provide the way As you and I set our hearts on him, the Lord Jesus is here to meet you. And then he gives what you and I must do. It's not an automatic thing. He finishes, and that verse 14 needs to be connected to that section. Therefore, my dear friends, flee from the idolatry, summing up in the word idolatry the four things that he was talking about before. You must decide to flee, to not be a victim and say, but I'm helpless. Or what happened in my past. Doesn't enable me to flee or whatever other excuses, but that you decide I will flee from the sin that is dragging me down and compromising my standards for Christ. I said in the beginning that God's alarms to us are like that used the illustration of the computer alarms at Chernobyl. Rather it's not quite like that. It's more like a a watch in an ice house. I once read about a fellow who worked in an ice house. You know, back before there was refrigeration, they used to take ice out of lakes and ponds and they would store it in houses that had no windows, there were very thick walls. And they would take slabs of ice and put them in these these uh buildings, and then they would cover them with sawdust, and the ice would last well into the summer. Men were working in that ice house. One man lost a very valuable watch in the sawdust. And so he raked all through to try and find it and he couldn't find it. And then asked all his friends to help him. They all tried to find it. Nobody was able to find it and they gave up. And then this little boy came a few hours later and he's holding the watch in his hand. And he said, How'd you do that? And he said, Well it's very simple. I went into the ice house and I got very still and I laid down on the sawdust. And I listened till I heard the ticking of the watch. God's Spirit is whispering something to you this morning, I believe. It's not some loud alarm bell that's going to be obvious. It's the whispering to your heart about what it is that God's calling you and for me to do. To be his agents in the renewal that's needed in this late nation. Not part of the problem, but part of the solution. Let's pray. Lord, what is it that you're saying to us? Give us ears to hear, and Lord, give us confidence to believe that that area are idols, sex. Our craving for material substitutes for you, our longing to be independent and autonomous, to run our own lives. And Lord, you're speaking to us. Like the ticking of a watch. We need to be quiet and still before you to hear that. We need to see that you are ready to deliver us. That no temptation has taken us, that you will not provide that way out. And see the victory and the power of Jesus Christ in our lives. Lord, I pray for us as a people. Show that power. To each person who means business with you this morning. And we'll follow through by reading the meditations of this week and praying and seeking your face. Show us your power in Jesus' name. Amen.