Guess is that if you are feeling like something is robbing you of that and you're not entering into it, then um The problems probably fall into one of two categories. The first is a category of lies and distorted thinking. about yourself if you're a Christian. I'm speaking now particularly to those who belong to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith If you are feeling less than carefree, full of joy and hope, then um there's probably some distorted thinking That has captured your mind about who you are and what you have, about what life's all about, and whether you're alone or whether God really cares for you The nagging voice of accusations to tell you that you don't measure up or the The preoccupation with temptations to addictions and idols that rob you of freedom. Or the second category that would rob you of the freedom and the joy to enter into a song like that would be um things that just don't change in your circumstances. Relationships. Other people, things that you've hoped would change for a long time, and they just, for one reason or another, haven't Now, Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 to 18, I would suggest, deals with those two categories. The first category, the answer Paul gives in Ephesians, is gospel armor, that is, gospel thinking, to correct. False thinking that rob you of joy. The second category is gospel asking, prayer, which he speaks of in verse 18. And you remember last uh week I showed you how these verses are connected and a number of the verses in between. I put up this little uh chart on the slide to show you that. And a number of you asked about that, so I'm not going over it again, but I just want to let you know that For those that ask, there are a number of copies on it of this on the back table that you can pick up to see the various connections between Ephesians. the parts there, the verses between verses ten and eighteen. I see Henry back there scanning it to see if indeed they are there. I hope they are. I hope first service left you a few. Uh yeah, there they go. Henry's got 'em. So there they are you can pick up afterwards. But what we're focusing on now is verse eighteen. Because verse eighteen, we talked about gospel armor in the months past Gospel thinking, now we're talking about gospel asking. Verse 18. And pray in the Spirit on all occasions, with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always pray. Keep on praying for all the saints. In that verse you have four awls of praying. For all pray in the Spirit on all occasions, with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always or with all persistence, keep on praying for all Now, I think the point is that all Christians do some praying. We all pray some of the time, for some occasions, for some saints. And with sometimes persisting, and with some kinds of prayers. And I believe that God is looking throughout America today. For Christians who are interested in moving from becoming sometimes prayers to all prayers And I believe that the future of our country depends on that. I really do. I believe the future of the United States, the future of our culture, depends When Christians who will move to half-hearted, distracted, sometimes when it's convenient, pray, to entering into enforcing the victory that Christ accomplished at the cross. And moving to new levels of radical all-prey. Are you interested in becoming that kind of Christian? If you are, stick with me. And let's look at what Paul says about all praying. For alls. We looked at the first one last week. And that was all persistence, all perseverance. Now last week I told you, you know, about the next blank to fill in, the blank and the blank, and apparently you didn't have any blanks. Somebody very kindly filled them all in for you. I intended you to have blanks. You never got out of my computer into the one that would print it. But you have blanks this morning. First one is all perseverance. Verse eighteen. Pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always with all perseverance. Keep on praying. And that's because we were linking that with the spiritual warfare, the need to be alert. We observed last week why it's so hard to pray. We don't have time to pray. Or we don't find it. the easy to concentrate. We lose our focus. Or maybe we uh lack the faith that it will make a difference We've prayed many things that have not been answered the way we hoped. And maybe we're not even sure that God will hear us. And so um I hope that um this week as I talked about what it means to pray in the Spirit When Paul talks about prayer on all occasions in the spirit, we saw what that does, how that energizes prayer and wakes us up To see that praying in the Spirit he describes in the whole all six chapters. Now Paul didn't divide Ephesians into six chapters, but it just so happens that these descriptions are sprinkled through And so you have in chapter 1 that praying in the Spirit means the Spirit, who is the down payment of the new eternal life in Christ, gives you a new perspective. He opens the eyes of your heart. To understand the hope that you have and to see his power, new perspectives. Secondly, we talked about chapter two. access to the Father through the finished work of Christ to know He does hear me. Scripture promises I have access to Him by the Spirit. Praying in the Spirit is praying with access Thirdly, praying in the Spirit is praying with confidence, chapter 3, the confidence of God who is full of power and love toward you In Jesus Christ. And that confidence in his power and his love enables you to see that he is able to do exceedingly more than you could even ask or imagine, as he says at the end of chapter 3. Confidence. Chapter 4, that confidence, that access is not just to please ourselves, but to learn, chapter 5, verse 10, what it what pleases the Lord. And so in chapter 4, verse 30, we don't grieve the Spirit. Praying in the Spirit is to be sensitive to not grieving him. Praying just to, as James says, consume it on my own inordinate desires. But to pray what I believe is going to be for his glory and is my need, yes. But it's that which is on his heart and simply bringing me as a child. An obedient, submissive child. And then in chapter 5, we saw that that prayer Being filled with the Spirit is prayer that's joined with praise and thanksgiving, not just gimme, gimme, gimme, but also, you know As you kids, your parents teach it to say thank you. We need to say thank you to our Heavenly Father and notice his mercies. And as we mix our prayers with those, our confidence is strengthened and our hearts are lifted up. And then in chapter 6, he talks about Praying in the Spirit is praying Scripture, the sword of the Spirit, so that you're not just praying what seems to you in vague general terms, but you're quoting Scripture, you're reading Scripture, you're applying Scripture in your praying. Now I don't know if you did that this week. Remember I said do that one each day? And then sum it up. And uh I did. You know, I started just by praying for you to be able to do it, and I found I was kind of getting into it. It really does help. I mean, you know, so much of my praying still is fretting out loud. And I need that kind of perspective. I need to be reminded of what prayer is And so uh it really helped me and uh if you didn't do it, I'm not gonna ask for any hands here, I don't want to make a bunch of liars out of you. So I just tell you if you didn't do it this last week, you got another chance, try it again this week. Even if you did do it last week, maybe you'll try it again because just rotating through that a few times can help. We are so short We have such short attention spans, don't we? Paul says that first of all, with all perseverance. Not just a matter of being alert, but it's a matter of praying concertedly, sticking with it. Like the famous old story of George Mueller who prayed for a couple of his friends to come to know Christ for over 25, 30 years, whatever it was. kept on praying every day. Man, I don't do that. He said he finally saw one of them come to Christ just shortly before his death, and the second one came to Christ shortly after his death. All persistence. You and I prayed for something for three months, and we say, well, I guess God's decided not to answer that one, so we'll move on to something else. Pastors here have been praying in Howard County for seventeen, eighteen years now for renewal and revival, awakening to come to this county. We've just begun to see in the last month God doing a whole new thing among the pastors that are meeting. And we're wondering, is God beginning to answer? But 17 years is a long time. Paul says, pray with all perseverance. Don't lose the blessing of something you can obtain because you gave up too soon. Continue. Persevere. That's the first all. Second all is all kinds of prayer. Pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayer. Um this is referring to praying alone, praying with another person, praying in groups, praying in the congregation. There's all kinds of praying that we do. Some of you pray while you're driving to work. That's fine as long as you don't think that's the deepest time of quality worship that I enter into. Dodging changing lanes and tailgators isn't very conducive to concentration. on prayer. You need a time where you can just set aside the distractions and be alone and reflect, even you moms, whether it's nap time or whatever it is, grab a time early in the day, late at night. It's hard. It's hard, I know. For us to get some time alone, even, as I've said, a concerted 15 minutes can make all the difference. And then to pray with someone else, to pray with your spouse if you're married. Husbands with wives, wives with husbands. And I have noticed that this is one of the great lacks, I believe, in the church So few husbands and wives really pray together on any regular basis. So if you don't do it, don't just go blaming your spouse. Everybody else at CPC doesn't. Why are you always letting down and shirking on him? That never helps really a whole lot. In fact, I got a little thing in the back there that I wrote up once for people who are having trouble with this. It's called Seven Rules for Praying with Your Spouse And uh if you've tried and not found it working too well, uh let me encourage you to get along there next to the chart. You can run back there, beat everybody down after the benediction, see if you can get a copy I'm not saying every day, two, three times a week. To pray. All kinds of praying. Praying with groups. Praying with your cell, your small group, praying in the congregation. We're trying to flood you with opportunities so that you nobody here can say, Well, I would pray, you know, for our church and for the ministries and for the things that are going on. You know, we got this week, you know, upwards is all registering. Every time I walk into the office to do something, a couple people come in I've never seen before, never, to register for upwards Are we praying for those people for what God's going to do? There are so many things God's doing around here. But do we pray? So Tuesday, David Harris is going to offer an opportunity to lead those that want to come and say, I can't make the Thursday morning constitutional. prayer. Alright, I've given up, you know, I have one guy said A fat. Try three times and I'm still trying to get there. Alright, well, maybe someday you will. Maybe someday you will, but if you can't, Tuesday night, first Tuesday of the month, 730, 8. 30 p. m. , while the s while the deacons and while the session are meeting To pray for us and pray for our church and pray for the ministries and pray for yourself and pray for one another. Practice what Ephesians 6. 18 is talking about. Or next Sunday afternoon, instead of eating together, we're going to have a time of prayer. Prayer before the Lord's Supper to practice. Ephesians 6:18. We're going to meet downstairs. By the way, the prayer meeting Tuesday night is going to be downstairs in Quad D Next Sunday afternoon, we're going to meet in Quad C and D. We expect a large crowd. We've had a large crowd every other time we've done this. And so we expect many of you to come, put it in your calendar, have it set aside now. Even if you say, I wouldn't dare utter a word. You don't need to. Come and pray with us. Join in your heart. Be encouraged as you hear others pray. Pray from 5 to 6. 15, then we'll come into the Lord's Supper, worship, and celebrate what the Lord's done. Sunday service prayer teams, right now, just as always, every week. People back there praying that God will work through his word and through the worship. Do you want to see God working that? You know, every week I email these folks. Anything that's not too confidential that I can share that God has done as a result. The preaching of his word and people coming and seeking and hearing. We need our faith and courage, don't we? Like Tim said, if I just tell you pray, you won't pray, you'll just feel more guilty about not praying. We pray because we see the need and the weakness in our own lives and our own hearts, and we believe that God hears and answers. And we need to encourage one another in that. So all kinds of pray. In all kinds of groups and all kinds of occasions for prayer. Scheduled prayer, spontaneous prayer. I believe we need to do more spontaneous praying I really do. Uh I believe that when we're on the phone with a friend and we're talking about something, you know, sometimes you talk and then you hang up and you say Well I I wish we had prayed together. And I've I've learned now to just before I hang up to say, hey, why about we pray about that? Well when you're meeting with someone, you know we have this idea as Christians that prayer is equal to prayer meeting, you know? And so if you're going to pray, it's going to be a big deal You gotta start with, you know, the adoration, the confession, the thanksgiving. You kind of work your way down to what's on your mind, and then you wrap it all up. So what happens? You know, we're talking about something and we don't pray We need to practice one and a half minute prayer meetings. Where we're talking about something, you say, great, let's just pray about that. Father, I'm gonna bring this thing before you we don't know what to do in here. You know, amen. Bam, you know, the person just started to bow and they're whoop, whoa, done. Okay. Okay, go on. Kathy and I have gotten to the point after 35 years with this that there are times in the morning when we'll be talking, we'll start praying, and then we start talking, praying, talking, praying, that after a while you kind of forget what you're doing. Because we just there's just a flow of talking about what's on our mind, on our heart, and then bring it to the learned and then back to talking together. And that's a that's a wonderful experience. Try it. Just practice together. Starting off, just Lord, we just want to bring before you what we're doing here now. We're meeting in your presence. Let's just go. And you start talking about things, and as you come with a problem. Bring it up to him, just in thirty seconds, a minute. All kinds of praying, Paul says, on all occasions That you practice being believers who take out of his word rather than slipping into being practical atheists who say, I believe these things, but I live as if I'm on my own. All kinds of prey. And then there's he says for all the saints. For all the saints as concerns for my prayer. Now, let me be clear in what I do not mean by that. I do not mean, I think we as Christians One of the things Satan does, I think, in discouraging us from prayer is overloading us. We are full of information overload. And we're all nice people. So every time somebody tells you about something and they say, Would you please pray for my aunt or about this or about that? You know, somebody you don't know, you barely know the person that's talking to you, and they're asking you to pray for somebody you've never seen before. You'll probably never see. And so you say, sure, I'll pray for her. I call that prayer perjury You know, if you're gonna pray, it's much better than to go around with this guilt for all this list of people that you said you'd pray for. You know, somebody sends you a prayer list You get a prayer letter from a missionary. Who can say no? I'm not going to pray for the missionary? I can. I have a lot of missionaries. Want me to pray for them, but I tell you, nope, not going to pray for you. Pray for you right now. Get it off my line. We need to be realistic. There's only so much you can pray for. Don't just Go with these long lists of people you hope and intend to pray for and say you never pray. Why? Because as soon as you start praying, you're afraid you're going to get sucked into this bottomless pit of the list that you haven't got. It's like trying to clean a house that you haven't cleaned for six months, you know. Be selective. These are the people I'm going to pray for. And if it comes up here now, I'll pray for you right now. If God's, if his Spirit prompts me with it, fine, I'll pray. But right now, that's your chance. Let's pray. Now, when you pray, pray for all the saints, and I don't mean everybody, that's what I'm saying, but I do mean don't just pray for those that are close to you. I think when Paul says here, pray for all the saints, he's talking about saints that are both near and far. That we pray not just for our family and those that we're close to. But there are a few missionaries. There are some people scattered doing the Lord's work in various parts of the world that we do pray for. And I believe we need to pray for them for two reasons. One is for their ultimately, of course, for God's good. Glory in seeing the answers and his kingdom extended, but it's for the benefit of the missionary who has tremendous needs that we need to pray for. But it's also for your own benefit. So how's praying for a missionary benefit me? It puts your problems in perspective. Just this week I got a prayer list, you know, same thing, you know, somebody saying, please pray. But And they were asking me to pray for uh Zambia and Zimbabwe. This is from and it's an urgent prayer request. from uh World Relief President Clive Calver. He's saying, Please pray for the people of Zimbabwe and uh Zambia because their drought is far more severe than what we're having in uh real serious conditions of people with nothing to eat. But it was this sentence that really got my attention. He says The people of Zimbabwe have come to such a place of constant suffering that it has become a part of their daily lives. And I thought for me, suffering is watching my stock portfolio going down and wondering how I can invest more profitably. For some of my brothers and sisters in Zimbabwe. It is survival. And we don't think in terms of survival, do we? And so when we're praying for that parking space, and there's nothing wrong for praying for parking spaces, it also helps to remember the missionary who's praying for people he works with who don't have anything to eat And to get a larger picture of the global conflict of God's kingdom against the kingdom of darkness. And to be able to see your problems and my problems in a little bit of perspective. We're so self-centered, and our praying can become so small and our world so small. But it's through prayer that our worlds can also enlarge as we pray for all the saints, as we pray for saints not only here, but Saints in other countries, in other circumstances, saints under persecution, saints who are concerned for survival. Many years ago Martin Lloyd Jones observed that the Spanish Civil War emptied the site clinics in Spain. Why? Well, because when you got a crisis, you can't be thinking about yourself as much as you used to. That's what we found after 9-11 The problems in self-image decrease directly according to the national crisis that's at hand And so as you and I begin to get a bigger perspective in our praying for the Padeas in Spain or The Iversons and Linda Carner in Japan, the Balmas in Italy, Dick Barnes as he goes back and forth from Russia. I still remember Dick talking about a time when he was meeting with some of the saints in some rural area of Russia and he began to describe and he wasn't doing this for effect, he was just simply talking about what it was like when he was there. And he began to describe the sacrifices and what they didn't have. Not what they did have. My heart began to fill up and I I just I began to weep within myself, thinking, how easy I have it. Why don't I pray for these people and for God to show his power, to pray for provision and see what God does in my own heart. And larger world, praying for all the saints. Both near and far. And to be open to being prompted by the Spirit, not just a scheduled time. You know, it's time to pray for the padeas, okay, Lord, you got three minutes. You know, but as we pray for people and our hearts are invested in them. To be open to what God prompts us to pray, to be praying and thinking about people so that while we're driving, while we're walking, whatever we're doing, people come to mind and we pray for them. I still remember an article Jim Carpenter Navigator staff was talking about his wife, who uh grew up in Jordan because her her parents were missionaries in Jordan. Jordan, of course, a place where often unrest. And in this one particular time there was uh a lot of unrest and one day the missionaries who lived in a three walled compound with a gate on the fourth wall were were uh doing their business of that day and they noticed a crowd, it was a mob of men that were assembling outside, and they began to march in rank and file toward the compound And obviously they were had a very threatening demeanor and uh with purpose. They came right right toward it. The gate at that point happened to be open. They did not have time to close it. They just rushed the kids inside the house. House stood there in horror and terror as this mob of men came right through the gate, marching right down toward them. The march from the gate to the house, as the first man's feet touched the steps of the porch to the house, they noticed he got a glazed look in his eye And he turned sharply left and ran to the wall and climbed over it out to the street. And the one next to him did the same thing. And the whole crowd behind them marched to the left, ran over the wall and out to the street, and they all left, and nothing happened. A couple of weeks later, the mother of one of the missionaries wrote and said she lived in Chicago. And she said, I was awakened in my sleep last night with a deep sense of a need to pray for you, that something was terribly wrong. This is when I woke, this is when I prayed. What happened? And it was precisely the day and the time that those men walked down And God turned them away. Some of us think that the Christian life is boring. You know, it's just a matter of going to Bible studies and religious services When you get involved in enforcing the victory of Jesus Christ and taking prayer seriously, you're in for a big adventure. You kids want something to wake you up? Want something to get you involved in what God is doing? We begin to take prayer for his people and things that are going on. Really learning to live by prayer? It's a powerful thing. Not only praying for near and far saints, but also the nice and the nasty saints. That's all the saints, too. We like to pray for people we like Jesus said, even pray for your enemies and those that persecute you. What about saints that irritate you? We need to pray for all the saints. There's something about praying for some brother or sister that you're having trouble with, you're not getting along with real well. Praying for them Not just praying that God will cause them to repent, but praying for them in their needs and their heart and their struggles. It changes your heart toward them, you know. N I know. I've seen God change my heart in that way. So for all All persistent, all kinds, all occasions, and all the saints. What does that mean for you? Let me wrap up this whole thing by bringing it back to the whole picture of Ephesians to see how this fits Because I believe that this is the dominant theme right through the book. Our weakness, Christ's sufficiency, and strength. Remember, he started off in chapter one where he gave in his prayer for the Ephesian Church what is the three purposes of the church at Columbia Presbyterian. Which are to know him? Oh a little louder there. To know him, right? Secondly, to know our little louder. You gotta do this for the discovery's class sake. I promised them you could do this. Come on. To know our hope and thirdly to know his power. Okay, see Discover's class, you can get it out of him sooner or later. I didn't want you to make me look foolish in front of our class then. Thanks a lot for coming through. All right. So Paul says, I pray the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you might see not only your hope, but you might see his power. That power which is at work in you and in me. What That power, the power that raised Jesus from the dead and seated him in the heavenlies at the right hand of God, fall above all rule and authority, all the cosmic forces of this age and the age to come. And he has placed all things under his feet and made him to be the head of everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. He is sufficient. And we often end there, but the very next verse. says what you were dead in your sins and trespasses. I mean that's less than helpless and weak. You were dead. And God raised you up He made you alive, seated you in the heavenly realms with Christ. He made you who were far near and brought you into access to Jesus Christ. He made you who were strangers to become his own children, in fact, the very temple of his presence. And on and on this theme goes. This is what you are in yourself. This is what God has made you. Here is your weakness. Here is his strength. I pray that you, being rooted and grounded. In love might know the power and the love, the dimensions of the love of Christ, so that you might know that He is able to do exceeding abundantly beyond anything you can ask or imagine. And so he comes here to the end and he says, Amen. He says, brothers and sisters, pray all occasions, all kinds, pray all the saints. Prayer is a way of life. So that you might see that God is that sufficiency that you only know in your weakness. You know, it's when you thirst Did you find him to be the mountain spring of sufficiency? The Walgres prayed to go to Vermont. And God Took George and paled him on a snow fenced steak and put him in a hospital to increase his thirst. And even though we don't understand why God did that, and there's no glib simple answers. The fact is I've said it before, and it always amazes me when I say it. God delights to be wanted by us and trusted by us. Isn't that amazing? He who is independent and utterly self-sufficient delights for you to trust him and for you to want him. And he increases your thirst in all kinds of creative ways so that you and I will pray So that you and I, who thirst for forgiveness and clear conscience, who thirst and long for the meaning of life to become clearer and what we're about and who we are, and to know that there is a God who is in control and that we're secure. Secure and that He is able to take care of us, and we hunger for that security. Find it in Jesus Christ as we connect to Him with our hearts in prayer. And so pray. Record so that you might see what God does. Do whatever is going to help you, but pray. Pray. You won't have any guarantee of all of your answers be given to you. Not the way you prayed. But you will see things that will happen that would not have happened if you didn't pray. And things will not happen that would have happened. Because you prayed and God protected. I think of Francis and Edith Schaefer back in the 1950s when they had a little ministry to children in Switzerland. It was just a small ministry and they were traveling around to a number of countries to try and boy people up and help them in the gospel. At one point some people did not appreciate that, what they were doing, and they got the police to expel them. The police came to their little chalet and said, um, you need to be out of Switzerland in six weeks. It's it, it's over. Years you pour into this, and then all of a sudden you're out, it's gone, it's over, where's God? Let me remind you that when Paul writes in chapter 3, he says, I write as a prisoner suffering for you, for your glory. You say, Paul, where's God with you? You know, here you are rotten in prison. And you're talking to us about pray. Why don't you pray for yourself? And Paul says it's for your glory. In other words, Christ's is manifest in this suffering for you. And so they called a meeting as a family and they said we got two choices. We can do one of two things. What are we going to do? Let's all take a family vote. One, we can try, we can fight, we can argue the law, we can try everything we can to stay here, and if we lose, we're out. Or we can just bring it to our Heavenly Father and just pray and see what He does. It's all the kids, everybody decided. Let's trust God and see what he does. Again, a letter came a couple weeks later. Edith Schaefer's mother in Philadelphia was awakened at 3 a. m. With a sense of urgency to pray. She prayed for hours for them and wrote, What went on, named the time and the date It was the very hour that they had received the news that they'd be expelled. And she prayed that God would be honored and whatever was going on there And as a result, through those six weeks they saw one miracle after another, through disappointments, and seemed like they were still going to be expelled, and then at the last day, literally They had a reprieve, they gained a chateau, and they began the ministry of Libri Fellowship, which touched hundreds and thousands of lives in the years ahead, even to the United States Congress and Senate. Because someone prayed. Let's pray. Father, we we need to learn so much about praying. We hear this and we say, Yeah, Lord, I I believe that you're a God who hears and answers prayer. And yet we go home and our lives don't really change. Lord, I pray, Holy Spirit, prompt us, move us. I pray for those that come to any of these prayer meetings, Friday, and this is a new step for them. You would give encouragement, Lord. First fruits of answers to our prayers to see lives changed, to see needs that are met, to see George Walgrove restored, to see what you do because your people take seriously that you are a sovereign God. who delights to be wanted and trusted by his people, that we might enforce the victory of Jesus Christ at the empty tomb over the spirits and the demonic powers. To see that you still delight to hear the prayers of your people. And so, Lord, speak to our hearts, to make us not just sometime Christians in prayer, but all prayer Christians. It's for Jesus' glory and honor. Amen.