We are so glad to worship the true God with you this morning, and I was asked to preach to you for thirty-five minutes. And if you attended the uh banquet last night You can tell that the Lord used his servant Elder Lester Porter to lead us in a very powerful message. I was so blessed. I heard him speaking many times, but last night was a special night. Why? I don't know. Maybe because we got lost. And the Lord tried to deal with us so graciously. Well, let me give you the idea of God's message. The idea of this message of this morning to help you To identify yourself in God's kingdom. Number two The idea it is to help you to get involved. Get in If you like it or if you don't like it, I am going to say it. Get in. And it's time now To get out of our closet and tell the story of Jesus Christ If you like this, when we finish the meeting, come shake hands with me. Not because you hear the good message, but because you are convicted. And if you are not convicted, just wave from far away. And I will accept that. Luke tells us in his gospel, chapter one That he investigated the story of Christ He invested his time, his energy to find out about Christ The Lord, and he wrote to his friend, saying, Many Luke chapter 1, many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled. Then we don't need extra revelation. We don't need Another religion, as they call it Islam, submission to the will of Allah. We don't need that The revelation has been closed in Christ Jesus. That have been fulfilled among us just as they were handed down to us by those Who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the Word Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated I am not playing games. I myself have carefully investigated. Everything from the beginning it seemed good to me to write and orderly account for you most excellent South Philos. so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught And I entitled my sermon, Are You One of These? I am going to bring some biblical characters to you this morning and I will ask you again and again are you one of these? Why? Because I would like you to discover your gifts You're a place in the kingdom of God if you are a serious Christian mind Are you one of these in terms of Noah's mission? Noah was a preacher of righteousness. His culture was corrupted exactly, exactly as North American secular sinful culture And he stood very fast to preach righteousness to his generation. Noah. I don't know if he was that time very old man It doesn't matter or if he was a young man, but I know for sure he was a mature Christian. Who had a message for his generation? He didn't give up For a hundred and twenty years. When I ask one of my professors in Westminster Seminary, for how long? I must preach and teach and carry the gospel to the Muslims who don't like to listen He said, do it as Noah did it, and after a hundred and twenty years, I will allow you to give up He went to be with the Lord. He went to be with the Lord. Second Peter Chapter two, verse five described the situation of that generation was evil. Very wicked, very sinful, but there was a man Who stood up very tall and who preach a message of righteousness They told us and they sent directions to us that Colombia is very hard to find. They were very true. But as I talked with Alan, your good pastor I cannot say that the gospel It's very hard to find in Colombia Presbyterian Church. I can't say that. However, I prepared last night to say that. Because I got tired last night. We drove and drove and drove. The sign wasn't clear And now how can we know our way? The message of the gospel to North American culture is not clear. And in our experience with the Muslims, we discover that the gospel wasn't clear Because Satan blinds them And if you are not a Christian, I pray that the message of righteousness will be clear for you this morning to turn from your sin coming coming to the Lord Jesus It was Wednesday, October nineteen fifty-six, when my mother, who prayed six months for me to send her. Say yes. And that time by his grace I said yes for him And I am glad as I stand before you that I said it, but I said it by his grace. Do you remember your story with him when you got saved? Tell it. Tell it. Say it as no one did to a wicked, evil generation And do don't give up. Are you one of these? Are you one of these in terms of Jonah mission? Jonah, who was a Jewish prophet, refused to go to Nineveh. Why? Because they will not listen. Really? Then then in terms of his understanding of the sovereignty of God, I don't think that Jonah was a reformed Christian. He has tried to smile or laugh. He wasn't. He resisted They will not listen. Fine. My dad told me that it's the extremely hard, extremely Difficult for a Muslim to come to know Christ. I respect my dad, but he was mistaken He went to be with the Lord. Yes, yes, they don't listen, but as it shows that one will listen. Are you one of these who makes epic executions that well they are very sensitive? I don't like to Push too hard. I made a lot of phone calls, no answer, no response, give up. No, Jonah, go back, go back. And the true God will do the job. Just go. After a terrible experience, he was willing to go. And it happened with me when the Lord brought me to this country from a successful pastorate there, he brought me down. And my wife told me that I was mistaken in my in my evaluation. I accepted it with thanksgiving. I said thank you. Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy I suffered. But he brought me down for four years. I told him in my prayer, thank you I don't like to ask you to give up, but help me to understand what you are doing in my own life. And when he brought me. He liberated me from my pride. He worked in my heart. And And he put me in war once again. I am going to use you, but you have to forgive Forget yourself first of all, and don't make excuse. Are you one of these? Are you one of these who receives Calls from your pastor or elders would you please come and visit with me. My pastor, I love to I wish I could. I wish I could. This is the first English uh phrase to learn in in America when I was study working in my English. I wish I could. I wish I could. Just let me. And my heart is saying so Leave me alone. If you like it or if you don't like it, the Lord has Different ways and he will put you in work. If you hear my advice I have a lot of experience with that. If you hear my advice and if you are smart, don't resist. Join, join the saints. And nine of us will be saved. Why? Why? Because of his son Dear friend, when we get heaven, I hope not today, we will see many Muslims and many Jews. Jewish people in heaven. And we will recognize them. And we say, Oh, I didn't think that Mustafa was saved. Or Muhammad was saved, and the Lord will laugh on me. They were saved because of my grace, not because of you. You like to listen to my advice? Get involved. Get involved before we finish the morning worship. It will be better than will be too late. Are you one of these? Are you one of these in terms of John the Baptist? Oh, who can take John the Baptist? Is Columbia OPC willing to employ John the Baptist? He was very tough. He carried a message of repentance. This is the oldest stuff. Oh, thank you. Thank you. What is your renewed stuff? I had twelve ruling elders in Damascus. They said, don't preach to us on judgment. They said, it's all the stuff. And one of them was a physician, very rich man, committed adultery. And he told us that publicly. And he paid seventy thousand dollars to build a sanctuary. What kind of sanctuary is that? I don't know. I don't know. I am willing to give you his address to ask him. I don't know. And they said, preach to us. An easy loving message. Christ is the Lord of love. He is not the Lord of judgment. Forget John the Baptist's style. It's old fashioned. Forget it. I said no. And I did as John Calvin did. He left He left Geneva, Geneva and I left Damascus. Praise the Lord that I did. I did, because I don't like to compromise the gospel. Are you one of these in terms of John the Baptist and his strong conviction Concerning repentance and coming to know the Lord. Matthew chapter three, verse one to six tells us about John the Baptist's message. Is he is his message still alive in your congregation? As I saw Alan Harris, I believe that it is. And I pray. That it will be continued in this congregation to preach repentance from this pulpit for God's glory What about people who are going to leave? He is the servant God will bring others Well, are you one of these in terms of Philip who took the time and spoke with the it's you be an official there one on one in terms of our language like e program sir do you understand what you are reading and that sir sir said no how can how can I I need someone to accept Plain to me the whole council of God. This is the church without words commitment to the Muslim People in North America took the plane to them the whole council of God. How many times Until he comes in his glory. It's tiring, I understand It's demanding. I understand that. But don't forget to tell me it's worthwhile. Why? When you someone When you see someone coming with his seed, Rukuknizing, his kingship, and his Lordship. I told dear Farida that when I see that I forget everything It's worthwhile. It was worthwhile that my dear mother spent six months Praying for me and she was so delighted that when I said, Yes, I am willing to come and pray with you And when I did, he told me, I need to come here. And I'm a glad. I am a gl Get involved in it. But it takes you from your family. Yes, I agree. Because your wife will miss you much Well, but I am busy. I don't agree. You can find Two or three hours to carry EE program. I am a shy guy. I agree. Go with one somebody else who is not shy. Oh boy. I I I I I really it's I my gift. I agree. Did you try it? Oh Well, um we are a Presbyterian. I agree, fine, believing in the sovereignty of God, fine. Doesn't contradict evangelism if you understand the sovereignty of God in a biblical sense. However, if you understand it, you can. Stay and wait for someone knocking on your door. You cannot control yourself. You have to jump and hit the ball. Then you are not You are not. You don't have any good excuse. I have a poor health. I agree. Don't go in winter when it was raining. Put your coat on. If you don't have one, well we can find one for you. But but but they are not open. Oh Oh wait a minute. Wait a minute. This was my mistake when I said it's difficult to reach Muslims for Christ. Don't start your missions by passing judgment on people. Did you try it? Did you try it? Well, I have another guess. Fine. Are you one of these in terms of Paul's mission? He was very intellectual one. Was he also Zox a Presbyterian member? I don't know that If you are gifted in terms of intellectual things, we have a place for you Paul did it. And you know when Paul did it? He wasn't able to do it until he was convicted in his way to the object. I hope and I pray that if you are not a believer, The Lord will convict you this morning and if you are intellectual has MA or PhD and you are proud of your accomplishment I pray that you will join Paul in his mission. And he was very bold using his philosophy. For the glory of God. Read about him in Acts thirteen to twenty-eight and first Timothy one twelve. And he wrote fourteen epistles in the New Testament, and the scholars are still reading and investigating And trying to understand him. He doesn't fit EE. Fine. But he fits something else. If you don't fit E. E. , sir. We have something else for you. Just move on. Just move on and get involved Oh, okay. Are you one of these in terms of Timothy? As a as a friend of Paul who went with Paul in his second journey. I had twelve ruling elders and when I call asked some of them to visit with me, they gave me lots of Execution. I hope that Alan Harris is not going through these experiences When he calls on his elders or somebody else, are you willing to go with him as Timothy did with Paul for a while? For telling the story of Jesus the Christ. Read about that in Acts 16, 1. 5 and 3 Timothy 1. 3. Or are you one of these in terms of Luke, the physician, the writer, the evangelist? He was a physician, writer, evangelist, and he has he had different gifts You could tell me maybe he was a single man. I don't know that. You maybe you are right or maybe you are wrong. But he He told the story of the Christ very carefully in a scientific context. Are you willing to tell the story to the humanists? Who are proud of their philosophy or science and they don't understand history, are you willing to Confront them with the truth of God. Luke was a physician Or are you willing to join Apollo, who was a very powerful teacher from Alexandria, my city? I choose this. because it's it's it's my city, Alexandria with with uh it's theological school that time. He went to different And he opened the scriptures and he reasoned with the Jewish people. Are you willing to do that? Lister Porta committed himself to do that and Isaac did and we adopting the same approach in terms of a church without all ministry Knocking on doors, introducing ourselves and asking them to come to join us to reason together. It's enjoyable. I was invited four years ago to debate a Muslim from Canada. He was a Catholic and became a Muslim. And when I got there, he won the argument. And he beat me up. And he prayed the Lord that he did. And I made it very clear that I lost the argument, but I don't believe that I lost your love. And one of the Muslim leaders there He was a professor, asked me if I could come and pray for his sick wife. I said yes, gladly I went and I prayed for her and I prayed on oil there in the name of the Father and in the name of the name of the Son and the Holy Spirit, in spite of losing my argument. There was a ministry there And they worked very hard to bring me back. Are you willing? Or are you one of these? In terms of Titus, his relationship with Paul, who was appointed to oversee the church in Ecrete Are you walling are you willing to serve on Columbia Presbyterian Church session? Deacon or elder Or you served three years ago and you would like to take a long, long vacation I don't like you to take a long, long vacation until you serve for a hundred and twenty years. Are you willing? Are you one of these? May I encourage all of you, all of you. to discover your gifts, your spiritual identity And come and shake hands with me and tell me which place do you like to serve Are you willing to consider a church without more war ministry in your prayer? Even if we live in Philadelphia Are you willing to sign up for our newsletter and receive it and read it and if you don't like it, send it back? Are you willing to give, to give some pennies Instead of exchanging cars and homes and furniture for the kingdom of God, may I ask you to join To join your Savior as you make him known for all people. Are you willing to lead someone who got lost in Columbia? I am not talking about myself and Lester Porter, no. We are leaving. Many people are going to hell every day. Are you willing to tell the story? If you are not willing, could you tell me when you shake hands, if you like to do that, could you tell me for what reasons are you are not willing? Is there a specific sin is I in in your life? Hindering your commitment, come, come, come and make him known before all nations. I believe that I exceeded my thirty-five minutes.