Praise be to God. Indeed, we are called to take the message of relentless grace to the world. And it is my opportunity, distinct pleasure to welcome to the pulpit of CPC, Pastor Chris Garriott. You will find his bio in the bulletin this morning, but it is my pleasure to introduce to you my friend who He and I, though he is a local boy here to this part of Maryland, he and I met while students at Covenant Theological Seminary. He graduated in 1996 and then I graduated in ninety-seven. We went to Florida and Pastor Garriott went to Oklahoma, and uh it is wonderful to see the opportunity that our paths have had to cross yet again. And I learned that he was the University of Maryland. Someone I can't remember who gave me his cell phone number. had it in my personal favorites, but it finally took a couple three months for us to finally connect for lunch. And I'm very grateful for his ministry with Reform University Fellowship. which has had an indelible uh impact on my own life uh as a college student at the University of South Carolina, where I was for two years and then transferred and graduated from Wheaton But it was RUF that the Lord used on the college campus to equip me with the gospel. And that is exactly what God is doing with Pastor Garrett at University of Maryland. So I'm just going to invite Pastor Garrett, please come and bring God's word to us. Thank you. Thanks Randy and thanks thank you for having me here and had a great time uh during Sunday school hour hour to just talk about what's going on at the University of Maryland. Is there any Turp fans out there? A few a few. Okay. It's hard times right now. You gotta hang in there. Fear the turtle. But basically what we're trying to do uh with RUF is uh get students not to just fear the turtle, but to fear the Lord. And uh and to reach them for Christ and equip them to serve the church. So it's a real privilege to be there. I'm in my sixth year at the University of Maryland and uh that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to do uh preach the Bible every week, uh a large group meeting, gather students together in small groups Teach the Bible, help them learn how to study the Bible, help them also s start small groups. And so when you see the University of Maryland losing to Duke like they did yesterday, Think, you know, it's it's not all lost. There there's there's Christians down there and uh we're trying to uh reach students for Christ. So pray for us. Pray that God would be at work uh on that campus. So it's a real joy to be with you. This morning we're going to look at a parable uh in Matthew twenty-two. So if you have your Bibles Turn there to Matthew 22, uh one to fourteen. And just a little bit of a review. You know, Jesus loved to tell stories. He loved uh to bring people into um illustrative ideas. And uh, you know, and I think all of us in here like movies Uh we like to watch and we like to be captivated. And to some extent, you know, that's what parables were. I've heard this phrase, you know, that parables are somewhat like an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. What I want to say is that parables are those things which Jesus wants us to enter into, to identify with the characters, and to see who we are in those parables. You you remember in the Old Testament? When Nathan the prophet came to David after he had committed adultery with Bathsheba. You remember that story? What did he do? He didn't just say, Hey David, you committed adultery. What did he do? He told a parable. And that parable came in through the back door to David's heart. And David began to enter into that story as he As Nathan told that story about the king uh stealing the little lamb from the poor farmer down the road and how he took that little lamb and and slaughtered it and had it for his guests. And remember David was so angry. His emotions were caught up in that story. And then Nathan turned it around and he said that you are the man. To some extent, that's what Jesus wants to do. With these parables. He's telling this story to the Pharisees who are standing there and to the disciples who were gathered. And he's wanting them to enter in and to see: who are you? Are you coming to the wedding feast that the Lord is calling us to? So if you have your Bibles, let's read and uh we will look at this text. Hear God's holy word. And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. And sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast. But they would not come. Again he sent other servants, saying, Tell those who are invited, see, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen And my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast. But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business While the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them. The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. Then he said to his servants, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. Go, therefore, to the main roads, and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find. And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests. But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, for many are called, but few are chosen. This ends the reading of God's holy word. Let me pray for us. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for the worship, for singing. For entering into your presence, for the prayers, for confession, Lord, for giving our tithes. Now, Lord Jesus, would you be with us as we think about this passage? Would your Holy Spirit come? Would you help us to enter in? to the story. Would you help us to see uh our lives and our hearts? And would you show us Jesus? And we pray that in his name. Amen. A couple of years ago, I had the opportunity to officiate a wedding of a former youth group student. Now, I was in Oklahoma for about eight years as a youth minister. And uh through that time got to know a student who um didn't really know if he was a Christian or not. He came to our Bible studies and he came to many things and then he went off to Oklahoma University and he was uh I think kind of so you know a little bit involved with Christian stuff but then kind of doing whatever he wanted to do. And kind of the party scene, that sort of thing. Well, he c he came to another wedding that I officiated for another youth group student, and he met a gal at that wedding. And then everything changed for him. He uh he I think was going through a time where the Lord was really getting a hold of him. He ends up falling in love with this girl. This girl had moved to New York City, was in involved with Redeemer Presbyterian Church. He moves, he follows her up there, and uh they end up getting engaged and uh he's become very involved in the church up there and just God has done a wonderful work. So he asks me Would you come and officiate my wedding? And I said, Well, I'd love to. And so I go up there and um I want to call this wedding the wedding on steroids. And it was one of those destination weddings. Here here we are. The church was right right off of Central Park. You know, I don't know how much it cost to rent that place. Um it was a it was a themed wedding. It was a old Hollywood themed wedding. And so all the guys were dressed up. They kind of look like Humphrey Bogart. You know, they got the gangster suits on and the fedoras. You know, they're on one side and then all the girls were were dressed up kind of like I guess Greta Garbo or you know, the Holly kind of old Hollywood style hair, all you know scooped up and and uh these like kind of satin white dresses that they were wearing. It was it was a an amazing thing. And then and and then the the program was not your typical bulletin, but it was like a Broadway playbill, you know, that when you go to a show and everybody was in there and the characters I was even in there, I was one of the actors uh there officiating the wedding And uh and a and the best part was at the end of the wedding, uh, after it was all over, they had two school buses at the back of the church. We all hopped on these school buses, where are we gonna And they took us over to the Hudson River and we got on this cruise uh boat and so for the next three hours we're cruising around Manhattan Island with, you know, the food and the dancing and, you know, everything. And uh for three hours it was like, hey, there's the Statue of Liberty, hey, there's the Empire State Building, hey, there's the Brooklyn B Bridge, around and around. It was amazing. But in the story we have today, that wedding feast, although it was glorious and grand, is nothing. Nothing. Compared to what awaits God's children and God's people. That was just a little foretaste of what God has for us. And the real question This passage is asking us, is are you going to the party? Are you going to the wedding feast of the Lamb? Are you excited about God's kingdom? Are you excited about what the Lord is doing? You know, Pastor John Piper said that the chief end of man is to glorify God by enjoying him forever. Kind of takes a little twist of the Westminster Confession of Faith. But he goes at it and he says, well, um, you know, God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him. Are you satisfied with the Lord Jesus and his kingdom? Are you satisfied with who he is and what he's doing? What he's calling his people to, this glorious wedding feast to be united with him at the end? Or is your heart satisfied with other things? Is your heart just too caught up with this world? No, Augustine said that our hearts are restless until they find our rest in God. What is your heart filled with today? I think this passage shows us a lot about These people who had hearts that really were not satisfied with the Lord. In fact, it's kind of like the uh C. S. Lewis quote where he said where he talks about God's blessings compared to what we're satisfied with. He says, indeed, if we consider the unblessing promises of reward and the staggering nature of of the rewards promised in the gospel, like that wedding feast. It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition, while infinite joy is offered us. He goes on to say, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum, because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea, we are far too easily pleased. God is calling us to an amazing feast. Are you going? Or are there other things? What are your excuses? And I think this passage talks about several excuses. And the first one is this: there's just too many choices out there. There's people are going for the better, not the best. And if you think about our culture, we've never lived in a in a time like this where we have so many options. I remember growing up near here, uh, watching TV as a kid Now we thought we were we thought we were big time. You people in Columbia thought you were big time because you could watch Baltimore stations and DC stations Okay, you could you could watch the news in Baltimore and you could watch the news in DC, couldn't you? Because it was a little little fuzzy, but you could get it in there. Now I think there's, you know, ten thousand stations that are out there. There's three hundred stations, and that's just the the minimal package that you can get from Comcast. There's so many choices in our world. What are we going to do? And so in this passage we have the parable of the king, and he's coming and he's and he's calling his people to this feast, this wedding feast for his son, and he sends his servants. And in verse three it says, So again he sent other servants, saying, Tell those who are invited, See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast. But they paid no attention and went off one to his farm and another to his business. Farms and businesses. Careers. Uh these things are honorable. God has created us to work and to glorify Him with our jobs, whether we're a teacher, an engineer. uh whether we're a doctor, whether whatever we're doing. God has said these are good things, but something has twisted. These folks have lost the big picture. They lost Their job and their place within God's bigger story. They've said, You know what? The farm is where I need to be And I need to continue to do that. And that's where my life comes from. That's where my energy comes from. That's where my prosperity comes from. So forget about God and his party, because I've got I've got things to do Or the businessman. I've got all these contacts and I'm losing money and the economy is horrible. And how can I do what I need to do to exist? and to survive and so I just need to give myself to this. I can't I cannot come to that feast. I cannot come to that wedding party. Do you see what we're doing? We are we are taking these these good things, but we are making them ultimate things. And we're forgetting about God's our story in the midst of God's big story. That God is the one who created us. He's given us these wonderful jobs. He's given us these wonderful things to do, but that's not our ultimate thing. Our ultimate thing is to remember who the boss is The ultimate boss is the Lord Jesus, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. They're the ones who've given you the ability to read and to make contacts and to work in the fields and to do everything that we do. And so when he says, You gotta stop and you gotta come to the feast, he's serious And he's serious about it and he's saying this is the this is the ultimate thing that you can do, but I uh the idols of our heart stop us from doing That. So just clarification. I'm not saying that, okay, if you become a Christian or if you're a true Christian, that means you uh you just sit and meditate on God and go to worship and you never worry about your job. No, I'm not saying that at all. The Lord is saying is you glorify the Lord in your job, but you also rest. You also say, No, I'm I'm gonna do what the Lord calls me to. And so I think a huge application With this is the Sabbath, is what you're doing right now. Is resting. Is saying, you know what? My job is really busy. I could do a lot of things. I I feel that to-do list in my pocket on my iPhone, but I c I haven't got to stop I've got to rest. I've got to seek him. And so even what we're doing here, see, this is a foretaste of the feast. We're worshiping the Lord. We're saying, I'm going to stop my work You know, and and you work six days as the Lord said and and make the Sabbath holy. You honor Him. You look to Him And you say, God is the one who provides for me. God who is the one who cares for me. And today is his. And I am going to rest and I'm going to rejoice in him And relax. And remember that you wouldn't even have that job unless the Lord gave it to you and gave you the ability to do it and to exercise it. So, students, Homework is a big deal. Monday comes fast. Are you resting? Are you going to youth ministry? Are you going to youth group? I don't know if it's on Sunday night, but if you are, you should be there. You should be there and you should say, I'm gonna trust God, I'm gonna work hard on maybe Friday night or Saturday to get done so I can go to youth group on Sunday night and not have to worry about that on Monday Are you giving time? Are you being rejuvenated? And are you settled in the feast of the Lord that He's provided for us right here? The second thing we see in this passage is that we find that people say no because they're just flat out stubborn. They they have stubborn, prideful hearts. And it's kind of interesting. There's a real progression in this passage of first off, people just kind of ignore. Uh, then they kind of give an excuse. You know, I've got business, I've got uh my farm, and then uh it goes from that point to really incredible hostility. Look at verse six. It says, While the rest The rest of the people that were hearing the servants seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them And then down down a ways it says the king was angry and he sent his troops. He brings judgment. Uh and then it says the wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. This is really telling about the heart of people. That deep down in our hearts, we really just don't like God. Deep down in our hearts we want to do what we really want to do. And the king even sweetens it He sweetens the deal. He he says, Listen, I've prepared my dinner. My oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the feast. Yet they do nothing except seize the servants and kill them. Now, you know, this parable is called a kingdom parable, and it it's it's interesting how this one parable almost summarizes the entire Bible Okay, c can you believe that? This this parable right here, if you really think about it on another level, is really talking about God creating this people, the king. And he creates Adam and Eve, and he calls Abraham to himself, and he blesses him, and he says, I'm going to be your God. You're going to be my people. I'm going to give you all these blessings. I'm going to make you a great nation. And so it's a picture of the Old Testament. But what happens in the Old Testament? Well, time and time again. The people become hardened. They get a hard heart to the Lord who blessed them. And so what does God do? Well, God continues to send prophets. Moses, Elijah, Elisha, and he sends these prophets to say, No, come back to the covenant, come back to the promise. You're my people, I'm your God. And what do they do? In many cases, they torture the prophets. They kill the prophets. They don't want to have anything to do. And that so they go into bail worship and then God brings judgment, doesn't he? He he sends Assyria and he sends Babylon and the exile happens. And it's as if God is burning Jerusalem To discipline his people. But then ultimately he comes again and he brings them back to himself. But to some extent, this whole parable is just a big summary of the Old Testament. Right here in this. But it shows us the hardness of heart that we all have. Uh that ultimately what our hearts want to do is say no to God and yes to self. Like Romans 1, Paul says, you know, uh, instead of loving and worshiping God and lifting him up, we suppress him. Out of the picture, and we worship the created things instead of the creator. Kind of going back to that jobs and businesses and farms. We worship the created things instead of the creator. You know, I like to think of it, I I tell uh my students when I was a youth youth minister, what our hearts do is kinda like whack a mole. Remember that game whack a mole, you know, you put your quarter in there and it's like a table with holes in it and you get a mallet and the m and the and all these m these moles are popping up and you hit 'em down, you know, you have thirty seconds. And to some extent that's what we do with God. That's what our sinful hearts do with God. God is popping up in the creation. We're saying, No, it's evolution. God is popping up here and there and we're pushing him down And we're not giving him praise. We're not saying, Oh, it's the Lord who created me and he loves me. And so as God reveals himself, we're pushing it pushing him down and we're saying, I'm not going to be satisfied in you. I want to be satisfied in something else. So in the at the University of Maryland students satisfied in GPA. They're they're satisfied if they can get a certain grade on the test. They're satisfied if they can make it in to a fraternity or a club, uh and they seek to get their life there. They're satisfied if they can get into a relationship with that special someone. And uh and we see all of these things which are good things. There's nothing wrong with those things. But they become ultimate things. And that's the nature of our hearts. Ultimate things. No satisfaction in God. Instead, we're trying to be satisfied with all of these things. And it doesn't just stay there. That's what this is telling us. There's a progression to hardness. That goes to hostility. That goes to wanting to say to Jesus, No, I don't want you. In fact, one of my middle school students in Oklahoma said One time I think I was taking him home, and he he didn't really come from a good family, not uh I don't think they were believers. And he said, Well, who killed Jesus? Who killed Jesus? How how about that question for an evangelistic start? And uh I said, well you know to some extent, you know, it was the it was it was uh the the the Jewish leaders, you know, they were the ones that kind of trumped up these charges and had the kangaroo court and had Jesus there. And on another hand You know, it was the Roman soldiers who actually took Jesus. He you know, he went before Pilate and Pilate took him and and had him crucified But we all know that that ultimately what the story is saying is that that we we killed Jesus. We we would a lot we lo we would like to think if we were there at the cross we would be saying, don't do it, don't do it But would we? See, because our sinful hearts are saying, Crucify Him. Crucify Him. I don't want Him. I want my own life. I want my own things. You know, Mel Gibson in that movie The Passion for the Christ, I mean that's a bit controversial, but um and he's and he said a lot of controversial things, but there's one scene in that movie which is very telling about him. And uh you might not know it. He's he's only in that movie once. He's got one cameo. You know what it is? It's the hands of the soldier when when he's pounding the stake into the hands of Jesus. Because what he's saying is, is I put him there. That's me. That's me. That's my sin. My sin is saying no To Jesus and yes to me. Our sin is what held him there. So do you see that in your heart? Do you See your idolatry? Do you see how you say no? Do you see your pride? Your outright rejection of God You see the stubbornness of your heart. If you do see that, that's a wonderful thing, because then you can say, I'm a big sinner. And guess what? Jesus is a big sinner. Savior to save people like that. No matter what you have done or what path you've walked or presently walking, he is there and he loves to dine with sinners. He loves to welcome sinners into his arm. Where are you? Now it's interesting as we go through this parable, this last part here. There's an interesting story at the end where we see there was a person here without wedding garments on. And uh to some extent, uh, as you read in this passage, uh he saw there a man, eleven verse eleven, he saw there a man who had no wedding garments. And he said to him, 'Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. ' I've always wondered what what is going on here? Now, it's it's true uh that in the ancient days A king would often give the wedding clothes to the guests who would come. And we see this some even uh in the scriptures. We see stories where uh Uh Joseph clothed his brothers who came from Canaan to see him as they went back. Uh we see pictures of uh the Lord Jesus, or excuse me, in Ezekiel, where God Is clothing his people, his bride Israel, with beautiful and costly garments and jewelry. We have these pictures of God clothing Adam and Eve. So there's all these pictures. We can't forget the prodigal son and how the father brings the robe on him. And so what's going on here? Well, does God have a dress code? Does God have a dress code for his party? And I would say yes, he does have a dress code for his party. And that dress code is the righteousness of Jesus. You see, Jesus is telling this parable to the Pharisees, to people who said, I can do it. I don't need Jesus. I have the law that I can keep. And you know, the Pharisees created all these laws on top of laws to say that I can keep the law. Righteousness, justice. But it was self-righteousness. It was self-justice. It was their own works. And so Jesus' most uh y hi his his conflict was with them ultimately. In John five, uh, Jesus said, you know, you look at the scriptures because you think that in them you have life. These are the scriptures that testify to me They were caught up in thinking that the law would justify them. And Jesus saying, No, you've got to come to me. You've got to have my righteousness. And so no one would like to go to a wedding with jorts, right? Do you guys know what jorts are? Jean shorts? Like, I think some of you probably got up early, you watched William and Kate's wedding. Raise your hand if you did. Okay. Uh Now, picture Westminster Abbey. Picture all of the pageantry. Picture the huge hats, okay, that the ladies had on, and picture yourself there with jean shorts and a tank top. That probably wouldn't go over real real well. To some extent, that's what is going on in this parable. Where are your wedding clothes? How did you get in here? He thought he was going to the wedding. Hey, I'm answering the call. I'm going to the wedding. I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna do this thing that the king is calling to me to do. And he does it. But he is not dressed. properly. Just like you and I, we can put on all kinds of things. We can put on all kinds of works I've gone to church. I've read my Bible. I've I've witnessed. I've done these things. I've been a good person. I've loved my family. I've I've done this and that. I should be accepted And Jesus is saying, No, only in my blood, only in my righteousness, only by taking of me, and saying no to yourself. That's why Jonathan Edwards had a Idea of a Christian is one who repents not only of his good deeds, but also of his evil deeds. He's saying that the moral person and the immoral person are both outside the kingdom. You have to see that Jesus is your righteousness. Like the hymn said, nothing in my hands I bring, simply, simply, to the cross. I come with empty hands of faith. This is what Jesus is calling us to. Not our righteousness, but his righteousness, putting on his robe. I'm a big golf fan. One time I actually went by Augusta National Golf Course where the Masters has played. It was not during the time of the Masters, but I went by and stopped and looked in, could see the uh Butler cabin way off there in the distance. And then there was like this buzzer. I think I was too close uh to the fence. And uh I I drove all the way around like Augusta National just to see if I could see Amen Corner or or some other that place is totally hidden. You can't see anything. From the outside. And uh but I was thinking about that. You know, every week or every time the Masters happens, there's this champions day And the only people that can go into the butler cabin are people who have won the masters and they have the green jacket. Do you know this? And so, you know, Jack Nicholas is there, he's got six Green Jackets, Tigers there, he's got four, you know, only those, it's very exclusive. Now, as I was thinking about that, I thought, well wow, if I went to to Augusta and I had the privilege to play, I would probably shoot a hundred and twenty-five or more. And uh I would be, you know, left and right and everywhere, military golf. And uh but you know what the gospel's like I'm walking up the eighteenth and um Instead of my scorecard, you know, Jack Nicholas hands hands his, but better yet, the gospel is this. The gospel is I'm walking up the 18th, and Jesus gives me his scorecard. It's 18. It's perfect. That's what the gospel is. He got an eighteen. It's a perfect score. It's his righteousness for me. He puts me in his green jacket And he gives me all of his righteousness. And I trade in all of my sin. It's humility. You can't come to the feast unless you are humbled. You can't come to the feast unless you've been rocked to the bottom where you say, you know what, I'm a big sinner. I can see these things in my life where I'm putting idolatry ahead of Jesus. I can see this stubbornness. Forgive me, Jesus. Lift that up to him. Confess that to him because you see he's he's the servant in this passage. He's the one who provides uh the wedding feast, doesn't he? He provides the wedding feast of his own body and We don't provide anything. Run to him. Look forward to him. Be filled with his beauty. So that you will long for that feast. You will long to go and to be with Jesus In the future, but even right here, right now, during your day. Let me pray for us. Father, thank you. for the wedding feast of the Lamb that you will that you are preparing even now as we are here. What an amazing feast it will be. Isaiah says it'll have the finest wines and the choicest meats. Lord, it will be an amazing celebration, Lord. Would we have hearts that are filled with you and hoping for that? Lord, would you change us? Would you show us where we are making excuses to not come to the feast? Would you change our hearts? Would you send the Spirit? Would you give us repentance and faith even now? And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.