Turning your Bibles to Luke chapter twenty-two. Luke twenty-two. Perhaps you've heard the story, maybe you haven't, of the uh missionary candidate. Maybe Tito and Kim Padilla. But if I tell this story, you'll realize it wasn't us But this missionary candidate wanted to go to the field, and so he went, as instructed by the missionary examiner, who was a retired missionary, he went to his house And he appeared at the door of his house at five o'clock in the morning. It was a snowy, cold winter morning. And the candidate knocked on the door and he was uh escorted in the house you escorted into the office of the examiner's uh house and and he sat there from five o'clock in the morning until eight o'clock in the morning waiting the examiner came in, introduced himself, and he said, fine, let's begin. The first question that he asked the candidates was, can you spell? That mystified You know, he expected a deep theological question. You know, what is infralapsarianism, something like that, whatever that is. Good noise, can you spell? And The candidate said, yes. Spell Baker. B-A-K-E-R. Well done. How good are you with numbers? Pretty good, I think. Fine, what's two plus two? Four? Not sure. Maybe this is a trick. There's something to this. Well, that was it. The examiner said, fine, you've done very well. I'll report to the board tomorrow and how you've done. I think you're prepared for missionary service. And so the next day the examiner went to the board and he told him I said, he said, Well, he's going to I tested him on self-denial, making him arrive at home. My home at five o'clock in the morning. He left his warm bed on a snow cold Snowy, cold morning, no complaints. Second, I tested him on promptness. He arrived on time. Then I tested him on patience. Made him wait three hours. to see me, you know, complaining. Then I tested him on his I tested his temper. He failed to show any anger or aggravation. Then I tried his humility. I asked him questions that even a seven-year-old could answer. And he showed no aggravation. Gentlemen, I believe this man is ready for missionary service. Oh, were it that easy? Wait that easy. But are you ready for missionary service? You know, as Kim and I prepare to go to Spain, that's a question that looms in my mind. Am I ready to go and serve the Lord in Spain? Are you ready to ready as a congregation to serve the Lord in Spain as you pray for us, as you uphold us before the Lord. You know, I wish you know with mission to the world You know that we've been in the process for about two and a half years of getting ready to go, of going through different assessment centers, evaluations. You know, if Mission of the World had done what this missionary examiner did, we'd be in Spain right now. right now. We would enjoy the Olympics, maybe, maybe not. But it would have saved a lot of time and a lot of money. Certainly a lot of traveling. But that's the question, are you ready? Are you ready, Tito? Are you ready, Kim, to go and serve the Lord in Spain? Who knows what's out there? Who knows how they're going to respond to you? And are you ready to keep on praying for us? But it's not just a question for me. For Kim, it's a question for you. Are you ready to serve the Lord right where you are? Are you ready to continue to proclaim the gospel day in and day out? in your workplace, in Columbia, in Howard County, in Maryland. Are you equipped? Do you have what it takes to keep on going tomorrow morning to keep on going in your workplace, in your home? to serve the Lord. How do you measure that? How do you measure preparedness, readiness? Is there a scale? You know, there are different ways of doing that. I believe in Luke twenty two, as we consider what Jesus says and does with the disciples, we'll see how he prepares them, how he makes them ready for spiritual war. serve in his kingdom and be able to face the foe, to fight the fight, to run the race. Is it not something that's done in our own strength In the preceding verses in chapter 22, we find that here that uh Satan has entered into Judas. After that, there's the celebration of the Lord's Supper, that last meal, and the then the disciples get into dispute about who's the greatest in the kingdom of God. And Jesus settles that for them. And then he says in verse 31. So I pick up their reading from verse 31. Listen as we read God's word. Simon, Simon, Satan has asked to sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, Simon, that you Your faith may not fail. And when you turn back, strengthen your brothers. But he replied, Lord, I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death. Jesus Jesus answered, I tell you, Peter, before the rooster crows today, you will deny three times that you know me. Let's pray. Father, as we come to your word, we ask that you would teach us. You know what we need to hear, you know what we hurt, you know what we struggle with. And so, Spirit of the Living God, minister to us. Give us ears to hear you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I don't believe there's there's a mechanical formula for return determining if we're ready or not. We can look at different things. We can look at our character. We can look at the spiritual fruit in our lives. We can look at our gifts. But this morning I think from this Text, I want to point us to three qualities, three marks, three characteristics of a ready servant of God. You assess yourself. Mark And look at your life and see how you compare yourself to this. As I go through, I'm gonna change that outline on your bulletin if you're following that. I'm gonna touch on point two first and then point one Later on. But a ready servant of God, are you ready to run the race, to fight the fight, to keep on battling for Jesus Christ, seeing his kingdom, the kingdom of Christ, become this his kingdom on earth, first thing you need to do, we need to understand our own nature. We need to have a biblical assessment of ourselves A sober, real, true self-appraisal. Not delude ourselves to think ourselves to be what we are not. Here's this This is Jesus the night before he's crucified. And all along the last three years, he's been preparing his disciples to minister in his name, to carry on the mission that he's begun his earthly ministry. And he sees very clearly that, particularly with Peter, that they're not ready. They're not ready to go out and fight the fight and face the enemy. And proclaim the kingdom of God and his power and his strength. We see that clearly. As Jesus says in verse 32, he says concerning Simon. Simon, I pray for you that your faith may not fail. The implication is clear. Simon, you are going to fall. You are going to fall tragically. In Simon's response, we see clearly in verses 33. Verse 33, Lord, I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death. He's saying essentially as Simon Peter looks at his own life, he looks at his nature, he assesses who he is, he says, No, Lord, I am not going to fall. I am not going to fall gonna fail. I'm ready to go to death for you. I'm ready to go to prison for you, Lord. You know, several years ago, Lord Jesus, I may have done that. As a matter of fact, I did some pretty foolish things. But don't you understand that I've left my family I've left my fishing career to follow you. I've left it all, Lord Jesus. I've I've matured now, I've grown in these years. I'm passionate I'm a mature Christian now, Lord Jesus. I'm past it. I won't fall. I'll die for you. But the scriptures bear out the truth. Do they not? What Peter did and how he viewed himself. He viewed himself wrongly. He saw himself as being made of material that would not fall, that would not fail, that would not fall Altar in his service to the Lord. And without flinching, we see the Lord's response to Peter in verse 34. Peter, I tell you, before the rooster crows today You will deny three times that you know me. The Lord Jesus, He knows what you're made out of, He knows what I'm made out of. He certainly knew what Peter was made out of. made out of. He knew his heart and he knows our heart. He knows our hearts are deceitful above all things. Not only that, he knows the power of sin, our sinful nature, the inclination of our nature. And he also knows that we're weak, that we're fragile, we're not so strong, we're not heroic Christians And sometimes we appear to be at least to others. And so Jesus tells Peter, in so many words, Peter, you're not so loyal You're not as strong as you think you are, Peter. You're not as ready as you imagine yourself to be. You're not that good of a follower, Peter, as you measure yourself You will deny me three times, not in this week, not in the coming year, but today, Peter, you will deny me three times. I can't imagine how Jesus, you know, or how Peter would have felt hearing those words. Scripture doesn't say how he responded. But you know, think about it. These words coming from from Jesus, the Son of God. He's not playing Russian roulette with Peter's life. These are not words of lucky guess or probability things that may happen or may not happen. Jesus knows precisely what will happen Happened. He knows his creatures. He knows his own. These are the words of the God of the universe, of your God and my God. The God who knows that you will fall. He knows your nature. He knows my nature. He knows that you have fallen, but yet he hasn't stopped loving you. And he never stopped loving Peter though he knew these things. These are the words of Peter's God. The God who knows all things before they happen, the God who's decreed whatsoever comes to pass. A Sassin our own nature, looking at our at our at ourselves and say, well what am I made out of? As you do that, as I do that, are we ready to fight the fight, to run the race? Are we ready to Ready to continue to serve the Lord as we leave here. I guess what I'm really trying to do is help you to see that our position of strength in the kingdom of God is our position where we see ourselves as weak creatures and God's strength working through us. That's where we need to be as we serve the Lord. Are you ready to serve the Lord? You know, I I can't think. Well I can think of many times I've said like Peter, Lord, I am ready to serve you wherever. You send me wherever you want to go. If it's not Spain, if you want me to go to Morocco, that's fine. You know, I'll have to pull Kim with you know kicking and screaming. She doesn't want to go there. But you know, whatever you want to do, Lord, I'll die for you. I'll I'll do anything. And perhaps you have done the same thing. Maybe not in those words. words, but if you expressed your devotion to the Lord, and sometimes when we hear ourselves say those things, it seems like we're really prepared, it we're much more equipped. Well perhaps we really are. So the question is, are we really as courageous in the kingdom of God? Are we really as bold? Are we really able, as capable as we think? ourselves to be. It's a hard question because I know that society and our sinful nature inclines us and propels us in a certain way It was T. S. Eliot who said, most of the pro trouble in this world is caused by people wanting to be important. That's true. You know that. You know that in your workplace. We know that in our families. But it's not true just in the world. It's true in the church. The problems that c that surface in the church are because there are people who think of themselves To be more important than they really ought to be, to be more capable than they really ought to be, they think of themselves to be really heroic Christians. And we've lost sight of the fact that of who we are, who we are in Christ. We humble vessels. We need that sober, realistic view of ourselves. You know, some years ago I was in Baltimore City and I was trying to find my friend's house. This was about eleven o'clock at night. It was in Dundalk and I couldn't find it. And so I I I drove into a gas station that was was closed and I went in this gas station had a a telephone booth and across it was it was pitch dark across the street was a open field, vacant lots off to the side. And And I uh I thought, well, I'll just go go in this phone booth, make the call, and finally get some directions. So I I go in and uh in the phone booth and I dial the number and the car is on. Lights lights on lights on so I can have some light around me. And as I'm there, I hear get out of the phone booth. I turn around and who is that? I don't see. Nobody around. I didn't see anybody. And I just ignored it, thinking perhaps I'm just hearing things. And then again, get out of the telephone booth. And this time I said, you know, got my attention. Ah, maybe I better listen to this person. I looked around again, still didn't see anybody. And I looked in the phone booth thinking there was something there perhaps this person wanted. Didn't see anything there and still I You know, I have the phone in my hand still, waiting for somebody to answer the phone. Nobody has at this point. And then I hear a third time. Get out of the telephone booth. You know, at that point I'm thinking, well, you know, you some of you know that I worked as a social worker in Baltimore City. And so you have to be able to diffuse some tough situations. And so my first thought was No problem. This guy, you know, apparently he's very close. He's much angrier, but I'll just talk with him and we'll resolve this conflict. I said, Tito, you're a fool. You are playing foolish. But that was my first thought. That was my First thought that somehow I was able, I was capable, because of my experience, my training, to talk this guy out of shooting me. You know, if that's what he int intended to do. And when I realized that, I said, no, dummy, hang up the phone, get in the car, and leave here. And so that is precisely what I did. I hung up the phone, I got in the car, locked the door, and I just sat there Is that realization that I am not so strong, I am not able to resolve this to the point, you know, you you're foolish. If you think you are, you're really incapable. You're really much weaker and less bold and less courageous than you thought yourself to be. It was that transition in my thinking process that affected me. captured my thought. And I think of what Paul said, you know, that we ought not to think of ourselves more highly than we should. Because the truth is that you and I, as we look at ourselves, we're not so strong, we're not so weak, we're not so bold, we're not so courageous as we think ourselves to be. We're weaker than Peter. We do worse things and we often fail in different ways and worse ways than Peter. That's what we're like. That's as I look at myself, that's me. But yet in the infinite wisdom And the infinite, glorious power of God, and he's chosen to use weak vessels to demonstrate his power, to demonstrate his glory. As Paul says so clearly, That he chose the weak things of the world to shame the so-called strong. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, 2 Corinthians 4, it's his all-surpassing power, God's all-surpassing power. that he has placed in earthen, weak earthen vessels, so that he gets a glory because he knows our inclination, our sinful nature, wants to rob glory From God day in and day out. We want to exalt ourselves as opposed to exalting the Lord. And so the Lord has fashioned us and He makes us and reminds us that we're we weak so that we're inadequate. See, we need to see that yeah we're weak, but we also need to see that in our weakness God Demonstrates his strength. There's those exhortations in Scripture to be strong in the Lord, not in yourself. Be strong in the Lord. Be strong in his grace. Be strong in his might. That's where we find our strength. That's where we find our strength. Find our adequacy in Jesus Christ. But not only that, as a servant of God, if we're gonna go out there, we not only need to have a real view of our nature. But we need to be aware that this is a kingdom battle and Satan prowls around. And so a second mark or second quality of a servant of God is that he or she understands that Satan has desires that schemes for his or her life. Did you sit here right now? And as you go go out from here, Satan has a desire on your life. That's simple truth. Verse 31 If you look in your text, to Simon Simon, Jesus says, Satan has asked to sift you as we. To sift you as we. If you look at the rest of the chapter, you You notice that this event occurs right before Jesus goes in the Garden of Gethsemane, right before that suffering that is yet to occur. And so here it is in pitch darkness, and you begin to feel that fierce wind of hell sweeping over the disciples, and yet going to sweep in its terror over Jesus at the cross. But right in the midst of this, we find that Jesus, the Son of God, he has pulled open the curtains of heaven's court and he sees what Satan has asked of God. And so he tells them in verse 31. Notice that Simon, Simon. There's that repetition of Simon. Throughout Scripture, there's a literary technique of empathy. And usually repeat something to emphasize it. Like, listen up, something, I'm gonna say something important. And so, just like oftentimes through scripture, Jesus says, truly, truly, I say unto you, If we read the King James, verily, verily, I say unto you. For here is Simon, Simon, listen up. I have something significant to tell you. I have something crucial to tell you. I Satan has asked of God, has asked excessively of God, has demanded of God to sift you, Simon, has weak. Jesus knows our sinful nature. He knows our struggle with the flesh, but he also knows that spiritual warfare that understands underlying battle that exists in every day every day of our lives. He knows that Satan has designs on Simon's life, but not just on Simon's life, but on the disciples. The other disciples disciples and also our lives. You see the the U of verse thirty one, Satan has asked us if you, that you in some of your Bible is plural. So although he's addressing Simon, one individual, he's talking about what Satan wants to do not just with Simon, but with all the disciples disciples to sift them as wheat. What does it mean to sift as wheat? I mean I did a little research on that because I'd night not a farmer, and it's been a long time since I've seen anybody sift wheat. Perhaps it's been a while since you've seen some people sift wheat. Obviously it's a metaphor. But literally whether it referred to was a woman, often a woman, who would take a sieve and would place this wheat, chaff and then wheat and all everything, the whole kernel together. And we take it in a swi in a sieve and just shake it violently. We shake it rapidly, side to side, side to side, so that the grain, so that the wheat would separate from the chaff. And then the then Then the uh the wheat would fall to the ground underneath the the sieve and what was left was a chaff. And then it would pile up in a corner, one part of the sieve, and then the person Would just throw it away, would blow it away. Then after the shaking, there was a this motion, a teeter-totter motion, up and down, up and down, and then while that was occurring, there was this blowing over the remaining. uh kernels so that what chaff was left would blow away. The sift as we. But I believe Jesus is saying in this metaphor is that Satan wants a subject His disciples, the disciples of Jesus, to severe test, severe trial So that in this shaking, so that in this temptation, that they would be dislodged in the relationship from Jesus Christ. Christ, that their faith would be as chaff, nothing else that but mist, something to be blown away as chaff. Satan's desire for the disciples, for Peter, and for For us is that our faith in Christ would be nothing but a m but mist, and that we would essentially apostatize from the Lord. them and on us to be as Judas to sell our souls to the devil and our faith to be blown away. And so God, as in the case with Job, gives Satan permission to sit as we Peter and the other disciples. You know, as God's people, we undergo some severe trials in our lives. Difficult times, temptations. persecutions, dangers. And it's precisely in these oc on these occasions that Satan wants to get his foothold and wants to sift us as wheat. Wants us not not just that we fall and sit. Sin against God and reveal our unfaithfulness, but that little by little we would withdraw from Christ. That each time we sin there would be a little more callous over our heart, and that there would be this numbness to the things of the Lord, then somehow we would despair of our hope in Jesus Christ, despair of His love for us, despair of His effort forgiving us of those sins that we commit times Time and time again, because you and I have those sins, don't we? There are sins in our lives that we don't tell anybody that we commit time and time again. And time and time again we go to the Lord and ask him to forgive us. And Satan would love to take those those times, those difficulties, those sins, and twist them for his own malicious ends. You know, I'm convinced that's why the Lord Jesus taught us to pray as he did in the Lord's Prayer. He says, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil or from the evil one. The Lord is teaching us to realize that when we enter into temptation, into difficult times, Satan is there ready to sift us as we to tear us apart from Christ. Jesus Christ, his agenda for us in those times of the time. difficulties is to purify us, to sanctify us, to make us more like him. But Satan's desire is that we would fall. And so we need to pray when we go through difficulties. Times that Satan would not make use of these temptations in the way that he would like. But that the Lord would protect us and rescue us from the power of the evil one in the midst of our tests. Think of Genesis 4 7, where God says to Cain, before Cain actually kills Abel, He says, If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It's not your Desires to have you, but you must master it. Peter tells us in 1 Peter 5 that the devil prowled around looking like around like a roaring lion. As servants of God, as people of God in this fight and in this kingdom, God conflict, we are opposing an enemy that's fierce. But lest you become overwhelmed, remember this about Satan: that he's a fallen angel that But he's a creature. He created by God. He fell. He's a father of lies. He's a murderer. He will be judged. As a matter of fact, he's already been conquered. We can't get in the habit of thinking that somehow the tempter is the evil equivalent of God, for he's not. He is not at all. He is not omniscient. He does not know all things. He does not know the future. The best Satan can do is make some shrewd guesses about sinful human nature because he knows that well, and he knows that about us, our sinfulness. And so he takes that sinful nature Of ours is sins that we commit and twists him for his own ends. He's not omniscient. He's not omnipresent. He's not all places at the same time. Which means that he cannot tempt everybody at the same time. He can only tempt one person at one time. But yet He operates many times through other fallen angels, through demons, to tempt us. And neither is he omnipotent. He doesn't have all power. He can't do everything that he wants to do. Especially in the case with Christians. Because God has them on a leash. Satan has to have permission of God, as in this case with Peter. But God has limited Satan. Know our enemy. Know ourselves and know our enemy and what he wants to do. You know, Thomas Cranmer was Archbishop of Canterbury in the early 1500s. And God used it mightily in the Reformation in England and breaking away from Roman Catholicism and establishing what today is Anglicanism. But uh the things that characterized Kramer was that he believed in the authority of Scripture alone and justification by faith alone, those cardinal doctrines of our faith that Scripture teaches us. Well Well when Henry the Eighth wanted to well, won't go into all that, but Henry the Eighth separated himself from from Rome so that there was a separation, and then after Henry the Eighth, uh We find that Edward VI came and and uh Thomas Crammer was used of the Lord still more in the Reformation. We see Cramer devising what was called the Book of Common Prayer to help the English people worship God, the 42 Articles of Religion. But after Henry VIII died, Edward VI came, and then after Edward VI was Queen Mary, known as Bloody Mary. And Bloody Mary was married to Philip II of Spain. Being a Spaniard, he was Roman Catholic. And so he says to his wife, Maria, who knows? What he said. Mary, establish, establish Roman Catholicism again in England. And so she proceeded to do that. And so in the process, thousands of Protestants were persecuted, hundreds were killed. And Thomas Thomas Cranmer was one such person who was imprisoned, charged for heresy, and while he was in prison, and in a moment of weakness, Under a moment of terrible pressure, he recanted his biblical beliefs and he signed a recantation of his views. Here's a man of God who was used mightily of the Lord, who was used of the Lord in the Reformation, who was appearing to be strong and faithful to the Lord, but who fell, who denied the Lord. Lord Jesus. Satan thought he had succeeded with Thomas Cranmer. That's only part of the story. I'll get to the rest of the story. See, we must remember that our battle, that our struggle is not against simp simply against flesh and blood, but against spiritual forces of evil. And so forth Then we need to remember that Satan's leaf is short, that God is God, and that God in Christ Jesus has overcome the enemy. that God in Christ Jesus has died for our sins, has conquered sin and death, has destroyed that sting that Satan once we are. And that Jesus Christ, the risen Savior, ascended into glory, sits at the right hand of God, who reigns as King of kings and Lord of lords, and who prays for you and for me. He is our intercessor. So the third mark of a ready servant of God is that he rests, not in himself, but he rests. Because God is King and Jesus prays as our intercessor. He prays for us. Verse 32. two. See, Satan has asked to sift you like wheat. But I, Jesus says, I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. Here that you is particularly addressing Simon. It's single Why Simon? I believe because he's been known as a representative, the leader of the 12, and so he's vulnerable to Satan's attack. He's vulnerable to the enemy's assault. somehow thinking that the enemy perhaps thinking that if he can affect Peter, then he affects easily the rest. Jesus is saying, Simon, Satan has asked permission to sift, to put you and the others to the test, to sift you as we, to blow your faith away as if it were chapter. But I have prayed for you. I, the Son of God, the one who will die tomorrow in your place, taking your sins upon me, I have prayed for you. Simon, so that your faith will not utterly fail. What amazes me in this is that Jesus doesn't pray that the trial would be prevented. He knows a trial is coming. He doesn't prevent it, but he prays for them in the midst of the trial, in the midst of the difficulties. Simon, I have prayed for you that your faith may not utterly fail. Yes, it will be terrible. Yes, it will be tragic, and we know that we have offended, we've been unfaithful to the Lord, and tragic But Jesus has prayed for us so that utterly our relationship to Him is not destroyed. And Jesus goes on said it almost in essence he says the the father has heard my prayer the father has heard my prayer as evidence as the father has heard my intercession for you. I tell you now before it happens that you will repent, that you will come again back to me. And when you do, Simon, when you come back to me Strengthen your brothers. Thomas Cranmer, he recanted his biblical beliefs, he denied Christ, but that wasn't the end of it Queen Mary wanted to take further advantage of his denial, and so had she took him out of prison but she bound him up and she was going to burn him at the stake, thinking that this last time at the stake he would give one Glorious recantation of his faith. So on the morning of March twenty-first, fifteen fifty-six, cranmer as he was bound and tied to the stake, and as a woman Was engulfed in flames around him. He denied every other denial he ever he ever made. He denied the Pope He denied all the Roman Catholicism. He disavowed all his previous recantations. And he took the signed recantation. And he had it His hand, he threw it into the flames and exhorted the people around him to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, to believe that which is taught in Scripture. And then he took his hand, the hand that signed the recantation, and he put it into the flames, and he watched it burn. And he died. He's a man who obviously denied the Lord Jesus Christ in a tragic way. But somehow, I believe very clearly because Because the Lord Jesus was interceding for him, because the Lord Jesus was praying for him, this man repented. That's why Peter repented. That's why Peter Once again went to the Lord. That's why you and I that's why we feel remorse for sin. That's why we feel we repent of sin. Not because there's something in us that leads us to repent apart from from Christ. But because Jesus is preserving us. He's got us with a great price. We belong to him. We are his sheep and he will make sure that we make it to the very end. We are with him in glory. And so he preserves us. He prays for us. So that even when we do fall, when we do fail, it's not tragic, utterly tragic. tragic and total. Jesus does not leave us to our own devices. Yes, we are weak, but He is strong. He reigns as King of Kings. You know, as we go to Spain, there are going to be times when we're going to fail. We're going to fail miserably. And you might you might read about those times If we get so bold to put him in our prayer letter. But you're going to know for certain that just like you have difficult times, we're going to have difficult times. And we need you to pray for us. That's very simple. We need you to pray for us. Pray for us that when we do fall, that we would repent. You saw in the newsletter, what did I ask you to pray for for us? Repentance. I'm convinced of that. You know, and it's The greater blessing it is that you pray for us, it's a greater blessing that Jesus prays for me. And that Jesus prays for you. You know, as we pray for each other, our motives, sometimes as we pray our mixed, sometimes godly motives, sometimes sinful motives. But the blessing is that Jesus, the high priest, Jesus who still, you can still see his wounds, yet wounds yet visible. Him says. He takes our prayers, he takes your prayers and my prayers, and they're washed through his wounds, so that they are made acceptable to the Father. Based on that, Because of his death. Because of what Jesus has done in dying for us, and a death that was accepted, that's why Jesus' prayers are always heard. His prayers, unlike our prayers, are always heard. always heard they're always effectual they will always accomplish the desired results guaranteed 100% of the time Jesus sits at the right hand of God God interceding for us, for you and for me. You know, that encourages me. What does it mean to sit at the right hand of God? Well, story of a of a mom who took a little Girl out to the lake and they were watching the sunset. And the mom thinking, we'll take advantage of this and make a spiritual lesson from it. She says to her little six-year-old girl, She says, You know, isn't that a beautiful sunset that God painted? And little girl thought for a moment and she said, Yeah, it is. And he did it with his left hand. Mom kind of perplexed, why? Well, because Jesus is sitting on his right hand. And no, I I don't that's not what it means. Jesus is not sitting on at God's right hand. He's sitting at the right hand of God. It's speaking it's speaking about Jesus ascended, exalted Lord as at the position of authority, at the position of reigning king. And see, it's precisely because he's in that position, precisely because his death, his life was accepted, that when his prayer is made, it's heard all the time. It's precisely because of that when we go into temptation and we fall that he can pick us up. It's precisely because of that that he is King of kings and Lord of Lords that we know That we will not ever be severed from our relationship to Christ. We have that confidence. Though we fall, he is strong. Though we're miserable. In our failing. He takes us miserable creatures and he makes us beautiful time and time again. He wipes the tears from our face and he upholds us and he sees secures us because that which he's begun in you he will complete. He is there making sure of that. He will do it. For he is God and Lord. Think about these things. I can go to Spain. There are a lot of things that scare me about going to Spain. There are a lot of things that scare you, ought to scare you about praying for us in Spain. And about missing us ministry and in the world. But if you know that, know these things, know your nature, and know that the Lord is strong in you, you who are weak, and know that he reigns at the right hand of God praying for you. And you're ready to go. Ready to go and serve him. Let's pray. Lord, we want to be ready, service. We want to be useful to you to remind us of these truths. Lord, in our our weakness demonstrate your power. Oh, cause us to turn time and time again to the Lord Jesus, the exalted Lord who prays for us. The Lord who's given his spirit, the spirit who lives within us and even prays for us. How double securely is that true, Lord? That what you begun you will complete. It you will complete forever because you intercede for us. Hear us, Father, in Jesus' name. Amen.