Richard Sharp will be bringing the message this morning and he's been with Operation Mobilization since nineteen seventy six. and has worked in seventy different countries. He's been here a few times before, so many of you will recognize him. And I asked him how would he like to be introduced? And he he gave me four points He has uh one wife, Rachel, which is a good name. My wife is Rachel also, and um he chased her halfway around the world on one of the ships that uh he's gonna talk a little bit about. He has two sons, Simon and uh Jonathan He served three years in India with OM and served on all three of OM's ships. And number four, he's his his passion is that the gospel go to the four corners of the world. And I can I when I met Richard the first time twenty four years ago when the Logos was in or actually it was yeah, the Logos was in Baltimore in front of the Phillips. Some of you might remember that. It was uh right in in the Inner Harbor And I met him then and he um recruited me to go on the Logos for a while. And uh he's gonna show a little bit about that at the end of the service. There's gonna be something up on the screen here, but he'll talk about it also. So welcome Richard. Where is Richard? Oh there he is. Amen. Good. Turn around to somebody and say, I'm glad you're here this morning. Now stand up and turn to three people and say, are you in the game? Stand up, turn around, three people, are you in the game? I was telling the folks in the first service I go to a church in Atlanta that is eighty percent black and they talk to you Uh you know the the messages are interactive, so when you preach, if it's going well they say, All right Jesus. If it not not going so well, help him Jesus If it's going bad, take him, Jesus. If it's going really bad, take me, Jesus. So you can pray one of those prayers this morning. But it's exciting. Who's a who's guys are you excited about Valentine's Day? Somebody says it's coming? Valentine's is coming up. Which man is crazy about his wife here? Turn to your wife and say, I'm crazy about you. I met my honey on the Lagos, chased uh halfway around the world from Singapore to Denmark. Took me two years. In fact, at first she said, you know, you ha we have a year where you come on a discipling programme, not a dating program. So you have a year where you can look but nothing else. And uh and then after that year is up it's open season. Although you do have to go through the director. And when I went to the director and said, you know, I'm interested in Rachel, he said, Somebody already beat you to it. Your cabin mate, Andy, an American guy. You know, the Bible says, Love your enemies And uh then she prayed about both of us for six weeks and then she said no to both of us. And I said that word no, when you exegute that word no There's no way and there's no maybe. I like no maybe. So I prayed another five months. And finally the ship was in Greece and I was on the team away from the ship for three weeks and I prayed during those three weeks that she would miss me on the ship. And she did. So uh we just celebrated twenty-five years of uh marriage. We met in we met in Singapore and I had meetings last October in Singapore And I was with a friend he's and uh they said, Is Rachel going with you? 'Cause they knew we'd met there. I said, Well, my ticket's covered but not hers and they said, Yes it is. And so it made a way for her to be with us and we had a fantastic time back in um Singapore. Who's been to Singapore? An amazing place, huh? Four million people. They live longer than people in the States The age of living here is seventy-eight, there it's eighty-two. I don't know why, but there it is. What else don't you want to know? And uh but um excited to be with you. I was given a badge Wow, I never had a formal badge like this. I tell you, this is impressive. So praise the Lord. Um I serve with a ministry. We love to uh introduce books. Maybe I'll give one or two free out. And um But I want to share some books with you. I may have mentioned one or two of these before to you. But um I mentioned this book by Bill Hybels, Becoming a Contagious Christian. There is there's helps in here that have helped me in sharing Jesus with others. In fact, there's one little method here I've used countless times. I used it a while ago in Lebanon in a restaurant with the manager Muslim manager of um a mosque uh well the shop and also the the the uh the restaurant and also heavily involved in the mosque And um have you heard of that little m method called do done? Have you ever heard of that? Wow. I tell you, it is I was sitting with this, I've done this many times, sat with him, had a little napkin, I said, you know, I've made a wonderful discovery. I've discovered the difference between religion and real Christianity And he said, What's that? And on the napkin I wrote the word do, do. And I said, religion is spelt do. You know, you do this, you do this, you do this and he said, Oh man, that's that's Islam. You know, we've got to go to Mecca, we've got to put our prayers you know. And and it's honourable and there's you know uh but it's felt do. And then I said, you know what real Christianity is spelt? And I wrote the letters D-O-N-E. Done. And I draw the cross. Not what we can do for God, but what God has done for us. And uh and at the end of the he was very open at the end, he said, uh, this you don't have to pay, this meal is on me. He's the owner of the restaurant. And I said, that's the gospel. You don't have to get your wallet out and pay. It's all on God He's paid for it. If I said to you, Oh no, no, no, I'll put that let me pay, you'd say, What do you mean it's already paid for? Well let me go halves Uh what are you gonna give half for? I've I've covered it. I'm not gonna pay for it twice. And I said, that's the good news That's the good news of the gospel. I want to give this to somebody. Brilliant book. See it pays to be up front By the way I so some of you, you know, y this won't be a way for me to influence friends, make friends and influence people. I believe the further back you sit The further you know, where you sit in church shows cut a bit of your spiritual temperature. And you way at the back Backsliders, totally out of it. And uh so there's Jack right at the back by the door. He's he's totally out to lunch and um This is an interesting book called The Snare by Lois Moday. I heard her speak in a conference. She she and her best friend were watching their two husbands who liked air ballooning air ballooning, is that what you call it? Going up in a balloon, they hit power cables, it burst into flames, and they watched their two husbands burnt alive. Can you imagine that? And she said, I instantly became single. And he said, I went to a Christian conference and I don't even like saying this. The speaker hit on her. You know what that means? And she went back to her room, got on her knees, and said, Lord Jesus, what do I do? And uh most books on the sexual area are written for men. But she wrote this book on women getting involved emotionally and then physically with someone. and uh how you just kind of get caught up in it. And uh this is a brilliant book um called The Snare. And you it may be for you, it may be for a friend of yours that you can see is uh is getting caught up. Um this is a book for guys. Six battles, every man must win. Not fight, win. Written by Bill Perkins, a pastor friend of mine, Portland, Oregon. And um this was a book, you know, most guys don't read books. Right? You quit in high school, college. Mark Twain said he who does not read good books has no advantage over him who cannot read. You like that? Don't get mad at me, he's one of your guys. He who does not read good books has no advantage over him who cannot read. And most of us are practical illiterates. Of course if we don't pray, we're also practical atheists. Don't need God. It's another message. But um anyway, my church and then in the African American community they don't read. So I've been kinda And I challenged the men to get this book and I said, get together in groups of six once a week, read one battle a week and get together and talk about it. And six guys took me up on it And then last Father's Day our our our pastor was sick, doesn't usually get sick, but he was sick, couldn't preach. And these six men the night before heard about it, said, We'll do it. And they each shared They'd each taken a battle that w was a fight for them and each shared one of those battles. It was an unforgettable Sunday. Especially one man who chose the sex battle. And his wife was sitting there, he looked at her, and he said, I'm so sorry, I've had an affair. Now I know most of you would say, well that's not appropriate to share in church. That's why we win in church and lose out there. And you could hear a pin drop. And I tell you folks, we had church that morning. No one forgets that we say, You remember Father said, Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I saw forty-nine copies of this book go out to this uh eighty percent African American church. I want to give this to a man here Usually hard for the man to put his hand up because his wife goes. Oops, sorry. I gotta watch the hardback. Oh he wrote this other book. Interesting, the publishers, which are conservative publishers, didn't want to publish this book. He had a real He wrote this book, Six Rules Every Man Must Break. Because the Christian life can easily become a series of boxes we check off. You know, church devotion put something in the plate. And um But this is an interesting book. Bit provocative. I like books you don't agree with everything in it. You know, if everything is just kind of, well, that was very nice And it just strokes you. You need books that smoke you as well. And uh I want to give this to somebody. He's gonna Interception. I'll FedEx it to you. Did you hear that UPS and FedEx got together? It's called Fed Up. It's called Fed Up. And uh so uh This is a tremendous book by Bruce Wilkinson. You know, back to the Bible. No, walk through the Bible. Secrets of the Vine. Ooh On chapter 15 of John. I tell you. Interesting man, I spoke at the church where he'd been the former youth pastor. And a ninety-one-year-old man came up to me and said, When he was our youth pastor, he was twenty years ahead of us, and we couldn't keep up with him, and we had to let him go. Interesting. And he said, 91-year-old man, he said, I wonder where we'd be today if we could have stayed with him. I want to give this to somebody, Secrets of the Vine. Ooh. You shot your hand up. What's your name? Forgotten? There you go. Hope you remember it. Read a chapter today. These are written for ten years of age and up. That's why I like them. Adoniran Judson, the first missionary to go from the shores of America. Incredible, incredible story. Here's Amy Carmichael. The whole sex trade today, she was one of the forerunners of taking child prostitutes out of the temples in India. And saving their bodies and their souls. You want this one? I wasn't going to give these away But you asked. Adam Iron Judson. How old are you? Ten. Ten and up, this one. Read a chapter today. Don't can't put it down. Those of folk who've gone to glory, these are nine living today called True Grit. This is nine women around the world today, one of them Tammy from Singapore, amazing businesswoman. Who heard that two hundred thousand young teenage girls are shipped out of Nepal to Mumbai, India, formerly Bombay, to work the streets, get AIDS and die. And she got upset with God. Did you ever get upset with God? David did. And she said, God, somebody should do something about that. And what did God say? Yeah, I want that one. Woo! If you want to if you want to know more about a punch see me. Thank you, babe. What? I thought this was a Presbyterian church. Where's the sign? Columbus. Where's the book? It's here. Hold on. I uh let me finish. What's your name? I'm Kathleen. It's so nice to meet you. Praise the Lord, David. Thank you. Thank you. This is about nine women, Tammy and eight others. I met her in Nepal And she's got ninety gals she's pulled off the streets and set them up in business. The interesting thing is God takes your business skills Oh, I like this woman. You can stay here. God takes your business skills and can use them anywhere. And I wanted to give this to a number ten true Brit woman. Are you back? She's back. Give her a hand. Bless you. Woo! Hey, maybe we're gonna have church this morning. Out of the comfort zone by the man George Vaugh, the founder of my mission, had more impact on my life than anyone else. Who wants this? Serving ascenders. I'm gonna talk about this lousy cover, but a great book This book. It's called Windows on the World. Wow, here's Iceland, almost bankrupt as a whole country. Hear about that? Imagine that, a whole country. This is a book written for families with beautiful stories, pictures, illustrations. And these are points for prayer. I want to challenge families. Once a week, have a global focus time after supper. Read one of these, just pray. He's had his hand up six times. Put it up again, number seven is the good number. And uh but if you did that once a week as a family or as a couple Something would happen to the world and something would happen to you. Number seventh time. Most expensive book. It's good I'm not a businessman. There you go. Praise Jesus. By the way This isn't a prelude, that's all part of the message. Do you realize this? God can have spoken to you through a phrase And uh but just maybe this morning, God is gonna grab you by the neck. Maybe God is gonna slap you a little. Huh? But I want to ask you this morning, are you in the game? You know I'm an Englishman, so I haven't got the spiral down yet. I'll stick to my day job. Are you in the game? Are you in the game? You may ask, what is the game? Well, football season is over. All of I have said All the men fed. Oh Well the game isn't over The real game is still going. And what is that game? Well imagine the world. As the football field. Over six billion people And imagine this football as the gospel. Now this is your game, not mine. I'm British. So talk to me. What is the goal in football? What do you want to achieve? Touchdowns. How do you do that? You go from one end of the field to the other. Well that's the goal and mission. To go from one end to the other. And Jesus gave us a game plan, Acts 1. 8. Now it's interesting. Pastor Al, the first Sunday of this mission, spoke from Acts 1. 8. And what do he give you? Ten sort of obstacles or breaking through cross-culturally in missions. But here we are. We want to take this gospel from this end zone to this end zone. And Jesus' game plan is start where you are, you shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem, which is local, your city. Start there but don't stop there. And then you go Judea, that's national, your country. So say the first five yards is na is local, your city Say the second 15 yards is national, Judea, your country. Say the next 30 to the halfway line, that's Samaria, that's regional. That's the nations around you and the nations that have come to you. So you've got local, national, regional. Your city, your country, your region Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria. Got it? And that takes us to the halfway line. But then he says to the ends of the earth. And that's global. So we go local, national, regional, but the second half of the field is global, the ends of the world, the rest of the world. And then what is this last twenty yards called? What is that called? Red zone. Why is it called the red zone? It's the toughest part because the enemy is right in your face and they're saying you're not coming in here. In missions it's called the blood zone. In fact last time I was here I bought Gary. Some of you remember him, Gary and his wife Bonnie entered the the the 20-yard zone in Lebanon. And for three other girls, she was working in a little prenatal clinic. There were 150,000 Palestinians in a refugee camp. And young pregnant mothers would come to this place. They create a lovely sweet place that was clean and tidy, quiet. They played soft music, they'd make biscuits and coffee, and it was a place of refuge for these harassed young women. And then one day a group of Muslims came to them and said, What you're doing, talking to the helping the ladies is good, but don't talk to them about Jesus. And they got together and said, What do we do? Do we do the good works but not the good news? Do we go just somewhere else where we can do both? And they decided we'll keep doing both. And one early one morning There's a knock on the door. She opened the door. A man with a hooded mask, eyes cut out, fired three shots into her face. Killed her. She's in the red zone, the blood zone, the toughest part. And this is the game plan, folks. Go from this end of the field to this. Are you in the game? Are you? Talk to me. Are you in the game? I dropped the ball again. Hey, are you on the team? Is Jesus your coach? Look at these words of Jesus, frightening. Some of his scariest words. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. And many are going to say, Lord Laws. They got his name down But only he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? In your name drive out demons and perform many miracles Judas did all of that. Judas went on short term mission trips. Interesting, huh? Then I will tell them plainly, I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers. Because on that day, folks Many will say, Lord, Lord, and Jesus will say, Oh, you know my name, but I'm sorry I don't know yours And that could be you today. That could be you sitting here today. You know Jesus' name, but does Jesus know your name? Does he call the plays in your life And what happens when you don't like the play? You got a better play. Hey, I got another play. I think this will work for me. I was telling the folks, it just popped in my head the first service. Next time I'll have notes. I thought this was this I don't usually do this as good as I could do the handout thing. But I still remember when Jesus called a play on my life. I was dating a girl, I was sweet on her, Sabina, her half German, father was Irish, mother was German. And she was off to university. And after every semester she'd come back. But I noticed she was warmer towards me and cooler towards Jesus. And one Christmas she invited me to Germany. Beautiful little German village, all snowy and Christmassy, romantic. I got on like a house on fire with a grandmum. I couldn't speak any German, she couldn't speak any English, and we just hit it off And the Lord at that Christmas said, Richard, give her up. And I found when the Lord speaks, he doesn't use a lot of words. I bet the play on the wrists are quite short. You just said, give her up And I kind of dialogued with him for several days, getting him to change the play. And he kept coming back. Give her up. And just before we were to go back by train From Germany. I said, you know what? This is not going to work. We need to break up. And I really sweet on her. Probably should have done it later because we sat on the train the whole way back, didn't talk to each other. Two years later I got a wedding invitation from her. And the name of the guy on the thing was Richard. My name. It's interesting seeing Richard with Sabino. And I went to the wedding, I was sort of towards the back. And uh when she walked down the aisle afterwards, hand in hand with this guy, she looked gorgeous. Her grandmama was right behind her. And Grandmama looked at me and went should have been you This is just you know, just just said I do and you know and kissed and and then she's going right behind her. And I went And I don't b believe I'd be here today. And it was a hard play to make. Is there any hard play Jesus is calling you to? And you're in negotiations How you spend your money is an issue with Jesus. What you watch is an issue. How you operate at work is an issue. Some relationship is an issue. Is he the coach of your life? Is he calling the place? Are you in the game? Are you on the team? Are you in shape? Are you in shape? You know that game on Sunday? A lot of guys sitting in the crowd, big bag of potato chips, Budweiser's hot dogs coming out of their ears, big sh Watching the game. And they're going, Oh he dropped the ball! Ah Paying millions. Man, just give the ball to me, I'll show 'em how it's done. If you put them on the field they couldn't run ten yards. Or they made a three hundred pound linebacker and their pancakes and that's it. History. Right. But how about you? Are you in shape? Am I in shape? Think of that guy that ran the hundred you know the uh end of the first half, ran the length of the field at the end? Great big guy Can you go the length of the field? With Jesus? For Jesus? Can you take a hit and get up? Hey, you're eating right. You're eating of the Word of God. Getting into the meat of it. Interesting, I took a team to Mexico, a teenage team. And during a message I just said, no Bible, no breakfast. I think it came from Billy Graham. Two weeks later I got an email from the youth pastor who said, Richard, I think revival's breaking out. They took you up on that. They said, no Bible, no breakfast. They started meeting together for breakfast before school, reading the word. Other kids heard about it, wanted to join them. Kids were getting saved. Parents were calling up and saying, What's happened to my son and daughter? Parents were showing up at church. She said I think re revival's breaking out. And getting into this book. Are you eating right? Are you drinking right? Are you drinking of the Spirit of God? You remember when they take that big data ray? I wish I had one here. I was thinking about it Couldn't bring it on the plane. The big gatorage, you know when they pour it over the coach at the end? That's called the baptism of the spirit. 1 Corinthians 12 says, we were all baptized by one spirit into one body. And what's the next part say? And all made to drink. Of the one, the same spirit. Interesting, the bat isn't that overwhelming one-time experience, but the drinking is the ongoing. And you see on the sidelines all the guys with their Gatorade bottles drinking away. They've got to keep up their fluids. And you and I have got to keep up our fluids. We cannot get dehydrated. Are you drinking of the spirit? Come take charge of my life, Spirit of Living God. Are you exercising your faith? You gotta build strong muscle. What are you trusting God for this year? Huh? What are you trusting God for this year? Turn to the person next to you and say something you're trusting God for this year. Boom. Something you're trusting God for this year. Turn to the person next to you, do that. Don't look at me. If you can't think of something, make something up. What are you trusting God for? If they say something, say ditto I'm trusting God for Kevin and Andy, two guys I'm witnessing to at the club, was sharing with one of them yesterday that they'll come to Jesus. That's one of my this year. What are you trusting God for? That builds muscle as we trust Him. And that's how you get in shape. Eating right, drinking right. Exercising your muscles. Are you in shape? And you're in one of the quarters of your life. Some of you are young in the first quarter. Some of you are in the second. Some of you are in the third. Some of you are playing the fourth quarter. But can you go the whole game? What if there's overtime? And get in shape. Many of us spiritually are flabby, fat. Take a little hit, and shh, we're out for weeks. Just you know, just for a little hit. One last question Are you playing your position? Are you in the game? Are you on the team? Are you in shape? Are you playing your position? I just made this last night when I was here. I some of you you like this? Or offense How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. And we need some Fitzgeralds If you don't know who he is, ask somebody next to you. We need people who will run with the gospel ball. And just keep running. Go for it. Stand up if you're on offense. You know God uses you in offense. Share the gospel across the street, across the world, locally and globally and in between. Stand up. Anyone here? Wow. What a beautiful sight. How beautiful are the feet of those. Fleet of foot. Can take the hits, get up and keep going. I mean those on offense Take a seat. We also need those on defense. Did I get this right? Is that right? Thank you. Get a free book. Defense Interesting, Steelers won the game, number one defense. They said defense wins games, right? It's not sexy. Should I say that here? It's not Cool and sexy, but but it wins games This is what wins in mission. Defense. You know why? Because if defense doesn't do their job, there's no offense. They're on the sidelines waiting to get on. Defense for those who say we've got to get the ball. We gotta give the offense the ball. We gotta pray. We gotta give to them, we gotta support them, we gotta do everything it takes to give them the ball I challenge the the first church. Let me give you this a little idea. There's a traffic light you pass at most days. Going to college, going to work, dropping the kids off. Designate that as a traffic light where you pray for somebody who's on offense. And you pray for them Green light, quick prayer. Orange light, quicker prayer. Red light. Hallelujah. Long prayer. I do that. Just helps me Then there are special teams. Those who go for a s short term season for a special job Who's been on a special team, a short-term mission from this church? Stand up. Who's been on a team, short-term team? You've been on special teams. Wow. Good. Take a seat. Some play offense and defense. I like playing a bit of both. But stand up if you know this is you. This is your position that God wants you to play. Defense, stand up Soon there'll be more of you than offense in this game But defense wins games. No defense, no offense. No offense. Of course there's offense and defense, and then there's sitting on the fence And of course if I ask those who are sitting on the fence to stand up, they won't. Because they like sitting on the fence I'm gonna go for it. Who here knows this is you Stand up. Take stuff. If you're dead honest, offense, defense, this is me. Can you stand twice? Yeah. Because you could have been on offense or defence, but now you're sitting on the fence. May the Lord make it uncomfortable. You may take offense at that? Are you in the game? Are you on the team? Are you in shape? Are you playing your position? And one day God the referee will blow the whistle And say game over. When is game over? And this gospel shall be preached to the whole world. We'll go from one end zone to the other. And then game over. We win. Message over. Bless you.