With a series of messages on 1 Corinthians thirteen, I came across the story of David Michael Howard Hazard. A man who lives not far from here in Breesburg, Virginia. A man who became tired of being a Christian. A man who became empty of his love for God. You ever become tired of being a Christian? Hired of being a Christian this morning. You ever get weary from your long list of Christian duties? I first stuff with this story of David Havers and the principle of love that it illustrates that I decided that the Lord wanted me to examine the text that lays out that principle and to examine that with you this morning and then tell you a story as a footnote. To First Corinthians thirteen verses one to three, before we continue to proceed in our series on the course of his mind. The text is Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 to 7. The scripture then is Revelation chapter 1, beginning with verse 9. Going to chapter 2, verse 7. Let's give attention as we hear God's own words. I died your brother and companion in the suffering and the kingdom And patient endurance that are ours in Jesus, but on the island of Papas, because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. On the Lord's day I was in the spirit and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet. Which said, write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven persons. Lephitus, Smyrna, Pergamon, Sayatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Late Basila. I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me. And when I turned I saw seven golden lampstands. And among the lampstands was someone like a son of man dressed in a robe, reaching down to his feet, and with a golden stamp around his chest. His head and his hair were like white, white, white like wool, and as white as snow And his eyes were like blazing fire. His teeth were like bronze glowing in a furnace. And his voice was like the sound of rushing water. In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp, double-legged sword. His face was like the sun shining in all its brilliance When I saw him, I saw that his feet that they placed his right hand on me and said, Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last I am the living one. I was dead, and behold, I am alive forever and ever. And I hold the keys of death and greed. Write therefore what you have seen, what is now, and what will take place later. The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and of the seven golden lampstands is this The seven stars are the angels of the seven persons, and the seven lampstands are the seven purpose. To the angel of the church in Ephesus, writes, These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstones. I know your deeds, your hard work, and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men and that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not. And it sounds unfalse. You have persevered and have endured hardship for my name and have not grown weary. Yet I hold this against you. You have forsaken your first life. Remember the height from which you have fallen. Repent and do the things that you did at first If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your landstands from its place. But you have this in your favor You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. Reading the five words, fellas give our attention to understand it and to apply it. First of all, you see that these words in chapter 2, verses 1 to 7 Are the words of the Lord Jesus Himself addressed to the first of seven churches that he speaks to in these next couple passages? The words to the church at Ephesus In each case, there is a pattern. In his words for the seven churches, there is first of all a description of Jesus. And then there's a description of the church, its strengths, and its weaknesses. And then there follows in each case a call to repentance, or at least in six out of seven cases, there's a call to repentance. Then there is a promise that is given if the church will heed and an admonition, a warning if it doesn't, and an admonition to hear what the Lord is saying. To the character ethics then, there are three points that the Lord makes, and I have listed them as three C First of all, Christ's commendation to the church at Ephesus. Secondly, his complaint. And thirdly, his command First of all, after the description of the one who is speaking, these are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands. You have the Lord's commendations of the Church of Ephesus in verses 2 and 3. Notice what he says. I know your deeds, your hard work, and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men if you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not and have found them false. You have persevered and have endured hardship for my name and have not grown weary. That's quite a statement. You see there that the Lord is commending the Church of Ephesus for three major things because it characterizes the church. Three major areas. Their toil Their endurance and their orthodoxy. Notice what he says to them. First of all, notice how he commends their toil in the beginning of verse 2. I know your deeds, your hard work. The hard work. The Greek word for hard work is a word which means diligent labor, labor to weariness, bone-weary labor Uh the labor that wears you out, it's a strenuous kind of labor that can lead to exhaustion. In other words, uh Ephesus was a busy church Uh the the Ephesian Presbyterian Church had something going every night, you know. Uh you looked at the calendar and you could just always see there was an activity you could fit into and if you weren't fitting into too many of them uh then there was sure to be somebody who was going to gently suggest to you that maybe there was something else, a ministry that could be taken up, and that perhaps that was something that you should consider. It was a busy church Do you identify with that? I think it's safe to say that Columbia Presbyterian Church is a busy church. Uh I think it's uh very safe to say it if uh if I can extrapolate from those that I talk to, to the rest of you, uh everybody I talk to or I talk to is very, very busy And we're always talking about how much we're trying to do and and how we're trying to juggle our priorities and become a little more ruthless on what we need to cut out so that we can get more accomplished and make our time count for the Lord. I think it's safe to say that if the Lord Jesus was speaking to the Church of Columbia, that he would commend the toil of many of you, that he would commend your hard work for him. Notice secondly that he commands to endure it. In the beginning in the end of uh in the middle really of uh verse two and then verse three. After he says, I know your deeds, your hard work, he says, I know your perseverance. And I know this verse 3. You've persevered and have endured hardships for my name, and have not grown weary. This some here that is suffered to their faith, you say. And you haven't wavered. They need to understand that this epistle was written, because this part of Revelation really isn't epistle. And that these words were written most likely during the reign of the Emperor Domitian. About twenty-five years earlier, Nero had uh inaugurated his sporadic intense persecutions that uh mostly were centered around Rome. But now under Domitian, persecution had entered a second stage. First of all, it had moved wider into Asia Minor, where Ephesus was, and secondly, it had become more systematic. Domitian was a fellow who was hungry to be worshipped as the emperor. And so emperor worship was a constant issue to the Ephesian Christians. Would they bow to the emperor and acclaim him as divinity? Ephesus, as we recall from the book of Acts, was also the center of the cult of Diana of the Ephesians. Because they were constantly confronted with her worship and whether they would fit in to the society, whether they would go along with the crowd and all that they worshiped and did. They were the magic arts and the occult that were also practiced there. In other words, the Ephesian Christians knew what it was like to be ostracized. They knew what it was like to be rebuffed because they followed Jesus' place. They knew the cost of commitment. They were a people who had known suffering, who had been disenfranchised in some cases, and in other cases even physically tortured. Jesus says, I know you've persevered. I know you've persevered and you've endured hardship to my name. And you're not going to lose. We identify with that. Uh you say very little we identify with that kind of suffering. Yet I know some of you have suffered with Jesus Christ Some of you have weighed heavily the cost of committance and of following Jesus without compromise. And I believe that if the Lord Jesus were speaking to the Church of Columbia, he would commend a number of you for your perseverance and your endurance in following Him without going weary. Notice thirdly, he commends the orthodox. Notice what he says at the end of verse 2 and verse 6. Because I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men if you've tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false, just more specific in verse 6. You have this in your favor that you hate the practices of the Nikolaitans, which I also hate. Remember how thirty or so years before that. Paul, after his labors of two and a half years in Ephesus in Acts 20, when he did the Ephesian elders farewell, he said to them I know that soon shall come wolves into the flock in sight of the season. And so that concern was fulfilled. And now over 30 years later, here were the Nicolaitans. There was a cult, a subtle kind of cult In fact, it was so subtle that if you read further on in chapter 2, you find in verses 14 and 15 that they had deceived the church at Pergamon. Pergamum had embraced the teaching of the Nikolaitans and the immorality that went along with that. But Jesus commends the church at Ephesus because he says, you weren't fooled. You didn't tolerate those Nikolaitans, those false prophets. Jesus said you did the right thing. You listened to them, first of all. You tested them by the word of God. And then when you found that their people didn't square with scripture, you rejected it. Then you notice he says you hated their deeds. He doesn't say that you hated the Nikolaitians But you hated their deeds. They treated the Nikolaitans as creatures made in God's image. But their deeds they hated. Jesus commends them for their orthodoxy. Identify with that. He said a number of times that right doctrine is a high priority of Columbia Presbyterian Church. We seek to, as best we know how, test every thought and plan and idea from the scriptures. Before we proceed with anything with the church, with our small groups, in personal counseling, in all that we do, our aim is to follow the scriptures, to always ask what does God say about this? Not simply what is our thought and feeling of what seems good to me. But what does God say about this? Casting. The idea of thoughts that we come across. And I believe that if he just was speaking to the Church of Columbia that by and large He's a commended for our Orthodox. Well then what could be wrong? I mean, yeah, here you have a church that's that's working till they're dog tired for the Lord They're enduring suffering and not compromising, not growing weary and giving up in their enduring for Jesus Christ. And they're following his word the best they know how. What possibly could be wrong? Just fix them a word. And you see them bear on verse heart. Both in the Greek and in the English, there's a six and a one. If I have this one thing that I hold against you, you'll think the first love We've left. The first month. I don't know how that hits you. I know that uh my response to that might be something like, Well, you know, all right, for the art is cooled a little bit, you know. Sure, it's not right that they have lost something of their first love, but they're still faithful, you know. They're feeling still doing an awful lot of good things. And the fact that their ardor has cooled, that they've left their first love for the Lord. It's something yes to be concerned about. It's something that ought to be taken seriously. But it's not something worth stopping the show and just making everybody stop all that they're doing in order to consider this before you go on, is it? Isn't this something that you really ought to just sort of always be aware of as you continue to serve the Lord? No No, that's not what Revelation Two says. That's not what First Corinthians thirteen one to three says It says that our service and our ministry to the Lord without love meaneth nothing. The toil you see without love becomes snuggled. Their commendable endurance without love becomes a kind of stoicism that simply suffers with gritted teeth saying, I'm gonna hang on because I can't give up. And their orthodoxy becomes a kind of self-righteous knowledge without knowledge. Reminds you a little bit of 1 Corinthians 13, number 3, doesn't it? So I give all that I have, whether it's goods or fine, without love. It's nothing. Though I endure without weariness and even give my body to be burned without love and snuffle. And though I have the gift of prophecy, so that I know all mysteries and all knowledge, so that my orthodoxy is impeccable, without love. Forget what the Lord said here. The Lord of heaven and earth. The one who created and ruled all the spheres of reality. God said, He wants your love above everything. That amazing He wants your love. He wants your love so much that he saves you ultimately not to work for him, but to worship him. His first and great commandment was that you love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul and spirits and mind. His concern for you and for me is not simply that we're active for this, but that he has our hearts. And he doesn't say that's simply a concern to tuck in the back of your mind. It's the driving motivation for everything humanizing. And it's what makes itself The Lord says that this is something that is at the very heart of his concern for us and our relations with him. As evangelical Christians, I think that we can be in danger of overreacting to the heresy of our day that says that love is simply healing. And if Christians say that love has nothing to do with feelings, you ought to be passive in our love for the Lord, right? I think it counts Vinzendorf, it began the Moravian movement. That's like an intimate relationship with Jesus Christ You know, more than one occasion when he was praying, he would ask the friend that if he could step outside or he could uh go a bit of a distance because he was going to be embarrassed at exposing the depths of his intimacy to the Lord and it was just something that uh that was just too intimate for him to be able to even share with any close friends. Did you and I have a kind of relationship with the Lord, or if anyone saw these intimate moments with him, would be advised for them to see? What's the only embarrassed anybody seeing you the world? Well husbands and wives, you do be embarrassed of anybody for you? The most intimate moments with the person that you love is about physical. No, I'm not just physical Talking about very shared intimacy that reflect the depth of your love and commitment to one another. Why wouldn't you so with the Lord to you? Do we have the kind of relationship with him? It's so intimate. Did there be an embarrassment for anyone else to be involved in those Jesus spirit in anything? Have you loved it? Mama. Could you love for the Lord since he first became a Christian groan? Or have you left that first life? Have you gone away from the first blessing of your life to Jesus Christ since you first became a Christian? We could hear about trusting Jesus and following him. The question I put to you this morning is be a loved Jesus. Not simply are you following what your parents say to you about Jesus. But if you were to take your parents away so that all you had left was your relationship with Jesus, what would be left between you and him personally? You and I know Jesus. We can find ourselves convicted by that. Then let's move on to find someone Advice, his counsel, and his command to us. For he doesn't leave us there. He goes on in the usual gentleness, and in his wisdom he gives us away all. And his way out to us involves three steps. Notice first of all, he says to remember, then secondly, to repent, and thirdly to rejoin. Remember firstly the height from which you fall as he says. Remember your former state in verse 5. Memory is very important to a Christian. We must always remember what the Lord has done for us, to keep the fires of our lost burning with him. But here he's calling upon us to remember something else. He's saying here, remember your relationship with me at a former time. Remember that height That height of your first love that you had with me and for me at another time. Think of Mary For those of you who are married, remember that time when you first came to set your love upon the person that you're now married to? You say, yeah, I think about that, sorry, how in the story it was. I mean real. I look back on that. It was really deep and people I had such a solid, self-standing kind of love when I first said that I loved the person that I look back on that now and is really pretty cool. You know, I mean now since I've been married I I've read ten books on marriage and developing the intimate lines and sharing all this kind of thing you know. And I've been to three seminars on marriage that have really helped me to understand what it means to love a person And now I don't have to be told to take out the bodies. And and now uh you know I'm able to do thoughtful things for this person that I care for and I always remember anniversaries and I never withhold my body and I'm always seeking to make peace and to do those things which really will please Well, you say you operate very efficiently together now. But what about your love, your design for that person to be living? Have you come to do those things because you've been trained to do them? Along with that training in righteousness, in godliness, and in love, is there still that desire to be the person? Feel that desire to spend time together, to delight in him or her. I remember when Kathy and I were in Breeds, I was working in New Jersey And I would put in a full day and a full week and I would happily drive over two hours, two and a half hours. Uh sometimes I wouldn't get back until two o'clock in the morning and have to put in a full day next time. More than once I fell asleep at the wheel. Why would I do it again? Just for a few hours to be without. What's happened? What's happened with so many of us we please each other for brand? The Lord says, remember the relationship we have. Remember that time. Remember. And He says to help you to remember, remember What our relationship is. Notice how he describes it in chapter one and verse five. Who else is it speaking to it? John says that this is the message that's coming to you from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, a prophet, who has declared faithfully to us what God wants. The firstborn from the dead. Keeping with him as our priest, who has given his life and is risen again as the one who has accomplished the sacrifice to pay for all of our sins And the rule of the kings of the earth, the great king is coming to rule. The woman who loves you I have freed them from our sins by his death. What can we remember in? That's who we're coming back to. When's the last time you thought about how much Jesus loves you and what it's meant for him to save you from your sins by your life? Jesus is calling us back to a remembrance of the relationship we have. And after we've remembered that, he says, then repent. Repent your present faith. Turn away from that. Change your mind and change your direction. Perhaps if you hear this relationship with Jesus Christ, you can't respond to a relationship that was the height that Jesus keeps up there in their spiral. And when you see his word to repent, you say, To what? I've never really known Jesus. And I call upon you this morning. To come to him for the first time. I call on you this morning to repent of the fact that you have ignored and results from love that he has demonstrated to you How he served for you. And the sacrifice that he made of his own body. Having given a sacrifice, he was able to free us from usefulness And those things that hold you in barn from the guilt and from the oppression of going your own way without regard to God in your life. I call upon you to come to Jesus Christ today. That you have come here. And we look back on that relationship and you say, Yeah, I thank you, remember that I can remember when I first became a Christian and I first watched with my lust of the Lord and it's going to fail, just grown to the lips of duty. Repent of those duties. Repent of the duty orientations, not the things you've done, Jesus commended them. Repent of doing them with a loveless attitude, of taking him for granted. Of living with him as if you're in a marriage to grown sin. Repent of that. And then thirdly, redeem your former sin. You notice that Jesus doesn't say in verse 5, remember the height you've fallen from, repent, and then wait to see the kind of feelings I give you for myself. He calls it to action. Repent and do the things you did at first. Repent and resume your former activity. He doesn't call us away mesophorum from the acting. He's saying, come back into the understanding of why you did it. Do, the Greek is literally do the first be. See the first seeds that were lovingly for service to him. Because you've come again to realize all that he has meant to you and lovingly and freeing from your sins by this life. Come to him. Come to him in that new, fresh, revitalized understanding. It's your only service to him. It is an acceptable service. It is an acceptance of service to that of a loving son. A heart that realizes and causes and worship him. Spend that time cultivating your relationship together. You know this that he says in verse 6, in verse, the end of verse 5. And if you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its stream. No church is guaranteed the security of a good work. Paul had written to the those in Ephesus The very last words of his epistle were Praise be to those who love the Lord Jesus with an undying love. And here's 30 some years later, John is saying, He's left that life. That's fifty generation before. And Ephesus apparently responded to this. Ignatius writes some years after this a glowing epistle to the Ephesian church, commending them for their spirituality. By the Middle Ages, because Ephesus today, there is no such place He was a bond long ago. And it's just a little settlement there, the last side of the season too, to die. The Lord calls us to admise. The Lord calls us to recognize the importance and the priority of love in our relationship with Him. That brings us back to the story of David Hazard. I think if we Very articulate illustration of this principle meaning to our life Not long ago, David Hazard was sitting out in the backyard with his wife, and as he reports it, he says that In that moment of relaxation with my guard down, I let go of a confession that had been bottled up in me for a long time. I told my wife, I was tired of being a Christian. What I mean, I added rapidly, is that I'm tired of being unhappy. I used to be so full of love. Now I nothing that I do has any real meaning. I don't expect to be walking three feet off the ground all the time, but I can't reach God anymore. I feel as if he's dissatisfied with me. It's not his fault. It's not mine either, I guess. I'm simply empty. His wife responded by simply asking him, What's the matter? What's making you so unhappy? And his response to her was that was a free inquest easy fault. It was a fleeing question because she didn't ask if others had, are you reading the Bible every day? Or are you praying regularly? I didn't have to shrink with guilt because the cursive deadlines had forestalled my prior time for a day or two. I was simply three that spill out by confusion. So what he did was he recounted with her his pilgrimage and his walk with the Lord from the first to become a Christian through five stages. See if you identify with what happened in his life. He says that as a new Christian, I would meet with God each night if I meander through the Rolling Hill country back in my hometown And I'd thank God for the daily practical blessings, a loving family, good job, Christian friends, and often I'd tell him about my struggles with temptations. And I'd listen, letting his peace wash over me for the night dream. Sometimes I would seem so very close to him. Then one day one of my spiritual members took me aside and he said that I was missing an important duty in the Christian life He told me that the gospel of the kingdom must be preached to all the world before the Lord Jesus could come back. Witnessing, he said. That's the key. You know, it's like a geometric progression of two Christians, these two other Christians, and those two Christians, these two other Christians, because the whole world could be reached in a generation And so he says, while I sensed a certain condemnation in his tongue, he called me to the challenge. True Christians will rise to the challenge, those who will lose war and won't be And so he said I set aside some of my engagement. He had been witnessing. He says at one point his boss had asked him why he was able to walk with such a string in his steps You have such a good attitude around work and we talked to him about Jesus Christ. His grandmother on her deskbed had asked him what had given him peace if he noticed such a difference in his life He let her to the Lord, and then others of his family had come to him and said, What was it that changed grandma so much in the last days of life? She's very active in witnessing. But now they had to cancel many of his activities because they organized witnessing weekends. And they would go to a nearby resort and they would go in in a team in order to uh make a raid on the town and carved out one afternoon a week in order to witness to reach the world. Then another respected person would be pushing a prize. Service, he said. That's the key. You know, James said anybody can talk about their faith, but he said by this time I began to feel a little guilty about enjoying my privacy with the Lord each night He began to tell me about how I needed to serve other people. Again, he'd been serving other people. He'd been walking around with a fellow who had uh father had must home and he'd been spending some weekends with him It was an epileptic friend that he would drive various places that he needed to go. It was another fellow who was having a hard time with a job until he'd get up at 5 a. m. to help him to deliver patients. But he says these things didn't seem like service the way this fellow described it because they were fun to me. What he was talking about was something obviously much more serious And he said, if you want to get anywhere with the Lord, you've got to serve and display. So he said I began to fill up my new trip and my calendar. Soon I was penciling in days on my calendar, Bible studies, witnessing at the beach, a Saturday shopping trip trip with an elderly friend. Weekends were the youth group, day at the amusement park was taught. Other Christians who were said to be on fire for the Lord kept an equally hectic face, so I thought I was doing great And thirdly, the pastor preached the sermon, the sermon on the sin of being overweight and out of place. So he said, because I've been working around in a desk all the time, I realized I needed to deal with this area of my life, so I began to run five miles each night. Well in order to be able to keep up my schedule set I had to combine my prayer time with my jogging until I would begin to combine various activities. In fact, he says, life was getting rather complicated with late-night meetings and early morning appointments. And anything that I could combine together to keep my growing sex list going was most often. Before Mary Lynn and I had been married, various friends, both men and women, college me with rules to regulate this area of my life also. I wish to be the spiritual authority in our home and the servant of all, the leader in prayer and Bible study and in playtime fund. A financial wisdom prosperous provider, but not materialistic. Tough and tender, well grimmed but not vain, knowledgeable in all things, but not a know-it-all. It would help different advisors said if I kept up with the news, the arts Prime interest rate, how my wife's day went, my dirty clothes, where to buy the piece of gasoline, and if I surprise her each week with a rose of dinner out, that would be icing on the case. Everyone told me that marriage would work. I thought I was supposed to be love. Their intent, I assume, was to make me a well-rounded man. I was flattened. And then he says to Leader was still my work. My official bona fide job type work. Every day brought me reports and books I really should read, contracts I absolutely have to make and studies that I ought to consider seriously. Defide deals that I better not miss. My voice had grown louder as I related these things to marry men, and I saw clearly what a dismal signal that I was on And that treadmill had ground out resentment. I was burning with resentment toward God. He had lured me into this Christian life with the bait of joy and freedom, and then had snapped cut the bars of duty. There were too many means. Because the heavy burden of things to do that would qualify me as a good, acceptable, worthy Christian, I could no longer carry them all. I still wanted God in my life more than anything else. But I was afraid that returning to my first love would mean fulfilling one more spiritual requirement. And I was praying. Then God did two things in his life. He reminded him of two passages of scripture. One is Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 to 7 that we just looked at. The second was Matthew chapter 6, Matthew chapter 5, verse 3, in which the Lord Jesus said, Blessed are they. who are spiritually impoverished. As we began to think about those two things, David Hazley wrote The very reason that I had fallen in love with God in the very first place was that he was the only one who didn't expect anything from me. He knew that I couldn't gain heaven by any amount of good deed. He had sent his son to take my place and to free me from the trap of trying to gain his favor. I felt a change of embarrassment. Jesus had died to set me free from my striving. His death eliminated my doing good work to prove that I was good enough for God. I had nothing to offer him for my salvation when I came to him. And yet here I was groaning under an incredible schedule of good works hoping that he would welcome me to his side more now than he had the first moment that I trusted him for eternal life. I had come without a shred of goodness to recommend him. Now I was offering endless lifts. Of truth. How suddenly had my desire to serve Christ turned into a gripping compulsion to justify myself as a Christian to identify with intervals. He finishes by saying that even though you may always try to be in three places at once and still tend to be overcommitted. The checklist for acceptance with God with God. You and I need to be free from the kind of stuff that efforts is fallen through Doing without loving. The kind of giving that 1 Corinthians 13, 1 to 3 warns us about a giving, a knowing, of service to God. To God deserves us. As individuals, as family, and the church. For Jesus Christ. Oh God. See what did you do than now for your great life now. Lord Jesus, you who are the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the one who is set up as ruler over all the kings of the earth, have told us to be love. And that you have freed us from our sins by your life. And yet to so many of us who have come without any shred of goodness to recommend us to you. have fallen into the trap of trying to stay busy and over busy in order to justify ourselves this Christian And Lord, that's taken away our first life. We've gotten so involved in the past that we no longer see again Oh our God, give us that grace to remember the heights in which we've fallen, to repent of our present state of duty-bound pharaoh kind of Christianity. We pray that you would be human enough, the first piece of love. Even if you people might learn to walk out of the gratitude and the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ. Lord, only you can do that. Only you can work that in it. Only you can give us a freedom without an antinomy, working against the law and a lawless kind of license. Only you can translate That kind of devotion and heart towards you. They seek to love you and to serve one another. Because of all these done to us. Okay, do you have worked out enough? What did you do thank? That even if we look at ourselves right now, we know whatever we fall into We love it. We can find love it. And loving the things we love for us. And you walk in the feeding death in Jesus Christ.