We're all familiar with the American Medical Association's prescription for a healthy body. You know, it includes uh eating uh the seven balanced uh balanced diet of the seven basic food groups. It includes getting uh plenty of exercise and plenty of rest, uh minimal stress, positive mental attitude, all these kinds of uh factors, the various parts of the body working in harmony and in the correct division of labor, you know, the body's divided into certain systems. And the skeletal muscul musculature system must be operating in harmony with the digestive system, the nervous system, and the circulatory system. And the body has its own division of labor. And it must operate correctly for the body to be healthy. If the digestive system one day decides that it's no more fun to be digestive system, it thinks it'd be more fun to be the circulatory system, you're in trouble. The body's going to die. God has apportioned a division of labor within the body in order for it to continue to grow and to be healthy. And in that same way, God has given a prescription for health in the spiritual body, the body of Christ, the church. And he has given as part of the prescription for health in that body a proper division of labor. And that's what we're going to consider this morning. Ephesians chapter four, verses Speak of that division of labor that is necessary in the body. This is one of the most basic and yet one of the most ignored principles of operation of the Church of Jesus Christ, and it's one of the are the most ignored for having a healthy church. And so we're going to consider this morning, particularly verses 11 to 13, but again let's put them in the context of those first 16 verses of chapter 4. So follow along as I read from Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 16. Let's hear God's word. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you've received. He completely humbles. Humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There's one spirit, one body, and one spirit. Just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But to each one of us grace has been given as Christ a portion. This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. Now what does he ascended mean, except he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all. the heavens, in order to fulfill the whole universe. It was He who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service. So that the body of Christ may be built up, until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheme, instead, speaking the truth in love. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love. As each part Does its work. Thus far God's Word. Now I want for us to consider what God wants us to understand from this. Under these three headings that you see in the bulletin outline, follow along as we go through these. God's prescription for a healthy body divided into God's prescription for the division of labor, God's prescribed attitude in ministry, and Then God's prescribed results for the Bible. First of all, most importantly, here we want to focus on God's prescribed division of labor. Verse 11 and 12. It was he, Jesus, who gave some to be apostles, some to be apostrophes. Some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers to prepare God's people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up. Now do you notice that twofold division that you see there, a very basic division Of labor within the body of Christ. Jesus gave some in the body The task of equipping the rest of the body to do the work of ministry. You see that? Some are to equip the rest of the body, the faith, to do the work of ministry. So one group has the task of equipping, and another group, the rest of the saints, have the task of ministry. I suggested three to centuries of church history. There is no principle of the church that is more radical, more revolutionary, and therefore more thought More more resisted than this basic principle of Scripture, that the ministry of the body of Christ is given to all the saints, not to some professional elite. clergy, not to some elitist group within the church who are the ministry. If you begin to have that kind of thinking, you see, and you ignore the basic division that God gives here, that some equip the rest for ministry, you have a kind of breakdown that uh is character characterized in that whole bit of dribble that perhaps you've heard the the pastor is late, he's forgotten the date. Now what are the faithful to thee now, poor things? And they'll sit in the pew with nothing to do and sing a selection of hymns, poor things. And I I praise God that But that kind of thing could never be said of a congregation such as you. Columbia Presbyterian Church was started by you. One of the things that thrilled me was when you called me to serve you as pastor, it was to serve the church that was already going here But The saints were already involved in ministry, and I was brought in as a servant to help you in that. But I think even though we may believe that we've got the basic core of that insight from Scripture, but after Two years in operation now, which will be our second anniversary next week, it's good for us to remind ourselves of this basic vital principle And to be able to assure that we see all of its implications as God would have it to operate on us in the church. What then does this mean for us? First of all, who is it that does the equipping? Well, you notice what he says in verse. Verse eleven. Talking about Jesus, he says, Jesus gave some, you see, a a certain group within the church. He gave some in the church to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers. Now, the apostles and the prophets, he had said just a couple chapters earlier, in chapter 2, verse 20, that the apostles and the prophets were the foundation of the church of Christ. He said because of their unique. Ministry, their ministry of giving revelation, of being witnesses in the case of the apostles, to the resurrection of Jesus Christ, which was a unique ministry, it doesn't continue in its primary sense to this day. So this is the foundation of the church, and on that foundation are built evangelists in some way building on the uh the work of the apostles, and then of the pastors and teachers building on the work of the prophets. Now, what is that for us? Well, certainly the evangelists continue. Evangelists are a group of people who are given special gifts in evangelism. All Christians are called to evangelize. But Jesus Christ has gifted certain people to be set aside. In the church with the special gifts of evangelism. And these people God has used in a mighty way to bring people to Himself and also to equip saints to do that ministry. Because you notice that what is done by this gift by the The person holding this gift is also to equip the rest to do the same thing. We saw a man like John Fickert that we heard uh back in June at the um church conference that we had back then, not only to use mightily of God to bring people to Jesus Christ, but also to encourage and train others in the body to do the same kind of thing. Now what about the pastors and the teachers? Well first of all we need to notice that if verse 11 refers to that, it is talking about probably one group. You notice the rest have some to be. But when you come to pastors and teachers, the two are linked together. Pastors and teachers. Those who are pastors, teachers, or pastors, and teachers. Sometimes the word and in the Greek is used as a kind of a hyphen. And so it's talking about One group of people. Well, who are they? Just talking about ministers, talking about clergy, talking about some other group of people. Who is it? Who are the pastors' teachers referred to here in verse eleven? It's important for us to understand that because they're the equippers. Who are they? Well, we're not left in Scripture to doubt concerning this. If you take a look at First Peter chapter five, you have in there an instruction in verse two. Notice uh to make sense out of this that the word they're Pastor in verse eleven of Ephesians four. That word pastor is the same word shepherd, those who be shepherds and teachers. And it is simply the Greek word that's used of a common everyday shepherd, a fellow that took care of the sheep. And it's used here in a As a symbol, as a metaphor, of those in the church taking care of the flock of God as shepherds. That same word is used in 1 Peter chapter 2. Be shepherds of God flock that's under your care, serving as overseers. Not because you must, but because you're willing as God wants you to be. Not greedy for money, but eager to serve. Not knowing it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, he will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. And who's that addressed to? You see in verse 1, there is quite clear. To the elders among you I appeal every day. As a fellow elder, a witness of Christ's sufferings and one who also share in the glory to be revealed, the shepherds of God's flock. Not talking about the particular professional section of people, it's talking about all the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, the elders are said that they must be gentle and able to care for the Church of God. Same kind of idea there, you see. So all of the elders are shepherds. Let's get out of this notion that there is a distinct office in the scripture of pastor which is separate from elder. 1 Peter 5 makes no distinction. 1 Timothy 3 makes no distinction. Every elder is a shepherd. He is one who shepherds the flock and takes care of it. As a shepherd would his sheep. But what about the teachers? Well, in 1 Timothy 3, verse 2, one of the basic qualifications of an elder is that he is able to teach. We're also told about elders in chapters. 5, 1 Timothy 5, 17, that some of the elders labor in the word and in preaching or teaching. We're told also in Titus 1. 9 that every elder must be able to Instruct those who are un uh those who are uh unlearned, to be able to instruct them in sound doctrine and to refute false doctrine. Teaching. So it's quite clear in the basic qualifications and the job description of every elder that every elder is to be a teacher. Therefore, the conclusion is quite clear that when Paul here in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11, talks about He's referring to elders. He simply could say there, he could substitute for pastors and teachers the word elders, because every elder is to be a pastor and teacher. He uses the words pastor teacher instead of elder because he's talking about their function at this point. And therefore he wants to emphasize what they do, and we'll get back to that in a minute. But you see the chart there on your uh sheet. Well you see, that's what pictures what I'm trying to get across. You have the elders who are pastors and teachers. Whose job is to equip the saints. And it's the saints who are given them the task of ministry, the work of ministry, to build up the body of Jesus Christ. Now what is this equipping, this preparing that the elders are to do? Well that word that's used there in verse 12, pastors and teachers to prepare, or New American Standard has it, to equip. God's people are the saints. That word is a word which means to fit something out. To prepare it To restore it. Do you remember when Jesus in Matthew chapter 4 went along the seashore and he saw James and John there mending their nets and he says, Come and follow me? The word there that's used to mend their nets is the same word in chapter 4 verse. Verse 12 of Ephesians to equip. James and John were equipping their nets. They were preparing them for the service of fishing. Same words used here. You have an interesting use of that in Luke chapter six in verse forty. Don't bother to turn to it, but just listen. There Jesus in Luke six forty talks about a servant, a student, who is not above his teacher. But everyone who is fully trained will be like his teacher. And that word they're trained is the same word in verse twelve. Equip. Prepare. It means to train someone. So you have some in the church who were set aside as pastors and teachers in order to train the saints. Their job is to equip, to prepare, to restore, to get ready the saints for the work of ministry. That's the basic division of labor. Now, how do they equip? Well, they equip, you see, by shepherding and teaching. That's why I use those words. The equipping is the function of shepherding and teaching. How do the elders then equip you as the body of Christ? To carry out the work of ministry. We equip you by shepherding you, by taking care of you See, people have this idea that elders rule, and therefore that the main function of elders is to sit around and carry out administrative tasks. to rule the church from our thrones and have our star chamber in my office, you know, meetings once a month in which we talk about where the church ought to go and who's on the ins and who's on the outs, keep everything running smoothly. Now that is a very distorted notion of the job of an elder. An elder has very little to do with administration. The job of an elder in ruling is to shepherd, and the scripture connects those notions. Remember in Matthew chapter 2 when it talked about Jesus when he came, uh the the uh verse in Micah 5. 2 was quoted about where he would be born. And what did Michael 5-2 say? Well in Matthew 2, in verse 10, verse 6 excuse me, read, But you Bethlehem in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. But out of you will come a ruler who will be what? Who will be a shepherd to my people Israel? So you see the scripture links together these notions of ruling and shepherding. And anybody who aspires to the office of elder dare not aspire to that to rule in some notion that we have in our culture of being able to dominate. or administrative. But he rules by shepherding. And that's what the scripture is absolutely clear on. Why? Because Jesus, the ruler of all, is the great shepherd of the sheep we read in Hebrews thirteen. We see that Jesus shepherded his sheep as the king of the sheep. In Ezekiel, the notion of king and shepherd are always bound together. And this is what it means to rule the Church of Jesus Christ, to shepherd the church. That's how we equip the church as rulers, as elders, as shepherds. Now, you take in Acts, for instance, chapter 20, verse 28. Paul, he's ready to leave the church of Ephesus, the same church that he's writing to here. His last words to them are: guard yourselves and the floor. Rock over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers or elders. Be shepherds of the Church of God, which He has bought with His own blood. And Jesus Christ, the great shepherd, is tenderly caring for your needs as a sheep. Jesus Christ has delegated that ministry of his shepherding the flock. Through those he has called to shepherd the sheep and set aside in that office of pastor and teacher or elder to be able to do that. And so if you're spiritually bruised. If you're confused, if you're starved, if you're hurting, what is the job of the elder? It is to shepherd you. It is to seek in our own love and following of Jesus Christ for God to give us a shepherd's heart. And if there's one thing that I need and you need to pray for me in, as I seek to discharge this duty that God has given to me in serving the Chief Church of Christ here in Columbia, he said God will give me a shepherd's heart. That God will cause me to love and to imbibe the shepherd's heart of Jesus so much as I look to him, as he meets my needs, as I see the tender way that Jesus cares for the sheep, that he even goes out after the ninety and nine leaves the ninety and nine to go out after that one. to be strong. And as I see Jesus in that and I love him in that and I focus on him in that. And God will give me that kind of a heart and the other elders in this church that kind of a heart. Fellow elders mean to pray for that kind of a heart. heart to the people of God here. But the vo we equip the saints not only by our shepherding, but also by our teaching. And that word their teaching also means to train. How do we teach and train you in order to equip you for the work of ministry? Well, 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells us precisely how. Scripture is God breathes and is useful for teaching, same words. And that teaching should then lead to rebuking, where you see in your life as we teach the Word of God, you publicly proclaiming it here Sunday by Sunday, in your under shepherd's room. As the elder meets with you to talk with you personally, as he opens up the word of God to you, as you see that your life falls short in the area, then you are rebuked by that. But that rebuking should lead to positive correction. The scripture is useful for correction. To be able to fit yourself to the pattern. And that correction is the process of training in righteousness in your life. So what? So that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. Their equipment, that same word is used in verse twelve here, so that the pastors and teachers might equip or prepare God's people. It's the same word as Second Timothy three s uh Second Timothy three seventeen. That you as men and women of God would be thoroughly equipped by the teaching of the Word of God as it's applied to your life to rebuke and to correct and to train you in righteousness. But to be thoroughly equipped for ministry. That's God's pattern, you see. How do I equip you? God has set me aside as only different from the other elders, and that I am put into this position full-time as a teaching elder, so that I might set my time more completely aside. to the work of teaching, to the work of preaching, to the work of training, and to the work of shepherding you and the others, even the other elders in working together as a team to build up the body of Christ. One of the primary ways I do that is by preaching. That's why I set such a high priority on it. Why I take so many hours each week in seeking to prepare messages that will equip you. You see, someone has said that preaching is the art of comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable. And that's what I'm trying to do, you see, this morning in equipping you. If you are in fact ministering to the body of Jesus Christ and building it up and you're feeling worn out Now you're feeling a little discouraged. I'm hoping that the word this morning will encourage you. That Jesus Christ, the chief shepherd, will show you his concern, his care, his compassion, his sufficiency in enabling you to discharge that ministry, to be comforted and encouraged. and build up. Pray also that if you're not ministering, if your concern is primarily for your own comfort and be able to set your own priorities and do your own thing in growing as a Christian, and to fit in where it's convenient into the body of Jesus Christ. That God will afflict you, that God will cause you to repent. That the Lord will cause you to see that when you say that, Oh, I see some need here and there, but not me, you know, I I'm still working on my own life. Uh I don't know enough to be able to help that person. I don't have time to be able to do this or that. I just am not able, I'm not prepared. I'm not able to get into that yet. God will change your attitude. So it'll show you as you see those needs, if you're willing to come to him, to be used by him, willing to try, Jesus Christ will show you his sufficiency. This is why, in case you'd never known, why I rarely make hospital calls. This is why I rarely make calls to people who have a particular need that is the kind of need that we all have That can be ministered to by the saints of Jesus Christ. See? It's my priorities. God called me to be an equipper of the saints. Now that doesn't mean I never make calls. Doesn't mean I never minister. I'll get to that in a minute. But the point is, my chief priority, my number one calling from Jesus Christ is to equip you to do ministry. You are more able, more meaningfully able to minister to each other in your own hurts and particular needs, as those things are the particular wants and needs that we have every day. As you are sensitive to those things, as you can can follow up on each other, minister much more meaningfully if I'm doing my job of equipping you. But if I take from you and rob from you that ministry that God has given to you, I will neither be able to equip you properly nor will you be equipped to discharge the ministry properly. The will always. And Jesus Christ won't receive the proper glory. But if you want to talk to me about my priorities, I want them to be out before you then right there in the goals and objectives. Teaching. Training. Seeking to minister in difficult situations, working as a team with the elders in order to discharge the ministry of equipping the body. You know, Jesus had three parts to his ministry of the word. He preached to large crowds. He counseled individuals and he trained the twelve. The average minister today takes those first two and forgets the third. He preaches to large crowds, he does a lot of counseling of individuals, but he does precious little training. If you read the Gospels, you see that that was a very major part of Jesus' ministry. It was equipping the apostles, the disciples, to discharge ministries. And so Jesus, when he ascended on high, he gave some to the evangelist in our day and paid. Masters and teachers for that equipping ministry. That's what we're doing in the church here in Columbia. Now where does that put you? You then, you see, as certain as saints, are given the ministry of the work of building up the body, the ministry to one another. Verse 12. He's giving, you see, there some to be pastors who are evangelists and some to be pastors and teachers in order to prepare, in order to equip the saints, God's people, for works of service, for works of service. Of ministry. Now who's he talking about? He's talking about the saints, God's people, as the NIV puts it. Holy ones, those who belong to Jesus Christ, every Christian. Paul had addressed this letter, you see, in Ephesians 1. one to the saints of Ephesus, who are the faithful in Jesus Christ. Now you see if you don't know Jesus Christ, if you've never come to Jesus Christ and given your life to him, you don't have a ministry. You have the One thing to do, and that is to come to Jesus Christ in order to receive Him as shepherd and teacher in your own life. In order to see that Jesus Christ alone is sufficient to take away the sin, the guilt that you bear before a holy God. Because of running your own life the way you want and ignoring him. If you've never come to Jesus Christ, I would urge you, I would plead with you, that you come to him today, that you speak to one of us, who could talk to you about how to become a Christian. Because there's no ministry for you apart from your being one of the saints, one of God's people in the Church of Christ. But on the other hand, if you are a saint, if you are one of God's people, I don't care who you are. You are a minister. He said, no, no, no. You're the minister. No, my friend. You're the minister. I'm the preparer. See, I'm the equipper. We get it backwards, you see. We turn God's ways all around. People call me the minister. What do they call you? Laypeople, you know. It's even a derogatory term, you see. It sort of sounds amateur. It's like you really can't pull things off. I ain't just a layman. You're the minister. You know, they shouldn't call me a minister, they should call me a preparer. I don't know how it goes over, you know, never make it, I'm sure somehow it doesn't have the same PR, same media image. But I'm an equipper. See, we get the whole thing backwards. Has this idea in the church that you as the congregation have as your job to help me as a minister to do the work of building up the body of Christ. Ephesians 4 is exactly the reverse. It says that my job is is to help you to build up the body of Jesus Christ. Or your servant to help you to discharge the ministry, along with the rest of the elders. It's the elders, you can't do it. function to help you and you are the ministers. See if if if we get that whole thing turned around as Satan would want us to, it would become like a definition of a football game. You heard the definition of a football game? It's twenty two men down on the field desperately desperately in need of rest with twenty-two thousand up in the stands desperately in need of exercise. And that's what the church becomes if we reverse this. You all there desperately in need of exercising your gifts of ministry given to you by the Holy Spirit. While pastor after pastor is going out of business because he's worn out. Just can't discharge the ministry. Take here in our church, maybe 150 people that are involved in our church. Let's prove that I was to make it my goal to meet with with each person for one hour a month. Uh that would take me nearly forty hours a week, back to back, no travel time, just back to back, walking right through the office, to do nothing but to meet with people one hour a month. We're not supposed to divide among the four elders. Let's make it reasonable. Well then it's going to take ten hours a week of their time, nearly ten hours a week, just for them to be able to discharge that. But now let's suppose that everybody's doing ministry. You could spend fifteen minutes a week and do the same thing if you spent One hour a week meeting with one other person to disciple that person, to minister to that person in Jesus Christ, we'd be getting four times the ministry done. And as long as the elder's job is to equip you, it will be done much much more effectively. That's what God has called the church to be. That the elders equip you to do the work of ministry. That's why I place such heavy emphasis on my disciple making course. Why I take people through That course and why I want from time to time to have refresher courses concerning that thing. In order to train you for ministry. It's why I see the Sunday morning worship. Has along with the worship of our God the equipping function of building up the saints. Why would take us under shepherdry to place such a high priority on that? So that the elders And those who are leading that, as delegates of elders, can equip you for the work of ministry. It's why we have once a month Under Shepherd Group Leader training, to equip the Under Shepherd Group leaders in order to more faithfully be able to in a effectively discharge the work of equipping you. It's why you see we have a Sunday school. Uh it's Sunday school, you see, needs to be uh thought of in terms of an equipping ministry. This is why we talked about as a session, uh just taking that whole thing and turning it into a kind of a Bible disciple institute. Uh to be able a more focused in a more focused way to equip the saints for ministry. I'm talking about saints, little saints, you know, little toddler saints holding up to big saints. Or St. John, Saint Paul St. Equipped for ministry. Because God's given a ministry to every one of you if you belong to Jesus Christ, whatever your age. And that's what God wants us to do. Now, what is ministry? What is ministry? Well, that word that's used there for ministry. It's the same word diaconus, from which we get the word diaconus. It means service. It's the word that's used as a servant in that culture. Uh the word is used in Acts six, interestingly enough, to show us the spectrum of ministry. In Acts six, The same word, Deaconia, which is used here in verse 12, that same word is used concerning both the serving of tables or that practical distributing of funds to the needy. That same word is used there in Dartway in verse 4, and it's also used in verse 2 concerning the ministry of the word, preaching. The same words can be used to refer to helping a guy get his car started or babysitting kids as it can be used to bring a person to Jesus Christ and to build them up in Christ by in-depth counseling. The same words, the works of service for Verse twelve. That word covers everything. What is ministry? Ministry is like a couple that I read about in the church just this week. They got into a fellowship group and they moved into the area and they very much needed a car. They didn't have And so the fellowship group got together. Somebody there had a car, another car they didn't need, and they gave it to them to use. That's ministry. The ministry is taking care of somebody's kids, so the husband and the wife can build their relationship together. in Jesus Christ more effectively. Ministry is not only seeing a person who needs to have a quiet time and urging them into the practice of getting into the scriptures daily and studying and praying, but saying, I'm going to help you to see how to have it. We're going to meet with And they'll share with you and show you how to have a quiet time. That's ministry. Ministry is hearing about an emergency and saying, I'm going to commit myself to step in quickly without sitting around and debating about all the pros and cons. And move into that situation to show love and be of help. Ministry is noticing the people that come here new to worship, having your eyes open for visitors, welcoming people who may be brothers and sisters in Christ or who may not be, but certainly. for Jesus Christ, getting to know that person and perhaps inviting them over for coffee, for dinner, to be able to meet with them. That's ministry. Ministry is expressing concern when you hear a person talk about a need in their life and say, I'll convince myself to pray with you. about that, to see what God does. And then being willing to get involved with it in that situation if God shows you that you can help. Ministry is seeing a marriage that you suspect there are some real problems in, and not simply saying, I think there's some problems in that marriage. And somehow gloating over the fact that yours seems to be at least in comparably better shape than that one. But ministry is reaching out to that husband and that wife and saying, I think I see something here that I'd like to be able to talk with you about. Can we meet together? Getting together with that husband and that wife and beginning to help them to work on their marriage as God opens up the trust relationship to you. Ministries opening your home as a place of peace and hospitality so that God can use you in that way. Ministry can be ministry outside the congregation. Ministry can be going over to Laure and nursing home and seeking to take the word and the comfort of Jesus Christ to people who are grieving over loss of the use of various parts of their bodies, senses, and faculties. Ministry is taking the Word of Christ to them. Ministry is going to the jail and marking correspondence Bible courses and discipling the inmates over at the Patuxent Institution and talking to them about Jesus Christ, watching some of them. come to Christ and grow in Christ and put their lives back together again. Ministry is saying perhaps that you'd open your home, that you'd invite some neighbors and friends in and say, Oh, why don't you come on in? And maybe we'll have a four week uh little coursaw or a little talk or something on uh Everything you wanted to know about Christianity, but were afraid to ask. You just throw me in there and bring them all in, all your friends and your neighbors. We sit down, we've done this kind of thing before. Have them sit there together in an unthreatening kind of situation. I can just sit there and field some questions and have a discussion and open up the gospel of Christ. Ministry is being able to get involved in crisis pregnancy with the Baltimore Crisis Pregnancy Center, with a woman saying that she wants to have an abortion and talking to her about what God says about that, helping her through that situation. Ministry takes on all kinds of facets, fixing cars, taking people for rides, providing transportation, food and meals where it's needed. Ministry is Verse fourteen says, Verse fifteen says, is speaking the truth in love. Ministries coming into a situation and saying something that you'd rather not say because you know it'll be a bit painful. It's moving into that person's life with a little bit of risk. A risk because you know that to bring that topic up is going to mean a certain amount of commitment to follow through with it. It's a heavy and you don't just somehow dump it on them and then just move on. But you know that nobody else has been moving in on that and God has sensitized you to the issue, and so you're going to Speak the truth in love. And with that, you're going to commit yourself to follow through and helping that person to work on the sin that you think that perhaps you've discovered, and being willing to adjust your perspective as God speaks. You know, the church has such a heavy impact. I think there are at least two reasons, a number of others that go beyond it. I think the very great need of professional counseling today reflects poor preaching and poor ministry. You see, if preaching is more perceptive, is more relevant to our own needs and hurts, then we can be counseled by the word. of God as we hear it given to us and apply it in our own situations in many cases, not all cases, but many cases. And preaching has that healing effect. If it cancels us and it directs us, we take up subjects like forgiveness and other things as we talk about about in the past. But the second reason is because of the lack of the ministry of the saints. So many times I'm involved in counseling people and I know this one's going to go on for a long time. And I get mad. I confess that to you. I sometimes get mad. Kathy can tell you. I get mad because I know that the reason that this thing is so entwined and so so difficult to unravel and get to the bottom of all of the sin and the and the hurt and the bitterness and the wrong patterns of living and all of the rest of this, of people who have been Christians for years, is because back then the problems were much simpler and much more basic and could have been handled by anybody who cared, nobody did. And that person went on because everybody said, Well, you know, I don't want to hurt the person. And we deceive ourselves. We don't want to hurt ourselves. See. We don't want to get involved in a way that maybe uh I'll find that it hurts me more than it hurts you to bring this up. And so the problems get more complicated and sin compounds itself. And after a while things get so complex. Great difficulty, a long time. You wouldn't have been needed if the saints were ministering, if the saints were equipped to ministry, and if the saints saw it, that Jesus Christ has a ministry for you. A ministry of feeling in each other's lives. Ministry is frustrating because ministry is involvement with sinners at close range. Ministry is involved in people who are going to let you down. People are going to behave irresponsibly. People who are not going to To be appreciative to the things that you do for them. But that's exactly what they did to Jesus. But on the other hand, ministry can be the most joyful and satisfying thing that you will experience as a Christian. Because it's what Jesus has called you to. What the great shepherd of the sheep has in mind for you, because it's being used by God to help one of his lambs. There will be few things more satisfying. It's taking a step of faith and saying, I don't know how to handle this situation, but I know that God has shown me this need and I'm going to try and meet it. I'm going to try and show care for this person. And I'm going to let God take me where that leads me. And if God begins to take you in that and you begin to experience his sufficiency in a way that you would have never experienced if you hadn't taken that risk and cared, you see Jesus Christ's power evident in your life, and you see that person healed and you see that person ministered to And all you can say is, God, thank you for letting me be part of that. Sometimes I feel it's like I'm just standing on the sidelines, and God is just working through me in a way that I say, Lord, I couldn't have initiated that Lord, I couldn't have done that. But Lord, thank you for just letting me be part of that to see you at work. Ministry is following the great shepherd of the sheep. And I know that many of you are involved in ministry as much as you're able. And I want you this morning to see in the sufficiency And in the encouragement of Jesus Christ, that which lifts you up and encourages you in your own ministry, that Jesus Christ is sufficient and you're doing what He's called you to do. May God equip you and continue to give you that satisfaction. of the ministry. But there are others who've been ministered to for many for a long time. Now some of you have been ministered to. Uh for months or years. And you still haven't taken it up as your own responsibility to minister to others. You say you're not prepared or you don't know what to do, you're not equipped. U We have courses on disciple making. There are other things offered by the church to equip you. Do you want to be in ministry? Do you expect to be in ministry? And not some great spectacular ministry But every day, little needs kind of ministry to begin with, and let God take it where it will. This is a concern for every one of us. And the whole Church of Jesus Christ, because he's made some to equip the saints to do the ministry, to build up the church. Briefly, just very briefly, considering the attitude with which we must do this. It's the attitude, of course, of a servant. The idea of equipping, you see, is the idea of serving a person. As I said before, we are set up as elders in this church not to rule as those who hold dominion over you, but rather as shepherds to equip you. Well to not be like theotrophies in 3 John, who love to have the preeminence. But rather to be like Jesus, who said to the disciples, I am among you as one who serves. The same thing follows for you as the saints. You are called to one another to be servants. You are called to follow the great servant, Jesus. The great servant who said that he came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Minister to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. And later on we read that Jesus, just before his death girded himself with a towel and he washed the disciples' feet. Have you ever pictured what it would be like for Jesus to wash your feet? You can't picture Peter and John, you know, I mean those guys are big deals. But did it ever occur to you that Jesus would wash your feet too? He is among us as one who serves the King of Kings. Jesus, the one who came to the kingdom. To minister and not to be ministered to. You and I comment so many times our concern is how can we be ministered to? A number of you heard a tape uh this morning in the Sunday school hour from Dr. Miller, who led a team of people over, to be part of a great awakening, a movement of God in Uganda. One of the things he didn't mention on that tape. that was a very significant part of being part of building up the Church of Uganda was on one occasion Dr. Miller, who was the head of the expedition going in here, the head of the group who were coming in, uh the white man coming from abroad here was giving uh great respect as he came over. He thought that the church building needed to be painted and nobody was doing it. And so he picked up a paintbrush and got some paint and he got to work and started painting it And people saw Dr. Miller, the fellow who was supposed to be the one leading this painting, and they were embarrassed. And everybody started picking up paintbrushes and they started fixing up the facilities. And they started journeying in Servants of one another and realizing that if he could do that, why couldn't they? If you and I see Jesus who's ready to wash our feet, why aren't we ready to minister to one another? Finally, we see God's prescribed results. Those prescribed results are growth and maturity. He's given some to be pastors and teachers to prepare to equip God's people for works of ministry so that the body of Christ may be built up. Until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. You see, he's emphasizing here both quality and quantity. things are included in it. The emphasis is on quality. That's what hits us most obviously. The emphasis on Christ-likeness. Building up of the body of the church in Columbia does not mean bigger programs. It does not mean necessarily bigger budgets. It means character of Christ-likeness. It means that in two and five years from now we look at the Church of Christ and say those people are more like Jesus Christ. Christ. That church has grown in God's eyes. It also means quantity. Because you see part of what he's given is evangelists. And evangelists are are there as part of their function to add to the church and to equip the saints that they do the ministry of adding to the church. And that's part of what Jesus Christ intends. You see, you can't become more like Jesus Christ without becoming a fisher of men. Because that's his own heart's desire and concern. And so the two are put together, as you see there in the bulletin, stated as a deep and quality of holiness in an increasing number of people. Is that your vision and expectation of the Church of Columbia? Do you really expect that five years from now you're going to see a date in Colombia for Jesus Christ? As the church is ministering. Do you really expect that God is going to produce growth of the body here? Because He says that's His way? And if we do God's work in His way, we can expect God's results? Do you expect it? Or would you be satisfied if we simply grew a little bit and didn't have many hassles and somehow were able to just enable things to go along peacefully? God's desire is that we make it dead. In Columbia, that the impact of the gospel is felt in Howard County. Because the body is ministering. I'd ask you to ask yourself the questions of application that you see on the back. And if you don't just answer.