Every uh Sunday that I get up here there's something new to do. I'm getting so disoriented, I don't have any buttons to turn on anymore. Uh I don't have that little clock to look at in front here. All I have is myself to look at in the back mirror there. Nothing to uh pull around now is a whole new pulpit here I really appreciate that. Something to pound finally around here. A lot of uh lot of new changes here this morning. For those of you who are near, we do have heat here and we do pay our heating bills. Uh sometimes it gets turned on a little late and uh so probably, as the usher said, by the time I'm finished my message. It'll be about a hundred degrees, and you'll all be there going, yeah. But uh the heat has been turned on and you'll be enjoying it in just a moment. Now, next Sunday You and I are going to have an exciting opportunity to dis this thing moves. Holy cow. My step anyway, I'm in trouble. You just try to skate around on this thing. Well bear with me as we uh sort of try out this thing. We move around here. It's really a it's a great job. I mean I I'm really glad to have something actually oak to to move here If I can just anchor it then uh I'll be able to get it at home here. Upon lawing on this too for a while. We need to test drive this thing. John does amazing work, I'll tell you. It's just that I need to be able to get used to uh how high tech this operation is. I'm kind of low tech person, you know. Anyway, next Sunday we're going to have the opportunity to decide on two candidates as to whether in fact the Lord Jesus has called them to serve as elders of his church particularly of Columbia Presbyterian Church. I say two because if you read your bulletin sometime, you'll notice that Dan Wecker has postponed his candidacy And he will be considered sometime later. He's postponed this for further training as well as for some family needs that continue after the death of their son John Micah. So next Sunday we will be deciding on Mark Hartzell and Larry Clifford. Now a few people as we have invited have come to the elders and have expressed some questions and some concerns about these candidates. But there is really one concern that looms far above any others that have been expressed, and that is their age. Are these men too young to serve as elders? Some people wonder about that. Mark is twenty-six, Larry's thirty-one, Dan's twenty-eight, just for the record. And some people have said these men are too young to be elders. They're not elders, they're youngers. And, you know, they don't have the experience or the uh place in life that you get the impression is what is expected of a person who serves as an elder Well, there's only a very few people that have expressed this, and uh I feel quite certain that there is an overwhelming majority that would affirm there being elders, and so why bother to even speak to this issue? Well, I speak to it because we believe in our church that Jesus Christ is the senior pastor here. And that he's not only the senior pastor of this church, he's also the king of the church. And that he rules his church by two means: by the word and by his spirit. And so he rules it by the word in telling us what elders are to be like. He gives us the qualifications. And therefore it's important for us, in any point where we may be at all confused To be able to look at the word and say, what does the word say and what does it not say are the qualifications of those who rule the Church of Christ. That's a very important question. I mean, more churches stand or fall, grow or divide over their leadership than I think any other question. And so it's really important who we have as our leaders and what the Bible says, what Jesus tells us about those who should be his under-shepherds But there's a second reason for this, and it's because we believe he rules his church by his spirit, and that has a supernatural element to it. You see, the church is not a democracy to be run by 51% of the majority. The church is a theocracy. It is run by Jesus. It is spirit-led. The elders seek to lead you Under the rule of Jesus, and then you as the people of God ratify that. You speak in that. And we believe that the Spirit of God supernaturally protects us as a church. When he brings sinners to consensus on issues, major issues. You know, not every little issue that comes along. You know, what color should the oak be on the uh speakers or something, but you know, major issues of the church. We believe that the Spirit of God protects us by bringing us to consensus When you get a group of sinners of a size of this crowd who can agree on something, that's supernatural. It's the thing that really God used in a large way to get the Lewis property for us Because the realtor who represented this to them was so impressed that a group of people could agree a hundred percent on not only the purchase of that, but to do it debt-free that she said, uh there's something unusual in here. I think we ought to pay attention to them. And God has protected us with that. And so our policy is going to be, and you'll see this, it's in the newsletter for the January, and so the the why and the how of all this understanding of of rule by consensus Of decisions by consensus and all the rest of that is in there. But our statement is going to be that next Sunday when we vote, if there is one negative vote on an elder, or ten or more abstentions That person will not be considered ratified as elder. We will postpone that person until we can come together in agreement on that. They may say you'll never get that kind of one person could block it. Yeah, but we trust God, you see. We're trusting God to work in this to bring us to that place. Now, that is not intended to intimidate you. You see, some people understand by that well man, that really puts the pressure on. Like if I have any reservations. And I come next Sunday to to vote and I'm saying, well, I really think that I should vote no. But do I want to be the one person that's going to blow our perfect record? You know? Am I going to hold this whole thing up? And so I feel intimidated by this pressure for consensus and unanimity to change my vote to at least abstain, if not vote yes. That is not at all intended to do that. You vote your conscience. We're trusting God to do this. We're not trusting psychological manipulative pressure to bring about the consensus. That's why I need to speak this morning to the issue of are the elder candidates too young? We need to look at scripture on that. Now, let me just say, without apology, but yet by a word of explanation, for those of you who are here for the first time, who are visiting, or who do not belong to Jesus Christ, this is family business. See, we're really dealing with something that has to do with the family of God here now. And I say that without apology. This is the this is the arena to do that. And so you're welcome to listen in But this isn't specifically addressed to you, except that it might give you a thirst to become part of the family of God and to experience that kind of supernatural life If you're visiting and you do know the Lord Jesus personally as your Savior, at least it'll show you one way that one church believes that the Lord is to rule and to guide and direct his church. Now let's consider that then. And I want to consider the question specifically, can it be said that the youthfulness of our candidates in any way disqualifies them as elders? I need to speak to that. And let me also say that I'm going to speak to this from Scripture to prove one other thing, and that is I want to dispel any of those rumors that say that Al Harris prepares all his messages a year in advance and he can never change them under any circumstance. thought of this message and decided it needed to be preached two and a half weeks ago. And Ken can vouch for that, changed his worship service order. But uh there is a uh a minimum room of flexibility in my life to be led by the Holy Spirit in the last minute. I just want you to know that that is a possibility. All right? Let's look at the scripture then that I've chosen to speak to this. 1 Timothy 4. Verse 12 is the text. I want to read that uh those two paragraphs at the end of that chapter. 1 Timothy 4, beginning with verse 11 to the end of the chapter. Paul says to Timothy, This is the word of God now. Let's hear it. Command and teach these things. Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. But set an example for the believers in speech, in life, in love, in faith, and in purity. Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to preaching and to teaching. Do not neglect your gift, which was given you through a prophetic message when the body of elders laid their hands on you. Be diligent in these matters. Give yourself wholly to them. So that everyone may see your progress. Watch your life and doctrine closely. Persevere in them, because if you do, you will save both yourself and your hearers. Two points that I want for us to consider from this text. Verse 12 is the text. The age issue, you see it in your bulletin outline there. The age issue And then what I call the real issue. First of all, let's consider the age issue. Paul saying to Timothy, don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. Timothy is an elder. He addresses him as an elder. He's serving as an elder, but some people apparently are looking down on or despising him because he is too young to serve as an elder. And Paul is addressing this issue. He addresses it to Timothy by saying, Don't let anyone look down on you because you are too young. There's two points that I want for us to see about this statement. First of all, kind of in preparation for understanding what he's saying right here in this verse, the first point that you see there Is that the age question is not addressed in any of the qualifications for being an elder? There are two primary places where the qualifications for an elder are listed, 1 Timothy 3, chapter right before this one, and Titus chapter 1. Now, in 1 Timothy 3, verses 1 to 7, which is really right across the page or just the page before, the one that you, the text that you have before you. There are two relevant statements in this matter of the qualifications of an elder. Two statements that are relevant to the matter of age or maturity. If you uh take a look at it right there, you'll see in chapter 3, in verse 2, the elder must be respectable. Some people say that this idea of respectability means elderly dignity, you know, that's gained with some gray hair and you know, some sense of experience in life, you know. You look at George Walgrove and you just respect him, you know. I mean you know, he he just looks like he deserves respect, you know And uh, you know, you look at some young guy and you say, well, d y does that does that connote that same kind of of a demeanor? But the word here simply means someone who you look up to, someone who you respect. And so you can't carry with it that idea of of dignity that is uh characteristic of age. It's simply respectable. He's a person that you give respect to because you look up to him. But verses four and five, the second point, are the ones that uh many other people find to be much more difficult. Because in verses four and five Paul says that he must manage his own family well and see that his children obey him with proper respect, because if he doesn't know how to manage his family, how's he going to manage the household of God? And so some people allege from this that he must be married and he must have children who are old enough for him to demonstrate that he can manage them. And therefore, if he is single or if he does not have children, he is not qualified to be an elder because he hasn't fulfilled this qualification. Is that what that's saying? Well there's one fatal objection to that interpretation of those verses The fatal objection to this is that the Apostle Paul was not only an apostle, but of course he was also an elder. He ordained elders, and he is spoken of as a fellow elder. Paul, as an elder, tells us in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, in verses 7 and 8, when he's speaking to those he says who are unmarried and widows, he said, I would that you remain as I am. Am unmarried. So Paul tells us explicitly in First Corinthians seven, seven and eight that he himself is single. That he's unmarried. And that did not disqualify him from being an elder, or even a rank of higher authority, that of an apostle. In fact, if you think about it for a moment, would it make sense that both Jesus and Paul commend those who are eunuchs for the kingdom? Those who do not get married, but remain single so that they can be of greater use and effectiveness in the kingdom, and then turn around and disqualify them from the office of elder to serve in the kingdom. Doesn't make sense. And so you see what this qualification in 1 Timothy 3, 4 and 5 is saying, you notice it does not say he must have a family to manage. It does not state that as a qualification. What it does say is that in the normal course of events of having a family, he must be able to manage it well. It's simply expected that in most cases this will be the case that the person will have a wife and a family. And if he does, he must manage them well. Notice the way that is stated. It does not state that he must have it. It says that he must manage it well, and that's the difference. What about Titus? In Titus chapter 1, verses 5 to 9, you have also two statements that are sometimes seen to be relevant to this. The first one in verse 5, he calls these office-bearers elders. Now Timothy had called them overseers. But it's interesting that for the same office, Titus, Paul writing to Titus, uses the term elder. And so some people say, well, you see, by the very nature of the office, he's an elder. He's one who has to be older. He can't be a younger. He's got to be an elder. That's part of the status of bearing the office. A certain experience and maturity in his age. The problem with that is that that word, presbuteros, is precisely the word that is used in contrast to the word that we have in 1 Timothy 4. 12 in normal everyday Greek usage. In other words, a guy either was the word used in First Timothy four twelve, he was young, uh he was a prescuteras, he was an older guy. And the words were used in distinction to each other. In fact, you have basically four words that refer to the age categories in the Greek. You have the children, the piedos, you know, the little kids, and then you have this next word, the use. The Neantes, and then you have the Presbuterases, the ones that are older than that, and then you have the word from which we get our word gerontology, the ones that are also older, sometimes used interchangeably with Presbuderas. But they're used in contrast. See you see the problem is That Paul says to Timothy, You're an elder. But then he goes on to say, Don't let anyone despise you because you're young. So both words are used of Timothy. Therefore, you can't say he's disqualified from being an elder by being young, because Paul specifically says he is a young elder. And so that word elder does not disqualify, it does not imply that being young disqualifies you from that. Finally, in Timothy, in Titus, you have there in verse 6 the qualification: you must have children who believe. And there again, people say you've got to have children that are old enough to show that they've trusted in Jesus. But I'd say it's the same objection to that as we saw in 1 Timothy 3 concerning the fact that the uh person must be married and must have children. That's in the course of his having children. If he has children, then as they grow they must demonstrate that they believe in Jesus. But that's a conditioned upon the fact that he has them. It's not a qualification. All right now, you know, bear with me. I I realize, you know, this For some of you as you're trying to think along with this, maybe it wasn't the burning issue on your heart as you came in this morning, but you know, it's really important that we understand these things because of what it means for us as a church, as those that we're able to see lead our lives. Now having put that aside then, what then is the meaning of this word young in 1 Timothy 4. 12? What is that meaning of that word? Paul says, don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. What does that word young mean? The word there, Neantes, refers to a period covering anywhere from childhood to the twenties. I did find one scholar, Donald Guthrie, who said that it also can include the 30s, but he's the only one, the esteemed dictionary of the New Testament, and the ten-volume definitive word book on the Greek language by Kittle. Both say that this word refers to the period of the twenties or younger. And interestingly enough, neither of those, well the one of them referred to this text, the other one didn't even refer to it, so it didn't have that in mind. That's simply the meaning of the word. It's a word that refers to the period between young childhood and when you get to be in your thirties or forties. So that's as best we can define where the word what the word refers to. Paul uses that same word in Acts 26, 4, when he gives his testimony. He says, The Jews knew me from my youth. Same word that he uses here Same word this translates Genesis eight twenty-one, where God says, I'm not going to destroy mankind because every thought from his heart is only evil from his youth, you know, as he's growing up, God's saying there And so the word refers to youth, not middle age. It's referring to a person who may be just starting a family. Timothy was probably in his twenties. The best we can determine from at least the usage of this word. There is not a single commentator, there is not a single reformed writer on qualifications of elders, whoever that I have seen has stated anything in contradiction to that. I mean I'm not stating one opinion on this. I'm saying I have not seen anyone who has written anything different from that That's simply what the Word of God is saying here. Now then, if that's not the issue, what is the real issue? And that's what concerns us all. You see, Paul doesn't just say, Don't let anyone look down on you because you're young, and then go on to the next issue that he's writing about. He puts something in contrast to that. What is it? Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young, but set an example for the believers in speech, life, love, faith, and purity. So Paul says the real issue is not how mature you are in age. But your spiritual maturity. That's the real issue. See, the real questi the real question Paul says to ask about a candidate for elder is, is he an example to follow? That's the real question. That's a tough question when you're up for it. It's a very humbling question. But it's a very serious question for those of you that need to pray and to fast this week to make that decision next Sunday. Are these men an example for you to follow? And he gives five specific areas. Notice what they are. First of all, he says in speech You see, he says to Timothy, be an example to the believers in speech as an elder. You know, James chapter 3 that we will get to someday Later on this spring. James chapter 3, the first couple verses we're going to consider. Start out. Not many of you should presume to be teachers, and I'm going to try to show you that that word is pretty much the same word as elder in the way that James is used. Not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways. But you said he says if anyone never is it falled in what he says, he's a perfect man able to keep his whole body in check. You see, Paul uh James is there saying that the tongue is the key. to holiness in your life, control of the tongue. And so an elder must be a person who, when you hear his speech, in private conversation, not just his official spiritual talk. But when you have him over to dinner, when you chat with him out in the parking lot, when you're working with him on a car, you know, and he bangs his knuckles in January. Paul says the speech must be an example. Yeah, I know a fellow who uh I esteemed as a uh preacher. The guy uh had a effective ministry. But every time we would get together, I'd see him in with me or with anyone else. All he did was joke. Hey guy was really a lot of laughs to have around. And af you know, at first you'd think, Well, this guy really can establish rapport with anybody. But then after a while you get to know him, you round out that that's all he ever did was joke In fact, in all the time I knew him, I don't think I ever heard him in any private conversation talk once about his personal love for the Lord, or about spiritual things in general. And years later he left the ministry in disgrace. He's a burned out man. See, because it wasn't genuine, the best we could see in his heart. So speech reveals that. What's the guy talk about in private conversation? Secondly, he says in life. He says, be an example not just in speech, but in your life. That is, as Galatians 1 and Ephesians 4 use that word, in your lifestyle, your way of life, he's saying. It's the same thing that Paul's talking about when in Philippians 3 verse 17, Paul says, Imitate my lifestyle. You see, this means that the elder, therefore, must have an open lifestyle. He must not live so privately that nobody can see his life. You see how he spends his time. You see what his priorities are. You see what's important to him. And as you see that, you say, there's an example for me in priorities and what's important in life. I look at that guy and it it helps me to see a model of what my lifestyle ought to be Now notice that Paul says, imitate my life. And some people say, well, hey, who could qualify for that? I mean, look at I look at my life and I say, man, there's so many ways I fall short. There's a lot of things I wouldn't want you to imitate in my life But you notice that even Paul, who said that in verse 17, if you check it up later, you'll see that in verse 12 he had said just five verses before that, not that I've already attained. I'm still seeking and striving after Christ's likeness. The point is that the elder is an example of a disciple, not of perfection. So the point of his being an example is how he repents. is how he shows that he's vulnerable in growing as a Christian. How you can see in him his flaws and his weaknesses, but you see how he trusts Christ. In working in him to grow as a disciple of the Lord Jesus. He's an example of a disciple, not of perfection. Thirdly, Paul says, be an example in love. Be an example in love. 1 Peter 5, verse 3, talking about the elders, Peter had said, that you should serve as an elder with a shepherd's heart. Not out of wanting to lord it over people, not out of any kind of gain that you'll get out of it, but because of a love for the people that you serve. Paul had said specifically about Timothy in his letter to the Philippians. He said, I want to send Timothy to you. Why? He says, Because he said, I don't have anybody else like him. He's concerned genuinely for your welfare. He says in Philippians chapter 2, verses 19 to 23, concerned genuinely for your welfare. That's what you need to sense about a man who's going to be an elder. Can you say, I sense that this guy is genuinely concerned for my welfare? Obviously an elder can't get to know everybody in a congregation this science, but I'm talking about to the degree that you get to know that guy and you interact with him Do you sense that he loves you? Do you sense that he's concerned for your welfare, as Philippians chapter 2 states it here? We're limited in our capacity to be concerned and to love. But we're trying. Do you sense that for a man to be an elder? Fourthly, he says here that you should be an example in faith. Paul says, don't let anybody look down on you just because you're young. But be an example in your speech, in your lifestyle, in your love, and in your faith. When you look at this man, do you say that he's a guy who I sense lives by faith, not just by his own abilities? He's not a guy who hedges all of his uh activities so that he only does what he's sure that he can pull off. But he's a man who when I look at him I'm challenged to live daily, trusting the Lord Jesus to do things that I can't do. I'm challenged to live by faith and to grow in my trusting the Lord Jesus as I look at his life. That's what it means to be an example in faith. And finally, he says, be an example in purity. An example in purity The same word there is used in chapter 5 in verse 2, where he says that you should treat the younger men as brothers, and then verse 2, the older women as mothers, and the younger women as sisters with absolute purity. There's no question of this guy's moral integrity, you see. You would trust him to counsel your wife without your being in the room for a couple of sessions if you needed to do that I'm not advocating that the usher that the elders counsel wives without husbands. I'm just saying that he's got the moral integrity, that you trust the guy The pastors that I grew up in in a Bible-believing large fundamental church. Succession of three pastors One who had a profound influence on my own life. He was the fellow that really encouraged me more than anyone else to go into ministry, into, you know, occupational, go to seminary and that kind of ministry Years later I went to a retreat and uh spoke as uh when I had been ordained and went back to that group and said, How's he doing? He's left the ministry. He's convicted of adultery So what about that other guy? You know, that guy used to joke around all the time. How's he doing? He left the ministry too. Convicted of adultery. Well how about the senior pastor now, the guy, you know, that's taken over in this church, you know, twelve hundred members, and this fellow was a real rock of integrity. What about him Oh, he's left the church too. He was charged with adultery, but nobody could ever prove it, and so he just left under a cloud. This is serious stuff. I mean it's no right matter to just say, hey, you know, be an example of purity and you say, well, yeah, of course we don't have to think about that because nobody would question that. We live in a day In which we need to absolutely look with scrutiny on each other's lives and be accountable as brothers in Jesus Christ. And you need to be able to say if a man is going to be an elder, I look at his life as a life that is characterized by moral integrity. He's an example to me of purity. He's an example that I can follow. In conclusion, what are the points from all of this? You see my main point. Point one is simply that if a man is a godly example in these five ways, And fulfills the qualifications of 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1, I suggest to you that age is not a factor. Nowhere is it addressed in Scripture. It is not addressed directly or indirectly. In fact, Paul says to a man who is probably in his twenties, at most 30, could be in his early 30s. The most likely evidence is that he was in his twenties. He says to him, You are an elder. Don't let anyone look down on you because you're young. But, if you are serving as an example, In your speech, your lifestyle, your love, your faith, and your purity. Paul says you're qualified, Timothy. Sense the call of God and proceed on it. He goes on to talk about that. Exercise the gift that was given to you through the prophetic message when the body of elders laid their hands on you So you see, what you and I have to decide, what you particularly have to decide next week, is not is the guy old enough, but is he an example Is Mark, is Larry, an example to you of a disciple in these five ways? You have to decide that. I'm not s I'm not preaching this so that you'll say, okay, well now Al said, you know, don't think about age and therefore we've got to Approve these guys. I'm saying look seriously at those five qualifications. Look at all the rest in Timothy and Titus. And then honestly before God answer that question as we come next week. Qualified because he had gone to seminary, because he had mastered a certain uh amount of theological knowledge. And any of you happen to hear Prairie Home Companion last night, then notice that they were examining this fellow For preacher, and so they heard him preach, and you said after you heard him preach, it said, Well, that guy must have some good pastoral skills. Then he said, so then you visit with a guy and he talks with you for a while, and after he talks with you for a while you say, uh well, maybe he's a theologian. But that's not the qualification for an elder, you see. You must be able to live as an example, and you have no different standard from the elder. You see, these same five things are a challenge to every one of us here in this room. It's saying to you, whether you're a Christian a week old, or whether you've been walking with the Lord for 50 or 60 years, the question is to you, are you an example? In your speech, in your lifestyle, in your love, in your faith, in your purity. Because that's what is on Paul's heart. That's what Christianity is about, following Jesus as a disciple in your life, and to be an example to those that see you. If you think of 1987 coming up and you look at these five areas, I'd suggest that they're an excellent checklist for you to look at this and to pray about this and say, now, Lord, which of these five areas Would you like me to grow in? Do I sense a particular weakness? That I would set a goal for my life, not just to know more about it, but for my life this year, to grow in that area. To focus on my speech, to study James 3 and get in the last couple weeks of the tongue-in-check course or something, but maybe to get that book, but to focus on that We're to focus on my lifestyle and my priorities, to examine those and to determine those before you. My love for you and for other people. How can I cultivate that My faith, how can I grow in that and have it stretched? My purity. Is there are there things that I need to put away? Things that I need to avoid, things that I need to get rid of Things that I need to change in what I watch and expose myself to, so it'll be an example and grow in that area. See, Paul's saying it's a matter of your lifestyle, not a matter of what you know to grow in the Christian life. And then the third point, finally, is that as you look at the elders as examples, you should see that we in our very poor examples, nevertheless, as we fail you, In not being the examples that we should be, in our speech, in our lifestyle, our love, our faith, and our purity, nevertheless, even in our deficiency, should point you to Jesus as the perfect example of that. And so even as you see us fail you, that should cause you not so much to critique us, but as you pray for us to grow. That you thank God that you have a perfect example to follow. That when you want an example of speech in how you ought to respond in your speech to someone But you can look at Jesus. You can read how he responded in his speech, and you can say, Jesus, you are a perfect example to me of speech, of gentleness of speech, of wisdom in speech. Lord, you're a perfect example to me of a godly lifestyle. Your priorities were so perfectly set on the kingdom, and yet you lived in this world, and I can see how you lived. You're an example to me. Lord Jesus, you're an example to me of love. And how you loved the disciples, how you were tested in that love. But how you continue to love them perfectly. You're an example to me of a man of faith. Hebrews says that you're the author and the perfecter of faith You're an example to me of a man who lived by faith, for Jesus was a true and genuine man who lived by faith in his Father. You're an example to me, Lord Jesus, of purity. You could associate with prostitutes, and yet you could do that in purity, in the way you treated them, as human beings with dignity. Lord Jesus, you're an example to me of all these things. For Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 2 that the Lord Jesus suffered for you, leaving you an example. That you should follow in his steps. And more than that, the love that he had for you and me meant that he not only showed us how to live But then Peter goes on to say, and then two verses later he says, But you Excuse me, but to this you were called because Christ suffered for you. Excuse me, then two verses down. He himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree. So that we might die to sins and live for righteousness. For by his wounds you have been healed For you were like sheep going astray. But now you've returned to the shepherd and the overseer. That's the word for elder, bishop, overseer, same kind of word. The overseer of your souls. How good it is to know that when we follow Jesus as our example and we fail again and again, that we know that even in his example His love for us was so complete that he took our sins. He bore them and he died on the cross. So that he would pay for those sins, for the ways that we don't follow him as our example, and that we could return to him as the chief pastor, the shepherd. And to the chief elder, the overseer of our souls, and follow him for the rest of our days. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, how we thank you that you are a perfect example to us. Lord, help us to look to you and to think about you at the beginning of this year as that one whom we can follow with perfect confidence. And Lord, as we see your grace to us in covering our sin, taking them away, may we be motivated out of a response of gratitude to you. To want also to be an example to others, to be like the Lord Jesus, so that as others see us, they see in us an example of speech, of lifestyle, of love, of faith, of purity. So Lord that we would focus more on how we live than what we know Oh Lord, help us in that. Give us grace to love you, that we want to move toward that, and we pray that as a congregation, particularly next week, as we decide concerning Larry and Mark whether you are calling them at this time to serve as elders. That you'll help us to apply biblical criteria and therefore in the safety of your spirit. That we as a congregation might move forward as one body with one heart, one soul, one mind, and one purpose. In Jesus' name. Amen.