We now have the opportunity, the blessing, to turn to God's Word as He speaks to us this morning. We've been considering First Peter, and we've come to the fourth chapter in 1 Peter. So if you have your Bibles with you, you can Turn with me or activate them to 1 Peter chapter 4, and we'll be considering the first six verses in that chapter. Before we read and turn our hearts to God's Word, let us go to Him in prayer. Let's pray. Our great and heavenly Father, we thank you that you are the living and true and triune God that there is none other. Lord, we worship you alone, and we thank you that you have called us here to worship you. What a blessing it is. Father, we thank you that you are not the God that is in a far-off land or distant, but by your spirit you are here with us. That you hear our prayers, you see our tears. And Lord, we praise you for Jesus. You would die while we were yet sinners Father, I pray for us that as we now listen to your word, that we would not only be hearers, but doers, would we Allow the distractions of this day and this past week to be set aside for a moment that we might hear your word Allow it to change us. Allow it to affect the specifics of our life as we go out from here. Lord, we thank you for Jesus, our Savior, our Lord, our King. It's in his name we pray. Pray. Amen. First Peter chapter four. I'll be reading verses one through six. People of God, let us hear God's word for us this morning. Therefore, since Christ suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind, for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God. For we have spent enough of our past lifetime in doing the will of the Gentiles. We walked in lewdness, lust, drunkenness, revelries, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries. In regard to these, they think it's strange that you do not run with them in the same flood of dissipation, speaking evil of you. They will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this reason the gospel was preached also to those who are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God. In the Spirit. And God bless his word. Time and time again in scriptures. And time and time again do we sing of Christ's suffering. Christ's suffering for his people. Christ spilling his blood for his people. Christ embraced his calling to suffer out of his great love. Out of his great desire to save his people, he suffered and bore our sins to bring us to God. And this is the great gospel. This is the great gospel that we praise our Lord, that He would send His Son, who would suffer and die, so that we could come now to God. Well, Peter has just said in the last verse of chapter 3, if you remember from last week, that although angels and principalities have put in subjection under Christ. Nevertheless, the battle goes on for us at this time. Peter writes about Christ's suffering in this particular text. To call us to get ready. Peter tells us to get ready to embrace ourselves for suffering. The spiritual war wages. Peter says: even as Christ suffered, so will you. So get ready. Prepare yourself. Arm yourselves to suffer. It's as if Peter is finally coming to a point in his letter here where he rises up to proclaim and he says, Followers of Jesus Christ. Be prepared not only to embrace submission to Christ, but suffering for Christ as an aspect of your calling. Get yourselves ready. Prepare to suffer for Christ. So the question that we are to consider The question that I want us to look at as we work through this text this morning is: how? How do we prepare? What do we do, Peter? How do we prepare to suffer for Christ? Well, just as Paul gives us in the Epistle of Ephesians, armor, the breastplate of righteousness, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, I believe that Peter is also giving us some equipment. to arm ourselves for the spiritual warfare that we have in our lives and what is to come for us So first, let us turn to the first verse and the second there. Well, I think Peter gives us a weapon. He says, arm ourselves, arm yourself. With the mind of Christ. Verse 1 and verse 2 reads: Therefore, since Christ suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind. For he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God. You see, brothers and sisters, there there is no other way to gain the mind of Christ than to immerse ourselves in the Word. Studying the scriptures is the way in which we learn the mind of Christ. Because the scriptures reveal to us Christ. And so here we are, in God's Word, seeking to get the mind of Christ. And if you have the uh verse in front of you in verses 1, and particularly in verse 1, It might seem that in that first verse, Peter is making a general truth that suffering restrains or hinders sin. Yet, if we look at that verse, it seems that can't really mean what Peter is getting at. It's a difficult interpretation, maybe a wrong interpretation. Because Peter does not begin with suffering in general, but he begins with the suffering of Christ. And if we took the interpretation as that, it would mean that Peter is saying that Christ somehow embraced suffering to avoid sinning. Did Christ embrace suffering? Did Christ go to the cross to keep himself from sinning? Well the answer is of course not. It doesn't mean that Jesus was sinning and that the cross somehow put a stop to it. Peter affirms that Jesus did not sin, that he bore our sins on the cross. In chapter 2, verse 24, Peter tells us that Jesus bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we, having died the sins, might live the righteousness. Jesus on the cross cried out, It is finished. It's finished, and Jesus finished our redemption. He finished everything having to do with our sins. He finished it for us. You see, Jesus chose to follow the will of his father, even though it was the road marked with suffering. Even though it was a road that would bring him all the way to his death. So, what is the mind of Christ that we're to have? So look at these verses. What is the mind of Christ that Peter is calling us to? Well, here is the mind of Christ that Peter is calling us to To do the Father's will, and to be prepared, to choose the road of suffering rather than a road of sin. You see, people of the first century there that Peter's interacting with view Christians often as killjoys. Those who live depressed lives and devoid of pleasure. Christians often in the first century would abstain themselves from a lot of the popular Roman entertainment. Uh Christians would often keep themselves from the theater with their risque and sensual performances. Uh Christians would often remove themselves from the chariot races and the gladiatorial fights with their gore and blood and lack of value of life. These attitudes towards the contemporary Christians of that day uh got the Christians a reputation of being haters of humanity, uh traitors of the Roman way of life. And Christians today can be seen in such a light. Christians today ourselves can be seen as killjoys. We can think of several issues quickly that faces the church where Christians are seen as being haters of true love, killers of equal rights, narrow-minded and judgmental. And we're faced with the choice of either taking the path of least resistance or following the will of God and suffering the consequences of criticism and condemnation. And so here Peter is exhorting us to be prepared to accept unjust suffering, even as Christ did. If you look at the life of Jesus, Jesus constantly chose to obey God, even though he knew that it meant suffering. Even though he knew that doing the Father's will would mean various kinds of trials. Jesus had to make all types of decisions. You can even take yourself back to when Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane. And the cross is right before him. And Jesus has to choose the road marked with suffering and the Father's will. Taking the easy way out. Repeatedly throughout his life, Jesus deliberately had to embrace his calling, even if it meant suffering, even if it meant being misunderstood. Called names, rejected by those closest to him, and then finally tortured on the cross. You see, Jesus was tempted in all ways as we are, yet without sin. Tempted to renounce his calling, tempted to go the way of the world and its pleasures and its lusts. But he constantly and always decided to follow his father's will and to suffer the consequences for doing it. And so you, followers of Christ, Peter says, take on the mind of Christ. Arm yourself with that mind of Christ. To be prepared to face a society and a world that is unfriendly and hostile to God. And because the world opposes God, because the world opposes Christ. You who follow Christ, you will be opposed. Because you represent Christ. Be prepared to face persecution Be prepared to be honest in the workplace, knowing that by being honest, you could lose your very job. Be prepared to worship Christ alone. And face the ridicule, face the laughter, face the judgment. The mind of Christ that we are called to have is one that suffers unjustly for our faith in God. When I was in high school, maybe some of you high schoolers can relate to this. My friends wouldn't understand why I'm not dating this cute girl because she's not a Christian. She she's nice and she's pretty, but she wasn't a Christian. Why aren't you sleeping with your girlfriend before you're married? It's fun. Have a good time. Why are you missing all the fun parties? You should be there. Why do you go to church each Sunday rather than going to these sporting events? These are things that I've heard in my own life, and maybe you've heard them in yours. So you show, as Peter says, you show, and you demonstrate that you are through with sin to the extent that you would rather choose suffering and ridicule. Rather than sinning against God. Peter says, Christ is worth suffering for. Christ is worth suffering for. So arm yourself with the same mind of Christ that is prepared to choose suffering over sinning. So Peter continues on in our text. In verses 3 and 4, not only does he arm us with the mind of Christ, but he gives us another weapon. To arm us with a heart of obedience. Verses 3 and 4. It says, for we have spent enough of our past lifetime in doing the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lewdness, lust. drunkenness, revelries, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries. In regard to these things, they think it's strange that you do not run with them in the same flood of dissipation, speaking evil of you. See, Peter, rather sarcastically at this point in the text, is saying that whatever time spent previously in doing what the Gentiles do. That is, spent in giving yourselves to the lusts of the flesh has been more than enough time for such ungodly living. Peter is saying, enough! Enough of these things. Enough of these things of giving yourselves into your own wants and the lusts of the flesh. Now is the time to trust and obey. Back in chapter 1, Peter said, as obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lust as in your ignorance. Enough already, Peter says. The sin in your heart, put it behind you. Put sin in your rear view mirror. We have spent enough time fulfilling the lusts of the flesh. Now is the time to trust and obey Jesus. You can never sin so little that you can say, I need a little bit more time to sin. Maybe some of you younger folks, you think, well, you know, I'm young, I haven't done a whole lot. I could Spend a few more days or weeks or years doing what I want, giving myself into sin. But Peter is saying, any time given into sin is enough time. Enough, put it behind you, Peter says. Even as Paul reminds us in Romans chapter 13, Paul says, Let us walk properly, as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness. Not in lewdness and lust, not in strife and envy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lust. Peter is saying, You're in Christ. You who believe. You're a new creation. You are balked by the precious blood of Christ. You are Christ now. You are his children. The life that you had before Christ has gone on long enough. Live now for Christ. Live now with a heart of obedience towards Him, out of love for what He has done for you. Here in verse 3, we have specified those fleshly desires mentioned in verse 2. The first five items involve unrestrained desires for sex For food, for drink, and the last refers to acts accompanied with idolatrous actions. We look at this list We're guilty of many of these things. We're guilty of giving ourselves into unconstrained desires of sex and food and drink. Our hearts, our hearts, our idol factories. The last one there, it ends with idols. And few in that first century that Peter is talking to, Peter is talking to a very polytheistic culture. A lot of gods, a lot of people worshiping different gods. And the Christians uh or the people at that time didn't care so much that Christians were worshiping Christ. But what was highly offensive that Peter says here Is that he labels other religions, other acts as being idolatrous and inconsistent with the true worship of God? Well, it's a little bit similar in our day, isn't it? In our day, we we live in a similar flavor of polytheism. Even that Peter face that every spiritu spirituality, every religion seems acceptable except the exclusive claims of Jesus Christ crucified for sinners. Everything is okay and dandy except that Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the light, and that no man comes to the Father except through me. Well they think it's strange. They think it they're surprised, says our text, that you do not go the way of the world that you would make such exclusive claims. You see, they have no categories for this world to understand why you no longer grab at all the things that this life has to offer without regard to the things of the next world. Because they think it's strange that you do not follow in the lusts of the flesh. Because they think it's strange that you follow God. They speak evil against you. I think Peter could have probably even quoted the words of Jesus himself in Matthew chapter 5. Jesus says, Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake? Rejoice And be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Christians may find themselves at odds with the values and practices of the society in which they reside. The Bible refers to Christians as sojourners. Pilgrims, this world is not our home. So suffer if you must. But enough of giving yourselves into the lusts of the flesh. This world is not your home. You are a stranger in this land. So now is the time to arm yourself with a heart of obedience So, Dan, this is a tough statement. Peter, this is difficult because we know that we suffer consequences for our sin. When we sin, inevitably we suffer consequences for sinning. And now, Peter, and now Dan, you're saying that we also suffer for what's doing what is right? We can't escape suffering. It seems bleak. It seems hopeless. And if we're going to suffer either way Why suffering? Why suffer for doing the will of God? If we're going to suffer either way For the consequences of sin or doing the will of God, why suffer for the will of God? Well, the hope that Christians have is that there is an end in sight. When all will be made new, when every tear will be wiped away, when Christ will come and usher us home. So he says, Christians, arm yourselves to suffer with the knowledge of judgment. Look at verses five and six. They will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this reason, the gospel was preached also to those who are dead. That they might be judged according to the to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. You see that phrase in verse 5 there, the living and the dead. Indicates the universal scope of God's purview on mankind. Living and dead, you can't escape God Peter teaches here that no one escapes God's judgment. You will either stand before him one day acquitted. Or condemned based on your response to Christ. Jesus is either the living stone or the stumbling stone. Now listen. We cannot avoid this question. This question must be answered in our hearts this day, this moment, before we leave. Who is Jesus to us? Is he our Lord? Is he my Lord? Who is Jesus to me? See, Peter's claim here is not only a warning for the unbeliever, but it's also an encouragement to the Christian and for Christians concerned about believers who have passed on. We must remember that the death of Christians in that first century was a problem for the church. That even Paul had the right to the church, and Thessalonica. Because they had concerns that those who had died had somehow missed out on the promises of Christ. They thought that well, since death is God's judgment on sin And since Christ paid for that price of sin, it might seem that Christians should not die, but live until Christ comes again. But Peter explains that even though they are judged in the body according to men or the eyes of men, that they live in the Spirit of God. Christ was preached, and they believed. And death does not affect the promises of God. Probably one of the ways the adversaries of the Christians uh what they were saying is Ha! Look, you say you have such great news. You say that you escape judgment. You say that God is great and he saves you and you have joy in that. Well you're missing a lot of parties. You're missing the good life. And if you die just like everybody else If you die and you go to the worms like everybody else, well I say, eat, drink, be merry, for today we die. Well, the reason the gospel was preached to those who have died is that so that even though it looks like they have been judged like everyone else. They haven't. They are alive in the Spirit. They are with the Lord. The promises of Christ are yes and amen. And the sufferings that they experienced here are not worthy to be compared to the glory that is revealed to them now as they are with their Savior. Calvin quotes something along these lines. He says, We see that death does not hinder Christ from being our defender. It's a remarkable relief to the godly that death itself brings no loss to their salvation Even if Christ does not appear as a deliverer in this life, yet his redemption is not void or without effect. For his power extends even to the dead. The effectiveness of the gospel continues, even after physical life. And that is why making a decision now to live for Christ is the right decision to make. It is the right decision now to live for Christ. Because the decision to follow Christ now has eternal significance. The whole point of evangelism. The whole reason why we do evangelism is to prepare people for that day, to prepare us for that day when we must give an account to God. And the gospel was preached because judgment is coming. When we get the unexpected news of the death of somebody that we know. What's a question that a first question that is usually asked was how do they die? Was it an automobile accident? Was it a heart attack? But when the Bible speaks of people dying, it's somewhat reductionistic. From a biblical standpoint, there are only two conditions in which someone can die. They either die in the faith. Die in the faith in Christ, or they die out of the faith. We die in faith or we die in sin. And so Peter understood the urgency of the gospel. And so he calls us, he calls all men to think about the time of accountability when we will stand before God. If you were to die today, would you die in faith in Christ? Or would you die in your sin? Would you stand before God crushed by your sin? Or would you die holding fast to the beautiful cross of Jesus, singing, All I have? is Christ. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved this day. That's what Peter is calling us to You will either stand before God in all of your sin, or stand before God cleansed, washed, robed in the beautiful righteousness of Christ. Do not harden your hearts to stay, but repent of your sin and put your faith in Jesus Christ. See, our brother, our dear brother Peter, has given us means to arm ourselves for this life. To arm ourselves for suffering. And he says, arm yourself with the mind of Christ. And by identifying with your Lord, being willing, even when necessary, to face suffering rather than sin. He says, Arm yourself with a heart of obedience, just as foreigners characteristically do not fully participate in the culture and customs of the land that they're in, but live by the values and practices of their homeland. Christians may find themselves at odds with the values and practices of the society in which they find themselves. And lastly, Peter says: arm yourself with the knowledge of judgment. Whether living or dead, no man can escape it. Christians, be encouraged, for your judgment was taken upon Christ on the cross. But for you who do not believe today, come to Christ. Come to Christ in repentance. In faith. Because your hope, my hope, anyone's hope is only in Christ alone by faith. Let's pray Our great and heavenly Father, we thank you for loving us while we were yet sinners. Father, our hearts are full of idols. And Father, we thank you for the death of Christ. Father, help us to arm ourselves for suffering. Let us stay fixed on you. Let us choose a path that is even marked with suffering rather than going in the way of sin and the lust of our flesh. Father, let us live this day knowing that there is a day when you will come to rescue us fully and completely. And whether we die today or not, Lord, we know that the promises of Christ are forever. We thank you for Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen.