At the final message on the spiritual armor. And Ann Dransfield came just in time to hear the final message. Those of you who know the Dransfields, they'll be coming back and Ann's back out there somewhere. The final message on gospel armor, and um we have one more message on spiritual warfare, which I will give in August on the subject of occultism. Want to look at what the Bible teaches about occultism And I'm not going to tell you the date on that, so you have to come each week and wonder if this is the week, you know. So let's review What Paul has been trying to communicate, get through to you and to me, remembering that this is every bit as relevant to us right now As it was when Paul wrote that back nearly 2,000 years ago. What is it that he says? Verse 10. The main point in this fourth main section of Ephesians, finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. You remember When we look at that, we saw that strength is a strength that is known in your weakness. It's not a strength to take you out of weakness. To be able to look at and say, weakness is a thing of the past. Now I'm strong. But it's a strength that in your weakness, as you are aware of your weakness, your helplessness. Then you depend on his strength. And so you and I tend to want to get away from those times where we feel failures, weak, inadequate. But it's only then that you actually Seek his strength and know it. Well, how do you get that? Verse 11 then goes on. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. The way you know his strength is through his armor. And so he then urges you and me, put on this armor. Hasn't told us what it is yet, but he's saying, put on the armor. Why? What's the motivation? Why do I need this armor? Verse 12. For our struggle is not, you might say, merely against flesh and blood, but the struggle that you are in and will be engaged in this week. is against demonic angels. It's against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. So he repeats it back verse 13. Therefore, again, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand four times. He says, stand, verse 11, twice verse 13, verse 14 begins, stand firm then. And then he begins to describe the armor. In verses 14 to 17. Thanks, Michael. And so you see the six pieces of armor that we have been looking at. Remember that when he says, put on the armor of God, that is equivalent to saying, learn to think gospel. It is gospel armor. The point is to learn how to think gospel Now we come this week to the wrap-up of all this, and so we've covered the six pieces, and this morning what I want to do is to review those six pieces with a particular emphasis on application. Now, remember, application is not a dirty word when you're talking about the gospel. It's not something to get nervous and to say, uh, you know, why did I decide to come this Sunday here? Application, when we're talking about the gospel, means freedom. The difficult thing about application is the requisite of honesty. For you and me to be honest with our hearts and look and say, what am I really like? How does this apply to my life? It means change. It means being open to God's Spirit In ways that I may not be comfortable, but I guarantee, as I've seen so often in my own life, if you are willing this morning as we look at this, you will be glad. Now, let me also suggest that as you think about these six pieces of armor, think of them like getting dressed spiritually. And you may find it helpful over the next few weeks to take the six pieces of armor and think about them Uh in two ways. Number one, as you get dressed in the morning to be thinking about these pieces of armor. I'm putting on truth. I'm putting on righteousness. I'm putting on peace, I'm putting on faith, I'm putting on hope, I'm putting on the sword of the Spirit, Scripture, as you're getting dressed and doing that. But then another way to to uh go through this is to pick In six days of the week, Mondays is Saturday, pick one piece of the armor, meditate on that. So tomorrow, be thinking. about the belt of truth on Tuesday, meditating on the breastplate of righteousness and the rest of that. And particularly what I want to do is help you now by looking at how these things practically apply in your life and in mine. Again, you remember there's six pieces of armor divided into two sets of three. The first three are the armor that you have. And there the emphasis has been on remembering. It's the gospel truth that you have and need to remember. And those are the three B's. The belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, and the boots of gospel peace. First of all, there was the belt of truth against Satan's deception. Each of these is against a particular strategy of the evil one The Bell of Truth against Deception. Remember we talked about how deception is Satan's basic strategy. Now in August when I look at uh the matter of occultism, I will want to point out that I believe that the demons do have power over the physical realm. They are able, I am confident, to both make a person sick and to heal. But it always involves deception For most of us, it is simply deception. That's the main thing that we deal with. And so spiritual warfare begins with a commitment to live by what is true. By what is true rather than by how you feel, what you want, what you heard on Oprah, what you read in a magazine, article, whatever, that you're saying, I believe this word It's weightier, it's more trustworthy than even how I feel about this at this moment. This past Monday I uh had the opportunity, went up to uh my old almer mater University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. And as I was wandering around the campus there, I had not been there for decades. I don't know the last time I was there, but I'll tell you this, I was a student there 40 years ago And uh place has changed a little bit. It's about tripled in size, a lot of things different. But some of the places that I hung around 40 years ago are still very recognizable. And as I walked uh down in College Hall and then wandered over to the Christian Association, which isn't that now, but as I walked in that building it looked like the same old leather overstuffed furniture, I had the same smell, the same feel. And as I wandered in there, vividly came back to me the spiritual struggle that I had at that time. As a new Christian, I was naive enough to take Bible courses there, which of course were anti-Bible Bible courses And then I was taking psychology courses, which taught me that uh you'll you'll uh commit yourself to any fool thing and uh suffer for it even as long as you pay a price, you know, you'll just hang in there. It doesn't matter if it's true or false. And going through in those days, that was the big issue in my life. Is this book true? Can I believe it? I was taking comparative religions and I was I was asking, you know, is this More true than the Upanishads or the Bhagavad Gita or Lao Tzu or you know the Quran or anything else. Is this really true? Can I build my life on it? I remember one day So desperate, I was in my room and I was prostrate on the floor, pounding on the floor, saying, God, I'm going crazy. I've got to know. Can I trust this book? Or is this something that I was taught and it just, you know, it's somebody's opinion, it's a nice thought, it's inspirational, but it's really not true. It won't stand up to the philosophy and to the things that I'm hearing here. Now, gradually, by God's grace, he enabled me to work through that issue, to come to a confidence That this word is true. Have you ever come to that unshakable confidence in your life? The belt of truth is mentioned first because it's foundational. It's the first thing you've got to put on is the conviction this is true. And you remember, Paul uses the idea of the belt of truth in three ways in the book of Ephesians. First of all, he talks about the truth of the gospel that you believe to salvation. In chapter 1 and verse 13, he says, You also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth. The gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who's a deposit guaranteeing our redemption till the day of our inheritance. Have you believed the gospel as true? That says you are dead and helpless and hopeless in your sin apart from Jesus Christ. That the only thing that will get you out of the predicament of living under God's just judgment and wrath Is that you admit the truth about yourself and that Jesus Christ is your only hope by his salvation through his death and his resurrection. Particularly for some of you young people, I find that there is, as I say this, a certain implausibility about that. What do I mean by that? I listened this week to a fascinating interview with a sociologist by the name of Sigmund Baumann. Baumann has written a number of books on our culture, and his latest describes us as a culture of liquidity. And by that he means we live in a culture where nothing is solid. Everything is fluid and constantly changing at an accelerating pace. Not just technology, but everything, standards. Um when Kathy and I were married For a couple to be living together outside of marriage was generally considered a shameful thing. It's hardly noticed anymore. Homosexuality was considered something that was clearly wrong. Now it's in your face acceptable. Careers Um when my father worked, he got a job with the Atlantic Refining Company, expected to work with that company all of his life and then retire. Baumann says, if you graduate from college today, you can expect, on the average, eleven careers in your lifetime. Eleven major changes. There is nothing that is solid. And therefore you learn that the way to live is To constantly be adapting and knowing that what you learned yesterday may be out of date and counterproductive to adapting to the world tomorrow. So you've got to learn to unlearn and shift and mentally move on. So when I say to you, believe the gospel, the word of truth For your salvation, give your life to Jesus Christ. You say, Well, I don't have an argument against that, but tell you the truth, I'm putting that off now because I can't imagine giving myself to something irrevocably That I won't say maybe doesn't fit ten years from now or fifteen years from now. Today people marry without the expectation that this marriage will be for life Somebody's just telling me that you heard marriage vows recently as long as we both shall love. And that's quite common So giving yourself to a Savior who is true, who has been, is, will be sufficient and true for you, is a mental shift. Satan is constantly seeking to deceive you by saying, keep your options open, you know, don't commit, just kind of consider it, go along, but as long as it seems useful for now. But that's not the way with Christ. He comes and calls you and says, Give yourself to me. And anything which says you can't do that, you really don't want to, you don't want to give yourself irrevocably to him is deception. And I call you to recognize that. And to give your life to Jesus Christ, who alone is the rock. And to giving yourself to Him Means that as Paul says in chapter 4 verse 21, you learn to live out of that truth. You have learned the truth which is in Christ, he says, so therefore you put off the old nature, put on the new nature. So it is a life-changing truth. It is not a truth where you say, I believe that I'm going to heaven, but I live according to my own standards and judgment. But I live, according to Ephesians, the truth. I put on the belt of truth day by day to live out of God's standards and God's gospel. And those standards and that gospel is communicated generally in community. So in chapter 4 and verse 15, remember Paul said, speaking the truth to one another in love Have you come to the place where you recognize your need for the community to learn and to live out of the truth? You're still keeping your options open. I you know I'm not gonna join a small group or a cell because I you know I wanna I wanna keep my options, keep keep myself private I don't want to be open and vulnerable in a group that will know me too closely. Where are you in the belt of truth? Have you put it on? Have you learned to live out of it? Have you settled that area of living by truth in community rather than by your own opinions and your own preferences? That's the first thing. And you think it probably at this point, if he's gone at this rate, we're going to be here all day. But let me just start picking up here now a little bit. We move on to the second thing. Restplate of righteousness The first is uh against Satan's deceptions, the second is against Satan's accusations. You remember we talked about the breastplate of righteousness where the main issue is, do I measure up? We talked about how uh the issue for us is approval. We so want people's approval. I remember Jack Miller in a talk that he gave once talking about a fella who uh was known in his group, they gave him the nickname of approval suck because he was always trying to suck approval out of people. It was so evident, so obvious. Um Need to be the perfect hostess. Need to be always displaying your knowledge, your skills. So that people think well of you. How they think of you is all important. And then someday we come along and you see, boy, the really bad news is that um It really doesn't matter in the end what people think of me. What really matters is what God thinks of me. And then you're reminded of that fellow that I told about once who had the dream Where it was judgment day and he was standing in line for the judgment, happened to be behind Mother Teresa, and he heard God say to her, you know, you really could have done better. And that is the fear, isn't it? Whatever happens, you know you really could have done better And what is God going to do with your life in the end? Will you have his approval? But the good news of the gospel is that God sent his son Jesus so that in chapter 1, verse 7, he says, He substituted his Death for your death. Remember he said there in him we have redemption. That's a purchase. Purchased through his blood. The forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. With all wisdom and understanding, he knows you, knows your heart, and he has forgiven you those things which you are most ashamed of. He's wiped the slate clean through Jesus Christ if you are trusting him. But The gospel is even better than that we talked about. Remember with the breastplate of righteousness. It's not simply now the slate's clean, you're back on probation, but he has also substituted his life for you. Chapter 1 and verse 4, for he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his fight. He's made you holy and blameless because Jesus Christ's life, his acts, his record, his thoughts have been imputed. That is, they have been credited to you. And so here at Columbia Presbyterian we talk about double imputation, that is your sin imputed to Christ, his record of right. imputed to you. And around here when we say double imputation, you say what? You got it. Amen. Somebody emailed me this week and they were talked about the blessing of double imputation in their life and of course they stuck in a hallelujah. You know, I mean you know that Presbyterian, but it is so true Are you living out of the freedom of that? Satan's accusations can't stick Because you're wearing the breastplate of Christ's righteousness, and that's all the righteousness you ever need. Have you taken that? Are you living out of that? Or are you just thinking about it? And then thirdly, we moved on to the boots of gospel peace against the disruptions. Satan wants to disrupt your peace, to rob you of it. A few weeks ago I preached um I was preaching uh through this armor and I I uh referred to Richard Baxter And uh happened to be a visitor here, happened to be a pastor from New Jersey, who um kindly the next week said, you know, he's one of my favorite writers and he said, Let me email you a poem that he once wrote that your message reminded me of, and so let me quote to you just a few of the stanzas from this poem concerning our peace. And hopefully you'll get the gist, even though I'm just excerpting from the poem. Baxter says, My gospel book I open left, where I the promise saw, but now I doubt it's lost by theft. I find none but the law. My treacherous flesh had played its part and opened sin the door. They have spoiled and robbed my heart and left it sad and poor. Yet had I one great trusty friend that will procure my peace, and all this loss and ruin mend and purchase my release. The bellows I'll yet take in hand Till this small spark shall flame. Love shall my heart and tongue command To praise God's holy name I'll mend the roof, I'll watch the door, and better keep the key. I'll trust my treacherous flesh no more, but force it to obey. What have I said? That I'll do this? That am so false and weak, and have so often done amiss, and did my covenants break I mean, Lord, and this shall be done if thou my heart wilt raise, and as the work must be thine own, so also shall the praise. You even saying that I'm going to discipline the flesh a little harder. I'm going to get mastery of that sin, and then I'll have peace. And all the while the Spirit is seeking to whisper to you: take the gospel boots, peace that you have through Christ with God. The peace that you have of Christ, of God. And so Paul prayed in chapter one. I pray that God the Father Father of glory will give to you the spirit of wisdom and understanding so that you might know Him better. Chapter three Being rooted and grounded in love, you might together with all the saints Be able to grasp how wide and high and deep and long is the love of Christ. To know that love. And in that love to find your peace. Have you found that? Or are you just still looking at it, admiring, and thinking, that must be nice. Someday I hope to have it. I want to tell you this morning, you can have it this morning, through Jesus Christ, long for that peace, recognize it is in him and come to him for it. And then we talked about the three pieces of armor that we take. In these cases, it's a more active exercise now in the use of the armor. The three S's, the shield of faith. the sword the uh salvation helmet and then the sword of the spirit, the shield of faith against temptations and trials. You remember the question that I asked you Where is it that you are most vulnerable to his flaming arrows? If you were Satan, where would you fire them? At you Where are you most vulnerable? What temptations? What idols? Promise you the greatest surrogate satisfaction in place of Jesus. What is it that you say this will be my immediate gratification? This will promise the release. That I so crave. And by doing that, you're only in touch with the superficial desires of your heart. And as you go deeper into those desires, you become more aware that it's only Christ, it's only Christ that satisfies. In temptations and in trials. To hold up that shield and to stand with your brothers and sisters. That shield, remember, is like a door, and standing together it's like a wall. Say hold up that shield as those arrows come in. And Satan says to you, you can't trust him. He'll let you down. You gotta fend for yourself. You say, but I believe, I trust, it's the shield of faith. I trust I have a heavenly Father who is all-wise, all-loving, all-powerful. And I exercise that faith. I act as if it's true and see what he will do. And then fifthly, Move on to the general discouragement, that sense of just ready to give up, and what do I do and where do I go? And Satan says, give it up Where's home? Where is home for you? And Satan says, home's here. This is like the movie of a little over a year ago. This is as good as it gets. So you've got to make some sort of home out of this desert. Remember the salvation helmet Speaks of salvation in the three tenses. You've been saved, are being saved, will be saved. But the emphasis, as he points out in Thessalonians, is on the future. You will be saved. And so you live in that hope, the hope of the gospel that says there's coming a time when Jesus will come, and he will soon crush Satan under our feet. And remember that helmet, which is the hope that you have for defense against the discouragement, has fasteners along the top. Have you looked at the fasteners lately on your helmet? And you remember as you look at those fasteners, that's right, those are for the plumes, the plumes of the plumes of victory, so that after the battle and after the war, I march with my conquering hero Jesus in the victory parade. And those plumes are displayed for a decoration to say that He has won, and with Him I've won, and there is no war, there is no more battle. And at the end of that parade, Jesus takes that helmet. And he removes it from your head and he gives you a crown. A crown of glory. And you take that crown. And out of passion and ardor for him. You cast it at his feet and say, Jesus, to you be the glory Are you living in that hope? Or has that hope become dim and unreal to you? Live in the hope of your salvation. And then finally the last thing, coming around full circle, is to take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And you remember that the Belt of truth was to remember truth, the sword of the spirit is to use truth. to brandish it, to to think of that specific area of attack and to know ahead of time, not just when you're in the temptation, but to know what is it, what is the spot, the place of my greatest vulnerability. Balancing in your study of Scripture the overall themes and moving through not just what you need, but just to also study uh to get the broad overview of salvation and God, but then particularly to know from time to time those areas of special need in your life and That you study the commands to then also look at the gospel foundation of them. So it's not the fleshly duty, but rather it is basic theme of Ephesians. What? Be what you are. Be in your experience, what you already are in Christ. God has made you in Christ a new creature. Live out of that by faith in Him. And then to look specifically at the promises that he gives you about that area of need and memorize some of the key texts that will help you. Speak those texts aloud, take it and say, Satan, you know, have a conversation with him. You're not crazy. I do it. Hopefully not with people around, but you do it, you say, Lord, uh I believe this and Satan, this is what you're telling me. Identify it, call it what it is, and then answer him with scripture. Come back to him Again and again. Now you're probably hoping that I'm going to end this whole series with some deep heart-moving illustration that will bring tears to your eyes. But I've decided instead that I want to conclude with a longer time of prayer and just lead you through to examine in your heart God's provision, these six pieces of armor. So now let's pray. Let's go to him. And with every head bowed, every eye closed, I want you to examine your heart before the Lord Jesus. Have you ever decided to put on that belt of truth, to believe that the gospel is true, to give your life To Jesus Christ once and for all. To live by truth rather than by your thoughts and feelings and the advice of experts or friends. To live by God's word. Have you ever settled that? Bring it before Him now. How are you living out of that truth day by day? A practical, life-changing truth. Transforms your patterns of thinking, decisions, lifestyle. Truth is received and given in community. Speaking and receiving the truth to one another in love? Or are you holding yourself separate, keeping private? Are you resting in that breastplate of Christ's sufficient righteousness so that the accusations of Satan don't stick? He points out all the things that are wrong about you and what you've done and what you're like and you can respond, yeah, and I can give you ten more. But Christ's righteousness is sufficient. God does not hold any of that against me. And you're living in that peace Peace with God, the peace of God that your inheritance. Do you know it? If you lack it, ask him for it now. Come to him. Cry out to him. Lord, give me that peace. Give me Christ who is my peace. You need to learn how to use that shield of faith against the temptations. The trials, believe that you have a Heavenly Father who's all-wise, all-loving, all-powerful, who's faithful, who will never leave you or abandon you. Are you resting in his faithfulness? Are you identifying those flaming arrows as they come and turning the shield and moving it to ward them off? Or do you just let them come and you're not sure where they come from and you're not sure what to do with them? And you wonder why you don't see God in any practical way in your life. Have you settled once for all in your heart that here we have no enduring city, but we seek that one which is to come And you're living in the hope of your salvation. You've got that helmet on, and from time to time, as you're thankful for the defense against the discouragement and despair. Tom read about in Psalm 13, oh God, where are you? From time to time you're looking at the fasteners. And you're thinking about what a day that will be when you march with Jesus in the victory parade. And you're living in the light of the hope of seeing his face when he takes that. Helmet and gives you the crown. With love you cast it at his feet. Begin that life with him forever, where there is no more battle. You're living in that hope. Are you still trying to make this world home? A world where Cats still maim and torture squirrels before they eat them, is the one I saw at Longwood Garden and a picture of perfection. But not home. And are you using the sword of the Spirit, learning how to take the scriptures and place them in your heart in those times of need so that Satan's not able to Get through and you're loving Jesus more and more because you're knowing him more and more and you're seeing that his word is sufficient and And that it really is true. And like the brother that came out of the first service and said I was a couple weeks ago in despair. It just looked like God had abandoned me and then all of a sudden he turned things around in a way I could have never guessed, and I just seeing how amazingly faithful he is Oh. May you see that too. May I see it. Lord Jesus, thank you. Thank you for the armor. Teach us this week how to begin to put it on and to live in it. To enjoy the peace that you intend for us, so that we would glorify your name and want to speak to others about you because you are so wonderful. Lord, thank you. Thank you for this armor. Teach us, teach us how to use it. In Jesus' name. Amen.