So we're going to go back to the armor of God to look at what we were doing. Let's have uh our Christian up here on the remember him again, uh, in case you weren't here last week. uh found out that Charles Lee actually did see a Roman soldier, so he wasn't kidding. But anyway, that's the best we could do with this picture. And um There will be things that we'll be wanting to refer to in that. We have started last week with a belt of truth that you don't see because it's underneath there. It's what gathers up the tunic, so he's ready to fight. Paul gives us the armor in the order in which it is put on. The first thing that you put on is the belt of truth. And so that's the first thing that we are considering. So let's look again at Ephesians chapter 6. Now let's Michael have the scriptures up, please. Ephesians chapter 6, and read again from verses 14 to 17, the six pieces of spiritual armor that God has provided for you in the spiritual warfare that you'll be engaged in this week. He says, Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place. and with your feet fitted with a readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. We saw that Paul is speaking there about God's truth, not the truth that we speak And we see that he gets that idea from three times he has used that word truth before, actually four times he's talked about truth, but three of those four times shape what he means here by the bell of truth. First of all, it's the truth of the gospel. We saw that in chapter 1, verse 13, where Paul said, And you also were included in Christ. When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Do you remember in chapter 2 he said you're dead in sin, you're blinded, you're dead, you can't see reality You don't understand that you have been made by a sovereign creator to whom you owe everything. You're dependent on him. He's made you for his glory. There is one God and it's not you. And so we live in this deception of a very self-centered kind of world. Paul said you need to understand that God has a controversy with you. You're under his wrath, he says in chapter two. And the gospel comes and says, God has made a provision. Of his grace, he has sent his son, Jesus, the word of the gospel, chapter 1, verse 13, is the gospel with good news of your salvation. And so God has raised you up, and he has seated you with Christ. And Satan's chief desire is to get you to forget who you are. To forget all of that, to live as if that is not true, as if it's not true that you have been given new life and forgiveness of sin and the power of the risen Christ. to be released and delivered from the bondage of your sinful, self-centered, dysfunctional thinking. Because that truth is not something you just acknowledge. Paul says it's a truth that transforms you. And so in chapter 4 He used that word truth, where he says, I insist on it. Chapter 4, verse 17, you no longer live like you used to, with your mind darkened, deceiving yourself But rather that you live, verse twenty-one, in the truth that is in Jesus that you are putting off the old nature, putting on the new l new nature, which makes you um Which is created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. So as you are walking, living out of the truth day by day, it's transforming your thinking. It's releasing you from All of those idols and the need to make yourself look good or put others down or to gossip or to be bitter or unforgiving, the truth is transforming. But you can't do it alone. And so we saw thirdly last week that Paul says that truth must be truth that is both given and received in community. Chapter 4, verse 14. So you will be no longer infants, tossed back and forth by the waves blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. demonically inspired deceit that'll get you to follow someone or some ideology because that will make you to be successful or feel good about yourself or on and on and on it goes and it changes. Whatever is the latest tea tape you heard or conference you went to or TV Christian program that you watched or whatever on and on and on. You see, if you're doing that alone and not in community You will be allowing yourself to live in fantasy. The fantasy of self-pity, fantasy of your bitterness that you justify, or sin that you're ignoring. And Paul says in verse 15, instead speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. He's saying you need a little slap of reality from time to time from a brother or sister that cares enough for you to say, I hear what you're saying. But you're kidding yourself. That's just not true. And they help you to see what maybe you don't want to see But it's truth. It's the reality of the gospel. Now You know, kind of tempted to there it is. That's what Paul's saying. Now let's move on to the breastplate of righteousness. But I felt like I couldn't really do that because I am convinced That this idea of truth, biblical idea of truth, is so foreign to our thinking That we could all hear, read chapter 6, verse 14, having your waste Girded about, having your loins girt, you see, with this belt of truth that's gathering up so you're ready to fight, so you're in place, you know. You've got this belt of truth on, ready to go, and everybody says, Yeah, yeah, I got it. Okay, got that one down. What's the next one? And this week you will be living according to lies that you're not even aware of. Why? Because we live in a day which is given the name of the ideology of postmodernism Which is such a radically different notion of truth from what the scripture says that unless we are consciously aware of it, we will be saying we're living by truth. But we will in fact not be living by truth and not even be aware of it. Now, how can that be? Let me give you just one simple little example to help you to see how foreign this notion of truth is from today's culture. I uh was reading just in the last week or so about uh General Douglas MacArthur, one of the heroes of World War II. In 1962, he gave an address to his alma mater, West Point, the last time he spoke there, just two years before his death, and the address was on duty, honor, country. He talked about how these ideas of duty, honor, country controlled his thinking, possessed him. Compelled him through his life and through his career. Duty, honor, country. Now, what's your response when you hear that? Find yourself being a bit cynical and saying, pfft, yeah, duty on our country. We know people that talk about that stuff. usually hypocrites. You really don't understand and you see, nobody is saying that Douglas MacArthur was a saint or that he was consistent or he was flawless. He wouldn't say that. Nobody's saying that any of the heroes in American history were flawless. Far, far from it. But there was in other generations a notion of duty and honor and country. We've seen a glimpse of it resurge after 9-11. Some idea, but nevertheless a different drumbeat for people who understood something about you do something just because it's right, or you believe something simply because it's true, or you serve simply out of a conviction that is very foreign and seems almost quaint. To our thinking today, the day of postmodernism. What is postmodernism? Postmodernism is a kind of a a constellation of an ideology. It's the it's sort of the logical conclusion of the relativism that has been promoted in our colleges and universities and our media in general throughout most of this century this past century. And it's hard to define, but let me give you just a few characterizing statements. To help you to see why there is a whole understanding of truth that is foreign to Scripture that Satan uses to keep you from being able to Wear the belt of truth in the biblical sense. Postmodernism says that there can be no objective view of reality. Everyone is shaped by their culture. In fact, language is inadequate to describe reality. And even beyond that You could not describe any reality beyond your own and your own culture because it is impossible for you to get beyond it. You are trapped within it. History is just fiction Because it's written by people shaped by their own culture, their own thinking. They cannot be objective, so all you have is their opinion. And therefore, it is wrong to judge any other culture or anyone else's values because you're only doing it from the limited framework of your values. See, there's nothing transcendent. This is where you get the term meta-narrative that you hear a lot today. You see, a narrative is your story. You know, Mother's Day, you'll gather around maybe some of the families getting together. What do you do? You tell family stories, and those stories give meaning to your family. This is what shaped us. This is why we are. Here's why we're weird, you know, and our our unique weirdness. Here's our family stories. Okay, that gives you meaning. But your stories are different from our stories. We're weird different from the way you're weird. Now, all of us have our own narratives, stories that give meaning But there isn't any, there can't be any meta-narrative that is a story that is above all of our individual stories, that gives everybody meaning. Because that would require somebody who transcended culture, and none of us do that. So they say even the biblical writers, of course, were people shaped by their own culture, and so they spoke out of their culture, and we can gain something from that. Certainly, the universe is a closed system. Nobody speaks beyond it, so there can be no meta-narrative. Can't be anybody speaking any truth that applies to everybody It's just your story. That's all there is. One final thing about postmodernism is that it says anybody who claims to tell you the truth Has a hidden agenda. They're doing it because they want to control you. Just like the Aryan supremacy myth, for instance. You see, when anybody says, I have a truth, and not only should I believe it, but you should believe it. Look out, they say, be suspicious of that person. So what you want to do is you want to undermine anyone who claims to have a transcendent truth. Now we live in a culture that has by and large unconsciously rather adopted that idea that to have any kind of truth that transcends my own opinion and experience is arrogant. And so let me offer to you three ways that today's notion of truth is in direct conflict with Scripture and how it affects the Christian who's trying to put on the belt of truth. Very briefly. Number one. Subjective feelings versus objective revelation. This is basic. Today you hear constantly, follow your heart. Right? Don't follow your head. Only people who are undesirable and uptight and rigid follow their heads. The genuine, warm, desirable person follows their heart. We're in a culture where psychological language has basically replaced theological truth language. So we think, and most people don't even understand this, we think in psychological terms. It's the psychological terms that give meaning to us. And those are all very much feeling terms. Last year, a woman by the name of Eva Moskowitz wrote a book published by Johns Hopkins University Press called In Therapy We Trust, America's Obsession with Self-Fulfillment. And Moskowist says in that book, Americans turn to feeling good as reflexively as they once turned to God. As a nation, we have become utterly devoted to self-fulfillment. It's our new faith, our new religion While the rest of the world struggles with famine and war, we are preoccupied with anxiety, shyness, and denial. And I might add the stock market. So you see, we live in a world in which our feelings predominate more than whether anything is true. In fact, uh we are shaped by TV. in our understanding of truth. And T V is a medium of impact, not ideas. That came home to me pretty strongly after 9-11 when uh Max Bilke, who was killed in the Pentagon uh because of that, NBC wanted to interview me to do a brief special about him. And so uh the camera team came here and they set up a studio, you know, we had this little thing and I tried to with all my media savvy, you know, put together some anecdotes, some thoughts about Max that would be usable for them and also introduce a few ideas about his convictions. And uh after we taped that, the uh interviewer said Ah, that's some great stuff. We got that. We're gonna use that. I can guarantee you. That's some good stuff. And uh a couple days later I got a phone call from him and he said, Oh well, I'm sorry, but he says, we had another interview And he said, boys, that one was superb. So I'm afraid you're only going to get a couple seconds. Now I plead with you to believe the next statement is not sour grapes. I was usurped by weeping. And you see, what happened was they got somebody who, when they talk about Max, began to weep in thinking about it. And he said, that's what we want. Because you see that fits TV much more effectively. They don't want to hear about Max and what he was like and what he believed. They want an emotional reaction to that, you see. Now we're shaped by that. In fact, uh US News and World Report very accommodatingly did a survey on faith this last week, or at least they published it the last week. I thank them very much for that, for my message. And in that survey Nearly 70% of Americans think spiritual experiences are the most important part of religion. Now you read that, and this is where we are. You read that and you say, Yeah, that doesn't surprise me. Yeah, but you realize wait a minute, think about that. It doesn't matter if it's true, the most important thing is the experience. Seventy percent of Americans say that. Why? Because they're convinced there isn't any way of knowing the truth, so all you have is the experience, you see. 52% of evangelical teens from Bible-believing churches say that they make decisions based on their feelings. I recall counseling a couple who were sleeping together, and one was a member here, and so we were talking about that and what the scripture says about that. I told them about the scriptures forbidding adultery. The woman said, Well, when we do it, I don't feel guilty, so it can't be wrong. End of discussion. You see, it's my feelings that determine right or wrong. Now, do you understand you I say so put on a belt of truth, Satan comes and there's this notion of something that goes against your feelings and you say, well, I can't violate that. And you don't even realize that that's exactly where Satan is seeking to deceive you by making your feelings More important than what's right, what's pleasing to God, what he says. No wonder 65% of evangelical teens from Bible-believing churches surveyed said You can't really be sure which religion is right. That's two out of three evangelical teens. Paul says, put on the belt of truth. You see, Ephesians 1. 13 says that the gospel is good news. That's what he says. You believe the word of truth, the gospel. Gospel is news about who God is and what is done for sinners. And so what Paul is saying here is there is a meta-narrative. God has spoken. He has declared what God has done for sinners. He's declared what he has done for you. The truth, chapter 4, verse 21, is in Jesus. It is objective. In fact, Paul anticipating postmodernism, I think the Bible is not contemporary in its speaking to issues, Galatians chapter 1 Get this when somebody says that meta-narratives are impossible. What I say to them is, I understand where you're coming from. Could you for a moment jump into my world and conceive? I'm not asking you to believe it. I'm saying, could you just conceive of it? Galatians chapter 1, verse 11, Paul says, I want you to know, brothers. That the gospel I preached is not something that man made up. I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it Rather, I received it by revelation through Jesus Christ. What is essential to you and to me is that this book we believe is from an open system where God speaks And because he has, this is a meta-narrative. It is that which speaks to all cultures. And until Christians are convinced of that and unashamedly and have guts to say Hey, I understand you think that's impossible, that it's arrogant for somebody to say that there's truth. But let me just share with you, the Bible has this claim. Just jump into my world for a few minutes. Let me tell you about what it says. Because you know that even though they say they can't conceive of it, they are image-bearers of God, and they can conceive of it. So you share it. Secondly, tolerance versus absolutes. Tolerance versus absolutes. Contrast What's the most intimidating question today? Who are you to judge? Right? Disarms everybody. See all views about values and truth are equally valid today. Once again, thanks to the editors of U. S. News and World Report. Last week's issue. Listen to this. In some polls, you have Christians saying, yes, Jesus is the only way, and also, yes, there are many paths to God. Hey, no contradiction there, right? It's that now listen to this insightful comment. It's not that Americans don't believe anything. They believe everything Recently, both Roman Catholics and Presbyterians have wrestled publicly with this question, is Jesus and Christianity the only way of salvation? Hey guys, you're and this is not Christianity today, folks. This is U. S. news here. Is Jesus the only way to salvation? Now listen, leaders of the two and a half million member Presbyterian Church USA, that's not us, folks. All right Leaders of the two and a half million member Presbyterian Church USA reject the statement declaring that Jesus is the only Savior and Lord. They rejected that and they affirmed this statement For us, the assurance of salvation is found only in confessing Christ and trusting him alone. You catch the difference? For us, those are two little words. Make all the difference. See. Not necessarily for you, just for us. And so they go on. Seventy percent of Christians surveyed in this say that Christians should be tolerant of other people and other faiths, and leave them alone. Twenty-four percent of Christians, less than one out of four, think that it's a Christian's duty to convert members of other faiths. We wonder why we got a problem with evangelism. Thank God for James Merritt, President of the Southern Baptist Convention, who said in this survey All we ask is that you be tolerant of our right and responsibility to share what we believe to be the real truth of salvation. Three cheers for the Baptists. Somebody told me after the first service, they asked the wrong Presbyterians, that's the problem. Oh yeah, maybe true. But you get the point there And so when we speak of abortion, we talk about rights, we talk about homosexuality, we talk about what's normal and natural, we talk about pedophilia, we talk about what can be of benefit. Only the last one has suffered in the media greatly at the hands of the Roman Catholic Church. Now, I want to say something about that, and please understand me, I'm not into Catholic bashing I have no interest in saying that the Catholics are the bad guys, we're the good guys. Sin and hypocrisy and shame run through every denomination. But I want to tell you something about the Roman Catholic scandal that really tears at my heart. The biggest travesty of that scandal Is not what it has done to the victims. Now I want to hasten to say, what it has done to the victims is unspeakably reprehensible To have hundreds of boys victimized by predatory priests Some committing suicide because it has so marred them. To think of my own son Dean at an early age Being victimized in that way fills me with a rage that is difficult to communicate to you. Nevertheless That is not the greatest scandal of the whole thing. The greatest scandal is that it has simply been dealt with politically. The lawyers write damage control statements in which there is no expression of repentance or shame. Or the fact that this has dishonored Jesus Christ, that it has discredited the gospel, and it is all treated as if there is no supernatural, that Christianity is simply one more expression of a culture and its values that cannot say anything beyond those values, can't speak any absolute truth And so why should we be surprised that they act like everybody else? Only a bit more shameful because they acted like they should be better. Do you see that that whole thing to our culture simply reconfirms that there are no absolutes, that the gospel really isn't a truth? That you have to confront with God and Jesus Christ. But it simply reduces it in the realm of everybody's opinion And we as Christians read this stuff and we don't get upset. Listen, whatever friends we have. Who are within the Catholic Church or who have some idea and opinions about this? We need to be talking with them and sharing with them how upset we are and how this is a violation of our own convictions because we believe that the gospel does make a difference The gospel transforms, God has spoken. And you can't prey on people and act as if, well, that's just kind of that person's problem within some political organization. Tolerance versus absolutes. And that leads me finally quickly to the last thing. And that is pragmatism versus principles. Pragmatism versus principles. Read through Ephesians again, and particularly chapter 5. And notice how Paul speaks, for instance, in verse five and six. Paul says, For this you can be sure, no immoral, impure, or greedy person, such a man as an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Now that's a statement of truth. That's not an opinion. He's saying how you live makes a difference. And such a person has no inheritance. Let no one deceive you with empty words because of such things God's wrath comes upon those who are disobedient. Therefore don't be partners with them. But the hope, verse 8, you were once darkness. Now you are light in the Lord. There is forgiveness. To paedophiles, to homosexuals, to sinners who are adulterers and liars and cheaters and gossips. There is forgiveness. You were once darkness. Now you're a light. Live as children of the light, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth. Have nothing, verse 11, to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. Living as sinners out of a system where we realize that too often we are pragmatic. We do simply what's convenient for us. And I wish I had time, I don't know, I gotta just wrap up. I got a number of examples from Chuck Colson, people who lie in novels, in articles, in statistics today, to simply make a point And I don't even think it's wrong, because the point justified it. And we will not see revival, I believe, in this nation Until our culture looks and says, there's a group of people who not only say they believe in truth, but they're willing to pay a price to live it And when they see Christians living by principle in keeping marriage vows When they would feel like they'd rather not, or living by purity when they're single in their sexual relationships. Or giving their word and keeping it rather than breaking it when it's not convenient Detecting the line of compromise in ethics in the business place and saying, I will not cross that line, then we have no right to talk to a culture about a transcendent truth. Brothers and sisters, we need to put on that belt of truth, recapture the notion that God speaks, therefore truth is transcendent And when Satan wants to deceive you and get you to think that you live in a closed universe And forget your identity as a redeemed child of God, that you can renounce that, and you can speak to Him truth In the face of the lies. Live out of that truth. Believe that truth. Believe the hymn Jesus, the solid rock, when Christ the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. I dare not trust, the hymn writer says, the sweetest frame. What's the sweetest frame? Talking about a frame of mind, a mood. He's saying whatever, however I feel, I don't rest in that. But wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ, the solid rock I stand. All other ground is sinking sand. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we are infected by this sleep-inducing drug. Of postmodernism that causes us as Christians to be able to glibly say, yes, we put on the belt of truth. What's next? And Lord, so often not even realize, I I I realize that I I'm infected by this notion that I think in psychological terms rather than truth terms. I think in self-centered, self-fulfillment terms. I think in terms of feelings and opinions and tolerance. Lord, we we don't want to be judgmental people. That's obnoxious. But oh Father, help us to believe that you have spoken and truth matters. That we would be a people who live differently. Not because we're better, but simply because your spirit has come To cause us to put off the old nature and to put on that new nature in a community that helps us to not live in self-deceit. Oh Lord, help us to recapture truth, which honors you and glorifies you and gives credibility to the gospel. Because Jesus has died and is risen, and that's true, and we can live out of that. For his name's sake. Amen