Well, in our study of Ephesians, we are looking at the armor that God provides you to stand. Against the demons who want to discourage and defeat you in your walk as a disciple of Jesus Christ. This is very practical armor. It's not mystical It is designed to dress your spirit and your mind, to protect you by getting you to think in terms of the gospel. The first piece that we looked at was the belt of truth. You see that in chapter 6, verse 14. Where you see there, Paul says, stand firm then with the belt of truth buckled around your waist. And we start with truth because Satan is beyond all things the deceiver. He's the father of lies. His basic strategy is to turn you from truth. He tries to deceive you on two levels, we saw. First of all, the lies to get you to forget who you are and what's your life, that you are made in God's image. As one who is precious, who is an image-bearer of the Holy God. Who is fallen and because of your sin and your rebellion, you have defaced that image. But that Jesus Christ has come in order that you could be forgiven. Give you new life, new hope, to live as a child of God with the hope of heaven. With the power of the Spirit, against the bondage of your sin. All these are truths that He wants you to forget. He wants you to not believe them, so that you live in defeat, discouragement. But we saw that beyond that, there is an even deeper level in which Satan operates, kind of a, is that the micro deception. Day by day, trying to get you to forget individually. But then there's the macro strategy, and that is just to attack the whole notion of truth by attacking the notion that God has spoken The idea of God's revelation through this book, the Bible. And if you take away the idea of God speaking, then you remove the idea that God speaks truth and therefore that there is absolute truth. And our generation has come to the place where people say there isn't any absolute truth, so all you have are opinions. There are no principles, all you have are preferences. And therefore He wants to intimidate you as a Christian in trying to share the gospel because who do you think you are? That you have some truth. You have a corner on to be able to declare, getting you to think that that's arrogant, you see. It's just an attack on truth Or to confuse you when you're tempted and you uh want to go by your feelings. It's just this is the way I feel, and my feelings kind of overwhelm me Now, uh, don't get me wrong from what I was saying last week. I was not trying to imply that you should ignore your feelings, that feelings don't matter. We are to obey God with passion and affection. with our feelings engaged, all I was trying to say is that if you use your feelings apart from God's word, his truth, then that's a very unreliable guide And Satan will have a field day with you trying to get you to go by only your feelings. He wants to get you to think that convictions are only to be followed when they're convenient. You don't want to be too rigid, you know. And so you follow a conviction when it's convenient to follow it, because who knows, maybe they're just Presbyterian preferences anyway. So it's all this idea, postmodern idea of truth, as something that is simply opinion and can't be absolutized, that Satan uses. And so we put on the belt of truth to recognize, as he says in chapter 1 in verse 13, You believe the truth of the gospel, which is good news about what actually happened, what God actually did in history for sinners. And that secondly, chapter four, he says that truth is not something you just cognitively believe and then go on your way, but it's transforming truth, a truth that changes you. And I was um struck by that again after the first service and presenting the gospel uh of uh Christ righteousness talking about what we're getting into now the breastplate of righteousness and a couple came back who just were here for the first time and And uh the fella had tears in his eyes and said he wanted to know about this and was going to come back and talk to me later. Uh that there is Something here that's real, it's vital to get a hold of. I pray that's true for every one of you. Maybe God will be speaking to one of you during this service about the fact that this is a truth that can transform. It's not something to just hear and Kind of acknowledge, sing a hymn and go your way. But this is this is really true. And so God gives you this to respond to, to be changed by. But it's a truth to be received in community. It's not just a truth for yourself. You need somebody in your life who is going to say difficult things to you as a reality check. Do you have such a person? One person of your own sex. Not just your spouse if you're married. They'll usually do that, but you know, there needs to be one other person that you trust. That will tell you the hard things. And one person that you are willing to care for enough that you We'll tell that difficult thing too. Truth to be received in community. Chapter 4, verse 15. Now, having then convinced ourselves that we need, first of all, in spiritual warfare, to put on the belt of truth and gird up, you know, grab up our skirts so that we're ready to fight What is then the heart of the truth that Satan wants to rob you of in order to discourage you and to weaken you? And the answer to that is very simple, it's very clear, and it's what Paul goes on to talk about. The heart of the gospel is righteousness by faith. That's what Satan most primarily wants to attack in terms of truth. So Paul goes right on, same verse, stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist. with the breastplate of righteousness in place. Now, as we did before We went to as the basic pattern here. What does this piece of armor look like and then what does it mean? So first of all, let's get our soldier, friendly soldier up there Uh this joyful looking Christian. And uh there he is. That needs a good meal, I think But uh, you know, you can't see the belt of truth there, but again, the breastplate that's shown here is not the bre best picture of a breastplate is that stuff strapped around there. It was either chain mail or bronze, could be one piece, could be sewn together. But it went from the neck to the thighs And uh often usually covered, uh often covered the back also. And it was called the heart protector, which I think is significant Because I think what Paul's talking about now is the the next thing that you do after you get truth and the priority of it in place in your mind is That you protect your heart with what is the very heart of the gospel, this question of righteousness. That leads to the question, what is righteousness? So, enough for him. Thanks, Michael. You can get the scripture back on there. What is righteousness? Quite simply, righteousness is conformity to the law of God. The law of God is the reflection of his character. Therefore, simply righteousness is being like God. Righteousness is doing right according to the truth Now, a word very closely associated with the word righteousness is the word justification. The word justification has to do with the verb form to justify is the verb form of righteousness, and literally the word means to righteousify. So when you read in your Bible, justify or justification and righteousness, recognize that those are the same word, just different forms of that word. Now, to justify then means to declare righteous. It's to declare that someone is righteous. And there's a couple of things to notice about this to understand the breastplate of righteousness. First of all that justification or declaring righteous is a legal matter. It's a legal verdict about you. That's the first two blanks. It's a legal verdict about you. Let me illustrate what I mean by that by the question that you see in your outline. Now this is a question that's multiple choice, got an A and a B. You guess at it, you've got a 50% chance of getting it right. However, I would advise you to make your mark on that line very small and very private. The question is this, on what ground or what basis does God justify you or declare you righteous? Those are the same thing, to justify you, to declare you righteous. What's the ground or the basis of that? Is it A a life of perfect obedience or B faith in Christ? Now put your little mark there. Don't let anybody see it. Once you've committed yourself to that, let me tell you the answer. I would never ask you to put up your hands. I once offered this to a congregation in New England where there was a theological professor and after the service he came back and he said, I sure you were going to get it wrong, because he said, I've never seen anybody get it right. The answer is not the, but it's a. The answer is not faith in Christ. It is a life of perfect obedience. Now before you all rise up out of your seats and call me cursed and try to press charges and look for another church or whatever else. Let me explain not only why the answer is A, but why it's important. And I'm not playing games. It's not a trick question. You see, the question here is, what is the ground of your, of God declaring a person righteous? And the Bible is quite clear that God can only declare righteous what is righteous. In Deuteronomy chapter 25, in verse 1, you have the job description of the judges of Israel. And they were to declare just or righteous those who were innocent and to condemn the guilty. Proverbs 1715 then goes on to say that he who acquits the guilty, same word, justify, he who justifies the guilty or declares righteous the guilty And he who condemns the innocent, the Lord detests them. So God can't justify The sinner, faith in Christ, hey, it doesn't matter. If it's what you do, it cannot be the basis because you are guilty. So the God's the basis of God declaring someone righteous has to be a life of perfect obedience. The good news of the gospel is it's not your life of perfect obedience, it's Christ's life of perfect obedience that is the basis of his declaring you righteous. How does that work? What I'm trying to get at with this question, and why I always ask it, is to help you to distinguish between the subjective and the objective. Many Christians who would say, the basis of that is my faith in Christ, then when Satan attacks you As being a failure, as being guilty, as God would have nothing to do with these, not going to hear your prayers. Why do you bother to confess this again? You've confessed it so many times, on and on and on and on. What are you doing? You will look then to see how strong your faith is. Do I really believe? And you start introspecting, and it's all about you. And as soon as you do that, you've lost the battle. What the armor of God is intended to do is to get your eyes off of yourself onto Christ. And so when you see that That the declaration of righteousness depends not on my life, but on his life. That's the path to freedom. Now, how does it work? Two things to notice here Actually, um, well, two things. First of all, notice this notion, this idea of double imputation. You see that down on your outline. You see a double imput uh double imputation, hallelujah. Why is that? Well, it's kind of my way of saying, you know, you hear a preacher say, the answer to this is double imputation, and you say That's what I was afraid of. You know, it kind of got me going there for a while. And then they always throw in these big words that nobody knows and nobody cares about. And who in the world cares about double imputation? What has that got to do with my white life tomorrow morning? So I want to try and convince you that if you understand double imputation, that's a real path to some joy and victory this week. And it next time somebody says double imputation, you're going to say, hallelujah. Alright? Why is it so important? What does the word impute mean? The word impute means to treat as if. That's the next blank. Alright? To treat someone as if. That is to credit someone With an attribute or a deed of someone else. We talk about imputing motives. I impute motives to you that aren't yours. Or I attribute something to you that you haven't done. I impute it to you Or I may credit you with something you haven't done. I may I may judge you as guilty based on someone else, or I may credit you with some heroic deed or some Honorable motive, usually it's we use it in a negative sense, but it actually can be used either way. The dictionary says that, I checked it. So it's to treat somebody as if they have done or have motives of or are guilty or credited with something that is not theirs. So, what does this mean about the gospel? In terms of the gospel, then, what the gospel says is that God has treated his son Jesus As if he had your record and lived your life. Jesus was treated on the cross As if he had done everything wrong you have ever done. And God imputes all that you've done to him. He gets no mercy. He suffers absolute justice for that. He's condemned and he dies. Now God can't hold two people guilty for one crime. So because Jesus has died for your sin If you are trusting him, looking to him, if you're not, then it rests on you. But if you look to him, then God imputes your sin to him and you are forgiven, as Paul says in chapter 1. That's what I believe this this couple's wrestling with, and they're saying, help me to know this. Maybe some of you are. May God help you to see it and know it. There's nothing more important in life. And to understand this. But now let me say this. Many Christians understand that one side of imputation. I understand Jesus has taken my sin. I'm forgiven. But putting on the breastplate of righteousness has as much to do with the second kind of imputation as the first, and most Christians don't ever think about that. The second imputation is that God has not only imputed your life to Christ, He has imputed Christ's life to you. What God has done is that you are not only then forgiven If that's all there was, then the slate would be wiped clean and you would be back on probation. Now you've been forgiven. Do better the next time. Learn your lesson. Okay, I'll try better. But do you know what happens? By Thursday, you've got such a pile of misdeeds and sins up again that you think that didn't help very much And I need it over and over and over, because you and I will never establish a record of righteousness. The gospel says That God has taken Christ's life and he has imputed the record of all that he has done right to you. Let me try to illustrate that. I've been meditating recently on the book of Leviticus. Before anybody gets nervous, that's not in preparation for a series, okay? But just in my own quiet time for my own benefit, been reading through the book of Leviticus, and the first five chapters of Leviticus are about the five offerings. Now the offerings, you don't need to know anything else except this now. The offerings of the Old Testament are divided into two kinds. There's the sin offerings to take away sin, and then there's the other offerings The other offerings are not to take away sin, they're offerings for various acts of worship to God. It's always puzzled me why Leviticus begins in chapter 1 with a bird offering, which is not about sin. You think, you know, you'd start with the sin offering. Okay, now you get sin out of the way, then you can talk about worship. But it doesn't. It doesn't the reverse. Leviticus starts by talking about the bird offering which is simply a wholesold commitment to God. It's saying, I'm I'm giving myself to you. Person comes in, lays their heads on hands on the bull, or it could be a sheep or a b or a bird Let's say the bull puts her hands on the bull, the bull is sacrificed as an offering, which it says is a sweet, fragrant aroma to God as the fat is burned. God is delighting in that offering of commitment. Now what's that a picture of? We see All of a I realized all of a sudden by reading this old classic by Andrew Jukes that this you know how many I wonder how many times was the burnt offering ever done? You know, you know you know why they offered sin offerings. I'm guilty and I need to be atoned for Offer a sin offerings. How? Why did people ever offer burnt offerings? You know, slaughter a bull just to say, God, I love you, here's my life. Not much record of that, I'll tell you, in the Old Testament But it's a picture of Christ. And before Christ could come as a sin offering, he offered his life as a perfect sacrifice of a sweet savor to God. Of absolute perfect obedience, love, devotion, passion, commitment. That's the life of Jesus. Now understand this. That offering is imputed to you. God looks at your life And seize your life as that fragrant offering of the perfect sacrifice that Jesus made. Now do you understand why when Satan comes to accuse you, to attack your conscience, to say you're just a half-hearted failure as a Christian? The only solution to that is the breastplate, not of your righteousness, but of Christ's. is to offer up and to say, not only has he taken my sin, but I am covered with his righteousness As Tim read from Romans chapter eight, the full requirements of the law All the requirements of the law have perfectly been fulfilled in you. Because God has taken Christ's record and He has imputed it to you. That's double imputation. Your sin to him, his righteousness to you. Hallelujah! It's catching. Now let me say for those who would object and say, Well wow, what that's that's terrible. Do you realize then people just go around and they'll say, Well, I just sin, you know, and So who cares so I sin, so I do whatever, you know, and I just I got Christ's righteousness covering me. People abuse this left and right. The Bible never says that. The Bible says you say that, then read Romans 6, where he talks about the new life. So The point is That just like truth is not simply there and doesn't change you, truth, we said, is also transforming, so is righteousness. Imputed righteousness guarantees imparted righteousness. When God imputes the righteousness of Christ to you, what he does then is begin to work out that righteousness. In your experiences. Ephesians 1 to 3, imputed righteousness. Ephesians 4, 5, and 6, imparted righteousness. That's what it's all about. Now here is here is something that just baffles me. The the the classic Commentary on Ephesians 6 armor is by William Gurnell. 1400 pages this guy wrote. It's wonderful stuff. But when he comes to this He says that the breastplate of righteousness has mostly to do with your integrity and how you answer Satan's accusations by a life of obedience. He said, Bill, I'm sorry, you missed at that point. Because you see, if it's your righteousness that is the answer, You're going to constantly be introspecting about your faith, about your obedience, about the rest of this. And that's no armor at all. Satan will bring you down, and you will be in discouragement. And your life will be utterly ineffective for Christ. So the imparted righteousness is the basis of your assurance of salvation that you do in fact have imputed righteousness, but you never rest on the imparted righteousness, that is, how good you are how faithful you are to the Lord. You never rest on that to answer Satan's accusations. Whenever Satan comes to accuse you You simply respond by, I am covered with Christ's record, his righteousness. That's my armor. That's impenetrable. It protects my heart. It protects your heart. Do you see? That's your hope and your defense this week. And so you look at the last part there, by the way. I don't know why Grinnell, I mean I know what he was trying to protect against, but that was an issue, you see, back in the Reformation. The Roman Catholic Church says you are saved by imparted righteousness. So the justification is making you different because of grace that is infused into your character. The reformers said, no, no, no, no. No hope in that, no assurance in that. And that's why there continued need to be the Mass and the sacrifices on and on and on, because there's no assurance. See, the gospel of the Reformation and the Scripture and what Paul's talking about is an imputed righteousness, I am treated as if I lived the life of Christ. Justification doesn't make me different. It treats me as if I am him. You see? All the difference in the world in terms of your peace. Now, you'd see some of the consequences, the difference it makes. First, first two I'm just going to hit real quick because I've already gone over them. The gospel of Christ's imputed righteousness is not just the door. to the Christian life, but it's the path along which I walk every day. What I mean by that is When you hear the gospel, some Christians say, okay, I believe Jesus died for my sins. I believe I need him as Savior and Lord. Okay, I've accepted Christ. Now, what do I need? Well, discipleship, how to serve the Lord, how to go on and on and on, you see. And you forget That the gospel is not simply the entrance into the Christian life, it's what you need to remind yourself of and live out of this breastplate of righteousness every day to answer Satan's accusations. So it's a path along which you're to walk and live out of in peace and joy. That's what God intends for you. That's what He means when He prays for you in chapter 3 and verses 17 to 19. I pray. That the Spirit will empower you to know the length and breadth and height and depth of the love of Christ. You might know that every day, to know That he has provided for you sufficiently in his righteousness, given to you as a breastplate. Secondly, you see that this means That you are shielded from Satan's accusations against your conscience and your shame because it protects your heart from being pierced. His accusations bounce off because it it can't get to your heart, you see. You have Christ's righteousness, and that doesn't change. Your faith may change. His record, his righteousness never changed. If you're hiding behind that, you're safe. I hope you can meditate. Think about that this week. Because it's the difference between joy and vacillating up and down discouragement, depression, some little high and then lows and all the rest of that. Now the third thing I want to hit on just for a couple minutes is that this breastplate affects the way I relate to other people. I want you to see how practical is the armor that God has provided To my truth, it's objective, but it also has a subjective, life-changing effect on you. For example, take the issue of defensiveness and blame shifting. Why is it that when my wife says to me that I have failed to love her like I should, that my immediate response is Oh no I haven't. I've look I but let me tell you what I've done and and you know I've done better this year than I did last year and I've tried to do that and I've tried and you just don't appreciate and on and on and I go on and on to defend myself and to give her my record. To do what? To establish my righteousness. See, Christ's righteousness isn't enough for me. So I've got to protect myself. And what happens is the whole conversation disintegrates into Back and forth, who is the worst failure in loving the other person? You've done this I have but you, but yeah, but when you do my but I need you know it Anybody here do that kind of thing? At least there's a more honest group than the first group. You know, they're all going, oh no, no, not us. It's pathetic, isn't it? What's the solution? The solution, of course, is the breastplate of righteousness. I have Christ's righteousness and that's enough. Rather than simply defend myself, then I'm free to say, I'm sorry to hear that. Tell me about your heart and why it is that you feel unloved. You know, whenever I do that, it's an amazing thing. It's kind of like the barbs go back in, you know. You know, I mean I think as long as you know once I get your attention, I don't have to keep beating you up. They can learn something. And she can learn something You know? It's this is so practical. What about you kids? Think about blame shifting, you know? You're scrapping, you're fighting, you're in the backseat, they're ready to throw you out the back door, you know. Leave you there on the shoulder on the highway. Who did it? I didn't start it, he did it, he touched me first, he didn't know she didn't he didn't know she didn't And you blame Shimpak and it's his fault, it's her fault, she did it. I didn't start it. What's it all about, you see? Don't just get in to stop the war, get to the heart It's the need to protect myself. I am right. I can't look at my heart. Use that as an opportunity with your kids. to see and for you kids to look, why is it that that you don't even think about who started it? It just comes out of your mouth before you even, you know, it's a kind of a like hitting your knee, you know, there it goes up Because we always are trying to establish our own righteousness. The armor is you have Christ's righteousness, you can actually say one time and you will not vaporize. I think I hit him first. I started it. You enter into Christ's righteousness Where you take critical spirit and gossiping. Why is it that you and I need to criticize others and put them down? Well, simply because it makes me feel better about my own shortcomings. At least I don't do this, or at least I'm not like that More I can criticize, or gossip gossip's a conspiracy of two critical people. So I can get you and you and I can talk about them, him, her, feel superior to them. Why? Well, because we're insecure about our own righteousness, you see. We need to establish by superiority that we're better You ever notice that somebody who is secure in the righteousness of Christ does not get caught up in criticalness and gossip? I mean you might even try to bait 'em, get 'em into it, you know, and you think, hey, you're not you're not picking up on this. And what happens? You feel kind of dirty, like It just sort of shows me my own heart. You see, if you're resting in Christ's righteousness, you don't need to criticize and gossip. Because you have his righteousness to protect you. So you're free to build up, as chapter four, verse twenty-nine says, rather than to tear down. How practical? You know, where you take the whole idea of insecurity that you and I feel from the curse of comparisons. Why is it that I feel threatened by somebody else who accomplishes more than I do. Somebody who seems more successful First of all, because I'm looking at the wrong standard for what's important. It's what I accomplish, how successful I am. For the scripture has the standard of righteousness, being like God. And if I'm going to try and compare myself with someone else, then I'm brought into the the curse and the trap of Galatians chapter 3, where Paul says in verse 10 Galatians 3. All who rely on observing the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. The curse of perfectionism. You're going to go down that road of what you accomplish, and you better be perfect, because you're always going to find somebody that's going to be better than you. Somebody that will threaten you. But if you're covered with Christ's righteousness, you can't improve on that. And you can rest. Let me ask you, are you wearing the breastplate of Christ's righteousness this morning? Are you aware of it? Are you resting in it? Are you living out of it in your relationship with other people? Let's pray. Father, we come before you and we we confess that even we who know the gospel, Lord, sometimes we just live up only half of it We want to believe that we're forgiven, but we still see ourselves on probation. We still see ourselves needing to establish our own righteousness. And so we blame shift, we defend ourselves, we criticize, we gossip, we compare ourselves with others. Lord, somebody that asked me this week, how do you wrap the belt of truth around a broken heart of failure? And you've given us the answer. The answer for every single person here. To put on that breastplate of Christ's righteousness and to rest. We so long to do that. Show us Jesus. Show us Jesus who is willing to have our record imputed to him and his perfect sacrifice, his perfect record, the burnt offering of the sweet savor of a life to God. Imputed to us that we would rest in that. Show us how. In Jesus' name. Amen.