Well, I hope that you are becoming more aware of spiritual warfare as we're going through Ephesians 6 now, if nothing else. You should be at least more aware of your enemies, the demons. who are seeking to discourage you and make you ineffective, you are more aware of your weakness Uh had somebody say to me this week, uh, I feel like I'm so weak that they assigned the junior demons in training to come after me And they go back and they say, Well that was a piece of cake. Can't you give us a challenge, you know? And then this person said, But then I you know I I think, but I'm not gonna be like that, I'm gonna be strong Then I realized, well, wait a minute, that's missing the point. Because um in your weakness be aware of your only hope is his strength And so um that that was um probably one of the most requested sermon um tapes that uh we've had in certainly recent months, the idea of The fact that God has given his strength not to deliver you and me from weakness, but his strength is available in our weakness. I hope these things are becoming more meaningful to you as we now look about at the matter of how to put on the armor. That's what we're studying. Which is another way of saying how to think gospel. So we've been looking at the armor in Ephesians chapter 6 and verses 14 to 17. And go ahead, Michael, let's have the scripture here first, and we'll look at the picture here for a minute. We've been looking at that armor and um been seeing that the first main strategy of Satan is deception, and therefore the first thing that you do is you put on the belt of truth in order to counter that. Secondly, his strategy is accusation, and by that, uh you answer that by the breastplate of Christ's righteousness in place Reminding you that you are both forgiven and covered with his record. His righteousness is all you ever need. You don't need any more righteousness to supplement that. And so you rest in it, you sit in it. And so now we come to the third piece of armor. And in the third piece of armor, we get back to that word stand that we were looking at. That's the fourth posture of this whole letter. And so Paul says, verse 14, stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place. And with your feet fitted with a readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. Now what does that have to do with standing? Well let me give you a more literal translation that you see in your bulletin outline there. If you look in your bulletin, more literally it's and having put on calaga, which is the Greek word, it's uh a kind of shoe boot that I'll describe in a moment, but having put on the calaga shoes, boots, one Literally the feet, but it's your feet. You're not going to put them on somebody else's feet. Put them on your feet with the firm footing or the equipment of the gospel or good news of peace. So literally saying, having put on this footwear with a firm footing or the equipment of the gospel, the good news of peace. Believe it or not, I think the New English Bible probably captures this verse, best of all the translations. It goes like this. Let the shoes on your feet be the gospel of peace to give you firm footing. That's a great translation. That really gets to it. Let the shoes on your feet or the boots on your feet Be the gospel of peace to give you firm footing. So get the development. See, Paul starts with the foundation of truth Thinking truth, then he says, cover your heart, cover your emotions with the breastplate of Christ's sufficient righteousness. And now, stand firm. See back to this word stand. Now stand firm against your adversary who wants to knock you off balance. That's what this is talking about. Now, what do these things look like? Okay, Michael, let's have the picture of Christian back up there, please. And uh take a look at this guy. And you notice, and let let's get his let's lift his head up there, you know, and decapitate him, but you got you know, he's up there Take a look, uh see that that's not what they look like. All right, now that's what most people they think, okay, here's what we here's what a Roman soldier looked like. That looks like you know what I see a lot of women wearing today Uh that is not what a Roman soldier wore. Uh what it looked like was this is this rather uh it was a half boot that was strapped to his ankles and to his shins, but what was significantly different was the sole on that thing was massive. It was thick and it was studded with nails Which are, you know, cleats, only you know they're more than cleats. There were nails that came out. Those things were not for running. He looked like he'd maybe do a decent job doing a race there But calagas were not for running. In fact, Josephus tells a story of a Roman centurion who had these things on And uh his enemies were fleeing, and he tried to chase them with these things, and he tripped and fell and was immediately dispatched. He didn't have time to change his shoes, but that was a bad idea. It was fatal in his case, because they were not for running. They were for standing. These things were designed so that when you held up your shield and your enemy came at you and he tried to knock you off balance, you wouldn't. You'd be rooted there. You'd be standing against him That's the idea. That's the picture that Paul has in mind. Now, what's the meaning of that? That's what I want to explore with you. So, Michael, good let's get down here Now I got what they don't look like. Maybe somebody ought to draw in some heavy stuff down there. We'll see nails sticking out. You know, kinda like golf shoes, you know, football shoes, baseball shoes, except you can run, at least to football on a baseball. You couldn't run very well in these. First blank you see is there the firm footing of the gospel. Your feet are fitted with the The word readiness there really is this idea of firm footing, feet fitted with a firm footing that comes from the gospel of peace against the attacks of your the onslaughts of your enemy. Now, here once again, let me note that I disagree with a very popular interpretation of what this verse means. I don't know if you've ever heard this, but I've heard and read from a number of commentators, good ones That what this means, having your feet uh fitted with the readiness comes from the gospel of peace, they say, ah, yeah, it reminds me of Isaiah 52, 7, how beautiful are the feet of the mountains of those who bring glad tidings of good news. This is saying, be ready to preach the gospel. And that's what Paul's talking about. And I think that's entirely an error. It's a bad use of cross-referencing Because the comparison uh is not uh between feet and this equipment, it's about the boots, whereas in Isaiah he's talking about the feet And in Isaiah, it's the swiftness of the messenger who's coming with the good news. This is not about running with a message. This is about standing against an enemy. It's not about something that you are bringing as the gospel. It's what the gospel does to you. the gospel of peace in you, to you, to enable you to stand against the assault. So as much as it may be true that we ought to be ready to preach the gospel at any point Um I think that that is not what Paul's saying in this case. He's talking about your resistance against the evil one. Now What is Paul trying to communicate to us here? I think that he is saying in terms of spiritual warfare, a Christian without peace is a sitting duck for the enemy. A Christian who is without peace is not going to stand against Satan, and such a Christian will be pretty ineffective. Think about it. A person who is a person of peace is a walking advertisement for the gospel, aren't they? How does she do it? I don't understand how she has peace in her circumstances, immediately raises the question of w what is the way she gets that peace? See, it draws the person to Christ Now I don't know any of you know any angry or anxious Christians. There's not many around, but you know I know a few. Have you ever seen an angry or an anxious Christian? I mean, how much does that attract you to Christ? He sees such a person saying, boy, I don't I don't know what their faith does for them, but he's always angry, they're agitated, hair trigger, impatient Lack peace, you see. And in lacking peace, then Satan has caused them to just be ineffective for the Lord Jesus. What about you this morning? When you look at your heart and you're really honest with yourself, do you have the peace of the gospel that is alive in you? Now, I believe as with many Bible teachers that when Paul talks about gospel peace here, he's talking about two kinds of peace. And it's important that we understand both kinds of peace that he's describing. First of all, there is the peace that we have with God. Through Jesus Christ, peace in a relationship with Him. Secondly, there is the peace that is God's own peace, the peace of God. And I believe that Paul has both these kinds of peace in mind when he's talking about the gospel of peace. And I believe that that's true because he refers to both kinds in his letter here in Ephesus. So let's take a look at that. First of all, notice um what he says about the peace with God Now you notice that uh the d uh Tim had us read uh from Psalm 121 this idea uh of The the psalmist writing saying that he's in trouble. When I lift up my eyes to the hills, where's my help come from? It comes from the Lord, maker of heaven and earth. He will not let your foot slip. He will who who watches over you will not slumber. See, it's that idea of your foot not stripping, being driven off, being moved, faltering, stumbling, you see, with the gospel. And Paul even says in First Corinthians chapter fifteen In verse 58, after he's talked about the implications of the resurrection, he says, Therefore, my dear brothers, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Don't be knocked off guard. And the first thing that is going to knock you off guard is if you are unsure about your relationship with Jesus Christ. The peace with God. It's important that we understand that the Bible does not present God as automatically at peace with you. You know, these internet stories with the fifteen forwards in front of them, you know, that talk about God and you know the basic theme, the gist of a lot of those that I get seems to be that there's this cosmic presence that's with you. And you can always trust that he's on your side and friendly and he's always dispatching angels to protect you and care for you, you know, and There's some truth to that as a Christian to have a relationship with Christ, but the idea is we kind of view that, well that's just God's character, that's the way he is. And I was I was convicted this week that I do not do you a service by somehow Communicating to you week after week that God is simply love and caring and faithfulness and tenderness and kindness, as if that's all there is to Him. God is gloriously self-centered because God is in fact the very center in all his glorious being of the universe. And the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2 that you and I are not in a friendly relationship with him. We chaf against that, and so Paul says, as for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins. This is Ephesians 2, is the context of what he's saying here. In which he used to live when he followed the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdom of the air. There it is again, Satan, the enemy. The spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature, and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of his wrath. Objects of his wrath? Back in the old days of the awakenings in this country, preachers who preached the power, the gospel, the people treasured. Would often say, God has a controversy with you. A controversy? Yes God has a controversy with you because you are ungrateful for his gifts and you've renounced his claim on your life. So God is angry with you. You're not at peace with him. He is in fact your enemy. And if you were to die today and go to stand before him, he would come as your judge and your enemy to give you exactly what you deserve. Swift execution of judgment. And more than anything else in the world, you need to be at peace with him. I thought also this week of some of you teenagers that have grown up in this church, or some of you people who have come here as seekers for weeks or months. But particularly you kids that have grown up and you hear at CPC and Sunday school and vacation Bible school and you hear me We talk about the love and the faithfulness and the caring and the tenderness and the grace of God. And I thought how easy it is for you to begin to think that God is an intrusion on my life at this point. And someday maybe I'll deal with his claims on me, but that's okay because he's basically a peaceful God. I don't really need to worry. Let me tell you unequivocally That is a lie from the pit of hell. If you are not in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, Did you have come to realize how you have ignored his claims on you? How You so richly deserve the judgment that he comes to bring upon his enemies. You are in the greatest of self-delusion. More than anything else in the world, you need to be at peace with God through Christ. I'm reminded of the story of Sir Thomas More. I remember when Kathy and I were in London some years ago We toured the Tower of London, and we are shown when you go through that, they say that window up there, that's where Sir Thomas More spent. a long time, I forget how long it was now, but he was there for a while awaiting his fate. Sir Thomas More was a rather fastidious person, but as he Spent the time in the tower, he let himself go. Didn't trim his beard, didn't take care of himself, and somebody asked him Why are you doing that? And he said, how can I care for such trivialities when I have a controversy with my king? William Grinnell, who wrote the fourteen hundred page exposition of this armor, takes that story and he says, and how can you Go to such pains to make a few brief years here on this earth to be pleasant And peaceful when you don't know if at the end of your life God will receive you into heaven Absolutely nothing begins to compare in importance with that question in your life. Are you? Kid, teenager, adult, are you at peace with God If you are not sure about that, please put on the gray slip that you have that we'll hand in with the offering. I want to make sure. I want to talk about peace with God, something that'll clue me in, and I'll get back to you. Talk to you about that. When Paul says here put on these gospel boots of the peace, gospel peace, he's referring to the fact that in Ephesians chapter 2 he goes on after saying You are objects of God's wrath to say in verse 14, Christ is your peace. Because he took upon himself, it says in verse 15, the obligation of the law with his commandments and its regulations. And so he came in verse 18 and he announced peace. The word announced is declare good news. It's evangelized. He announced the good news of peace that is available only through his bearing of the full law and it's all its weight upon himself. And so Paul says the very first thing that constitutes the peace of God is the peace that you have with him through Christ. Is Romans chapter five that you heard P that you heard uh Tim read during the worship Romans chapter five verse one. Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ and him alone. And your peace is only by believing the gospel. It's not by knowing it, it's not by feeling it It comes only through your trusting Christ for that peace. But there's another kind of peace that he's talking about here. The second kind of peace that Paul has in mind is the gospel of the peace of God. He says in verse fifteen pardon me as I go back and forth between uh the pages on Ephesians They're getting um rather raggedy and sometimes I turn them and I have to be careful. I'll tear it right out of the Bible. It's been turns many times. I have them sort of taped together by now So if you notice, it's easier to go to Isaiah than it is to go to Ephesians 1. It says in verse 15, um With your feet fitted with the readiness, the firm footing that comes from the gospel of peace, that peace is also God's own peace. He starts in chapter one. In verse 2, grace and peace to you from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Then praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing. Blessing in Christ. So this peace is the peace from God. It's not peace with him, and that peace from God involves all of his spiritual blessings which he says he is offering, giving, making available to you Verse five, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons, that's the legal status of the firstborn, through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will He has not only forgiven, he has given, given to you the adoption of his children, brought you into relationship. with himself so that you now are precious to him. And so Paul says in verse 18 I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you might know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints, and His incomparably great power for us who believe. That's what he's making available to you. It's his own peace. It's his own power. Now, you know, we can say, oh, we believe that, but but you've got to think in your life, where do you lack peace? To make the application of his peace to live out of that this week. That's what the Gospel booths are referring to, living out of that peace. That belongs to you. So uh Friday afternoon, just before you left, you saw there was a memo on your desk At work and it said the boss would like to meet you first thing Monday morning. And you know it's not to congratulate you You know that this person doesn't like you. And there's something that's happened, and you're afraid of what you're gonna get Enjoying the weekend? Or Friday afternoon you came home and there was a voicemail from your doctor that said We found something on the x-ray. Would like you to come in as soon as possible for some tests that we want to conduct. Where's your peace? Or perhaps you'll meet with someone this week that you care dearly for, very close to your heart. What if that person says to you, you know, I don't think I love you anymore. In fact, I don't think I like you anymore. And I think this relationship is over Where's your peace? You ever sung the hymn, Oh Love that will not let me go? Ah, it's a precious old hymn. You know how that hymn got to be written? My understanding is it was written from a man who um loved the woman and they got engaged to be married. And during their engagement he went blind And she broke off the engagement. And in the heartbreak of that broken relationship and rejection, He wrote the hymn, O love that will not let me go. I cast my weary soul on thee Do you have a relationship with Christ that would sustain such a crushing disappointment? It's only the peace of God. In such a circumstance. The piece that Paul talks about in Philippians chapter 4, where he says, do not be anxious about anything, anything But in everything in your life, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your requests to God and the peace of God. Which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ. Your heart, your emotions, your mind, your thinking, and what is it that it will do? It will guard it. See there again. The military language. The gospel boots of the peace of God to guard you against the assaults of the evil one who wants to rob you of your peace. And will stoop to anything to do it. But maybe it's not just a matter of trouble in your life. There's also another application to that, and that is the matter of tensions with others in the body. It it's a matter of the tension, of broken relationship Do you remember in Ephesians chapter 2, where Paul talks about the fact that you are objects of his wrath, and then chapter two verse fourteen Christ Himself is our peace. He goes on to say who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility What was he talking about? He's talking about broken relationships among humans. He's talking about the division at that point between Jew and Gentile. And I said when we went through that passage some while ago that that far transcended the any any alienation of racism in this country It was a deep, bitter overt hatred between Jew and Gentile. At that time it was hard to think of a contemporary example to help us to feel it, but interesting that at this point now it's rather easy to do that, isn't it? Just think of the Israelis and the Palestinians. And think of Paul saying here that Jesus Christ has come to establish peace between Israeli believers and Palestinian believers. And then in a unique and supernatural way, he has come, he says in verse 18, verse uh uh seventeen, he's come and announced good news of peace. For through him, verse eighteen, we both Israeli and Palestinian believer Or you and somebody else in the body that you have no time for Have access to God through one spirit. Is there somebody else in the body that If you were really honest with yourself, you'd have to admit you despise Are you robbed of peace by bitterness? When you think of someone else who's a believer, maybe in this body or somewhere else But someone that you are alienated from and you don't consider that. You just say, yay, you know, some people you get along with, some people you don't But if you're honest, it's alienation, it's bitterness. Paul says, Jesus has come and established peace. We are in one body. It's interesting after the first three chapters of his declaring the gospel, the very first command In chapter 4, we said before when we went through that, the very first command was not have a daily quiet time. The very first command in chapter 4, verse 2, was be completely humble and gentle, be patient. Bearing with one another in love, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. And then he gives the seven Rs of the body. Not three R's, seven R's. You are one body, you have one faith, one hope, one Lord. Because of all those things you have, he then goes on in chapter 4, he remembered to say, therefore put away bitterness, forgive one another. Be kind to one another. Don't just tolerate one another. Some of us feel like we can tolerate the other people in the body. That's different from being kind. That's a positive. Connection. A Christian with gospel boots of peace is supernaturally enabled to be kind To that other member of the body that you find it hardest naturally to relate to And that's the gospel you see. The gospel is the glue that holds people together who would otherwise fly apart. And Paul says, without that, you'll lack peace in your own heart. So Let me share with you, honestly. I had a situation this week where I needed to meet with somebody. And that person and I were alienated I've gone through a painful experience this week of of experiencing what I'm talking about. And as we met together, we were able to affirm, and by the way, you'll never guess who this is. I don't give you any any way of doing that. But we had to meet in order to affirm that because we belonged to Christ together, that we knew we could establish experientially that peace. And after a long, long discussion, God enabled us experientially to be reconciled, to feel that sense of peace together that only Christ can accomplish. He can do that. He really can. And there's a release in that. There's a freedom that comes from that. Gospel freedom of peace. And at one point I said, I'm so glad that we will never have to have a conversation like this in heaven Isn't that great to know? Because, as Paul says in Romans 16, 20, God shall soon crush Satan under your feet. And you know, if you come to Revelation chapter 15, Paul says that he saw something there. It's a vision. He says, I saw what looked like a sea of glass mixed with fire. And it's interesting, the NIV blows it at this point. And I still favor the NIV over most other translations, but the NIV couldn't believe it meant what it said, so it it changed a little. It said, I I saw what looked like a sea of glass mixed with fire, and standing beside the sea were those who had been victorious over the beast and his image over the number of his name. The Greek could be translated beside, but the more obvious and the appropriate translation here is and standing on the sea. I saw the saints. What's that saying? What is one place you can't stand? It's on the ocean, right? And Paul is saying, or John saying here in Revelation, there will come that day. When the gospel will come victorious and Christ returns, and you and I will stand, the sea is a picture always of turmoil, trouble. trial, tumult. You and I will stand on that sea, beautiful in its beauty, as if it's Crystal mixed with the fires of all the colors of the rainbow. We will stand on it before the Lord Jesus and we will declare, no longer do we need the boots. We can now stand and there is no adversary. But you know what? Until that day, you need the boots. And I need the boots. And we better wear them. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you and we thank you for the boots of the gospel because they are our peace to enable us to stand. When Satan this week would want to knock us off guard. With bad news, with trial, with alienation with some other believer, with With all kinds of things, and Lord, we come before you now, and I pray, help each of us to be honest. Where is my lack of peace? And if it's, Lord, somebody who's grown up in the church here saying, I don't have to worry about that. God is a God of peace and gentleness. Lord, strip them from that deception To see how very desperately they need to have peace with you through Christ. And Lord, if it's somebody who is in turmoil, And Satan has robbed them of their peace and made them ineffective. They're angry. They're anxious. They're alienated from someone else. Lord, we pray that you would restore peace, both in their hearts as well as between them. That other person that they need to be reconciled to. Only you can do that. But Lord, I know. I know, and I can say, you can do that And so would you show your power in our midst by giving to us the gospel boots and what it means to have that peace reigning in our hearts. For each person here, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.