In John Bunyan's classic Pilgrim's Progress, there's a scene where Christian is assaulted by Apollyon. Now, does anybody remember when we covered that uh what does a polyon mean? Anybody remember A polyon. Yeah, no, not none if you're in the first service. Only non-first service be What's a polyon? Destroyer. I didn't he see who, but I you got the right answer, so destroyer. Oh. Somebody back there. Okay, Mike, alright. Destroyer. And uh that's the name used for Satan that uh John Bunyan uses. And uh Apollyon comes to Christian and he tries to Persuade him to stop following Jesus. Gives a number of arguments. And uh when those fail, Bunyan says that the battle moves to a different phase. Let me uh quote a little bit from Bunyan's classic. Christian says, Apollyon, beware of what you do, for I'm in the king's highway, the way of holiness, therefore take heed to yourself. Then Apollyon straddled quite over the whole breadth of the way and said, I am void of fear in this matter. Prepare yourself to die. For I swear by my infernal den that you shall go no further. Here will I spill your soul. And with that he threw a flaming dart at his breast, but Christian had a shield in his hand with which he caught it, and so prevented the danger of that. Then did Christian draw, for he said, 'Twas time to besturm, and Apollion as fast made at him, throwing darts as thick as hail By the which, notwithstanding all that Christian could do to avoid it, Apollyon wounded him in the head, his hand, and his foot. This made Christian give back a little Apolline therefore followed his work amain, and Christian again took courage and resisted as manfully as he could. This sore combat lasted for above a half a day even till Christian was almost quite spent, for you must know that Christian, by reason of his wounds, must need grow weaker and weaker. Then Apollyon, espying his opportunity, began to gather up close to Christian, and wrestling with him gave him a dreadful fall. And with that Christian's sword flew from out of his hand. Then said Apollyon, I am sure of you now. And with that he had almost pressed him to death, so that Christian began to despair of life. But as God would have it, while Apollyon was fetching of his last blow, thereby to make an end of this good man, Krishna nimbly reached out his hand for his sword and caught it, saying, Rejoice not against me, O my enemy. When I fall I shall rise. And with that he gave him a deadly thrust which made him give back, as one that had received his mortal wound. Christian perceiving that made at him again, saying, Nay in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loveth. And with that, Apollyon spread forth his dragon's wings and sped him away, that Christian for a season saw him no more. In this combat, no man can imagine, unless he had seen and heard it as I did, what yelling and hideous roaring Apollyon made all the time of that fight. He spoke like a dragon. And on the other side what sighs and groans burst from Christian's heart. I never saw him all the while give so much as one pleasant look, till he perceived that he had wounded Apollyon with his two edged sword. And then indeed he did smile and look upward But 'twas the dreadfulest sight that ever I saw. A more unequal match can hardly be. Christian must play than angel But you see, the valiant man by handling sword and shield doth make him though a dragon quit the field. Isn't that amazing? Jesus calls you to fight angels. Christian must fight an angel. What an unequal contest. And I've said before that I believe if Paul was writing about spiritual warfare, which we've been studying in the armor that we have been looking at over these last weeks. If he was writing today, I believe he would compare the demons to terrorists, because I believe that that's a good analogy of spiritual warfare. For in terrorism, you don't see your enemy. He's invisible. Can't tell where he is. There are no rules. He doesn't play by rules. He doesn't fight by rules. And there is the kind of hatred, personal hatred in terrorism that often does not exist in conventional warfare. So what is it that is our hope in such a fearful fight that this week, when you go from here to go fight against demons Well, it's the hope, of course, that Jesus has fought and has won. He has conquered Satan. He's victorious. Satan is a defeated foe. Amen. Amen. And so he gives to you and to me graciously armor. Six pieces of armor. To put on as we fight against demons. And we've been looking at that over the last weeks. Two sets of three pieces each. We've looked at the first set of three, those which are pieces that you have. The important thing in those pieces of armor is to remember them. First of all, to remember the belt of truth. against Satan's deceptions, to remember what the truth is, to tell yourself that's a lie, this is truth. To then secondly put on the remember that you have on the breastplate of righteousness In the whole matter of his accusations, that you don't measure up to remember that Jesus is all the righteousness you ever need And then the third B, the boots of gospel peace, when Satan comes to disturb your peace, to shake You're calm and to remember I have peace with God. I have the peace of God to claim in this situation Then in verse sixteen, Paul goes on, and in addition to this, now let's see, Chloe, how it you get the scriptures up there, we'll take a look. Thank you See in verse 16, in addition to all this, then he brings in three S. Take up the shield of faith. You identify what are those flaming arrows, the particular trials and temptations coming in, and to remember my God is all-wise, all-loving, and all-powerful. And so I hold that shield up and trust him. Then in the general discouragement that we feel from time to time, Uh we take the helmet of salvation. You remember that refers primarily to the hope of salvation. In fact, not only have I been saved, and am being saved But ultimately there will be that day when I shall be saved from all the presence and power of sin, that I will stand. And that helmet, you remember, was a helmet designed not only for protection, but also had a fixture for plumes for decoration that you use to walk in the victory march uh to to celebrate the fact that uh your armory armor had Army had conquered, and that day will come when Jesus will lead the triumphal march, and you will then exchange that helmet. For a crown and that crown you'll cast at his feet in love and adoration. That's the hope Today we come to the last piece of armor, which is you see there at the end of verse 17, take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit. Which is the Word of God. The sword of the Spirit, the sixth and last piece of armor, the last S Uh that sword, what does it look like? We've said that in each case we want to find out a little bit what these look like before we then see what they are and how they apply. So Chloe put up the picture. We see our old friend there, happy. Christian? Yeah, uh that's good. We got a reverse image. We got him on the other side. Just show that he's ambidextrous here. Uh you notice that uh Christian stand in there, you know, all the things we've talked about in the past. Now you notice the sword, you don't see very much of it, but there it is, that little blade. And that's okay because that sword was a very short sword. It was From six inches to about eighteen inches long. And if uh I was choosing I'd take the eighteen inch version, I think. But um they were all for hand-to-hand combat So it's just a short sword, you know, think of your Bible, this is this about nine inches, you know. Uh that's the sword, the sword of the spirit. Paul says that is the analogy. See, this is your weapon. Even though it's uh an offensive weapon, it's part of the defense because you use it as Satan comes in his assaults against you. Now, why does he refer to Scripture as the sword of the Spirit? Well, I believe partly there is this idea, of course, of the power, the uh the power of the weapon, this is the sword of the spirit. Scripture is powerful, but also because, again, these three items The shield, the helmet, the sword, these are all things that you have to use actively. And particularly in this case, a sword is useless if you do not know how to use it skillfully. The thrust comes at you, if you don't parry it, you're not able to ward it off. You're not able to use that skillfully, it's just worthless. So I think the principle here, and you see down the next in your outline, the principle is to learn to use Scripture skillfully. The in your battles with demons day to day. And there is no uh clearer example of this, of course, than the one that Tom read to us. Jesus in the wilderness. You remember that Jesus when Satan came to assault him In every case of the three temptations, he answers by responding with Scripture. He takes, identifies what the temptation is And then he responds by the skillful use, quoting a specific scripture, which he obviously has memorized, quotes it to him in order to parry the thrust. So there's a there's an observation I would like, we can't take the time to go into that passage this morning, but one thing I want to make sure that we see and don't miss it If you look at that passage and the three temptations, you find that in each case, Jesus answers with a quote from Deuteronomy. Now, why is that? Well, it could be because Deuteronomy had the best three quotes to answer those temptations. But I wonder if there's not another lesson that's here for us too. And that is, I wonder if it's not that Jesus was meditating on Deuteronomy when those temptations came, and so that's what was fresh in his mind. I think so often we cheat ourselves as Christians when we use Scripture only to read those passages that I need right now And so I go to some topical index and I look up all the scriptures on discouragement or promises of provision or whatever, and the way we read scripture becomes very selective. We don't just open up a book and say I'm just going to go through that and just take it where it leads me. And I'm certainly not going to do that with the book of Leviticus or Deuteronomy or something, you know? But What happens is we cheat ourselves because I have experienced many times going through some passage, I go through it and I'm thinking, okay, well that's good, but it's not, you know, grabbing my heart and just Doing dip flip-flops, and then something comes, some temptation, and that passage leaps to mind with startling force and relevancy God's Spirit takes what you had, stored up, and he applies it at the time when you need it. And I wonder if Jesus wasn't meditating on Deuteronomy, then Satan comes and those passages are fresh in his mind, so he is able to grasp those and use them as a sword. in the battle. Many times I've preached and had somebody say at the door, you know, amazing What you preached on today was the same thing I was reading in the Bible this week and and it was the same thing I heard on a tape that was coming through the same message. I wonder if maybe God's trying to tell me something. What? Possibility, you know. Because the sword of the Spirit is the sword of a living being who is using that in your life to address you, to encourage you, to challenge you. to sanctify you. And so don't cheat yourself. Go through Genesis to Revelation Get into a book this summer that you haven't looked at, maybe you've never studied. Set some sort of goal that says, I'm going to go through the Bible, the whole Bible in the next two years or three years or four years You believe five years? Whatever it takes. But some sort of plan so that you have the big scope in that arsenal for God's Spirit to use. Now one other thing, that's the second note there. The first one I want to call attention to, and that is often we forget that when Paul wrote this Take the sword, oops, and it's in there now, not there. Take the uh sword of the spirit, but that's okay. The sword of the spirit, which is the word of God Um, you we think that uh that meant that the Ephesians went and grabbed their Bibles and said, Yeah, we gotta go do some Bible study And you forget that um Very, very few people had Bibles at that time. Bibles were handwritten, copied by hand manuscripts Uh their acquaintance with scripture was generally by going to the synagogue and hearing the scriptures read, and they may copy down a A couple of precious passages or something, but for the first 1500 years of the church, the Bible was copied by hand. And only the very rich or people in monasteries had access to Bibles. And if you lived in the West The Bible was only available to you in Latin anyway. And so if you didn't know Latin, you wouldn't be able to read it and understand it. And then in uh 1382 The fellow did something very, very radical. He translated the Bible into a foreign language, English. It was in 1382 that John Wycliffe and his associates first translated the Bible, the New Testament, at that point. into English, the very first time available. It was only two years later, thirteen eighty four, that the entire Bible was then made available in English. And what was the response from the church? Did they honor him and uh laud him for such a um a ministry, a service to the church? Well, of course, if you know history, um it's quite the opposite He and his friends were hunted and persecuted. Blood was spilt over this. I few years ago I was in New York City where they had the Wycliffe um display of some of the original manuscripts. And that was a very, very moving display to see the cost that people paid So that you and I would have the Bible in our own language and then from the printing press and on down to where we are now, most of us have you could have a Bible in every room of your house. Some of you might have a different translation for every room in your house, and we argue over which is better, the ESV or the NIV or the New American Standard. We have such a selection and we fine-tune And it's so easy to just forget and take for granted what a blessing you have God's word to pick up Any day. And whether it's discouragement or a trial or whatever it is that's coming to you, this is a weapon to pick it up and to be able to say, I can read it, I can read it in my own language, I have cross-references, I have all these tools. And yet how much do we use them? It's nice to know we have them. But if you were to look back over the last two weeks and say, okay, now how much time did I spend in front of the television How much time did I spend in front of the computer? And how much time did I spend reading the Bible? What would it look like? Uh let me let me challenge you to take for the next two weeks and if you if you want to have a reality check, just you know, keep a little log, you know. Don't turn it into me. I don't want to say it. Nobody else, you know. Just keep it for yourself. How much time today did I spend watching television in front of the computer? Yeah, I know, I gotta do some of that stuff But just if you and I say, what a privilege, here is the sword of the Spirit, God's own word. To encourage us, to protect us, to reveal himself to us. We might know him. We might understand how to live skillfully, how to ward off the attacks of the evil one. Then where does it fit? In my discretionary time. Well, that's the principle. But now let's apply it. Let's get down to how do you use this sword of the Spirit? Let me offer to you five practical steps that I believe every Christian can use in this. And real quickly, just some applications. Number one, first thing is to know your particular areas of weakness. Weakness, that's the first point. Know your particular areas of weakness. You don't start your use of scripture by waiting until you're attacked. After 9-11, the United States didn't say, well, now we found out that our airplanes are vulnerable, so we'll wait for the next attack to see what else is vulnerable. Immediately intelligence went into high gear to say, okay, before the next attack, where are we vulnerable? If I was a terrorist, where would I pick to do mass destruction to the United States? Let me ask you a question. If you were Satan, what area of your life would you pick to attack? You say, well, I don't know. I can think of 14 or 15. No, no, no. Guess the one. You know what? I'll bet you you'll be right. I'll bet you you and Satan are thinking the same. You see, because it's just a matter of being honest with our hearts. Where's my where's my propensity that he can exploit? Is it that I'm critical? I'm a gossip. I have a bitter spirit, self-pity. I'm a complainer. Is it that I'm subject to lust? to images that I ought not to be looking at, especially when I'm tired and I'm vulnerable? Is it that I am materialistic, I go to things for my comfort and immediate gratification? And the material is so much more compelling to me than the spiritual. What is it? What is it for you? I had a friend, pastor, who um had a lot of stress in his pastorate. He didn't know his heart. He didn't realize that when the stress came that his idol was to go to his computer. I don't know why I would pick that. I'd I wouldn't pick that for my solace, but you know, for me it might be books or my car or gardening or something like that. But uh for this guy it was computers. So he went to that and on one particularly stressful time He just had to have this software, had to have it, couldn't afford it. So he went to Sears, he stole it, passed her Bible-believing pastor stole software out of Sears. It's even worse, security caught him. So they came to confront him with this and panicked and he tried to run out of the store. So they tackled him. He dragged his pastor down to the floor, dragged him down to the aisle, arrest him. Next day's newspaper was a small town. Next day, front page, pastor arrested for shoplifting. Lost his church and his ministry. By God's grace, years later, he was restored to ministry. Praise God for that. But you know, where did it all begin? Didn't know his heart. Do you know your heart? If you were Satan, where would you attack you? That's where you need scripture particularly. Now again I said the broad overall, but Let's focus now. So the second thing is know the scriptures that address those areas. What are the commands that address the area of your particular weakness? Know those scriptures as friends, not as killjoys, not as that which simply wants to come to disrupt. David said, I love your law. It's my delight, because it gives me joy and freedom. And so look at God's word and think of it as a As a kind, loving, wise father sitting down with you to give you some wisdom, some advice that you need for your good. And then thirdly, know the gospel foundation to those commands. Not enough to know the commands. If you know the commands, it's an area of weakness. You're likely to say, well, I've just got to discipline the flesh to try harder. I just gotta I gotta kill that area, I gotta squelch it, and so you try harder and harder in the flesh, and you get more and more frustrated and discouraged. And the important thing here is to know that the sword of the Spirit is the sword of the gospel. So you come back and you look and you say, what is it in the gospel that frees me from this? So as you come, you are able to see Ephesians 1-3, the gospel, the foundation for chapter 4, 5, and 6, the commands. You look and see. Here is who I am, here is my new identity in Christ. He came not just to forgive me, but to free me from my sin. And so you look at that and you you then realize that dealing with that sin is not wrenching out your best friend, it's throwing away that dirty old t-shirt, chapter 4, verse 22. Throwing away the old t-shirt and putting on the clean, fresh, new t-shirt of the nature of Christ. And you begin to meditate on the gospel so that that gospel pertains to this area. I'll give you an illustration of that in a minute. Fourthly, then know the promises specifically for your deliverance. God and Scripture always give you promises in the areas that God wants to free you from. For instance, in Pilgrim and Pilgrim's Progress, you know, is that uh when I shall fall I will rise. Uh we're more than conquerors through him who loved us in his discouragement Learn those scriptures and then number five, the thing is to memorize the key scriptures so that you're able to quote them. Fifth point, then memorize the key scriptures that help you. Write down two or three and say, I'm going to start with these. I'm going to memorize these. I'm going to get them into my mind and my heart. Your word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against you. So take that as some practical thing. All right? Now all clear? Now we can pray and you can apply it, right? Well, I know what somebody would say. Come to the door and say, I need an illustration. That's it's still general, it's vague. So I thought, okay, before I finish, I've got to try to give you some examples, some case study, some illustration. So I thought that I would pick a sin in my life that nobody else here has to deal with. And that way it won't offend you, and you can just look at me. So I thought I would pick the sin of materialism. Because I realize that that's something you guys don't deal with. None of you deals with a compulsive need to buy and to acquire Um so you can just look at me and think, what a sad, pathetic character. But here's at least how the principles operate in that kind of situation. Okay Alright, let's go back over the five points again. Point one, know the area of your weakness. So I look at that area and I say, okay, uh, there's an area I want to go to things rather than to Jesus in times of stress. Why? Because things, other as opposed to people who might be critical, my things never judge me. My things are always there to serve me. I can enjoy my things. There's a tangible immediate gratification in things. Um over the last three years our car has been picking up some bumps and dings and dents and all kinds of stuff, looking pretty sad. So we decided to take it in and get those all taken out and fixed up and this week we did. And I thought as I was driving out, you know, it looks new again. There it is. I thought, boy, you know This is a tangible piece of gratification. I can look at the card, looks good, that feels good. Whatever else is going in my life, you know, chaos, everything's falling apart. But boy, I can look at that thing and enjoy that thing. So what you know Or maybe it's the competition. I have more things, you know, or these things make me feel important. I don't feel left out, or you know, I'm I'm um being deprived. Whatever it is, there's lots of reasons why I want to focus on things and think that the material is more satisfying than the spiritual. Well what scripture say about that? That's the second point. Well, in Ephesians 4, in verse 19 Paul says, concerning those, he's talking about those who are thinking as unbelievers. And he's talking about impurity. But notice what he says: having lost all sensitivity, they've given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. That's the essence of it, isn't it? It's always more. If I had just one more thing, I had an upgraded thing or this or that. What is it that I can do that will be more? Always more. And then he goes on in chapter five, in verse five, to talk about greediness as idolatry. Proverbs 23 admonishes you to have sense to not wear yourself out to get rich. because you cast but a glance at riches, and they flee. They fly away. They're gone. They're so unstable. They're so unreliable. First Timothy chapter six. In verse 9, Paul talking about this same idea says, people who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people eager for money have wandered from the faith and have pierced themselves with many griefs. So verse 17 command those who are rich to not be arrogant or put their hope in their wealth, which is so uncertain. But to put their hope in God who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. So think about that. And I think, do I believe that? Do I really believe this is the sword of the Spirit, that it's reliable, that I can trust, and it's it's there for my good? I meditate on that, but they say, well, that's it. Give up. You know, can't buy the Lexus. No, it's not a matter of that. It's a matter of my heart. What's my heart set on? That's the issue. But then I've got to connect it to the gospel, you see, the third point. It's not just a matter of, okay, just deny yourself. It's a matter of seeing that the gospel is always a matter of substitution. It's the displacement of an inferior affection for one that's superior. So I come and I look at what God says in Ephesians, and he starts off right at the beginning of the book, and he says, uh Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. Yeah, but do you believe? If you're a Christian, do you believe that the spiritual blessings are the enduring blessings? It's the material things that are the transient. That's what he says over and over. They rust, they corrupt, you've got to protect them, you've got to watch they're not stolen, or all this and on and on and on. The spiritual things as we saw last week was an inheritance that never perishes or spoils or fades. And so he goes on to pray in verse 18 that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened, opened up so you might see the hope, riches of his glorious inheritance for the saints. And grasping that, you might live out of that, live out of that hope. So in Colossians he says, you've died with Christ and you've been raised with him. Therefore, set your heart and set your mind on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Looking forward to those things, living for those things, living beyond the circumstances that are so up and down in something that's stable, sure, substance. As your heart begins to move in it, you see that Christ has died to provide you that kingdom. James 2. 5, those who are rich in faith to inherit the kingdom. And you begin to have your values, your perspective gets shifted, and you memorize those things and you say them to yourself and you use, you see, scripture as a weapon. Don't be afraid to speak out loud to Satan. When he's attacking you and tempting you, he says, you're saying this, but God says You know? You know, I mean don't do it with a bunch of people looking, but you know, when you're alone, have at it. You have my permission. Shout if you need to. Speak the scripture as a weapon. to the evil one. And then finally, as you come uh to that, you look at the promises that he gives. I've given a couple of them there, but godliness with contentment is great. Gain Here we have no abiding city, but we look for one that's to come. On and on and on God goes. The promises that He gives He's given you all things in Christ. He's raised you up and intends through the ages to come to reveal the riches of his grace in the unfolding displays of kindness. Set your heart on those things. Look at those promises. God has provided everything that you need. Nothing that you will lack as a child. And then memorize the ones that are the most important to you. Take two or three this week, and if that's an area or whatever the area is for you, just take those. Memorize them, hide them in your heart so that you're able to speak them. You're able to put these things together, the shield of the faith, Identifying the temptations and the trials as they come in with a confidence in the character of your God, the hope of salvation that is to come, which delivers you from the general discouragement, and then the specific scriptures that answer the attacks as they come Monday morning, Tuesday afternoon throughout this week, to know that Jesus who has died and conquered the devil Has given you the sword of the Spirit that you could enforce that victory in your life. Amen. Let's pray And so our God. We come and we confess how we say that we value the scriptures. We say it's so important, it's wonderful, and I got 16 Bibles at home And how often do we really spend time hiding that word, studying it, building up the arsenal, learning how to skillfully use the sword in those practical ways that Satan wants to come at us to discourage us, to get our eyes off of you, to to do anything to exploit our weaknesses Lord, give us a heart that's honest to look at those areas. Give us, Lord, by your grace the courage that will look up the scriptures that speak to them, the gospel that that gives us the power and the motivation to live out by faith the new life that you have given to us. Lord, I pray that for every person here, that every person here would know you and trust you and be living out of the scriptures day by day in the power of the Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.