Uh I've been very encouraged in the last weeks by uh a number of you who have said how God has been using these messages in practical ways to help you in your own trials and difficulties. uh as you um look at the armor for the battles of life. Um uh and it made me reflect on what a privilege it is that I have To discover these riches out of God's Word, wrestle with them in my own life, and then seek to present them to you. What a privilege that is. But it reminded me also, as I've heard a number of you talk about the difference it's made, that these mission messages Are not worth a discarded tissue if they are not applied in some specific ways to your life. So as I have heard from those who have been blessed by the application, it prompts me to ask for all of you and for me, what difference is this armor making in your life? As we go through this, what difference has it been making in how you have lived from Sunday to Sunday? We've looked at the six pieces of armor as being divided into two sets of threes. The first are the three B's, and those are the pieces of armor that we have. The belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, and the boots of gospel peace. Those are the things that are God's that we remember. From Ephesians 1 to 3, the gospel. Truth in response to Satan's lies. His Christ's righteousness, when Satan tells you you don't measure up The boots of gospel peace when he wants to rob you of the peace that he intends you to have with God and God's own peace. Then chapter 6 in verse 16, remember Paul said, in addition to all this, take up the shield of faith. The in addition indicates something separate. There's a demarcation. And so you see that right after the in addition to this. Take So the next three pieces of armor are that which you take. They're the things that you and I pick up. When we're in the battle, this is now what we do It's our laying hold. And so they are the three S's: the shield of faith, the salvation helmet, and the sword of the Spirit. And we're looking now at how we use those things. Last week we began with the shield of faith, looking first of all at the description of what it is We saw that this shield, now let's have uh Christian up there, please, Dave. And we saw that this uh wonderful picture is totally inaccurate. It's just a foil for me to tell you what it's really like. Yeah, 'cause that's kinda like how we picture a Roman soldier. But in fact, uh the shield, like everything else, isn't so great. Um but the shield, uh if you picture a Roman soldier being average height about five feet in those days Uh the shield was four and a half feet high, so it covered most of them. You can't peer over it or around it, but uh it was a door, basically in that fact uh the word, Greek word for shield, thurion Hums from Thurod means door. So it's kind of a portable door. You might think of going downstairs, picking up one of those five foot tables that are in the Sunday school classes, you know, and thinking of a way of strapping that thing and holding that in front of you. And that's pretty much what it looked like Didn't have the fake wood grain, but you know, it pretty much looked like that. That shape and the whole thing. We saw also that uh it was intended to be used as part of a phalanx. That is it was aligned. It was not intended to be used individually. you'd be wiped out. But it was intended that you stand next to your brother, spiritual warfare, brother and sister, you stand next to those who are in your company. And you would put these things in a wall. So you would be standing behind essentially a portable wall. And they were they were so tightly fitted, they didn't connect, but they were so tightly fitted that uh this week uh Another of our resident scholars, Brian Laws, reminded me that uh that for demonstrations the Roman soldiers would actually take those shields, hold them up over them, and have them all tightly together, and they would actually drive chariots and horses on top of the shields, just to show how tough they were, you know. Woe to the guy who missed and got between a crack or something, you know. But that's how tight it was. Now that's a picture, you see, of the defense that the Lord intends for us. We saw But there's also a picture here of how personal and powerful is the assault. Remember verse 16 says, now let's go to the scriptures. Verse 16 says, Take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one It's the evil one. There is a person. You're not paranoid when you think somebody's out to get you spiritually. Somebody is. In fact, legions. These demonic personalities are persons. They are aiming at you. This is a very personal thing. To torment you, to discourage you. They're also very powerful. This is a whole barrage. This is not one or two arrows. We talked about that poor guy Skeva who found 220 arrows in his shield after the siege of Durachium. Uh so, you know, some of you may feel like you have days like that. Um powerful, personal, malicious. And then we look a little bit at the defense. The defense is faith. It is your faith in God Not faith in faith, but it is faith in God who we see Paul presented in Ephesians as being all. What was the first blank? You remember? All Wise, thank you. All second all all loving the second one and then thirdly all powerful. Great. That's what's interesting in a second service, a little more awake. You know, you kind of get quicker responses. First service is kind of like, uh, you really want us to answer that? That's it. All wise, all loving, and all powerful. So we're believing the character of God, that he is that for you. Ephesians 1 to 3 speaks of that. To those of you who are in fact in Christ, that is, you belong to Christ by faith. You have given your life to him. You recognize your need of him. So he is your defense. Especially when you are in trouble. Now what kinds of trouble? I thought that uh it would be incomplete if I didn't Try to give you some help in how to use and apply the shield of faith. So what I want to do this morning is to apply the shield of faith to some examples on how to use it. And uh there are lots of things to be said about this, but I'm going to try and do my best to And I call this arrows and answers. In other words, what are some of the arrows that Satan and the demons fire at you? What are some of the answers which comprise the shield of faith that you can give to protect yourself? And I've divided the arrows into two kinds. Broadly speaking, I believe there's two kinds of arrows that are fired at you and me. First of all, there is temptation, and secondly, there are trials. The temptations are Satan's attempt to get you to disobey your master, to do wrong rather than right, which will disgrace him and harm you Secondly, there are the trials to discourage you, to get you to lose your confidence in him as all-wise, all-loving, and all-powerful, and to believe that he is unfaithful, and that will dishonor him. So let's look at these two kinds of arrows here this morning. And the first um is the temptations. And now here again the issue is to get you to um keep from glorifying God by not trusting him, not obeying him, not loving his law, not believing that what he says can be relied on He wants you to disobey God. He wants you to be disobedient, to bring you harm, and to bring God disgrace. Now there's a lot I can say about it, but let me uh uh open up to you three kinds of temptations that I think are among the most common. The first is the arrow that says, God is holding out on you. Now this arrow comes zinging in with a message that you really can't trust God's goodness. He really doesn't have your best interests at heart. So if there's something that you crave You better grab it for yourself, because if you wait for God, he just may not come through and provide it for you. And you know how that goes. Um you think of the scripture that says God helps those that help themselves, right? That's in Hezekiah three or something, you know. And so uh you uh say, well, you know, that's that's the way it is. I just better uh provide for myself because uh I'm not sure that I can trust God to take care of me. This was the original arrow that Satan used against Eve and then Adam. And uh he uses it so often because it's so effective. It works so well. God knows that if you eat this fruit then you're going to get something. You're going to gain some knowledge that He wants to withhold from you. So if you want to get what God wants to withhold, you better grab it. I know he has said don't eat, but I wouldn't let him take away that joy. And of course, it's based on a truth. Often the arrows are twisted truth God was in fact withholding from Adam and Eve something, the knowledge of evil, and all the woes of the cost of that knowledge. And he does the same thing to you and me. You think we'd learn, you know? But I mean, let's say you're single and you say, God Why don't you provide me a meat to set my heart on, to love me, to join and share my life? Why is it that you won't do that? It's easy for you to do. You can do it while you're being stingy God, you don't understand loneliness. You're not lonely. You don't understand what it's like, forgetting, of course, that his son never married And so we say something like, well, I just can't wait around for some Christian to walk up and seems like you need to broaden the field. The need to start dating non-Christians. And just trust that God will somehow bless. And so we go in a way that He has specifically directed us not to go. I still recall a a girl, very attractive girl, Carolyn, down back at University of Maryland when I was on university staff, and man, she was really struggling with this And she was getting pretty mad at the Christian guys because she said, you know, wimpy guys, they never invite you out, they don't commit, and they just, you know, all they want to do is hang around in safe groups and Heck with this, I'm just gonna start beating non-Christians. We spoke and I I uh tried to assure her that going God's way would not disappoint her What do you answer when you get that kind of an arrow? Well one answer is uh from Psalm 34, verse 8. Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed are those who trust in him. And you know, I think that verse has a uh maybe a two-fold reference. Taste and see, you know, that is experience the Lord and see that he's good. I think it also may refer to the the practice of the thank offering. You know, back in those days if uh you were in trouble and you um felt like you had some urgent need, uh God's word uh encouraged you, didn't command you, but encouraged you to make a bow. And a bow was to say, Lord, if you hear and answer my prayer then I will offer to you a thank offering. And the thank offering was where you killed a bull in thanks for God's answer, and you know that generate about 500 or 600 hamburgers and you have everybody together for cookout. And he would say to them all, taste and see the Lord is good. You know, have another stake and see. I'm telling you, he has answered. It was such a joy with Carolyn to see six months later, really the sharpest guy in the group at that time, began to notice her as we just prayed about this. And uh how they began to get together and I was privileged to do their wedding. He doesn't promise that But trust him. Well maybe you're married. And you say, that was the worst thing I ever did. Well, I I I I can't believe that I chose this person to spend the rest of my life with. I've got to get out of this. And you know, and here God comes and says, you know, I hate divorce and if this person's willing to live with me, I should live with them, and ph it's easy for you to say, God, you're not married to them. I need to get out. God would not have me to be unhappy. And so I'm just, you know, I'm not gonna wait and do it on my own. Even though he says, delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart, sometimes our desires need to be transformed and set on him. in order to see him do what may not be the thing we would have initially chose, but afterwards can say, thank you, God, for what you did. The arrow that says God's holding out on you. Or the second arrow, the one that says true delight is found in the material, not the spiritual. This arrow comes zinging in with a message, the spiritual is theoretical, the material is real. And Satan comes up and whispers to you, come on. Let's face it, which would you rather have this afternoon? A nice long quiet time or a rich piece of German chocolate cake? You know, you say, well, you know, the quiet time's nice, but it's sort of a strain, you know, and I but the cake, hey, now that that that's like instant gratification And so this arrow comes to say that life is painful, and material things provide some relief, some distraction, some gratification. And the arrows are painful. And to focus on the spiritual rather than the material means to get in touch with the deepest needs of your heart. Most of us don't want to do that. But the reward is if you are willing to get in touch with what that deepest need is that seeks the material for satisfaction. And delight yourself in the Lord and come to say, to understand why Exodus 20 verse 17, the tenth commandment says, do not covet. And find your rest, your satisfaction in me. Why? First Timothy Chapter 6, verses 17 to 19 talk about God has given to us all things richly to enjoy, but don't set your heart on the riches of this world. but rather on the riches of the gospel in eternity. True life, Paul says it. Lay hold of that life which is truly life. And in order to fix your heart on Jesus and all that He is as your all-wise, all-loving, all-powerful Savior, to meet those deepest needs and cravings of your heart. is to get in touch with a deeper joy than anything material will provide. But it takes the, it takes the shield of faith that says, it's worth it. It's worth the effort. It's worth pursuing God for that. Well take the third arrow. Everyone has to compromise their integrity, at least sometimes. This arrow usually adds something like, I mean let's not be legalistic about this, you know. You want to loosen up a little bit. And you know, legalism is bad, so just kind of get to the principles and understand your heart. You don't have to be rigid about this right and wrong stuff. I'm reminded of a story of the early days of jet aviation And the head of Eastern Airlines was Eddie Rickenbacher, the legendary pilot, war pilot. He had a friend Donald Douglas who had started Douglas Aircraft and Douglas and Boeing were competing for this very large um bid uh for um Well, it was a $135 million contract for Eastern Airlines to build jets. And Boeing and Douglas's specifications were very, very close except that Boeing promised better sound suppression. So Rickenbacher went to Douglas and he said, if you can promise to outdo Boeing in the sound suppression, I'll give you the contract. Douglas went back to his engineers, checked with him, came back to Rickenbacher, and he said, I'm sorry, I simply can't do it. And Rickenbacher said, I know you can't do it. I just wanted to see if you're still honest. You just got yourself a $135 million contract, go silence those jets Think of Teddy Roosevelt after he left presidency. He was on a ranch and had a fellow working for him and he asked him to go as an assignment to go steal something from a neighboring ranch. And his employee said, Okay. Whereupon Roosevelt immediately fired him. And he said, A man who will steal for me will soon steal from me. Integrity, a clear conscience that says, as Joshua chapter 1, verse 7, walk straight, turning neither to the right hand nor to the left. And find success in God's blessing in all you do. The idea of Psalm 1, not standing, sitting, or walking in the council of the ungodly. But having your delight in God's word and following that word so that you're like a tree planted by streams of water, yielding its fruit in its season. To follow him without turning. The arrows that would drive you from God that says, find your own way. Steal that software. Tell that little lie. You know, I heard this week about a guy who did an experiment. And uh, found that he could get 60% of his subjects to lie within five minutes. Or tuning into that website on the internet that you know you ought to stay away from Or maybe it's being in intimate physical contact with somebody that you're not married to and knowing it's wrong. The shield of faith, you see. It's not gut determination. It's the shield of faith that says I can trust my God who tells me to walk this way. And to stay away from that way. It's that shield of faith that protects you from the torment of the evil one Or you take the arrows of trials. There's a whole other second section here. Trials, the arrows that want you to Distrust God's faithfulness to believe that He really is an all-wise, all-loving, and all-powerful in your situation. What's the temptation that he's hitting you with now? Be specific and honest with him. But what's the trial? That you're undergoing. First example, trial of criticism. The trial of some Christian, perhaps, that you are close to. And they discourage you by their meanness. You just don't understand why they've turned on you And it's so discouraging and and you feel violated by what they've said about you or how they've treated you And the arrow comes to you. You can never forgive them. They've crossed the line. This is too much. Someone has said that bitterness is the poison that you drink hoping the other person will die. I heard a Christian leader this week say that in his many years of experience More women drop out of the Christian life because of bitterness against someone who has wronged them than any other reason. Is there bitterness that has come between you and the Lord? The bitterness that says I can't forgive that person and if I'm going to be close to Jesus, he's going to keep bringing that up. He's going to keep quoting to me from Ephesians 4, verse 31, where he says, put away bitterness and malice, and rather be kind to one another. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you, all of your wrongs against Him. And put on love like the Lord Jesus, kindness replacing bitterness. Or take the second arrow. If God loves you, then He's not going to let you suffer. I mean, you wouldn't let somebody that you love suffer the way you're suffering, would you, if you were all powerful? You would deliver them from that. You'd answer their prayer and take care of them. So if God hasn't, and He's all powerful, then He must not love you very much. What do you do with that? You think of um King Peterson. Who wrote, The main difference today is not how much people are hurting, but how much they expect to be relieved from their hurting. The previous century suffered just as much, in fact probably much more. Just think of all the illnesses, the death in childbirth, the infant mortality, the plagues. The big difference today is that we have this mentality that if it's wrong you can fix it. You don't have to live with any discomfort or frustration. The expectations The expectations that say if you serve the Lord, he's going to take care of you and you won't have to suffer. And so Dick Barnes, missionary to Russia, who travels there All the tiredness and all the expenditure of effort and a couple weeks ago he's in St. Petersburg. Some guy grabs him by the throat and takes his wallet With about three hundred dollars and all his credit cards and his military ID and all this stuff and Uh you know, hey, I thought we prayed for Dick to be protected. I thought that, you know, that's God's job. Dick does his job, God does his job, you know, and what w wha what happens Why would God let Dick suffer like that? Well let me offer to you an illustration. Alright? Here's two glasses. Alright? Just happen to have them here, you know. Well you'd be surprised what's in there. Two glass jars. And uh they're identical except for um the fact that this one has this uh metal spoon in it. So you look at those and you say there's no difference uh in the jars. And now let's suppose we take some uh steaming hot water. Now you've got to imagine this part because I'm not gonna go get it I take some steaming hot water out of a tea kettle, kids pay attention to this, all right, and I pour that water into these two jars. Now what's going to happen? Well, steaming hot water, this jar is gonna break. But you know the amazing thing? This one won't break. Why? Because the metal spoon absorbs enough of the heat to keep the glass from breaking. So you look at two lives. And those lives look just the same when things are going okay. But then heat is applied to those lives. And one cracks. And the other life doesn't crack. And people ask, what's in that life that it didn't crack? Why didn't it succumb to the pressure and the heat? It's at that point that the Christian has the unique opportunity to glorify God. As Dick, in trusting him in spite of the circumstances, to hold up the shield of faith and say, I believe that my God is all-wise, all-loving, and all-powerful. That I can trust him. And in that case, God uniquely glorifies himself. And people look at you and they say, Why didn't you crack? What's in your life that kept that from happening? Do you see? And so the shield of faith is used in trials where things don't make sense And ultimately you come to the last arrow, that you can only really trust yourself. Self-reliance is the ultimate reality. And so Christians become cynical. Without the shield of faith, they begin to go through the motions of the Christian life without the intimacy with Jesus. Interesting how God speaks of Himself as our shield. In Psalm 20, verse 7, we read, Some trust in horses and some in princes, but we trust in the Lord our God. Psalm 18, verse 1 and 2. The Lord is my shield, my refuge, my strong tower, my rock, my defense. I recall an incident. You remember that time in Abram's life? God had promised Abram he would have a son who would be a blessing to all the nations. I think of Time magazine back in March did a cover story on Bono from U2. Bono's goal is to be a blessing to all the nations. I don't know how proud his parents are of him for that, but uh Abram and Sarah had received a much greater promise of a son who would be a blessing to all the nations. And here it is 25 years later, and he doesn't even have a son. And he says, God, where are you? And so there's Abram sulking in his tent. And in Genesis 15, God comes to him and he says, Don't be afraid, Abram, I am your shield. Your very great reward. I'm your shield, Abram. Trust me. And Abram shoots back, O Sovereign Lord. What can you give me since I remain childless and the one whom will inherit my estate is this Elieazar of Damascus? You've left me no children, so a servant in my household is going to be my heir And then the Lord reiterates his promise. He's not going to be your heir. I'm going to give you a son. In fact, Abram, come on outside the tent for a moment. And he comes out in that dark night, and there in that desert sky he sees the sky covered with stars. And they say on a desert night, clear and dark, you can see maybe ten thousand stars up in the sky. And Abram looks up at those stars, and Abram says, God says to him, Abram, like those stars, that's going to be your offspring. And the next verse says, and Abram believed God, Yahweh. And it was credited to him for righteousness. Notice, he believed Yahweh, God. It wasn't faith in faith. It wasn't a positive mental attitude. It wasn't like the old Aba song, I believe in angels, I believe there's good in everything, you know. The guy who just goes along and always chooses to believe the positive You know, all those little internet stories you see circulated around. Just trust there's good in everything. This the shield of faith is faith in the God of the scriptures The God who sent his son to die for his people who trust him. And so you take that passage, and Paul picks up on it in Romans chapter 4. And in Romans 4, Paul says, Abram believed in the God who was able even to raise life out of death. And so from dead Abram came Isaac. And you and I hear that, and we say, that's a great story. You believe it? You really believe God did that? Paul goes on and he says, that not just for Abram, but God raised up dead Jesus to life for your justification. For you to have life in him. Do you believe God raised up dead Jesus? Does your shield of faith protect you from the arrows of the evil one that says God is not involved in your life and He's abandoned you? And you say, no, no, no, no, Jesus is risen from the dead. I trust him. Nothing is ever the same. I can rest in him, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power. Come to him. Christian, lift up your shield. Hold it before you in times of trial and temptation this week Take your hand and hold up that shield. Remind yourself. Quote a scripture. That's the shield against the arrow. Identify the arrow. Identify the shield. Walk in it, rest in it, live in it. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are our shield. We come to you this morning and we confess we've let too many arrows come zinging through and we haven't held up that shield and we're wounded and tormented and we've sinned and rationalized and we've we've been full of self-pity and victimization. And here you've told us, here's the shield, take it, trust me. See what I will do. We've been too lazy. It's easier to grab the cake. And so, Lord, we pray that you'll speak to our hearts that this week We would identify those temptations and those trials, and we would trust you and walk in you. Lord, help us. Each one here. To look to you as Savior and Lord in Jesus' name. Amen.