For um some weeks now at the Book of Ephesians to um understand better the gospel in the Christian life, to see that Paul divides the Christian life as a picture of four postures. The first posture, learning how to sit. Sit in Christ Sit in his finished work, stopping our own trying to achieve in order to earn God's favor, but to know that only Christ Could ever do that has accomplished it. If you're not resting in his finished work this morning, you cannot rest. Learn to sit. But also that idea has with it the exalted notion of I'm sitting with him in the heavenly realms. And I'm seated in that privileged position that he has attained because of his death and resurrection. Secondly, that because I don't understand that, I need to learn to kneel, to pray, and ask God to show me more of His power, to show me more of the love of Christ. To learn what that means. And then thirdly, to get up and begin to walk in faith and obedience. Believing the gospel, seeing what it is that he says that I am to do day by day, experiencing him. And then as I do that to realize there's going to be conflict, not going to be easy, but that I'm going to be in a war A war against spiritual terrorists that are called demons, who serve an arch general whose name is Satan, the adversary, who hates God. And hates you because you are precious to God and remind him of God. So We're studying spiritual warfare and the armor that God provides. But you know, especially on a Memorial Day weekend, we would so like to think that life is peace. When you you know, I mean here it is, threshold of summer. You think of picnics and camping and ball games and water and all this stuff, you know, and who wants to talk about spiritual warfare? And then occasionally something happens to slap us around, and we realize this really is a war. Many of you are familiar with the name John Gerstner. Some of you are not, probably many of you are not. But in case you've never heard that name, John Gerstner has been considered one of the premier Christian minds of the 20th century. In fact, we have a whole shelf of his tapes over in our library on the gospel and the defense of the faith and a lot of these things. Taught for many, many years, wrote many books. His son, John Gersner, Jr. , walked in his father's footsteps. John Gersner died a couple years ago But his son, now forty-four, um, followed in his dad's footsteps, was a professor at Knox Theological Seminary, and a couple of years ago left Knox to become a pastor right here in Baltimore. Took a church, uh a sister, the church and a sister denomination, Presbyterian church in America that believes the gospel as we do. He's been serving in that church for a couple of years. This week, he was arrested. For soliciting sex from a 13-year-old girl. Contacts that he had made over the internet In shock, the session of elders Wednesday morning had an emergency meeting. What do we do? Our pastor has been living a double life I don't know if you heard that story on the news or saw anything of it this week, and I wonder if you did, if any of you thought Will we ever have an emergency meeting of our session because of something Al Harris has done? Can you imagine The shock, the hurt, the sense of betrayal, the tragedy of that Now, I'm not about to confess that I'm living a double life, but I do want to tell you, it is only by God's grace that I continue to walk with and serve Christ. And that is the same with you. For there are spiritual terrorists who want to persuade you that the fantasies of this world is truth. And that the gospel is a fantasy. And so we looked at the armor beginning a couple weeks ago and saw that the very first piece that Paul tells us to put on the Is the belt of truth by which we hike up our clothes and uh it's underneath there, you know, but it's it's gets you ready for battle because the basic strategy of Satan is to deceive you. And so the very first thing Paul says you need to do is to put on truth, to learn how to answer his fantasies and deceptions with truth. And then, secondly, He says, put on, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. Now you see that breastplate there, and we pointed out last week that uh in reality they generally were a little higher, went up to the neck, a little lower down to the thighs. But that was a breastplate to protect the heart. And Rick Bellivo this week reminded me that perhaps for some of you it would be more helpful to think of that as Frodo's mithril vest. Um same idea for those not uh keyed into that in Lord of the Rings, you remember if you saw the movie, there's a place Where Furdo is fighting this big miserable rotten looking monster, you know, and he's throwing 'em all around and you think, oh, how in the world are they gonna survive this? And just when you think, you know, he's somehow going to get away from this, the monster takes a spear and he drives it into Frodo's. chest and you think, ah, and he just lays there and that's it, it's over and you think it can't, he's a hero, you know. But there he is, he you know, he's dead and what you know, and after the battle's over, you know, you see him move. Ah! Cheers, you know, gets up. And what was protecting him? Well he has on this special elven metal, finely woven, very lightweight, that protects him against that spear thrust, you see Now, if that helps you, see, that's the picture, that's the image that Paul is presenting to you. It is this mithril vest that protects your heart against the spears, the Accusations of Satan. Now, what is the meaning of that? Well, if in the first case the belt of truth protects you against Satan's deceptions In this case, the breastplate of righteousness protects you against his accusations. That's the strategy here that Paul has in mind. And so what I want to do is to pick up on where I was last week about this, and I want to pursue this idea a little further. What is the issue in this part of the battle? The issue here that I think Paul is addressing and the breastplate of righteousness is intended for us is the issue of do I measure up? Am I approved or am I disapproved? That's a basic question That haunts every one of us day by day. You see, righteousness is about rightness And greatness is about keeping the law of God, which is the reflection of his character. So righteousness is simply being like God. The breastplate of righteousness is talking about the breastplate of God-likeness. It's reflecting him. It's measuring up to his standard for love and purity and justice. The nagging issue that every day you and I deal with is: am I measuring up? Am I being approved? You're always aware, aren't you, whether you're feeling like you're a success or a failure. Whether you're approved or whether you're disapproved. And that that is from our earliest memories as children, isn't it? You bring the flowers to mom Hoping that she'll say, Ah, they're so beautiful. You're so sweet to have done that And you feel approved. We draw a picture, you know, and dad says, that's the prettiest picture I've ever seen. I'm gonna hang it right up in my study. And you feel approved. You feel like you measure up, and it feels so good. And so through life we want to measure up to our friends, that they'll think that we're cool and neat, and we want to have a boyfriend or a girlfriend that thinks we are so special And then we want uh for most of us to measure up to our teachers or our professors and they think that we're just so smart and creative or You know, on and on the people, people that we work for, boss, colleagues, whoever, people that are special to us, people that matter to us, we want their approval Don't you? I mean, doesn't this such a motivating thing for you? Then all of a sudden it hits you one day. I'm trading my life to get approval from these people. And what is their approval compared to God's? How much does his approval matter to me? You think, you know, I mean, their approval is temporary. Question of his approval is a matter of eternity. How important are they after all? And you know their approval can change, it can become disapproval, and I wonder why, and I don't know, it's very unreliable. His approval is the approval of the one that matters most in all the universe. And his approval is fixed in something. It's not arbitrary. And then you look at what the Bible says in Romans 3. 23, and you see we've got a problem because the Bible says that we all Fall short of God's expectations and standards. None of us measure up We don't measure up to the one that's most important. But the good news of the gospel is that there is one who measured up, Jesus, God's Son, who was fully approved, who was the perfect reflection. of God's character. And Jesus not only lived a life that was perfectly approved But he comes to you and he says, I will trade records with you. I will give you my record of perfect approval, and I will take your record. Of not measuring up day after day, sometimes in little ways and sometimes in blood-curdling ways. And that's what we talked about last week is the wonder of double imputation. Hallelujah. Somebody got it. I got an email this week put on the bottom of it. P. S. Double Imputation. Hallelujah. I finally understand it. Made my week You see, because what that's saying is that God has imputed all of what you've done wrong to Jesus, and he suffered and paid fully, and he has imputed Not just cleared your record, but he has imputed to you all of Jesus' rightness. You are no longer on probation. Now why is it that whoever the brother was back there that shouted hallelujah, why is it that we don't go around living in that And day by day saying, that's just such good news. And it just, I have the security and the peace and that. But we have this kind of dichotomy where we say, I believe the gospel, and it works. for other people. But somehow it doesn't connect with my heart. Why is that? So what I'm going to do in the next few minutes is I want to help us to make the application. It's not enough for us to believe the gospel in some vague general sense, in this breastplate of righteousness, that's great. But somehow I don't know how to put that thing on. I don't know how to Wear it and apply it when Satan is accusing me. How does that work? Let me try the best I can. I really long for you to understand this. I long for myself to understand it more fully, consistently, deeply, because it's at this point that Satan wants who is called in Revelation 12 the accuser of our brothers. He wants to accuse you. He wants to say to you, it doesn't matter what this double invitation stuff says. The fact is, you don't measure up. And you see, it's a question then of what you're going to believe. Do I believe how I feel from that, or do I believe the gospel? So I'm dividing this answer into two parts. The first A is feelings and experiences. And then the second is accusations. Now, let me say right from the outset that feelings are extremely important. And I lament the fact that some Christians, often from the Reformed camp, will minimize feelings or even speak of them as if they're an enemy. Feelings are something either to ignore or something you just gotta keep them in their place. And you know, be we all be better off if we didn't have feelings because they're just messy. Well, feelings are messy But feelings are a wonderful way that God has made us. And if you don't believe that feelings are important in the Christian life, not something to try to get around, just read through the Psalms. The Psalms are full of emotive language. The Psalms are full of delight and joy and despair. and longings and all kinds of feelings. So feelings are very important. In fact, you can't really relate to God out of the gospel apart from your affections. This was a major theme of the theologian Jonathan Edwards. It's our affections as they are engaged Toward the Lord. It's our heart that really matters. It's not simply a matter of external obedience. I don't know John Gerstner. I don't know that church very well. I was there once, and my heart breaks for them But one thing that I have learned as I have seen pastors fall Is that generally at the root of it is they're not in touch with their hearts and they're not in touch with their feelings And you and I need to be in touch with our hearts and our feelings. But we need to distinguish what our hearts and our feelings tell us From what the gospel says, particularly about the breastplate of righteousness. Let me illustrate. Let's take, for instance, how we feel in terms of blessings and trials. Let's suppose, Memorial Day weekend, that you had planned to go camping this weekend, and let's suppose that it was a beautiful sunny weekend with low humidity all weekend. I know it's not, but let's suppose that it was And you had gone camping with your family and everybody was getting along. You had a great time. Food was great. Water was great. Everything turned out perfectly and you went home, you're refreshed. And you feel God's blessing. God loves us. He's good. Isn't it wonderful to be a Christian? Now let's suppose on the other hand you planned that Memorial Day weekend and it rained all weekend. You scrapped with your spouse. The kids were so bad you had to hang them up from separate trees. to keep them apart. On the way home, you have an accident. The car has to get towed. And you go to work on Tuesday and find out you've been laid off Now how do you feel? More importantly, how do you feel about God and whether you measure up? In the first case, there's this sense of we must measure up because God's blessed us. In the second case, it's we must not measure up. There must be something. Now, maybe there is discipline involved. I don't know. But what's important to realize is you are not being punished, and God doesn't love you one particle less. Because of those experiences. Those do not reflect accurately your position before him in terms of measuring up. You still measure up. He's doing something. It may be very confusing. But you and I need to distinguish the blessings and the trials From our measuring up or our approval in Christ, because we have an external righteousness that is put on. You see, Paul says, having put on. on the breastplate of righteousness. It's not your own, so when you pray is another example there Your prayers are answered, not because you earned it. Your prayer is not answered. And you say, well, what's the matter? What did I do wrong? Why doesn't it work? And we think in terms of whether or not I'm measured up by whether God answered my prayers. Wrong question. God may be teaching you something through that. Undoubtedly he is, whether he answers or doesn't answer. But you need to remind yourself, in the struggle of that unanswered prayer, it is not because I don't measure up, I have the righteousness of Christ. Remind yourself of Ephesians 2. 18. It is through him that we have access to the Father by one Spirit. Not through anything you do. It's only because you have that breastplate of righteousness that you are welcome into his presence. Remind yourself of it. Remember uh again and again uh the question of visions and dreams I put here. Some people had this notion That I feel close to God because He has given me some special revelation. Had a dream, had a vision, had something. And that enables me to feel like I am approved. I am close to Him. And the problem with that is it becomes the gospel plus some experience And that experience needs to be repeated because after a year or two, you know, it kind of wears off and it's a fond memory. But I need another experience, some other dramatic display of God's favor in order to feel approved. And Satan will use that if you don't have the next experience to accuse you. Why don't you must be something wrong? Must not be walking with the Lord, you know, you're not having those experiences anymore. Your eyes are off of Christ. Or even in the matter of worship. I feel like so often worship becomes such a controversial issue. in styles of worship and what we do in worship and whether the worship was good or whether the worship was bad, because we come so empty to the service That we're just coming saying, oh man, I hope this service makes me feel close to the Lord. I hope what they do, that the music and what we do here is just gonna kind of minister to my heart, you know, and what we're looking for often. Is not an opportunity to facilitate our bringing worship, but we're looking for something to get. So that we can go away often with something similar to a sugar high. You know, no no particular nutrition. But it's this sense that I've worshiped, I've connected with God. Now, our worship leaders are pretty proficient people, and they've been doing this for a long time. Let me tell you, in case you didn't know We could design every worship service so it's deeply moving, and that you would say, But the danger is we can do that and make you think you worshiped when all you did was spectate what was happening. Now let me hasten to say just as quickly, engaging your affections in worship is a primary goal. The kind of worship which simply runs through some stuff, and you know, there it is, same old hymn sung the same old way in a routine liturgy that everybody knows what's coming next, and you just kind of grind through it. But, you know, it's got truth there, and so it's up to you to get something out of it, you know, and kind of make it feel guilty. Didn't get anything out, well, it's gonna be your fault, because there it was, it was truth. No excuse for that either. But somewhere, you see, what Paul's saying here is put on the breastplate of righteousness, not put on a worship CD so you'll feel better. Because the experience, the moving experience of worship, can make you feel like you have on the armor. When in fact you don't, and therefore the next week you're more vulnerable. So there has to be, and pray for our worship leaders. This is a supernatural task, brothers and sisters, to put together a service. That enables you, that that facilitates engaging your emotions while also Facilitating that it's you that worship, not just to allow you to become passive and think that you've worshipped And every one of us need to come, you see, having said to ourselves Talk to ourselves about the the breastplate of righteousness so that I come full. Not empty. Some of us come empty. I realize that. There's times when I come and my cup is pretty low. But it's looking to Christ, not trying to generate something, that's going to fill you up again. You see, it's not a matter of how you feel, it's a matter of what you believe. We want something that's gonna to work kind of short circuit and just get me to the feelings of well-being. When what the gospel says is the only way you're going to have that sense of well-being, approval, measuring up is by believing the gospel. So, what we want to do Sunday by Sunday is to put you in touch with Christ. That's what John was saying. I heard again and again and again. They're always hearts. Want you to see Christ, want you to listen, look at Christ, want you to be in touch with Christ. It's Jesus recognizing that he is your breastplate of righteousness. It gives you peace and gives you joy. But now Move on quickly. What about the accusations? You come and uh you go to pray and what Satan do? He accuses you. He says, uh, you know you're a pretty mediocre prayer. You know you don't you know you don't maintain your concentration And you know, you think after the way you've lived, you come in crawling to God, he's going to hear you? I mean, geez. You know, and so what do we do? We we focus on ourselves Yeah, what right do I have? Why could I come? And instead of once again, reminding yourself, Ephesians 2. 18, it's through him I come. Or maybe he tries to accuse you that uh you haven't earned God to hear you, and besides he's arbitrary in the way he answers You know, you never can tell. I mean, you know, think of the guy who prayed for his family every day for years. One day prayed just as he always had. There were an auto accident, all of them were killed. You know you know how many times he thought after that, what was the matter with that day? Did I miss something? Did I not pray right? What Why did God not hear me that day? The accusations, you see, focuses on you rather than on Christ. You need to remind yourself Every time you come, Lord, you are not predictable, but you are faithful. And I come in the righteousness of Christ. Or the way he accuses you when you fall into sin. You see that sin, you confess that sin, and what happens? As soon as you begin to do that, you try to come to Christ, Satan comes and he says, you confessing that thing again. Don't you get tired of listening to yourself? Yeah, God's tired of listening to you. In fact, he's pretty disgusted. In fact, you know what? Until you really mean business with that thing and start to change There really isn't any reason to come to God. Because I'll tell you, he's pretty sick and tired of the whole thing, and I am too. And so what do you do? You withdraw from the Lord's You see, uh the problem is he says, until you change, which does what? Puts all the all the responsibility on you When if you're like me, the reason you're crying and going to the Lord is you're saying, Lord, I can't change. I don't know how to change. And so Paul says, put on the breastplate of righteousness, that means that you come recognizing that, as he says in chapter 4, verse 17, stop sinning. No excuses, but verse 22 to 24, it is a process where God is gently training you as a child to put off the old nature, put on the new nature of Christ. You're learning how to do that. You're coming helplessly as a child. Father, I can't overcome this sin, this temptation, but you in me can. I have on the breastplate of righteousness, I measure up. I am not accused by you. Not because I've earned it. If you're still in that position thinking, I'm hoping my good is going to outweigh my bad, you know, the guy in changing lanes, I'm hoping at the end of the day my good will outweigh my bad I point you to Christ. He is the only hope you have. But it is a perfect and a sufficient hope. Or take when you think about your service of Him. You ever go through this kind of thinking You know, you you're you're thinking about the Lord, you're thinking about his goodness and his mercy, and you say, wow, you know, the Lord's just been so good to me. And and you you're thinking about him and that goes on for maybe five minutes and twenty-three seconds, and then about that time you begin to think, you know, I really I really need to do more to show 'em how grateful I am and to love 'em and you know, I really think about how I don't obey 'em and I don't really trust 'em and I look at my values and how different are they from my neighbors anyway, you know? How really different am I as a Christian? And oh my neighbors, you know, you know, I don't talk to them about the Lord and Shh, man, I I pray for him, you know, and I here I got this prayer list, supposed to pray a hundred days and after day four, you know, I started skipping days. Now I don't pray because I just feel guilty. It reminds me of what I didn't do and I you know What a mess. You know, what happens? You know, all of your thoughts now have gone from thinking on the Lord and his goodness to thinking about yourself and what a slime bucket you are. And so then you begin to think, you know, I really, I really ought to share the gospel with my neighbors. I'm going to do that this weekend. And so what do you do? You offer them this wonderful good news. Here they are, blithely ignorant, just having a good old time, you know, working on whatever they like to work on, and say, you know, you really need Christ for joy. You know, you really you need him so you can be guilty and miserable like me, you know. And we wonder why we don't share the gospel You see, because it's not good news to us. It's condemnation. Nobody ever effectively shared Christ out of guilt. You share Christ because you love him. And you love him when you realize all of your shortcomings. And Paul says, and when the accuser comes Remind yourself, brother and sister, that you have the breastplate of his free righteousness. And so rather than feeling ugly and shameful, you recognize that you are perfectly approved in his sight. And that in that day when you come to meet him, he will stand before you, and he will say in the words of the Song of Solomon, Come, my bride, my delight. For I find no flaw in you from head to toe. You are perfect in my sight. Come and let me ravish you with my love. Now I believe that putting on the breastplate of righteousness is living out of that truth. Let's pray. Lord, some of us have let our breastplates slip and we barely remember that we even have them. We're living out of works righteousness. We're living under the narrow, accusing eye of the demonic forces that seek to rob us of all joy and sweetness and satisfaction And so we we just go around from guilt to guilt and we wonder why the gospel isn't good news to us. Lord, remind us that what Paul's saying here is the gospel is the good news to you. You need to put it on against the accuser. And so, Lord, for each of us, give to us now an awareness of where the accuser has broken through our mithril vest. To drive his spear into our heart. Lord, help us as we bring that area to you and in our own hearts now to renounce him as the accuser. And to remind ourselves, Lord, of the breastplate of Christ's righteousness. And if we do not have that righteousness, To confess to you our need of it and to see you standing before us in your finished work on the cross and in the tomb, offering to us The record, your perfect record, and to take our record from us