Study of the armor that God provides you in life's battles, we are at the midpoint. We've covered three, and we have three to go. We have looked at the three B's of the armor. And at this point I'd like a little help from you kids. And so I'd like to hear from kids, let's say, just uh kids under thirteen and now that excludes the Mitzel twins who I understand turned thirteen yesterday so you guys can no longer answer in this but anybody else Twelve are under. Tell me the three B's. What was the first B of the armor? The yes, something. Belt. Wait, belt of truth too, the whole thing. Thanks, Tony. That's it. The belt of truth. The second B was and just call out. You don't have to yeah, again, just Breastplate of righteousness, right. Jesse drew such a good picture of a soldier with big heavy cleats last week that I was tempted to replace the one we have up here with his, but it's a little small, so we're sticking with this guy. Great answer. Breastplate of righteousness and the third bee. Just call it out somebody. Yeah, somebody back there? Go ahead, just call it out. Boots. Right? Boots. The boots of the gospel. Those are the three. The belt, the breastplate, and the boots. Thank you. You guys are really good. I appreciate your help. Belt of truth. In response to Satan's deceptions, the material is really more important than the spiritual, more satisfying, more real. Or Christianity is really all just make believe or You really won't be happy until you get what you want. Deceptions like this that we put on the belt of truth to respond. Then the second, the breastplate of righteousness, you remember, dealt with the issue of measuring up. Do you measure up? And exposes the fact that we want to measure up to people and their expectations. in bondage to people's approval. But in fact there is only one person's approval that really matters, and that is the sovereign God who is judge of all. And the Bible tells us the only way to have his approval, because we do not measure up, is the fact that he sent his own son, who is perfect. in every way. And his son was willing to trade records with you and to me and me, taking your record and dying, paying the full penalty that you owed to God. And then giving to you the complete full bank account of the riches of his own righteousness. And so you measure up. And when Satan tells you you don't, you put on the breastplate of righteousness. You remember Christ's righteousness that's yours. And then when Satan tries to rob you of peace, Paul says, remember the boots of the gospel. He tries to keep you from having peace with God by causing you to delay in coming to Christ and admitting your need of Him. And then once you've come to Christ, he causes you to forfeit the inheritance, that right that you have of God's own peace, by saying that you ought to fret and worry and Keep you from enjoying the peace that's yours. And so you have God's truth, Christ's righteousness, and you have God's own peace. What else can there be? And yet we're only halfway through. And so Paul goes on. Now, what I want you to notice, and Michael put on the scripture here, please. What I want you to notice is what he says then in verse 16. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Now when you read that, you say, okay, now we're going to deal with the shield of faith, and we tend to just glide right over a little clause like, in addition to all this, or a phrase like that. You know, just kind of Paul sticks that in there means like kind of we're gonna get going on the second part. But I think in fact that that's an important phrase. The King James and New King James say above all. I don't think that gets it. Literally, it is in all taking up I think the NIV, you see there, does the best job, which says, in addition to all this, I think that's the idea, in addition to what I've said. Now what does that mean? Well, I believe what Paul's doing there is he's marking a separation between the first set of three, the three B's, and the second set of three, which we call the three S. And uh that that division Is, I think, significant for some insight as to spiritual warfare, as well as the fact that personally I believe it confirms my understanding of the breakdown of Ephesians into chapters 1 to 3, the facts of the the gospel, chapters four, five, and six, the commands to live it out. Because I believe that the first three pieces are related to chapters 1 to 3. The second three pieces are related to chapters 4, 5, and 6 How is that? If you look back in verse thirteen, he says, therefore put on the full armor of God. It's literally therefore take up the full armor of God. And then if you look at verse fourteen, now the uh NIV and other translations understandably put this into an English that we're familiar with, but again, a more literal understanding of the construction of the words would be something like this. Having your loins wrapped around with the belt of truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and having your feet shod with the boots of the gospel of peace. In addition to this now, take up, taking the shield of faith, taking The salvation helmet of hope, taking the sword of the Spirit. Those are the three S And I believe that there's a distinction that Paul intends for us to get. It's not a major issue, but I do believe there's some distinction here between having and taking. You see, the having, the first three pieces of armor, are armor that you have on that are part of you. The belt is on there, you tuck up uh when you're ready to get into action, but you you have that belt on. The breastplate is something you wear. Um the um The boots you simply are wearing. But the second three pieces are pieces that you only pick up and take as you're going into battle. What is more significant is that the first three pieces are a reminder of what you already have in Christ. And so the strategy there is to remind yourself of truth. Remind yourself of Christ's righteousness. Remind yourself of the peace that you have in Christ. These are all things that are God's that are given to you. The key to those is to remember. Now, as he moves into the second three pieces, these are things that you do It's not so much now a matter of remembering as it is of using. Take up the shield of faith. Take a hold of that helmet. Put it on. Take the sword of the Spirit as you go into battle. And so now it is a matter of your actively applying the gospel in your own situation. So you see chapters 1 to 3, remember what you have, chapters 4, 5, and 6, apply it actively, in obedience and faith. So the the blanks that you see there are the belt of truth the breastplate of righteousness, the boots of the gospel, in contrast to the taking of the shield of faith, the salvation helmet, and the sword of the Spirit. I wish at this point we could stop and just have a little bit of discussion to say, you understand that it makes some sense to you, and if it you know if it's a little unclear Hopefully it'll become clearer as we go on. But also let me pause for a moment to say that today was the last middle hour classes, but we have three more middle hour slots before we move into the summer schedule in July. So what we're going to do next week is to allow you to come and just anybody who wants to to gather up here and have a time of sharing in questions. Sharing about what did you get from any of the classes that you took in the middle hour this last semester. Anything God's been teaching it from the messages on armor in Ephesians, but then to ask questions. And so if you're saying, hey, let's go over that having and take him business again, you know, let's discuss it next week And uh we'll also have some more information about the Potter's house renovation. You can ask questions about that. So if you want to come for just some sharing and discussion, something we don't get a chance to do very often, then next week middle hour will be an opportunity for that. However, let us Press on. And for the remaining of the time, remainder of the time here, let me begin this fourth piece of armor, shield of faith, and then I want to uh conclude it next week with some more specific application. So the shield of faith, verse sixteen, once again. In addition to all this, no, in contrast now to the having Take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Now we're familiar with the verse, but that's a very dramatic picture. Don't miss it. What is this picturing? Okay, Michael, let's get the Christian up there, that soldier. And uh I want you to once again to see what a terrible picture this is. Now uh I told you you can't see the belt, that's not their fault. The breastplate goes higher and lower. The shoes are pretty pathetic. There's you know there are much heavy soles, cleats and all that And once again, the shield is wrong too. And that's what we kind of picture as a shield, but what in fact the shield was, it was called the thurion, which is related to the word thora for door. And uh so what it really was was a door. It was an act, you remember Roman soldiers were about five feet tall back at that time. And uh the shield would have been about four and a half feet tall and two and a half feet wide. So he could practically hide behind the thing. He couldn't hide behind that very well Uh so the idea was it's like carrying a door, your own portable door for protection. Take up the shield of faith, the door shield, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Now the picture here is That before you would get close enough to have hand-to-hand combat, the enemy would send a flying aerial bombardment of a barrage of arrows. And and the state-of-the-art warfare At that time was not simply to fire arrows at you, but to have the tips of the arrows wrapped in some flammable material or even better pitch. And just before you'd fire the arrow, you'd dip it into this firepot, and then you would fire the thing. So now you got these hundreds of arrows coming at you, all flaming. And if one comes and sticks in you, it is not just that you're pierced with an arrow, you're pierced with a red hot tip. of fire. This was a very malicious weapon. Very effective if you could get through this thing. And uh When I say hundreds, hundreds of these things from an army across uh no man's land would be coming at you. In fact, in one battle at the siege of uh Dirachium One soldier, one poor guy, Skeva, after the battle, pulled out two hundred and twenty arrows out of his shield. Now, maybe some days you feel like you have days like that, but this guy was really in the thick of the battle. Now, I think there is no more vivid description you have anywhere in Scripture or in Paul's writing here of how personal And malicious are Satan's attacks. This is very personal. You notice that verse 16 says, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. And it's important to notice at this point that I think we tend to look at trials and suffering and evil kind of like we look at the weather. Uh you know, we look at the weather as being vaguely personal. It's kind of out to get you. You plan something and the weather's gonna come and it's gonna destroy it, you know Sure way to make it rains to wash your car, you know, on and on and on this kind of stuff. But you know, then you stop and you say, but I really know that it's not really personal. I mean I just feel like it's personal, but it really isn't. And I think that's often the way we look at Satan's attacks, is Christians will glibly say, boy, Satan's really been working over time this week, you know, it's been a really rough weekend And we use that as a good phrase, but when you stop and think, you're not really thinking there is a malevolent character who is firing arrows at you to destroy you, to wound you, to discourage you. To torment you, to try to get you to give up and quit the fight, but it's kind of vaguely personal and vaguely impersonal. What Paul is saying to you is when you are having those days of evil, It is intensely personal. There is an evil one who wants you to quit and to give up To just abandon the faith, to turn your back on God, to feel separate from him, to lose all confidence in him, in your confusion To say, who knows, who understands? I can't figure it out. And to simply drag on existing. This is personal Don't miss the personal side of it. It is an evil one who is aiming malicious, fiery arrows at you this past week, this next week in the times of the greatest difficulty of your life. Notice also, besides being personal, how powerful this is. Think of this poor guy skeeving. 220 arrows in his shield. I mean that, you know, there's arrows on top of arrows. He must have been really in the thick of the battle. And if you determine to live all out for Jesus Christ, To say, I'm going to live in the light of eternity. I want to live for Christ, for his kingdom. You better believe there's going to be more flaming arrows directed at you. There will be more of the onslaught of his personal power. Seeking to discourage you, seeking to get you to give up and to abandon the fight. Because he is both personal And very powerful. Next week we're going to look at some examples of some of the ways, some of the kinds of arrows that Satan fires at God's people. And how we are able to hold up the shield of faith against them. But let me just say this morning a few more things about this idea of the defense. The defense is described as a shield. Notice this is a shield that you must pick up. It's not simply something to remember. This is now something that you do. You pick up this shield. And that's referring to the daily exercise of your faith. I believe that as Christians Once again, we need to think through this idea of faith. It's so easy for us as Christians to think of faith in terms of trusting God for eternity. He's delivered me from hell and he's given me heaven and I'm going to go because I believe that Jesus Christ has died for my sins, has paid the price, and I'm going to heaven. That's good. But what about the stress, the aggravation, the trials, the difficulty of your daily living? Do you believe that he's able to deliver you to provide grace in those situations And we live in this strange dichotomy that says, I believe God is powerful enough and cares enough for me that He sent His Son to deliver me from hell and to give me eternity in heaven. But he is not involved or cares enough or is able to deliver me from the bondage of this particular temptation that has. Been discouraging me for years. Or he's not able to provide for me the needs that I have in my daily living to or to give me grace. To either bear up in this trial that I'm suffering or to deliver me from it. Perhaps it would help you To think of the arrows and to identify them. To connect this verse to what you are specifically going through. And to be able to Think of the arrows, consciously lift your shield and say out loud to Satan, I see that arrow of this temptation or trial or whatever, and you're not going to get through to me. I'm holding up the shield of faith, and the shield is the Lord Jesus. Again and again, the Psalms describe. He is your shield. And so I am resting in him. And I will apply some specific promise of Scripture, something of His character, to help me to exercise my faith. Now, I agree with Jerry Bridges in his book, Trusting God, where he says that there are three things that a Christian must believe about God to help them in times of trial. And it just so happens that all three of these things are mentioned in the book of Ephesians. In fact, it so happens that I think Paul has these in mind because of the flow of his thought. Let's think of them. The first thing that you need to believe when you've got some flaming arrow headed right your way, or maybe a whole barrage of them, the first thing is to believe that God is all-wise. He really knows what he's doing. And what do you read in Ephesians chapter 1? One of the first things that Paul had said was in verse 17. I pray, keep asking, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. So that you might know him better. He is the spirit of wisdom. And he wants to impart that wisdom so that you know him better, who is the source of all wisdom. He wants you to know that God knows what he's doing. So he says in chapter three, in verse ten, His intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realm. This that word manifold, you remember, is the word that pictures uh like a diamond, a multifaceted gem of beauty. And so God's multifaceted perfect wisdom is displayed now so that all the demons and all the angels are able to see and marvel prostrate themselves before God and say, we knew you were wise by creation. We knew you were wise by what you did in redemption. But as you are building the church, as you are working in these people, we see the perfection of your wisdom beyond anything we could Could have ever imagined. Paul says, when you're getting those flaming arrows, exercise faith in God's wisdom. Know that this God knows exactly what he's doing. But it's not just enough that he's all-wise. He could be all-wise and malicious in his wisdom, cunning. Seeking to bring you into a trap to play with you as a cosmic puppet, play as a cosmic puppet master plays with a puppet So Paul goes right on in chapter 3 to say in verse 17, I pray that you being rooted and established in love. may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge. That you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. The second thing you need to believe is that He's all-loving. Not only that God is all wise, but that all of his wisdom is designed toward your good. That he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for you. to trade his life for yours so that you would not have to die, but that you would be the object of his affection and his love. That that God, in whatever circumstance that you're enduring and existing and suffering in trial, whatever the temptations, whatever the arrows that are coming at you, Paul says, exercise faith in the fact. That the love of Christ is limitless. Its dimensions are without boundary. Its intensity is as white hot heat. Know that He is all-loving toward you. And then, thirdly, it's not enough simply that he is all-wise and all-loving, but Bridges says the third thing you must believe is that he is in fact all-powerful. That it's not simply that he knows the best, that he intends the best, but he can actually accomplish the best That he is in control of everything in your life. And so the very next verse in chapter three goes on to say, Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all that we ask or imagine According to his power that is at work within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. You see, the fact is that as those arrows come at you, God can deflect the arrow. God can put that shield in just the right place so that it doesn't get to you. He is all powerful. And that power is exercised by his wisdom and his love For your good and for your benefit. Sometimes in ways you can't see. But you know the funny thing is that one of Satan's most effective arrows are the worry of the future. And I believe that while we uh we need to think about the future, we need as Christians to live much more in the present. I mean you're sitting here now and you're you're all churned up about what's going to happen this next week or this next month or maybe this next year and there's all kinds of things. Oh yeah, my you know, my retirement and my investments are going down the tubes and I get this. and that and you know and you know things are happening in a family with the kids and this and on and on and on and on. But hey, right now you're sitting here, you're at peace. I mean, what is destroying you right now? Really? I mean, you know, you're okay, right? It's the future that's churning you up Paul says, lift up that shield and say, You're taking care of me at this moment, I exercise faith. To commit to you the future, that you will take care of me moment by moment, hour by hour, day by day. I will seek to live in responsible obedience and faith, but I trust you with my future. Let me close with two examples. The first is of a woman who lived around 300 A. D. in a Roman province. And on the 5th of December in 304 A. D. , a woman by the name of Crispina. Was arrested by the proconsul Annilinus for refusing to sacrifice to the Roman gods. Whatever her life had been to that moment, it was all of a sudden now in upheaval Record was made of her trial. There were number of witnesses. I would like to read just a couple of excerpts. Anilinus said, You should offer sacrifice to all our gods for the welfare of the emperors in accordance with the law issued by our lords. The Reverend Augusti Diocletian and Maximilian, and the most noble Caesars Constantius and Maximus. I have never sacrificed, replied Crispina, and I shall not do so to save to the one true God and to our Lord Jesus Christ, his Son. Who was born and died. Break with this superstition and bow your head to the sacred rites of the gods of Rome. Every day I worship God Almighty. I know no other God besides Him. You are a stubborn and insolent woman, and you will soon begin to feel the force of our laws against your will. Whatever happens, I shall be glad to suffer it on behalf of the faith that I hold firm. But all we ask of your religion is that you bow your head in sacred temples and offer incense to the gods of Rome. It's no big deal. Perish the gods who have not made heaven and earth. I offer sacrifice to the eternal God who abides forever and ever. He is the true God who is to be feared. He has made the sea, the green grass, the dry earth. But what can men who are creatures of his hand offer me I am prepared to undergo any tortures that you wish to subject me to rather than to defile my soul with idols, which are stones and the creation of men's hands. If you despise the worship of the venerable gods, I shall order your head to be cut off I should thank my God if I obtained this. I should be happy to lose my head for the sake of God For I refuse to sacrifice to these ridiculous, deaf and dumb statues. Why should we suffer this impious Christian woman any further? Read back the minutes of the trial from the record. And then the verdict. Seeing that Crispina has persisted in infamous superstition and refuses to offer sacrifice to our gods in accordance with the heavenly decrees of the Augustan law. I have ordered her to be executed with a sword. I bless God who has so deigned to free me from your hands. Thanks be to God. And making the sign of the cross on her forehead and putting out her neck, she was beheaded in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. To whom is honor forever? Sometimes the issues are very clear. And sometimes the arrows are very subtle. The second example is the somewhat classic parable of the resistance fighter by um Basil Mitchell. And it goes like this. In time of war in an occupied country, a member of the resistance meets one night with a stranger Who deeply impresses him? They spend that night together in conversation. The stranger tells the partisan that he himself is on the side of the resistance, indeed, that he's in command of it. And urges the partisan to have faith in him no matter what happens. The partisan is utterly convinced at that meeting of the stranger's sincerity and constancy and power, and he undertakes to trust him. They never meet in conditions of intimacy again. But sometimes the stranger is seen helping members of the resistance, and the partisan is grateful and says to his friends, he is on our side. Sometimes he is seen in the uniform of the police, handing over patriots to the occupying power. On these occasions, his friends murmur against him, but the partisan still says, He is on our side. He still believes that in spite of appearances, the stranger did not deceive him. Sometimes he asks the stranger for help and he receives it. He is then thankful. Sometimes he asks and does not receive it. Then he says The stranger knows best. And you and I base our faith not simply on the character and the impressions that we have from one brief meeting, but on the trustworthiness of Scripture again and again displayed as being absolutely trustworthy. And on the centrality of the historic resurrection. And so, your faith is like a muscle. The more you exercise it, the stronger it grows. If you don't, it atrophies. I call upon you to identify the flaming arrows in your life and to trust The God that you know, the Savior who's died for you. And put up your shield. One last observation about this shield. The shield, the Thurion, Thurion, was not intended to be used alone. It was not for individual combat, like you see one of that guy that was up there, guy holding that thing It was actually designed in a rectangle, and it was to be used as part of a phalanx. Roman soldiers stood next to Roman soldier. And if you stood with your shield up, and with the man to the right of you and the man to the left of you, each with their shield in place, the effect was like a wall in front of you. God never intended that the shield of faith be used individually. He intends that as you and I come and Are being fired upon with those arrows that we're in fellowship with other believers. And that as you go to your cell, you're able to describe to them What kind of a week of combat it's been. And then you hear that brother or sister say, you know, I've had the same kind of experience. And all of a sudden there is a sense of relief. You're not alone. Someone can identify with you. They know how you feel. And as they pray for you, you know that in their heart they've experienced the pain that you're talking about. That's why it's so important for us to be honest and open and have time for that kind of sharing in our groups. Let me ask you, what are the arrows? That you're experiencing right now in your life. Can you identify them as arrows from a malicious foe who personally intends to destroy you? Do you see what scriptures are being tested in your faith and confidence in God's wisdom, his love, and his sovereignty? That you might rest in Him, that you might hold up that faith. Christian, hold up your shield. For Jesus is your shield. Let's pray. Lord our God, we we realize that we so often vaguely grumble and complain about what's going on in our lives and It's kind of like the weather. We don't like it at times, but what are you gonna do? Lord, help us to see That these are the flaming arrows of the evil one coming against us to discourage, to hurt, to destroy. That we might be able to identify them and that we might be able to see, Lord, where is it he's trying to destroy my faith? To hold up that shield Be able to say, Lord, my confidence is in you. You are my shield. You are the one who is all-wise, all loving. And all-powerful. You've demonstrated that again and again. Lord, I pray that we as good soldiers would exercise the muscle of our faith that it grows stronger. Stronger in the experiences of your faithfulness, we might see that you are indeed always faithful. I pray, Lord, that you would speak to each heart in whatever is the situation, that they alone know That you would minister your spirit to them now to apply this deeply, richly to their hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.