If you brought your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Psalm seventy-three. And before I read that psalm, we'll be reading all twenty-eight verses of it. Let's just take a moment and bow our heads. Father God, we do thank you that you are the God who is good, you are a God who is sovereign, all powerful. And Lord, we thank you that we can see too that you are a God who is beautiful, a God who is kind and merciful. Lord, as we look at your weather even, it was a hindrance to some to get here this morning. We thank you for what it shows us of those qualities of yours. We thank you for the way that we are able to look at it and reflect on the snow and just the awesomeness of your your strength and worship you. We thank you especially, Lord, for your word. Lord, something we can look at every day, something we can ponder every hour if we want to, something from which we find news of your beauty, of your strength and power. Father, help us to ever go to it in order that we might love you more and worship you more and know you better. We ask that your Spirit help us now as we look at this Psalm Help us to understand it. Help us to see Christ more clearly and love him more dearly. Amen. Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost slipped. I had nearly lost my foothold, for I envied the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. They have no struggles. Their bodies are healthy and strong. They are free from the burdens common to man. They are not plagued by human ills. Therefore, pride is their necklace. They clothe themselves with violence. From their callous hearts comes iniquity. The evil conceits of their minds know no limits. They scoff and speak with malice. In their arrogance they threaten oppression. Their mouths lay claim to heaven, and their tongues take possession of the earth. Therefore, their people turn to them and drink up waters in abundance. They say, How can God know? Does the Most High have knowledge? This is what the wicked are like. Always carefree, they increase in wealth. Surely in vain have I kept my heart pure. In vain have I washed my hands in innocence All day long I have been plagued. I have been punished every morning. If I had said, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed your children. When I tried to understand all this, it was oppressive to me till I entered the sanctuary of God. Then I understood their final destiny. Surely you place them on slippery ground. You cast them down to ruin. How suddenly are they destroyed, completely swept away by terrors? As a dream when one awakes, so when you arise, O Lord, you will despise them as fantasies. When my heart was grieved and my spirit embittered, I was senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you. Yet I am always with you. You hold me by my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will take me into glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And earth has nothing I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Those who are far from you will perish. You destroy all who are unfaithful to you. But as for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the sovereign Lord my refuge. I will tell of all your deeds. This should be the second time that I preach this sermon. It's not, but it should be. Two weeks ago, I was It was kind of, but not really a job interview at a church up in New Jersey that had approached me about being an intern there. So I was going to drive up there I was going to get there early and I was going to talk to the pastor. Pastor's name was David Cummings. He has a brother who preached here during the past missions conference. And he has another brother who's a a minister in our denomination who I do Bible camp with at French Creek that some of your kids know. I was going to get up there at about five o'clock, and we were going to kind of have an informal talk, interview, and then I was going to preach on Psalm 73, and then I was going to get in my car and drive back on back to Maryland. And It didn't happen that way at all. Not even close. I got in my car and I started driving and I kept driving. And I kept driving, straight clear on up through Philadelphia. It got dark on me. I got lost. I started getting real bitter. You know how you're lost? You got something real important to you, something that means a lot to you. And it's just going bad. You start getting all hot inside, you start thinking, oh man, just all in a big tizzy. Nothing's going right. You get angry. You get frustrated. Bitter. That's what I was feeling. Now the irony of the situation was that as difficult as I saw my life getting there, right? As much as I saw my life in that very instant as being just one more example of how in every life a little rain must fall, I was going to preach on Psalm 73. And what do you think I was doing as I was sitting there angry and bitter and all burned up, thinking, Oh, I can't believe it, my directions were bad, I didn't know how long it was gonna take to get here I didn't know about all these tolls. I don't know if I have enough money to get home. All these things are running through my head. Am I going through this psalm that talks about God's sovereignty? Am I going through this psalm? It talks about how good it is to be near God. Am I reminding myself of these things? I'm flipping through the radio station trying to find something in Philadelphia that has some song I know because it'll ease my mind Anything, James Taylor, Billy Joel. I was desperate. I was so upset, wanting so badly to be calmed down. I would have settled for an old Chicago tune. I was in a bad way. Some of you might know what I'm talking about. Something about a song. A song can reach you. Something about words that are familiar to you. Something you can relate with. Something you can identify with. You hear Piano Man or Allentown or you fill in the name of your favorite song and it speaks to you and it comforts you. Music has always done that When King Saul got upset and angry, it was David who would come and play the harp for him. Music brings us brings out of us that anger, and it calms us down There's one song that I I bet you everybody here has heard of because it was done first 20, 25 years ago and very, very recently remade. Made popular, made famous by Roberta Flack, one of the great jazz ladies. And she writes this song and it tells a story. And the song starts out, she hears about some guy who plays a good song. who sings a good song. And so she resolves she's going to go hear him. And she goes to listen to this guy do his music act. She says that this guy was killing her softly with his song. Why? Because he told her whole life with his words Said everything about her in the lyrics of his song for everybody to hear. And as she heard him singing, it was as if he had read all her personal diaries out loud. Killing me softly, killing me softly with his song. And I think so often we forget something about the book of Psalms. Those of us who glory in our systematic theologies, those of us who take such an intellectual approach Because see the Psalms just are not so much pile of literary little poems and stuff for us to strip mind for propositions to build our logical structures with. It's easy to read a psalm, to read a song, and say, oh, what can I take out of this from my kitchen fridge? What can I put on the plaque in my hallway? Those are good things to do. But these are songs. And as C. S. Lewis points out in his book Reflections on Psalms, these are the Christians' songs. And they tell your story. And they tell my story. And how ironic it was that on my way to preaching this, I was looking for Billy Joel. Because what is this story about? It is a story. And if we're going to understand it, we have to understand it within that context. It's a story about Asaph. Asaph is a man, who we're going to get to know a little bit more about in a minute, but he's a man with a problem. He's a man who's got something laying heavily on his heart, far more heavily, than me getting lost in Philadelphia trying to find a church in New Jersey. And he's torn up about this. He's upset about it. So much so that he begins by saying, Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost slipped. A significant picture for an ancient Jew. I had almost apostatized. I had almost abandoned the faith I had almost become so frustrated with where I was and what was happening to me that I said, nuts to this religion business, I'm out of here. And why? Why? He says right away, for I had envied the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. I know that very often when we do our Bible studies, and I'm tempted to do this too, we start thinking that, well, if only I knew what the Hebrew was there, I'd have a clue as to what's going on. You don't need the Hebrew. The word is envy, and it's an ugly word. And it's a word that describes for us what ASAP's problem is. He envies the prosperity of the wicked. And there's a difference between envy and begrudging. You know, throughout Scripture, and perhaps throughout our lives, we'll see somebody who's wicked. Somebody who's arrogant, somebody who's a real scum, and will see that they have something good in life and will think, well, they don't deserve that. That's not envy. That's begrudging them that We might see somebody who succeeded in some measure in life in some way, even though we know well this person's about as low down a person as you can come by I'm sure all of us have some picture in our mind right now of that guy who works in the cubicle across the way. Maybe the girl. But that's not envy. You envy things you don't have. And Asap envies the prosperity of the wicked. He looks at the people who are wicked and he says, I wish I had their prosperity. No question of motives, no question here of how they got that prosperity, just a question of the fact that they have it and he doesn't. And what is it that they have? No struggles, their bodies are healthy and strong, free from the burdens common to man. It goes on. Pride is their necklace, when it should have been their noose. Their callous hearts pour forth iniquity. They scoff and speak, they oppress, and yet people flock to them when people should have shunned them. These are people who have their popularity, they have wealth, they have health. These people sound like Americans. They have everything. They're wicked. Asaph has nothing. And Asaph not only does he envy the wicked, but the second thing about Asaph's condition The point from which he begins this song is that he regrets his own innocence. He regrets the fact that he has kept his hands pure. Because he says, Surely in vain have I kept my heart pure, in vain have I washed my hands in innocence. For nothing have I followed this God These wicked people have all these blessings that I'm supposed to be getting. These people who are arrogant, who are violent, they have all this health, wealth, popularity, and look at me over here. I'm sick, I'm poor, and I'm a geek. He's upset, and he feels justified in his upsetness. So much so that he says, Following God has done me no good. Refraining from all these sins has done me no good. It's been for nothing. I should have been right there with the wicked. In his own heart he's saying, Why didn't I oppress people when I had a chance? Why haven't I been proud? Why hasn't my mouth laid claim to heaven? But Asaf didn't say that. He came close, but he didn't When he tried to understand this, we read in a minute, it was oppressive to him. Now, in my own much more trivial experience on the road to preaching this, I can understand that I was truly on a fool's errand, much like ASAP would be trying to understand his problems from his point of view. See, I was looking for where Route 40 intersected Interstate 95. Now that is a fool's errand, because the two roads don't touch. I could have driven clean up to Maine and not found Route 40 I could have driven all the way down to the keys in Florida and not found a Route forty Asaph is trying desperately to understand on his own. Look at what he says here in verse 14. He talks about how all day long he's been plagued. I've been punished every morning. All day long he suffers through these conditions of his life which makes him regret his innocence. He says, if I had said, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed your children. When I tried to understand all this, it was oppressive to me. Here's ASAP trying to think like mad, trying to build his theology up so he can account for his miserable state, no doubt examining his life over and over again, saying, What have I done to deserve this? It's oppressive to him. I want to tell you a little bit about ASAF, which will even compound DSU ASAP isn't just some guy who happened to have written a psalm, that happened to have gotten published with a bunch of Davids, which happened to have got included in a spiritual book by the Jews, which happened to become our Bible. Not at all. ASAP was a very godly man in his own right, and an important one. I wrote down on your uh bulletin insert I can't find mine, so you'll have to look at the oh, yes I can find it. In 1 Chronicles 16, we read about how he's the chief worship leader for the people of Israel during David's reign. The chief worship leader. We read in that passage about how the ark is being brought up to Jerusalem, and who is it that's leading worship? This man, Asap. We read about how he's the chief temple musician later on in that same book. And if you read in Ezra and Nehemiah when they talk about those Levites, those priests that come back from the captivity, and come back to Jerusalem, come back to the temple to set up the services again. What do they call all the musicians? The sons of Asaph. He's called a prophet, a seer, and in that last passage his songs are equated with those of David and pronounced fit for worship. This man is not just regular Job believer if there is such a thing. This man is a worship leader. He's one of the people who is a spiritual guide to Israel. He's recognized as a prophet. He's written a whole bunch of Psalms, flipped through this whole section, starting with book three, of which this is the first, and a whole bunch of them are going to say ASAP on the top. And here's Asaph. And imagine for a minute how Asaph must have felt showing up for Sunday morning worship, having to lead worship with these thoughts running through his mind. It was his vocation. Tom Brode and Ken Williams and all our other worship leaders volunteer If they wanted to, they could, I'm sure, call up Alan Steve and say, I'm just not up to it. Can you put me on the schedule for next month? Not ACEF. And he's got to stand in front of the people of God and lead them in worship, while in his heart he's thinking in vain. Look at my life, Lord. I don't understand what's going on, but it's in vain that I've followed you. And now I lead these people Sometimes I know that for us, as we find ourselves fulfilling our office of general believer, what our Westminster Confession calls it. And as we find ourselves called to witness to others, to share our faith, to stand up for a fellow believer, how often when we're struggling with whatever it is in our life Whatever that pain is in our life, we find ourselves going through motions. We find ourselves saying I'm going to open my mouth. I'm going to say something on behalf of this fellow believer. I'm going to say something on behalf of my Lord and my Savior. But I sure don't feel it. Because inside I'm saying, what is going on? ASAF is experiencing just that. And ASAP is as oppressed as you or I would be, and then some. Until, you gotta love these tills because it's the break point in the psalm. From this till onwards, the whole story changes. Till I entered the sanctuary of God. Asaph understands. Asaph understands, and there's two things about this understanding that I think we have to notice. First is that he understands by entering the sanctuary of God. Now we have our spiritual lingo today. They had theirs back then. And we talk about um we to we you know we still we we echo a lot of it. We'll go up to another person and say, hey brother or sister, how's your walk? Hey, you know, to someone who's not familiar with our lingo, they might think, is the guy recovering from a limp or something? Is the guy did he just have ankle surgery? No, we're asking a question about how is he doing spiritually in his relationship with Jesus Christ Only we use like a spiritual shorthand and just say, How's your walk? All kinds of examples of that. Here he's talking about the sanctuary of God, and he's not talking about literally going into the sanctuary and all of a sudden bing his eyes open and oh now I get it. This guy's been going into the sanctuary all the time. This is not the Holy of Holies. It's the sanctuary. There's a difference. This is where his job took him. This guy goes through all this oppression, and then he walks into the sanctuary, and it's not like he's been there for the first time in five months, and all of a sudden, oh, I wish I'd have come here sooner. What he's talking about is a radical change in attitude. He entered into that place where God is in communication with man. And he began to see his life not from the point of view of his own hurts, his own pains, his own unjust sufferings, his own confusing diseases. But instead from God's perspective, what is God's perspective? He understands the wicked's final destiny. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, walking the balance beam has become easy for him. Because he's taken his eyes off of the here and now. He's taken his eyes off of all the troubles and all the turmoil that he's going through, and he's lifted them up to the end of the balance beam. And all of a sudden he's regained his composure. And all of a sudden, like a light going off in his head, he understands what's going on And he understands it at first in this scary, negative judgment of the wicked. And I think that's important that we notice that. So often today we ask people to be saved, we beg with people to be saved, sometimes we imitate the apostles and we command people to be saved. So rarely would we actually tell them what they would be saved from. Because hell is the last thing we want to talk about. But here, Asaph, when he reflects on his final condition, he reflects on it first in terms of what he is saved from. And what is he saved from? The fate of the wicked. They are placed on slippery ground. His foot had almost slipped, theirs will surely slip. Because God casts them down to ruin. They're suddenly destroyed, completely swept away by terrors, as a dream when one awakes. So when you arise, O Lord, you will despise them as fantasies. And these people who had said, how can there be a God? Does God know? Can God really know all this stuff that's going on? I mean look at me. I'm a pagan. I do whatever I want. I don't have any morals and I don't care to be told what yours are. I go ahead and oppress people whenever I can. I scoff All this stuff. This is my life. How can there be a God? I'm healthy. I'm wealthy. I'm popular. Nothing's going against me. These people who deny that God exists will be denied, despised as fantasies. And ASAP recognizes that. And I don't think we can underestimate the importance of these next two verses. Because they show us how he understands his own life. The first thing that he understands is that when my heart was grieved and my spirit embittered, I was senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you. Asap recognizes in that moment when he enters into that sanctuary. He understands where he stands with God on his own merit. He understands that in God's eyes he is a brute beast. He's not someone who can go up to God and say, Hey, come on, let's have this relationship Relationship thing with me get a little bit better here. How about these couple uh uh I've been plagued every morning and in Leviticus that's a word, that particular word is a word that's used to describe leprosy. Something disgusting to an ancient mind. This isn't a lay he's not talking about a common flu. ASAP has something wrong with him. Instead he says, those times when I lived my life, all bent around the axle over that Angry at God, I was brute and ignorant. And he's aligning himself with the wicked there. He's saying, that's what I deserved. Without a doubt. That's what I deserved. I didn't deserve to have that easy life that I wanted. I didn't deserve to have that easy life that I envied. I was a beast. Yet. And so often these yets in the Psalms as we read them are such a chief comfort for us. But he says, Yet I am always with you. Unless we be tempted to think that even though this guy recognized he was a brute beast, he was still hanging on to his relationship with God, look at the next verse. You hold me by your right hand. And for Asaph, understanding his life through God's perspective, what a comfort Asaph understands that God is holding him, and that he will not be let go, that God is guiding him, that afterward he will be taken into glory. And Asaph understands the importance of what God has given him. He says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And earth has nothing I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. I know that often as we read in the Psalms, I'll speak for myself, often when I read through the Psalms, it gets kind of old hat pretty quick. You read these ones that are stories. Some Psalms are stories, some are not. The Psalm that we looked at last week, Psalm 23, is more of a hymn of praise. It's just reflecting on the Lord our shepherd. Other psalms reflect on a theme, like 37, don't envy the wicked. This one is a personal testimony And when we come across these personal testimonies in the Psalms, they almost always fit a certain bill, don't they? Someone who's singing or writing a psalm, the psalmist, he starts out saying, Oh, this was my condition, it was terrible. And I cried out to the Lord for help, and he had pity on me or mercy on me or he showed his love to me or fill in whatever you remember from the last one of these you read, and then everything's okay He's cured, he's fixed. His relationship with God has once again been the immediate medicine for every one of his problems, such that they just went away altogether. Not here. I challenge any of you to find any clue in this entire psalm or in any psalm of Asaph that he was ever healed. Because he wasn't. Here's Asaph, a godly man who is desperately sick. We don't know what it is that was wrong with him. And in fact, I'm very, very glad that we don't. We don't know where the thorn was in Paul's side, and I'm very, very glad that we don't. Because I believe that in watching and in reading of their suffering and their character And the way that they were tested, we are much better able to see our own self there. ASAF is not cured. Look at what he says. My flesh and my heart may fail. But God is the strength of my heart. Lord, these things that I envied of the wicked don't mean so much to me anymore, because I understand who you are. Lord, it doesn't matter to me so much that I look at my life and I look at my sickness because I understand what you have done for me. It doesn't matter so much. Because I have nothing besides you. And what was that health, anyways? But another opportunity to suppose that I had something which I did not receive He says, Let this disease run its course. Let this illness take its full toll upon me. Let these plagues that I suffer through every morning have their way with me, because I have the Lord. And I want to just observe three similarities in the language of the conclusion as compared to the introduction of this song, this story. The first is how Asaph perceives the wicked. First, he says, I envied the wicked. Next he says, those who are far from you will perish. You destroy all who are unfaithful to you. First, there is a childish, immature envy replaced by a stark recognition of the fact that they don't have a relationship with God. And there's nothing to be envied in that. Notice how ASAP begins with a confession. He begins by saying, As for me, my feet had almost slipped. And he ends with a profession. I will tell of all your deeds. All your deeds. And I think it's significant that in this psalm which talks about such a such a sad story from a human perspective, such a sad story apart from the sanctuary of God. We look at ASF's use of the word all. I will tell of all your deeds, not some Not just the ones which helped make me healthy, wealthy, wise, and popular, but all of them. And here in this testimony, ASAP has made good on that He has indeed told of that deed. And the last thing that I want us to notice is how he has affirmed God's goodness. He starts out as if asking a question. God is good to Israel. You can't help but wonder if there's not a touch of cynicism in that voice. And he concludes by saying, But as for me, it is good to be near God. And brothers and sisters, I think that when we look at this song This song that tells a story, we have to ask ourselves, where do we fit in? Like Roberta Flack in that smoky bar that she describes in that song, Killing Me Softly. What part of our story shows up here? I'm only 26 years old, but I'm no longer as naive as I once was. And there's a story for each one of us here. And because I'm a good Presbyterian, I believe that there's more than a little bit of rain in each one of your lives, so I ask you to consider the biggest pain in your life And I ask you to consider where you are in this story. Are you before the sanctuary of God or are you after it? Do you find yourself looking at your life? And then looking at a non-believer's life and saying, if only, if only, surely in vain. Where do you find yourself loving that person? And wishing they were like you rather than wishing that you were like they. Do you see your life from your perspective or from God's? Because in Asaph's story, this man who was a prophet, this man who was a musician, a poet at heart, A man who suffered, but a man who rejoiced greatly. We have a picture, a glimmer of Christ. Just the shadow, but it's there. And I can't help but notice the similarities. The similarities which almost, almost make it. But where ASAP, being human, falls short of Christ's model. Christ himself does not. We think about the innocent suffering And so, so often we find ourselves thinking about ourselves as if we're innocent, right? And then we think about Christ. And what is it that Christ did? I want to close this message this morning by reading some words from Isaiah chapter 53 You don't have to turn there, but I I'd encourage you later on in the week. I did not write out a uh because my car got hit and I spent so much time doing that, I hardly had time to get the outline out. I didn't get out devotional guides I challenge you to compare Isaiah 53 with the description of the wicked in Psalm 73. This is what you would be comparing: a description of Christ. He grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of the dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. Yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth. I'm going to stop there. I'm going to challenge you with that picture of Christ. That picture of Christ Against which Asaph very nearly became an antithesis and opposite. Because here is a Christ who's not unfamiliar with your suffering and mine. Here is a Christ who's not unfamiliar with the pains of life, but instead has freely taken them upon himself. And for those of you who are here this morning, and as you hear this story, Are brought to the conclusion that you are on either side of the sanctuary. Rather, you take the side of the wicked The one who doesn't know God, who's going to be cast down, who can enjoy what free gifts God gives you here in this life, but has nothing to hope for in the future. And I just challenge you with that picture of Jesus Christ, that one who came and he suffered, and he took all of your pain and infirmity and sin upon himself, enduring it all. Like ASF, not crying out, but unlike ASF, paying your price and not his own And this Jesus is the one who says, come to me, my burden is light. Come to me. Come to me, confess your sins, I will forgive you and give you life and life fully. Let's pray. Father God, we thank you again for the testimony of your word. We thank you for the examples that are in it. Lord, all the godly men and women to whom we can look for inspiration and motivation, but Lord, we thank you most of all for how they point us to you. Lord, for how by their wisdom and by their lives we are able to see how you work among your people. And Lord, we thank you for how we're comforted and that we know that you are able to work in us. And Lord Jesus, we just thank you that you came, although you didn't have to, and you suffered through the life of a human. Lord, that you shared in all of our temptations, our suffering, you took our infirmities, and you took our sin. Lord, we just ask that if there are any here who have not cast their cares upon you. That you would enable them to do that. Show them your love. Show them your peace. And, Holy Spirit, we ask that you would strengthen us this week as we live our lives to be challenged and emboldened to live the life of faith. ever more fully and ever more powerfully in your power. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.