Reformation is a wonderful time where we remember God's power when the gospel was rediscovered in the sixteenth century. Times of revival are always times of a rediscovery of the gospel. Times of spiritual apathy, times of powerlessness in the church, are times when we view the gospel as a doorway by faith to get to heaven. But then for joy and for power, for needs that I have in this life day by day, there's the gospel plus something else that I need. Something that's in addition. Reformation and revival are times when our hearts sing with the Apostle Paul and what he said in Romans chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, I am not ashamed of the gospel. Because it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes. First for the Jew, then for the Gentile. For in the gospel a righteousness from God is revealed. A righteousness is by faith from first to last, just as it is written. The righteous will live by faith. We saw last week that this was the verse that transformed Martin Luther's life. As he saw that grace was the only means by which he could, as a sinner, be made acceptable to God, receiving the gift Of God's external, his righteousness that was outside of Luther, but given, credited to his account, in Jesus Christ, received by faith. And so indulgences, the sale of God's merit became an offense, a stench to Luther. That's why he nailed the 95 thesis on the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg, which launched the gospel. And through that, though they tried to squelch it, the gospel was unleashed in Europe. The gospel was rediscovered. And it transformed Europe and it transformed history. And I'm pleading with you as I am examining myself in thinking of that in these last weeks, that you and I would rediscover the power of the gospel. That we would see that the gospel being unleashed in America in nineteen ninety-seven is in fact uh the only thing And that is ultimately going to solve the desperate, overwhelming problems that you and I and our culture face. To see our spiritual poverty as it is, our helplessness Our sin natures and desperate need for a righteousness that can only come from God That then puts us in a new relationship with him through Jesus Christ, by which his spirit then transforms us Makes that gospel power an internal reality in daily living and in dealing with the problems, the questions, the confusion that you and I face. Last week I began looking at three areas where I want to see that that's true. Three areas where we need to learn from the reformers. And you saw that uh In these three areas, the first two have down for review, in which we're looking at how the we in our culture Can tend perhaps to be ashamed of the gospel more than we realize, and need to believe again that it is the power of God to salvation. First of all, the power of the gospel in politics. And please don't misunderstand what I was trying to say, and nobody accused me of this, but I just want to be very clear. I'm not saying that Christians should not be involved in politics Jesus Christ is Lord of every square inch of life. And for anyone to put a fence around politics and say to the Christian, keep out, is absolutely wrong. It is our secularized culture that seeks to privatize religion. It's our secularized culture that says, believe whatever you want to believe, but just keep it to yourself. Don't bring it into the political arena. Because that's imposing your values on us. That is not the way of the gospel. Christians should be involved in politics. And may more in our congregation be involved in politics. Christians, all Christians. Should be involved in the political process, at least by voting and making our voice heard on various issues. What I'm saying is simply that Romans 1:16 says that our hope is not in my political party prevailing or my political agenda or my political coalition All of which may be good. Politics is the science, the study, the practice of power. There's nothing wrong with parties and agendas and coalitions. The problem is when we trust in them For transformation. The only ultimate transformation and hope of that is in the gospel. That is not a cliche. Let me illustrate that in just one way to you. Why do I believe that it's only the gospel and not some political party or agenda that is our only hope of transformation in America? Look at this one fact. We live in a postmodern world. Now, in postmodernism, the offense of Christianity is not That Christianity claims to be true and it's not true. The offense in our culture of Christianity is simply that it claims to be true. Do you understand? That's different from a few years ago. We're offensive now simply because we claim to have truth Therefore, in our culture now, anyone who claims to have truth is perceived as simply making a power grab. Therefore, if Christians are successful in the political arena, Christians are simply perceived as a greater threat because they are claiming to have absolute truth and they're imposing that. If that's the case, there will simply be a greater reaction to Christianity, a greater polarization. So even if we were politically successful, without the culture changing in its understanding of truth and the basis for morals, we've still lost. Because all they'll do is produce greater reaction out of fear and animosity. The only thing that will change America and the climate and the spiritual recovery that we need. Is if people recover the notion of absolute truth, that there is a God who speaks with authority, that you and I are sinful in our disobedience to that, and that we need a Savior who can transform us and forgive us and become than a biblical base for truth and morality. Do you understand? And that's why the gospel is the only hope for political change that will not simply produce a counterproductive reaction. Secondly, the power of the gospel and counseling. Again, please don't misunderstand. I am not saying that I'm against Christian counseling. We have two professional counselors in our congregation. I wish we had 20. I personally have benefited from Christian counseling. I often recommend Christian counseling. Rather, what I'm seeking to do in this is simply call attention to the fact that our therapeutic movement within the last generation has radically altered the way our culture and the church thinks about sin and salvation We have substituted therapeutic language for biblical language as a way of understanding personal and relational problems. Why is it that I am angry or alienated or addicted or have low self-esteem We have substituted a sickness and victimization model for a sin and true guilt model. Do you understand? That's the issue There's an excellent article recently in the Journal for Biblical Counseling by David Pallison called Modern Therapies in the Church's Faith. Let me give you just a bit of it in a summary. Psychotherapists have become secular priests, even more secular prophet theologians, for they assign meaning to life and try to make sense out of all of it. The study of the soul, of what makes people tick, is a worthy one in which every Christian should excel. The call to love and to reach out to the hurting is the church's call. It is certainly not the call of people whose solution is based on a faulty diagnosis that humans are not primarily evil. and that when we do wrong it is because of unmet needs and forces outside of us. And yet the church has deferred intellectually to the psychologies. We are now a little more than a referral service. We tend to be superficial, moralistic. Say have a go quiet, go have a quiet time, just say no, go to church more Or we offer dramatic quick fixes, a mountaintop experience, casting out demons, and so on. What we lack is the fortitude to work patiently with people through admittedly sticky and stubborn issues. This is all the more tragic when we have in the Bible what we need to address the issues of motives, cravings, fears, conscience, aging, death. And indeed, all of life. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes. Do we really believe that, you see? So he goes on, he gives an example of how a person with low self-esteem would come and how a secular psychologist would help him to find the answer to that and other people's acceptance. versus the church and how the gospel would come and speak to that as something which is resolved only in Jesus Christ. Now these are complex issues. I'm not saying they're simple I deal with issues of counseling that really go beyond my abilities at times. And yet we believe that the gospel is sufficient. And it's a matter of doing the work together in understanding that. When we resume Ephesians chapter 4 from verse 17 on through the end of the book after the holidays. That will be biblical counseling, you see. It addresses issues of how to live and issues of relationships. So we need to believe that the gospel is the power of God for our living, for our problems, for our relationships. For the deepest needs of our life. Thirdly, this morning, belief, we want to come to this last thing, the power of the gospel. in church growth. Now what I mean by that, if you're saying I don't really care much about church growth, I'm talking really about how the church functions in ministry and in worship. That affects all of us who follow Jesus Christ. It's put under the rubric today. There's a lot of stuff being written on church growth, how churches minister, how they function, how they grow, how they reach the culture. It's a question of our message and our methods. Is CPC's vision, strategy, and ministry shaped by the gospel? Or is it the gospel plus something? Let me give you a couple of examples very briefly. Each of these could be easily a message or even a series, but I'll just touch on them briefly in terms of examples. First of all, the signs and wonders movement today. How many of you are familiar at least with that term, the Signs and Wonders movement? A number of you. Okay, for those of you who are not, very briefly The Signs and Wonders movement simply says that Jesus' miracles, that is, his signs and his wonders which he demonstrate by which he demonstrated his rule against the kingdom of Satan. These miracles which he did are normative They are the same pattern for you and for me in our evangelism, so that we also are to both proclaim and demonstrate the gospel. Proclamation is not sufficient. Evangelism is show and tell, and that's not caricature, that's quote. Evangelism is show and tell It is the demonstration of Christ's power in what are called power encounters. That is, the demonstration of Christ's power against the powers of evil. Let me illustrate that through one person who has written a good deal about this. Mike Flynn. And uh he gives one example from a uh seminar that he runs on calling down the Holy Spirit. He says, a woman came into my office, sat down, and explained her serious marriage problems stemming from spouse abuse. She was in need of healing of damaged emotions. That's a psychological phrase. After a brief argument in my head with God, I agreed to pray for her. But I realized with a shock that I hadn't the slightest concept of how to do it. I had been practicing Christ's presence visually, seeing Jesus on a throne wherever I went. So I looked at Jesus. He got off his throne. knelt down beside the woman, put his arm around her shoulders, and with his left hand he reached right into where it shrank until it evaporated. Then he reached into his own heart again and took out a glob of white jello, which he carefully inserted into the woman's heart where the darkness had been. Finally, he turned to me and said, Do that. I felt rather foolish, but I described out loud in prayer what I had seen Jesus do. And the woman was rather gloriously and immediately healed. You see, it's it's this which He gives as a spirit-led technique. In fact, he goes on to talk about a number of other techniques. In fact, there are seminars, as I say, on these techniques kind of high-tech power encounters. C. Peter Wagner is one of the most prolific writers in this area. And he writes this in his book, How to Have a Healing Ministry Without Making Your Church Sick. He says, at this point, that is, in the process of the healing procedure, you also decide whether to use oil. I carry a vial of oil which has been consecrated for healing. It's in my pocket at all times. Sometimes I anoint the person with it depending on how I feel God is leading during the prayer selection phase as part of the process. Some use holy water. Some use consecrated salt. Some use the sacrament of holy communion. Others use none of the above, but depend on prayer alone. So many people that I respect to so many different ways that I hesitate to recommend any one of the above over the others. I find oil is best for me. Now I was in a seminar with C with Peter Wagner some while ago. In fact, I was the MC uh of the seminar and it was rather awkward as he was talking about Which is a very controversial thing today, and I've preached on this in the past, the whole idea of territorial spirits. They need to identify them, to name them, to pray against them, to deliver an area out of bondage. Plus a number of other techniques. And my concern, please hear me carefully on this. Is not the spiritual warfare is not something we need to understand much more deeply. We'll go into that in Ephesians 6. My concern is that we can trivialize spiritual warfare into something which becomes the practice of superstition. I see in much of what is going on in these high-tech power encounter seminars as a return to pre-reformational superstition. That's a pretty strong statement. But you go to a number of these ministries and they're often divided into message time and ministry time. And the message time is a brief rather I'd say superficial but cliche-ish presentation of simple gospel truths And that's being generous in some cases. Then we move to the ministry time, which is the real focus. That's where the action is. And the concern is that the message becomes so downplayed that when a person responds to Jesus Christ, it's not clear what they're responding to. And the concern is that today, more and more, the emphasis is on the power that we can experience. Rather than focusing on the gospel as the power of God for salvation Now, again, it's a complex area, but and I don't want to overstate it or be critical toward brothers and sisters in Christ. But I am saying that I think that we are in a time where we are in subtle ways. Good, sincere Christian people moving from a confidence in the power of the gospel to a need for the gospel plus And in a subtle way, ashamed of only the gospel. We need to add to it. Brothers and sisters, Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God to salvation. Unleash the gospel. And lives are transformed and healings take place, but the focus is on Jesus Christ, not the technique. Secondly, another example of that is in seeker services I acknowledge that the church has been, in many ways, an irrelevant subculture to the contemporary secularized pagan. We need a contemporary idiom for the expression of our worship. It would be wrong for you to say, I have people who have spiritual interest. Who I've shared Christ with, but if they became Christians, would be totally lost and alienated from our worship Now, they won't enter in fully to the richness of worship as a brand new Christian out of a totally secularized culture, but they ought to at least be able to worship within our service. And people who really work at producing worship services that are called seeker sensitive or that are designed so that we are not speaking in jargon that is unintelligible to people outside of the church. I deeply admire Don't get me wrong on that. My concern is as I have studied that and as I have worked with people in this, that I know my own heart. It is a lot easier to minister to felt needs and avoid the deeper offense of the gospel. So that our sensitivity, which is good to sinners, becomes in subtle ways man-pleasing. I want your approval. I want you to go out of here saying, that was a great message, Pastor. It ministered to my needs. It made me feel so much better. And Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the offense of the gospel. In this verse, he says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. But Paul knew the offense of it. Paul was stoned and left for dead at Lystra. Paul was thrown out. Of Thessalonica. He was smuggled out of Berea. He was imprisoned in Philippi. He was mocked in Athens. Five times he was given the thirty-nine lashes, which sometimes killed a man. Three times he was beaten up with clubs And it's this guy who says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. He understood something about transformation of power that you and I don't understand. Brothers and sisters, I don't know about you, but I want to rediscover something more of that. Anybody else here wants that say amen? How could you say anything else, huh? No, we want that, don't we? Don't we want to know something more of that gospel that is not simply A watering down? You know, A. W. Tozer said the gospel is not a compromise, it's an ultimatum. He said, we don't go out to negotiate. We go out to pronounce. We need to recover something of that. We need to see it once again That the gospel is the power of God because nothing else will explain people responding to the message that so humbles us. You know, John Wesley once said, I am not satisfied after I preach unless at least one person was converted and one person was mad at me. It reminds me of the vicar in England, very honest, who said, Wherever Paul went, there were riots, imprisonments, beatings. Wherever I go, they serve tea. We want to recover, you see, something that is sensitive to seekers, but not ashamed of the gospel. Very briefly, let me move on to the services of a modern pastor. I uh I don't have uh time to develop this. Let me just say that today, typical congregation wants a pastor who is a CEO in the office and a therapist in the pulpit. That's not my phrase, that's David Wells and others. We look at the pastor as somebody who will run a church like a business to help us to cope with life. Rather, what we are seeking to do at Columbia Presbyterian is to restructure us as the body of Christ, who are empowered by the gospel and equipped for ministry. So that what we do in our seeking to structure, to train, to equip, is not to manage. Somebody said, Jesus said, feed my sheep, don't manage my sheep. And we're trying to restructure so that the gospel Will equip you. It will become the driving force in your life that we can begin to move out, not simply even just to religious people But to people who are raw, secularized, postmodern pagans who are lost and empty without Jesus Christ. What about those small groups? Sure, we're restructuring. And it's easy to talk about other people. And how they're missing the gospel. But I would be remiss if I didn't look more closely at ourselves. And to be honest, Restructuring in terms of small groups has, for all its biblical benefits, an inherent danger. And that is that the small root becomes my support as a substitute for the Savior. The small group becomes my Savior. It is my being able to go to my brothers and sisters and feel encouraged and supported By them, somebody that I can see, which is important, but so subtly can become the end of the line. That's all I need, rather than each other pointing. one another to Jesus. I was encouraged when one of our cell leaders said it uh one of the recent training times. The thing that God's most teaching me is that I'm not the Messiah. And then I, as a cell leader, simply point the people in my group to Jesus to let him do his saving, transforming work. And that as he does that through us as a group, praise God, but we are not the ones who will be the ultimate answer for each other. It is Jesus. I'm not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God to salvation. Salvation does not simply mean deliverance from hell and death. It means that, and praise God, that is the foundation of everything else. But salvation means deliverance from all kinds of bondages and restrictions and sin patterns. And everything else that is satanic and against the kingdom of God. Paul says: In the gospel, a righteousness from God is revealed, a righteousness that is by faith. From first to last, you see. It's not simply a doorway to the Christian life. It is the way from first to last to live It addresses every problem. Just it is written, the righteous will live by faith. Not simply enter heaven by faith, not simply enter the Christian life by faith. The righteous live by faith Therefore, whatever your deepest problems are this morning, the gospel is the power of God to deliver, that is, to save you. I believe that. Do you believe that? If it is more than anything else for you this morning, a fear of the grave? The gospel provides life for you. For in Romans chapter 6, verse 5, Paul says, If we had been united with Jesus in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection. The cross is the instrument of death, but in Jesus Christ that leads to the tomb which is empty. And joined to him by faith, you have overcome death through Christ. The gospel deals with your feelings of guilt because he says in chapter 3, verse 23 and 24 We've all sinned and fall short every day. Falling short. Feel like that's what can put over my grave. Fell short. Everything I do, feeling like I'm always falling short The Paul says that's right. You and I and all of us were always falling short of the glory of God. But by the gospel, we are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Christ. One of my concerns about the seeker-sensitive and the current movement within churches is that sermons that are addressed so much to how to lose basic fundamental concepts of the gospel. For many of us, what does that mean? Justified, grace, redemption, precious terms that set us free. Justification speaking of that imputed reckon to us righteous record of Jesus that says he met the standard And if you're joined in by faith, God looks at your life as having met his standard completely. He holds nothing against you. It is given to you freely by his grace, not by anything you would do. And it was purchased for you. Redemption is the purchase price of a substitute on your behalf, Jesus Christ. And that deals with your guilty conscience, as nothing else can do. Troubled by alienation from other people, your spouse, kids, your parents, your brothers, your sisters. The gospel deals with alienation. Because in chapter 5, verse 10, Paul says, If when we were God's enemies we were reconciled to him through the death of his son, how much more? Having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his love? And he speaks of our being reconciled, goes on later on, to one another. In chapters 13 and on beyond that. And so you and I have the basis for reconciliation in alienated relationships by our reconciliation to God through Jesus Christ. Or if you are worried or anxious, you feel like an orphan and nobody cares for you. The gospel says you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you've received the Spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba Daddy. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. And now if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings. In order that we may also share his glory. Romans 8, 15 to 17. And on and on and on it goes. The gospel, which directs us to Jesus, directs you this morning to Jesus as the power of God. Mere words. I have nothing else to offer you. No show and dance. Simply to point you to Jesus through the gospel and believe that He is sufficient. Chuck Colson illustrates this, I think, in a way that uh makes the point very effectively. He talks about a time when he was in the southeast and he was there for a governor's prayer breakfast. And a very influential businessman invited him to his Bible study luncheon. And so he came and he said, in appointed time, filed nineteen men, dark skirts, stark, pinstripe suits conservative, white ties, very much the power brokers of that city. Rosewood paneling on one side of the wall, full plate glass looking out over the whole city. On the other side they all sat down. And he gave him the talk, and in the talk he mentioned he says something of our sinful nature. He says, actually total depravity was the phrase that I used. Notice some people shifting a little uncomfortably And afterwards he said, I must have hit the mark 'cause the first question uh was from an older gentleman. Surely you don't really believe this sin, hellfire, brimstone stuff, do you? You are much too sophisticated a fella to go for that backwards preacher stuff. And Colson said, Sir, I really do believe that. I believe that the stuff inside us is terribly ugly. In fact he said, I believe that we deserve hell except for the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. At that point, his host, who had been mentioned as an upper up-and-coming businessman in a national magazine just a few weeks before coughed and said, Uh I'm not sure I can really go along with that. I mean, after all, I believe I've tried very hard to do the right and good thing. I go to church. In fact he says I'm tired from all the good things that I'm always trying to do. And Colson said, sir, says I hate to tell you this, because I'm sure you'll never invite me back. But if you really believe that You are farther from heaven than the prisoners that I work with who understand their sin. In fact, he said, if you stop to think about it, you and I are more like Adolf Hitler than Jesus Christ. And then he said there was a stony silence until somebody finally changed the subject. But after the meeting, his host grabbed him and said, Didn't you say you wanted to make a phone call before you left? He was going to say, Well it doesn't really matter, but detected he wanted to talk to him, so he said, sure. He went down to his office, this powerful businessman said, You've got something that I don't have. He said, That's right, sir, but you could have it right now through Jesus Christ if you ask him. He said, Well no, I said I need to think about this some more. He says, Sir, now's the time. And he said moments later they were down on their knees, and that man was giving his life to Jesus Christ. The power of the gospel. You know how Colson ends that? He ends by saying, Martin Luther was right. He says, the ultimate proof of our sinfulness is our refusal to admit our sin. And your job and mine is to help people to see it. Do we believe that the gospel is the power of God to salvation? For everyone who believes Starting with ourselves, our congregation, Howard County, the state of Maryland, United States of America, and the world. Do we believe that? If so, say amen. Let's pray. Lord God. Help us to re-discover the gospel and its power in our lives, and the lives of those who we know are lost. That we would see you do exciting things because the gospel is unleashed in us and in others. Lord, help us to believe that. And this day, every day of this week, to live by the gospel in Jesus' name.