Day where Christians are often very aware of both church history as well as even biblical history. I think of a um school where there were tests given on this. There was a test given on the book of Genesis. One student wrote, Jacob, the son of Isaac, stole his brother's birthmark. And they got into Exodus, and the student wrote, summing it up. Pharaoh forced the Hebrew slaves to make bread without straw. Moses led them to the Red Sea, where they made unleavened bread, which is bread made without any ingredients. Afterwards, Moses went up onto Mount Cyanide and got the Ten Commandments. And then concerning church history and the Reformation. One student wrote, Martin Luther was nailed to the church door at Wittenberg for selling papal indulgences. He died a horrible death, being excommunicated by a bull. Well, we do well to look back, get some of the facts straight, see what some of the issues were before the reformers and the gospel that they rediscovered. Because I believe every generation is in danger of losing the gospel. Every generation is in danger of losing the gospel. Central to that rediscovery of the gospel in Martin Luther's life was the text that we see, that you see before you, Romans chapter 1, verse 16, and uh particularly I would also include um in this, I should have included verse seventeen, because it's really verses sixteen. and 17 that changed Martin Luther's life. I am not ashamed of the gospel. Because it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes, first for the Jew, and then for the Gentile. For in the gospel a righteousness from God is revealed. A righteousness that is by faith from first to last. Just as it is written, the righteous will live by faith. There is a danger in every generation of us shifting ever so subtly. From the gospel to find answers to our contemporary culture's questions and problems in counterfeits. In idols that supplant the Lord Jesus as our Savior only sufficient to meet our needs And so this week and next week, I would like to look at three areas where I suspect that we have become ashamed of the gospel. More perhaps than we realize, and to remind us of our need to return to the cry of the Reformation, I am not ashamed of the gospel. Because I believe that it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. Martin Luther, it's good to remember, did not set out to reform the world. He didn't get up one day and decide: I think the world needs reforming, and I'm about to do it. In fact, he did not even intend to reform the church. He began simply as a tormented monk seeking peace for his own soul. Martin Luther lived in a day of great superstition and preoccupation with the terrors of hell. The church fostered this and played on it. In order to keep people scared and dependent on the sacraments of the church for their salvation. Martin Luther never intended to enter the church or the priesthood. He was, in fact, intending to be a lawyer. Until one July day, when he was traveling along a road and he was caught in a severe thunderstorm. He was caught in a thunderstorm in which one lightning bolt struck so close to him he felt its heat and was thrown to the ground by its force. And in terror, he cried out, just to survive the thunderstorm, Saint Anne, help me, I'll become a monk. That lightning bolt changed the world. As a result of that, Luther was too scared to go back on his promise, and so he entered the monastery. But as he entered the monastery and began to study, He realized more and more the corruption of his own heart. He realized that the church was corrupt. But that was their issue. For Luther, it was a matter of how do I find peace with God? He had such a terror of God that when he celebrated his first Mass, his knees buckled and he could barely get through it because he was so terrorized by the fact that he was holding the Holy Host, which he believed was the very presence of Christ, and said, How can I, a corrupt worm, dare to approach God and to hold him? Luther had a tender conscience. And so he would confess his sins Endlessly. He believed that for God to forgive sin, you had to confess sins, and to confess them you had to remember them. And so he would catalogue them. In vivid and exhausting detail, sometimes five or six hours of confessions at a time. I don't know who was more worn out, Martin Luther or his confessor? Stoppitz. Finally, Stopped said, Martin, Martin, give me a break. Your problem is not sins. Your problem is sin. You need to find peace with God about the root issue. And so Stalpitz, to his everlasting credit and our gratitude to him, assigned Luther to teach Bible at the university, hoping that somehow if he read the Bible he might get some peace. That was not a very common thing to do at that time. And so Luther began to read the Bible. And as he read the text that changed his life. More than anything else was Romans chapter 1, verses 16 and 17. In fact, let me read to you from Luther's words about this. He said, I greatly longed to understand Paul's epistle to the Romans. And nothing stood in the way but that one expression The justice or the righteousness of God. Now where is that? That's verse 17. Okay, so he's talking about Romans 1, verse 17. For in the gospel a righteousness or the word could also be translated, justice, either justice or righteousness. From the gospel, a righteousness or justice from God is revealed. He said, nothing stood in the way but that one expression, because I took it to mean that justice whereby God is just and deals justly in punishing the unjust. My situation was that although an impeccable monk, I stood before God as a sinner, troubled in conscience. And I had no confidence that my merit would assuage him. Therefore, I did not love a just and angry God. But rather I hated him and murmured against him. Now get the picture. Luther's looking for peace. He reads this verse: for in the gospel, a righteousness or justice from God is revealed. And so he's aware that he sins. But then he looks at God and he says, God is not only holy, he is just and he is angry. And I don't love him because he's the one tormenting my conscience. So I hate him. Huh. Boy, I thought I was in trouble before. Now, because I hate him, I'm surely condemned. And so he would wrestle with this. The more he would seek to find peace, the more he hated God because he saw God as the one who was convicting him and the one who was the judge of his soul to condemn him. And how can you hope to find mercy from someone that you hate? Yet I clung, he says, to the dear Paul, and had a great yearning to know what he meant. He said, somehow to Paul, this was good news. It isn't good news to me. I must be missing something. Night and day I pondered until I saw the connection between the justice of God and the statement at the end of the verse, the just shall live by faith. Then I grasp that the justice of God is that righteousness by which through grace and sheer mercy God justifies us through faith. I felt myself to be reborn. He's saying all of a sudden I realize this righteousness from God that Paul talks about here Is revealed to righteousness that is by faith from first to last. He says, all of a sudden I realize that righteousness is his righteousness, which is given to me as a gift by faith, through faith. And as a result, I felt myself to be reborn and to have gone through open doors into paradise. The whole of Scripture took on a new meaning. And whereas before the justice of God had filled me with hate, now it became to me inexpressibly sweet in greater love. This passage of Paul became to me a gate of heaven. And nothing was ever the same. This righteousness, he says, was a righteousness from God, and then goes on. He wrote a commentary on the book of Romans. And he goes on to speak about how in chapter 3, verse 24, this is a righteousness which is declared to us. We are justified, declared righteous freely. By grace in Christ. And so Luther reasoned: if it is freely, and that word freely means without payment, no payment to be made. He reasoned that if it is given freely, then how in the world can the church sell indulgences? That we purchase God's favor and purchase people out of purgatory. At that point, there was a fellow, Johann Tetzel, who was raising money to build St. Peter's Basilica. In a big fundraising campaign throughout Germany by selling indulgences. Now the indulgence system was rather complex, but the part that particularly affected Luther Was that there was a combination system. If you viewed certain relics, those were various body parts and various remnants of martyrs and saints, biblical characters. Frederick, who was where Luther lived, had a collection of 9,000 cataloged relics, including four hares from the Virgin Mary. Four body parts from Augustine, a bone of Saint Jerome, a piece of gold from the wise men, and even a strand from the beard of Christ Himself. Now if you viewed these relics, Then you would be given time off from purgatory. If you viewed the relics in with payment because you had to pay to see them, those payments were indulgences. And you could pay viewing the relics and for your relatives who were now suffering in purgatory till they could be released. you would buy the righteousness of God, you see, you would buy deposited merit of the saints to be credited to their account. Now there was one day in the year that was kind of double coupon day. This was the day when you got extra value for your money. And that was October the 31st, the eve of All Saints Day. On the eve of All Saints Day, for enough money and viewing of enough classic relics. You could purchase as much as 1,902,200 years off of purgatory. And Tetzel was making the most of it. And so on October the 31st, 1517, Martin Luther posted on the door of the castle. Of Castle Church in Wittenberg, 95 pieces to debate the merit of indulgences by sale versus the free merit of Jesus Christ. Now, Pope Leo at that point didn't think that was any big deal. People did that kind of stuff all the time. But Luther didn't back off. And one thing led to another. To where the gospel took hold in Germany, two issues were the very heart of what sparked the Reformation: the place of Scripture. And the sufficiency of Scripture alone, and the place of justification by faith, through God's grace alone. Those were the two central themes. You could say there's four, you could say there's five. Scholars talk about how many are the heart of it. But I believe those two, when you boil it all down, were the very heart of the issues. And so when Paul and the Reformers said, I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. They knew that in the depths of their being, this was a gospel that had transformed them. The righteousness of Christ, that righteousness from God, which is given through faith, was the most precious, the most liberating message That anyone could imagine. And it transformed the world. Immediately, Europe, and from Europe through the missions movement, throughout to the ends of the earth. Brothers and sisters, in 1997, I'm afraid that we are in danger of losing a sense of the power of that gospel. If you think I'm exaggerating, I would like to give to you two examples this week and one next week in applying this to our own day. To be careful that we do not tame the gospel, that we do not substitute for the gospel, that we are not ashamed of the gospel. Two today, one next week. First of all, number one, the power of the gospel in politics. The power of the gospel in politics. Gone is much of the triumphalism of evangelicals of the 80s, where Christians thought that we could recapture the culture by electing Christians to office. But for many there is still the hope. Give us time. Give us time we will get the right men in there. Men who represent my brand of politics, which is obviously the right one to save America. And often there is more zeal for my political orientation than for the gospel. There's much praise to be given to an organization like the Christian Coalition But I fear that with such organizations there is the danger of giving our hope, placing it in men rather than in the gospel. Political power as a means of transformation. This, I believe, is why the culture so often fears a movement like Promise Keepers. They view that as a political force with an agenda. Of people who are going to force that agenda or our morality on the nation as a whole. But the lesson of history from the Reformation on is absolutely clear. Just laws are created by the consensus of a transformed people who have been renewed in their conscience and values by a spiritual awakening Never simply by a political process. The gospel must on the one hand never be privatized, a spiritual awakening must always have as its representative, someone like Wilbur Wilberf William Wilberforce, who would apply the gospel to the slave trade and eradicate it through legislation. But it can never be resting in the hope of someone like Wilberforce, who will be our savior and save America from destruction. It is not a political power, but a spiritual awakening that we need to pray for. There must be a base that will make that happen And that comes from the gospel, because the gospel is the power of God for the salvation of everyone and collectively for a nation that believes. Do you believe that? In addition, the lessons of history show us that we can never hope in simply having a Christian placed in office as a guarantee that right things will be done. A classic illustration of that is in the 19th century, a leader who forged a unified Germany, I'm quoting now from Charles Coulson in the book Power Religion. He speaks of the leader who forged a unified Germany from a cluster of minor states. His name was Otto von Bismarck-Schonhausen. Who was a committed Christian who regularly read the Bible, spoke openly of his devotion to God, and claimed divine guidance in response to prayer. Bismarck once declared, if I were no longer a Christian, I would not serve the king another hour. And yet Bismarck was also the ruthless architect of Deutschland über alles, Germany overall. A chauvinistic worldview that laid the foundation for two world wars. Historians describe Bismarck as a Machiavellian master of political duplicity who specialized in blood and iron. As we have said earlier, this is Coulson now, power can be just as corrupting or confusing to the Christian as to the non-Christian. And Colson, of course, was the classic example of someone who knew the corrupting influence of power. The results, he says, for Christians are in some ways more horrible. When power corrupts men and women who believe that they have a divine mandate, their injustices are then committed in God's name. You and I must return to a confidence in the gospel. When we pray for our county, our state, our country, we must pray Within our hearts, that conviction, I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes. The Reformation transformed Germany in Europe and from that to the world because the gospel transformed Germany. The gospel taught in Europe that the king was not the ultimate authority. He was not absolute. The king was in fact under God. And so Samuel Rutherford, one of the sons of the Reformation, wrote a book called Lex Rex: The Law is King. In which he stated that kings have an obligation to act as stewards under God and under his law. It was the sense of the absolutes of God's righteousness as it is administrated through the government that transformed Europe. And if we lose that dynamic, that it is the gospel transforming the leaders. We will place our trust in idols and those who will let us down. A very moving account of the politicization of the gospel and What can lead to that is in an article in the book No God But God by a fellow, Michael Cromarty. He writes a chapter called Up to Our Steeples in Politics. And he gives this illustration. As an example of what can be lost if the politicization of the gospel occurs in the pulpits of evangelical churches comes from a sobering story by Wilfred Maclay. The Tulane University professor recently attended a funeral service of a young woman friend from the university. She had died tragically while giving birth to her second child. Maclay wrote after hearing the pastor's eulogy, which was given to an overflow crowd of mourners, and this is what he wrote. Where the rest of us had been stunned into reflective silence, awed and chastened by this reminder of the slender thread by which our lives hang, the minister had other things in mind. He did not try to comfort her family and friends, nor did he challenge us to remember the hard words of the Lord's Prayer, Thy will be done. Instead, he smoothly launched into a well oiled tirade against the misplaced priorities of our society in which billions of dollars were being poured into Star Wars research while young women such as this one were being allowed to die on the operating table. That was all this minister had to say. His eulogy was an effect, a pitch for less federal spending on defense and on defense and more spending on the development of medical technology. The only thing omitted was an injunction that we write our congressman or Ralph Nader about this outrage. I could hardly believe my ears. Leave aside the eulogy's unspeakable vulgarity and its unintentional cruelty to the woman's family. Leave aside the flabby and cliched quality of language and speech. Leave aside the self-satisfied tone of easy moral outreach. Leave aside the fashionable opinions. I am willing to concede for the sake of argument that the minister may have been right in everything he said. All of these considerations are beside the point. Nothing can alter the fact that he failed us. Failed her and failed his calling by squandering a precious moment for the sake of a second rate stump speech And by forcing us to hold our sorrow back in the privacy of our hearts at the very moment it needed common expression, that moment can never be recovered. Nothing that religion does is more important than equipping us to endure life's passages by helping us find meaning in pain and loss. With meaning many things are bearable, but our eulogist did not know how to give it to us. All he had to offer were his political desiderata. For my own part, I left the funeral more shaken and unsteady than before. Part of my distress arose from frustration that my deepest thoughts and those of many around me, as I later discovered, were so completely unechoed in this ceremony and in his words. But another part of my distress must have stemmed from a dark foreboding That I was witnessing another kind of malpractice, another kind of death. Let us pray that the gospel, the gospel which is the power of God, not our political agendas Not our hopes in all that we think needs to be done to change this country. The gospel itself will run wild. In Columbia, in Howard County, in Maryland, in the United States of America. Brothers and sisters, be not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God to salvation. Secondly, very briefly, let me touch on the second lesson from the Reformation to us today. The power of the gospel in counseling. The power of the gospel in counseling. It is difficult for you and for me to appreciate how profoundly the therapeutic revolution has affected the way that we think in the 90s. Fifty years ago, psychology, counseling were simply not a part of the Church of Jesus Christ. That was a weakness. The church ignored counseling and ignored many sin patterns in people's lives. Psychology began to emerge as a discipline in the 50s and the 60s The rise of the Christian counseling movement in the 70s, in the 80s, leading to the popularization of therapeutic language and models of human behavior in the 80s, and then finally to the recovery movement of the 90s. We think today in therapeutic language. John Leo in an editorial, I like the way this guy always times his editorials to fit my sermons U. S. News and World Report. You know, you might think we conspired or something. He uh has this on this week's U. S. News and World Report, doing the disorder rag. Let me quote a couple of sentences. News reports say that road rage is on the brink of being certified as an official mental disorder by the American Psychiatric Association. Until now, most of us assume that drivers who cut us off and give us the finger are just irate swine. But no, they appear to be suffering from a mental disorder, like schizophrenics. Brand new diseases, including a lot of implausible ones, are an old story for psychiatrists in their professional Bible, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. And then he talks about how TV viewing is an addiction, and you know, all these other things, because a whole list of these. And he says, now it's easy to make fun of all this, but there's a serious problem here. This book, the DSMs, is called Is converting nearly all of life's stresses and bad habits into mental disorders. We live in a day in which there are over 500 brandnamed therapies competing for over $4 billion spent every year on therapy. The pastor today is expected to be a CEO in his office and a therapist in the pulpit. We think in terms of self-image. Self-acceptance, self-worth, and self-esteem, which are absolutely necessary for us to succeed in life and in education. Unfortunately, a 1989 study was done on math skills in eight different countries. America ranked dead last. Korea was first. But the same study then went on to rank how the students felt about their math skills. The Americans ranked number one. The Koreans were dead last. The point we are upbeat and out of touch. We think in terms of sickness rather than sin, in therapy rather than theology. We are obsessed with our dysfunctions and our needs, and we worship the God of self. That idol lets us down, we turn on it in depression, which is unprecedented in its scope and in its breadth in the United States. We have lost the gospel. Brothers and sisters, we need to remember That if the reformers were here, they would point to this verse, I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew, and then for the Gentile, for in the gospel A righteousness from God is revealed, a righteousness that is by faith from first to last, just it is written, the righteous will live by faith, and they would say your problem is not that you feel too good, that you don't feel good enough about yourself. The problem is you feel too good about yourself. Paul goes on to say the wrath of God is being revealed against heaven, from heaven against all godlessness. And wickedness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. He goes on to describe you and me, verse 21, as people who knew God but do not glorify him as God, don't give thanks to him. We are futile in our thinking. And in our foolish hearts, we're darkened. We claim to be wise, but we're foolish. He describes us And he goes on and says, you want to know what you really like? You become filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed, depravity, you're full of envy. Murder, strife, deceit, malice, gossip, slander. You're God haters, insolent, arrogant, boastful. You invent ways of doing evil. You disobey your parents. You're senseless, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Although you know God's righteous decree that those who do such things deserve death, you not only continue to do these very things, you also approve those who practice them. Then after two more chapters, he sums it up by saying, There is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, no one who seeks after God. All have turned away. They have all together become worthless. There is no one who does good. Not even one. So we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be silenced from the whole world, accountable, guilty before God. Then he picks up on what he had said in chapter 1 and verse 17, the righteousness from God. And he says, But now, after all of this, and you and I are feeling absolutely helpless and worthless. He says, But now a righteousness from God, apart from the law, from anything you do or accomplish, has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. For there is no difference. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. Freely, without payment. Without cause, you and I have been given in Jesus Christ the very righteousness of Christ, taking away our guilt, laying it on Him, giving to us His righteousness, His record, that we stand before God simply by faith, receiving it as a gift. And, brothers and sisters, when we rediscover the power of the gospel in our own lives, what justification by faith means, we will not be ashamed of the gospel. We will believe that it is the power of God for everyone who believes, for the deepest needs of our own heart and lives. And for the needs of our county, our state, and our nation. I am not ashamed of the gospel, for I believe it is the power of God to salvation. Do you believe that? If so, somebody say amen. We'll pray together and we will be led by Tom Brood.