Those of you who were here last week In the first service you heard a sermon on first John chapter one dealing with the reality of sin. And it was a difficult sermon to preach because it's a difficult admission to make we are sinning. This morning we have the opportunity to focus on something really wonderful. Because in the way that John wrote his epistle, he did not want to read His people unfeared. God does not want to leave us unfeared. This morning we're focusing on something as wondrous as the assurance of our salvation So as we begin, let's open and pass. Father, we do thank you. Even become and call you father is in a commission. Have a wondrous relationship that you've given. And I pray this morning as we hear your word, as we hear your comfort to us. While at the same time Finally realized that we were yet sinned, we need salvation. That you would speak to us, that you would confront us with your laws and with your power, with your prices. That we might know you for the care of the new life. Amen. Dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ the right He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins and not for ours, but also, not only for us, but also for the sins of the whole world We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar And the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know that we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must want if Jesus did. I don't know about you, but this morning as I read There is a remarkable truth that leaps out at you. It's a wondrous thing. And I hope that it leaps out at you, because the wondrous truth is that salvation is available. The corollary to that is that it's not automatic. Those are the first few blanks that we've got and I shared you you've only got three this morning. So we need to know that salvation is available because we are sinners. John has just spent a large part of his energy in the beginning of the disciples of tell us that we're sinners and we have tremendous needs. He says in chapter one, if we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves And the truth is not in us. And he says a verse later, if we claim we have not sinned, we make him, that means God, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place In our lives. We are sinners. As a matter of fact, our lives have been described by the Apostle Paul In chapter two of Ephesians. So he says of us As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live, when you followed the ways of this world, and the ruler of this kingdom of the air. The Spirit who is now at work in those to our disobedience. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. We have been dead in sin. We have been enslaved to our old sinful But we have been redeemed. Those who know Jesus, those to John from Paul, my dear children. The consequences of the sin that we have been suffering under is death, it is judgment of God, it is guilt that we experience in. Reality is this. John goes on to say, but if anyone does sin, we have the one who speaks to the Father in the Lord of Christ. Jesus Christ, the wife of God. He is the Asson sacrifice. Now in this particular translation, that's kind of obscure with what's going on. What is happening, what John is talking about in the sacrifice, is that Jesus Has done something remarkable. He has taken the wrath of God and he has appeased it. He has taken the wrath of God for our sins and has worn it on himself. It is not something we face. And that is a tremendous gift That's something this morning as we think about our sins, as we think about the old lives we've had prior to doing Jesus, as we think about the new life that we have in him and the How we have to live that in a way that pleases God. That is a liberation. It is nothing short of we are. And if you can't Thing in your heart for that. So stop and think about it. Forget the rest of what I say because you need to focus on that. But if that grabs you, if that is something that helps you to worship the one true and living God then follow with me because there is so much more. Because you see, not only does this passage talk about about the opportunity to have salvation. The focus of this passage is beyond that. It is to say this. It is to say, we know that we have come to know him. It also So you see what John is concerned to communicate to his people, to the children of God, to you and me We can know we have that life. We can have what we term assurance of our salvation. We can be confident in the relationship we have and the faith that we will Yesterday we had a funeral service to be counting. The only comfort that exists in that, and it's a tremendous comfort, is that we knew Dick's relationship And so instead of grieving with unmixed grief, we can mourn our separation from death, but rejoice in the resurrection. that he has been called to leave the life with Jesus face to face with him. And I don't know about you But to me that's a tremendous benefit to know that I can have that same confidence in my thoughts. I can know that I have known him. I do know And that is liberating. Just a small picture of that is is the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco. The first half of that project They did not have any security system for those who were working on high wire themselves. Because of that, they lost 23 men They fell from the high heights of the of of the the building uh the the gate, Golden Gate Bridge that was being built, and there was nothing to grab them, nothing to stop them, nothing to keep them from falling to their depth, hundreds of feet below in the in the water. Midway through the project, they evaluated whether or not that was the water thing to do. There were fifteen men who fell during the second half of that project. All fifteen were feared because they fell into the next. And when they stopped to evaluate the project, they realized something remarkable But not only had they saved fifteen lives, but the work in that project had sped up by twenty-five percent, and they had more than recruit. Because the men now were free to work without fear of falling. You see, they had an assurance that if they fell they were still going to be okay, especially after That first man fell and got up and was okay. And they didn't have to think about themselves while they worked. They could work and be confident that if they made a small mistake, we would have become And as I look at my relationship with Jesus, as I look at the things that I'm called to do. If I look at the opportunities I have to bring him towards, if I'm fearful of making a mistake that might be small but costly I cannot free myself of that concern. That is my focus, because I am a selfish person. If I know that I'm going to lose myself If I make a small mistake, I'm not going to make that small mistake if I have anything that I can do to prevent it. But if I know, if that mistake is forgiven. If I have confidence in the relationship that God has given to me, I do not fear, as you say. And I can risk to please Jesus. There's something more here too. Some of you might be saying, well it's not really talking about assurance of salvation because what it says is that we know that we've come But don't you deceive? The words here are clear. The words here speak of much more than simply a lithological knowledge. It's not saying that I can in my head know that in my head I've known God. If you look in the Hebrew, the Aramaic, which is the Aramaic original language of John as he wrote with Sistema in Greek. There is a term. For those of you who want to know what it is, it's Yadar. I dare you to try and pronounce it. But it's the term that's used throughout the Old Testament to speak of the knowledge, and sometimes it means intellectual knowledge. It means that I have known that this was like a mistake. But it also, when it speaks of God or when it speaks of relationships, speaks of an intimacy that cannot be meant. Early on in Genesis where it says It talks of the conception of of Adam's and Eve's children. It says that Adam knew Eve and she conceived and bore and gave birth. It is an intimate knowledge. It is a relationship Relationship. It is it is a tie, a bond. But it goes even more interesting than that. If you look at Second Kings chapter five, it's clear But this knowledge is beyond simply an understanding of people. You see, there was a character named. He was an Aramean general. He was a lepros. And he came to Israel for deliverance from his leprosy. And after he had bathed seven times in the Jordan River, he returned to Elijah and he said this now I know that there is no God in all the world except Israel There's a lot of things in that passage that will indicate that Naaman came to salvation. And that as he returned from the experience of cleansing both physically and spiritually in the Jordan River If we made that statement, I know that there was no God but the God of Israel. No God in all the world but in Israel. If we look Jesus himself is seeing in John chapter seventeen that Jesus is praying a prayer The night that he's to pray, he's praying after he spoke into the disciples and taught them the last things that he needs them to know. That he goes to the Father And he says this in his prayer. After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed, Father, the time has come. Glorify your son that your son may glorify you For you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all that you have given to him. Now this is eternal life life. But they may know you. The only through God. And Jesus Christ and Yes. And John says, By this we know that we have known him, he is not speaking of intellectual knowledge, he is indeed speaking of salvation. This is eternal life. know you, you know what you've got. This is eternal life. And by this you may know that we have that eternal life. That we keep or abandon to see it. Now there's there's some difficulty with the translation here because the the verb in the Greek is tarao, which means to guard and to observe. And there are some people who will try to convince you that all this is saying is that there is a tradition of commands that Jesus had given that we must protect. But that's not true. In fact, this translation is very good because we knew not only to know what those commands are to protect them to give them, we need to live in them. It means that we have to obey. In any connection in the New Testament whatever Verb is used with the commands of Jesus. The distinction that's being made is this. That we keep Jesus' commands as He's given them to us, that we are freed from the Old Testament. civil and and public laws. We don't have to keep the Old Testament system of laws, we do have to keep the commands of peace for given. So then you see that what it is says here is that if we keep his commands we know that we have eternal life. It means that we are best. Now that may sound to you It's like a difficult thing. And it may even make it difficult as you look at your life. But the point here is that your life is demonstrating the truth that already exists Our lives must demonstrate our status with God. And that's not a worked religion. Some of you may be thinking, my life doesn't quite match up. I guess I better really get to work. Well that's not the point of what John's saying, because John is consistent with the rest of Scripture and what John is saying In this passage is this. If God has reached you, if he has regenerated you and given you new birth, if he has drawn you to himself and made you a new creature, you will be different. Your life will demonstrate with status because God has reached into your life. He has taken your heart of tone and has given you a heart of flesh. That is Soft and pliable to attain. And the desire is no longer now to live comfortable, to focus on yourself, and to do what pleases you at the moment. Now you know the price that's been paid for you. You know the debt that you owe. And you know the one who's paid it. And your heart It is not a worse religion. And another thing that might frighten you this morning if you look at that is that you think it may be calling for perfection. If you look this morning at this passage and you may think, well yeah, in general I want to please Jesus, but I know that I failed. Well then look back at the end of chapter one. The end of chapter one he says if we claim that we do not have sin, if we claim to be with sin without sin. We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Rejoice. If you know that you sin this morning rejoice because you have the truth of God. It is He who tells you that you sin He's not claiming and he's not demanding that you be perfect in yourself. If you could, Jesus sacrifices minimum And God demand of a death would be your You cannot live a perfect life for the world And the point of what John is saying and what Jesus is saying through John to his children, to you this morning, is this. You cannot do it perfectly If you cannot do it on your own, it is because I have redeemed and transformed you that you have an opportunity to please me If you want confirmation of the fact that it is not in your own power, let's look at Ephesians chapter two. So he says in verses eight through ten, and please listen to all of this passage. For it is by grace that you have been saved through faith. It's not of yourself. It is a gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast. For we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in event for us to do. You are saved by grace. You are saved by the gracious works of Jesus Christ. And you are saved in order to do the work that God has created from before the foundations of the world for you to do. He says the same thing, John did. He says that if you are regenerated, it is by God's work. But it is to a goal. And that goal is to obey and to keep the commands Jesus has given. Well there's an important Points that follow this up. And one of these is again restating that it is specifically not based on my works It's not based upon my efforts. There are many today who are talking about lordship salvation, and they speak of two different sides. One who says that if Jesus hasn't tried Transformed you, and if your life doesn't represent that He is Lord, you are not saved. There's another side that says, no, grace is so radical and free. That your efforts have nothing to do with it. And I think both are speaking different sides of the same truth. Because John says here that if he has transformed you you will keep his commands. But grace is so radically free that it is not your will It is God working through you to give you the desire. It is God working through you to give you the power. It is God who transforms you, and it is He who places those Works that He has created for you to do from before the beginning of time. And those are the works that you do. It's not based on a prayer that you pray, regardless of how you live the rest of your life. Verse 4 makes that abundantly clear. The man who says, I know him, but does not do What he commands is a liar. And God's truth is not in it. In the same way that we need to understand in verse 3 what it says when it says we have known him. We need to understand what it says when the truth is not in him. That truth is Jesus. He's clearly saying here that if you claim a truth A relationship, a fellowship with God that is completely negated by the life that you live. If you live a life of licentiousness, of liberty, of of pursuing your own desires with impunity and no concern for pleasing Jesus? That you are a liar. And his truth, Jesus, is not in you. If you can come to Church this morning, and you have no concern to please Jesus, then you'd better examine yourself because the assurance that we're talking about here is not yours. That's presumption. That's not assurance. But it is not your work to bring about the obedience. It is God who works through you to create in you that desire. The steps to take are not to try and work in your own power, to bring about that obedience. The step to take is to ask God to give you a desire to please Him. To give you his spirit that you might have the power to please him. I am not looking for a series of Frankenstein monsters, where people have Christmas Created bits and pieces of bodies stitched together without life and attempted to call them up from the grave. Because that's exactly what the Pharisees did. They tried to codify a system of laws and external behavior that would give them the confidence that we have in the works that God has done in us, not on the basis of a transformation. Jesus is not saying here if you can live in accordance to an outward system of laws and behavior Paul himself said that he, among all, was righteous as a Pharisee. That no one had matched his system of obedience to God, and he was dead in his sin. It took Jesus on the road to Damascus, bringing him to faith to transform him and make him a child of the living God. I am not looking for a series of frankincides. I am looking for children of a living, holy, merciful God. But that means that you're not going to deny the reality of your sin. As I was preparing Preparing for this sermon, I came across a story that just shocked me. And I'd like to read it to you entirely. A Bedouin was so hungry that his hunger woke him up Up one night. He groped around the tent to find a candle and the matches to light it. And then he found a bowl of dates, which he eagerly began to eat. He looked at the date which he had Taken a bite from and saw a worm in it. He tossed the date out of the tent and reached for a second date. The second date also had a worm in it. The Bedouin realized that perhaps all of his dates were warming. And he had a dilemma. He took a moment to think about it and he decided what to do He blew out the candle and he quickly began to eat all the dates. His hunger was great enough that he denied the worms and ate the dates If your hunger for Jesus is great enough, you won't deny the worms. You'll confess them. God has made provision for them. If your fear of death is sufficient enough, you might have You might deny the ones, you might deny the sin and hope for a relationship that could be yours, but won't be in that way Your salvation is not based, and neither is your assurance upon your efforts. But surrounding verse 4 is verses 3 and verse 5. And they are wondrous because they speak of assurance and they speak of how we may gain that assurance. For the same way that my life demonstrates my relationship with God, it is true that that comes not from my efforts, and that my salvation, which we clearly acknowledge, is not based upon my success in keeping God's laws. Is the same as my assurance. My assurance is no more based on my efforts than it's my salvation. Because you see, God does the work. He does He transforms me. I cannot look for something that is not there. To see if God has given me salvation, He's also transformed me in what I look for. For will be found. And He's also given me promises. And I want you this morning to begin to focus upon the promises that He That God has given to those who are His. There are two particularly good verses that I want you to claim. If you struggle at all with your assurance of salvation, this morning I want you to claim I want you to write these down. And I want you to focus upon them this week in prayer. In John chapter 6, Verse 37. I'll begin in verse 35, but verse 37 is the particularly appropriate verse. Then Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. And he who believes in me will never be thirsty. But as I told you, you have seen me and you s and still you do not Believe. This is the verse. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. All that the Father gives to me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never fight away. In John chapter ten, beginning in verse twenty two, and twenty t verse twenty five Jesus is speaking at this point to the Pharisees who have asked him to show them who he is. Is he the Christ or is he not? And this is his answer. I did tell you, but you do not believe. The miracles I do in my Father's name speak for me, but you do not believe Believe because you are not my sheep. Then he goes on, and this is the wondrous promise. My sheep listen to my voice, I know them. And they They follow me. I give eternal life to them, and they shall never perish. No one shall snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, no one shall This morning, if you struggle with where you stand with Jesus, if you struggle with the effort that you expend to be confident in that relationship, rest. Rest. Because it is God's work. It is his It is work that has transformed you. It is his work that has given you assurance and has raised the issue, and it is his promise that those who who are his will not perish. There's a pastor at one point who was struggling with his relationship with God. He was really feeling the burden of doubt. And he went to go speak to a friend of his. And he shared his thoughts. He shared the concern, the doubt, the struggle, the fear. And his friend looked at him and said, Well, let's suppose that you're going over a bridge, a bridge that you've never traveled before before a bridge that you're not sure of. Now will you, if you fear that that bridge may not bear your weight, stop and And examine the faith you have in that bridge to make sure that you really believe that that bridge is going to move you across the the chasm or the river Where are they going? Or will you stop and will you look at that bridge and examine its structure? Make sure that it's not rusted. Make sure that there's no gaping holes as you cross In short, as you look at your salvation, do you need to know your faith or do you need to know the surety of the promises that God has given? Where should you your focus be? And the obvious answer is that as we struggle with our salvation, as we struggle with our our confidence in them. It is to the promises of God that we must look. It is as Jesus says that those who come to him he will never drive away It is when he says, No one can snatch them from the Father's hand. For you see, your salvation and your assurance of that is not based upon your life, except as That life bears testimony to the changes God has worked in you. Your confidence must be based on the character of God. It's based upon his word. Your doubt simply cannot eliminate your salvation. Hudson Taylor was visiting a friend, and he was a great missionary. He opened up China Inland Mission. He was a man known to have great faith, and he demonstrated that in his His life overseas. One day his friend that he was staying with asked him, But are you always conscious of abiding in Christ? Caleb thought about the question and said for a moment. When I slept in the bed you allowed me to use last night When I wasn't conscious of being in the bed, was I not in the bed? Is my being somewhere dependent on upon my consciousness of it? Is my relationship with Jesus dependent upon my confidence in it, or is it dependent upon his faithfulness? And the answer is obvious. Your relationship with Jesus, as Hudson Taylor's and as mine, is not dependent upon what I know. It's dependent upon the work of God done through Jesus Christ. On the cross, applied to me through the faith that God has given me and sealed by His Spirit. And as I see the visible changes that God works in my life through His Holy Spirit, a confidence of his promises. My confidence may waver, my salvation does not. This morning we need to ask ourselves a few questions. What does all this matter? Why does it matter that I have assurance? What will be different? We tend to come at this question early on in our relationship with Jesus, asking, What must I do to be saved? That's a wrong focus. You don't do anything to be saved. Remember that passage. It is by grace you have been saved. Saved through faith, that not of yourselves. That's not saying that the grace is not of yourselves. That's saying the faith is not even of yourselves. It is God who gives you You the grace, it is God who gives you the faith. You simply receive it. Well then maybe the question ought to be What will be different about me if I'm saved? And that may seem at first to be a very valid question. In fact, that may be what John's saying here How can I look at myself and know that God is working? That's true. There are the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5 is a place that lists off things That are true of those that love Jesus. John quotes Jesus several times, saying, He who has my commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves me. So there are obviously Visible changes that God works in your life as He makes you His child. But that's not where you should stay. And this morning, as you focus upon your Assurance of salvation. For some of you it may be a question that really needs to be asked because you may not have the salvation. Oh no. But if you had Seeing God work in you, it is an assurance that you can have that He has given you salvation. But the question that I long to see true in my own heart, the focus That I look to see is not so much what is different about me. It is this. How can I please Jesus For you see, Jesus says of those that love him, their focus is not on whether or not they're saved. Your focus is on doing what he commands. The only reason you can do that is because you love him. He has my commandments and keeps them. It's because he loves me. And if you love, your focus is on your loved one. Not on yourself. And that is the most tremendous assurance you can have. If this morning God is working in you to bring you to the point where your question is, how can I Please, Jesus, take tremendous relief in the relationship that he has given us. It is his work, it is his promise. Your assurance. Let's pray. Merciful Father. Jesus You who have given yourself, you who have done so much for us, you who have loved us with an everlasting love, who have come live, die, and been raised again, that we might have life with you. Help us, Hello. Help us to focus upon you this morning. To give you praise. Free us from ourselves. Bring us to that confidence. So that we, like those workers on the Golden Gate Bridge, might think not so So much about whether I'm okay but might think about the structure that we raise in this world to bring your kingdom to work. Help us to build your thing That we might bring you Christ. Work in our lives, Lord. Transform us. Give us a vision of you that we might know you and that we might love you and that we might rejoice in all you have for us. Amen. When Steve and I were talking about his sermon and about the worship and he told me that he had heavy on his heart his desire for people to be assured of their salvation so that they would feel free to seek I thought of the song He is Lovely. Because it says, I can see that you love Jesus first. It's plain to see, and that you sit close and hear his heart It made me wonder how many people look at any of us and see clearly that we love Jesus. How many of us are free in what we do because of our assurance of our self. So I thought we'd sing this song. To my knowledge, we've only sung it once before about a year ago, so it may not be familiar to you, but stand please. What we're going to do is um there are verses which are sort of hard, so rather than try to teach them to you this morning, I'm gonna sing the verses, and then we'll all sing sing the chorus together. The chorus is a simple song of praise of Jesus, the one who has saved us and in whom we trust for the assurance of our salvation. I can see that you love Jesus.