A couple of weeks ago, I read an incident that occurred during the fireman strike in Britain in 1978. It seems that because of that strike they had to call in the armed forces to take care of what the firemen should be doing one particular day An elderly lady called because her cat was up in a tree. So she called in the army and the army came out, rushed to the scene, set up their equipment, went up in the tree and rescued the cat The woman was so appreciative of this that she invited that section of the army into her house for tea, and they had a wonderful time together. They all enjoyed the tea and then bid their farewells as they all got out into the truck and backed out the driveway and ran over the cat. As I read that story, I thought of Baylor. Again. Because you you think of how so often we try so hard to succeed at something and accomplish just the very opposite And so here's King Balak that we looked at last week, who's ready to pay a great sum of money to have Balaam come And to curse Israel. And Balaam comes in disobedience to the Lord, but all he can do is bless Israel Just the opposite of what he's come there for. And to do just the opposite of what he himself hopes to do. And so in a reverse kind of twist, rather than being a desperate failure He succeeds, but he succeeds only by familiar what he attempted to do. And the Lord shows that no one can curse his people. And so we saw last week. In that tragic story of Balaam, he looked at his life and saw how he had sought to force God's hand to get his own way. And this morning we looked in continuing our series of messianic prophecies at the seventh messianic prophecy, or excuse me, the fifth messianic prophecy, the seven oracles of Balaam That is his seven revelations that he received from God. Now, the first three of these prophecies or oracles are recorded in Numbers 23 and 24, and those have to do with the people of God. The last four focus on the Messiah of God But in the first three, the ones that Balak had called him to give, we see him first of all in chapter 23, verses 7 to 10 Coming and instead of cursing Israel, Balaam picks up on the idea of Genesis chapter 12, 3 and then 13, 16 talking about how numerous Israel is. And how blessed Israel is. He says that, boy, if his end was only like Israel's, he'd be delighted. In twenty three ten he says, Let me die the death of the righteous, and may my end be like theirs And you can imagine Balak there then saying, uh hey, Balaam, I I think you missed the point. I want you to curse them. I want you to bless them I'm paying you to curse these people. I want victory over them. Why don't we try it again? Let me take up to another mountain. Let's just see a part of them there. And uh let's try it again. So Balaam goes up And they go through their uh various rituals again. And he comes in uh chapter twenty-three, verses eighteen-twenty-four, to his second oracle, a second revelation concerning Israel. And so he marches in again and he says, But God is with these people, and God's for them. In fact, these people are like a lion that crouches to its prey and devours its prey. No one can stand against them. And they like say, hey, hold, hold. He said, listen, I don't think you understand the word of the meaning curse. Curse means you tell about their destruction. You tell about how I'm going to defeat them, not how they're going to defeat me. Now come on, Balam, get your act together. We're not going to collect anything. Let's try it one more time. And so Balam comes to another peak. This time it's Paler. Where Baal, their God, himself is worshiped, and he looked out over the whole plain. And in chapter 24, in verses 3 to 9, you have his third oracle, or his third revelation. And there he says that Israel is like a beautiful watered garden with springs, and their abundance and the exaltation of their kingdom is beyond your loudest imagining. These people will crush all of their enemies, and they're going to be like a lion again, he says, who's going to devour its enemies. In fact, at this point, Balaam picks the three major messianic prophecies of Genesis, talking about Genesis three fifteen. the one who will crush the enemy, the serpent's head, picks that up and applies it to Israel. He then talks about the prophecy given to Abraham in Genesis 12. That they will be a blessed and numerous people, picks that up, and then he picks up the one given to Judah that we looked at last year in Genesis 49, particularly in verses 8 to 10. Comparing Israel to a lion and a ruler who's going to destroy all of its enemies. Well at that point uh Balak gives up and he says, Look Uh there's no sense talking to you. If you don't understand what you're doing, uh I just wish you'd go home. Forget it. And at that point, The Lord says through Balaam, Balak, I'm going to give you four more prophecies for free. You don't have to pay for these. But I'm going to tell you what's going to happen through these people. And at this point, God's attention turns from the people of God. to the Messiah of God. Now let's pick up in the scripture then that story after this third oracle has been given, and Balak has told Balaam to leave. We'll pick up the story at verse 12 of Numbers chapter 24. Balaam answered Balak, Well, didn't I not tell the messengers that you sent me? Even if Balak gave me a palace filled with silver and gold, I could not do anything of my own accord, good or bad, to go beyond the command of the Lord. And then I must say only what the Lord says. Now I'm going back to my people. But come, let me warn you of what this people will do to your people in the days to come. Then he uttered his oracle. This is his fourth oracle now. The oracle of Balaam, the son of Balaam, the oracle of one whose eye sees clearly. The oracle of one who hears the words of God, who has knowledge from the Most High, who sees a vision from the Almighty, who falls prostrate and whose eyes are open. I see him. But not now. I behold it, but not near. A star will come out of Jacob, and a scepter will rise out of Israel. He will crush the foreheads of Noab, the skulls of all the sons of Shep. Edom will be conquered. Seer, his enemy, will be conquered But Israel will grow strong. A ruler will come out of Jacob and destroy the survivors of the city. Then Balaam saw Amalek, another disorder, the fifth one. Amalek was first among the nations, but he will come to ruin at last. Then he saw the Kenites and uttered his oracle, the sixth one. Your dwelling place is secure, your nest is set in a rock, yet your tenites will be destroyed when Asher takes you captive. And then he uttered his oracle, the seventh. Ah, who can live when God does this? Ships will come from the shores of Kitten. They will subdue Asher and Yeber. They too will come to ruin. Then Balak got up and he returned home and Balak went on his own way. Now these strange oracles went for us to notice three things. This morning of interest to us. First of all, I want us to look at when they were to take place. Secondly, I want us to notice what it is that is prophesied. And then thirdly, I want us to notice who this is concerning. First of all, then. Let me suggest to you that when you're studying prophecy in Scripture, that a very important question to ask is when is this to take place? Always look in prophecy for Time clues in that prophecy. Look for indications about when the prophecy will be fulfilled. It'll help you to see what it's referring to. We have two clues Very clearly given to us here in Numbers chapter 24 about the when of this important prophecy. Notice in verse 13, it begins by Balaam saying, I'm going to show you, will you? What this people will do to your people in the days to come. Now that phrase days to come is not simply a phrase that you take at face value, it's more of a technical phrase. The phrase literally means the end of days, or the latter days, or the last days. And the other prophets in the Old Testament pick up on that phrase and its development in the rest of the Old Testament to mean the days of the kingdom, the days when Messiah will come, the last days of this age. He also gives a clue in verse 17 about when this will take place. We notice he begins by saying, I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. So he's not talking about someone who's down there on the plains currently. He's not even talking about someone who's going to come soon. He's talking at this point about someone who is in the distant future Someone who can even be described as coming in the last days. But before we see who this is, we need to notice what it is he says he's going to do. And there are two things that Banam says that this person will do, this hymn that he refers to in verse 17. Two things. He will rule and he will conquer. Notice that beautiful, haunting language that describes him as a ruler in verse 17. I will see him, but not now. I behold him but not near. A star will come out of Jacob, and a scepter will rise out of Israel. Star and scepter are two symbolic names used particularly in that time. A star used in the Near East, particularly in the kind of culture that Balaam was from, and most particularly of use to someone who dealt in astrology like him, the star was a symbol of king. is the symbol of royalty. The star in the heavens, that which was majestic and lifted up high, was a symbol in that culture of a person who was a ruler, who was a king or a monarch. who was wriggled, who had great power and majesty. As if that's not clear enough, the parallel line, remember Hebrew poetry and prophecy is often given in poetry But the Hebrew poetry poetry rhymes not sounds, but thoughts, which helps us since it rhymed the sounds, we'd miss most of it anyway in the translation. But the Hebrew rhymes thoughts, and so the second line is a rhyming thought, a parallel thought. A star will come out of Jacob, the parallel idea, a scepter. will rise out of Israel, Jacob and Israel, two different names for the people of God, Israel. Jacob's name is changed to Israel. And the star name is changed to the scepter name. But there's no question, of course, of what a scepter is a symbol of. It's used in Genesis 49. 10 to refer to that lion of the tribe of Judah who will rule with his scepter Genesis forty-nine ten, the prophecy that we looked at last year. A scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff, you see. The scepter is a ruler's staff from between his feet until he comes to whom it belongs, and the obedience of the nations will be his. So he's talking here about a ruler And he even uses a symbol that reminds us of another prophecy, prophecy of who would come from Judah. As if that's not clear enough, he says in verse 19 quite clearly, a ruler will come out of Jacob. And he's going to destroy the survivors of the city. So we're talking here clearly about someone who is going to rule in the last days. But this one who will rule must also conquer in order to rule. Now I think that when we think about the Lord Jesus and his coming, we are glad to think about his rule. But it's not so obvious to us why we should praise him and be glad for his conquering and destroying. Until we realize that he couldn't rule in peace and righteousness unless he conquers all the evil that is arrayed against him. Now he picks up this image Again, from uh if he's picked up the scepter and the uh ruling, uh the star, well the scepter image of rule from Genesis 49-10, he picks up this image now of a conqueror from Genesis 3. 15. Because you remember back in the garden, the first promise concerning the Messiah to come was that he would crush the serpent's head. And so Balaam now takes that thought on him thousands of years before this, and he takes that thought and he says, the star will come out of Jacob, a scepter will rise out of Israel, and he will crush. The foreheads of Moam, and the skulls of all the sons of Shep. And so you have here now The irony that Balak called Balaam to curse Israel so that Moab would destroy Israel Receives the prophecy that God is going to raise up from Israel one who's going to crush Moab. And so he's cursed instead of finding a blessing in this fellow. Moab is going to be devastated, he says. He's trying to crush their foreheads. Well you think of what a devastating picture that is. Taking their heads and like smashing them like an eggshell between his uh palms of his hands He says then in verse 19, the wood will come out of Jacob and destroy the survivors of the city. Now that phrase, the survivors of the city But it so happens that the Hebrew word for city also was the name of a city in Moab. And so you could translate that. The water will come out of Jacob and destroy the survivors of Ear Here, the city. And it may be that that should be a proper name. I tend to incline toward that understanding and interpretation. What verse 19 is saying is a ruler will come out of Jacob and he's going to destroy the survivors of Ear, that city of Noab. He's going to destroy the remnant, the very last city of Noab. And there's nobody that's going to escape. It's talking about the survivors even of that city. He didn't even end there Now remember get the picture. He's up at the top of Mount Peor, a little bit northeast of the northeastern corner of the Dead Sea. over there on the east of Jordan. And he's looking out from that huge pinnacle way up in the air. He's looking out over all these plains and he sees all these nations spread out before him. He sees Noah before him there. He sees a little further to the north, Israel and its camps. He sees all around to the east and to the south, he sees Edom, and he sees various other nations, even over way to the west, he looks beyond the hills And he knows that there is Philistines, the Philistines. And so he looks at these nations. And he says, I want to give you a picture, a graphic picture, of just how complete is going to be the victory of this conqueror who's to come. And so he names the specific people in order to help Balak and to help you and me feel the completeness of the victory of the Messiah, the star and the scepter who's to come. If you were to do that today, I think it would be like having Balaam travel across the around the Earth in a satellite And as he was going around the Earth in a satellite, he would give a roll call of the great powers of the world. And as he would reel off these names Red China, Soviet Union, the United States of America, and various other countries, he would then speak about what this spar and this scepter was going to do to these nations Now note this. He is not and would not, if he were doing this today, be saying, Well, now, let me give you the blessing of the United States of America, and I will tell how the Messiah The star and scepter is going to crush USSR, United Soviet Union, or Red China, or these other powers who are arrayed against the United States. But rather it will be all the nations, including the United States, arrayed against the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God which is dispersed throughout the nations, that kingdom of God which is assembled in the Church of Jesus Christ, which is arrayed against all those powers. So it's not a nationalistic interpretation for us today. Rather, it is a spiritual interpretation to see all the powers of the world arrayed against the kingdom of God dispersed throughout the world. And as he gives us that picture, we get a feeling for what he's saying as we see these strange names. And what's he saying about? Understand what he's saying as he reels off these seven different powers that he talks about. First of all, he says Moab. Moab, of course, was the nation that wanted to curse Israel. And so he picks on Moab first and he says, Moab, you're going to be crushed by the very ones that you've called me to curse, so that you could crush them. Noab, your situation is hopeless. He'll never win against the people of God because God Himself is identified with them. And he himself, his own reputation is at stake. He will never wipe out the church of Jesus Christ. Then he goes on to that second part of verse 17 Which in the New International Version reads, they shall crush the parts of Noah and all the skulls, the skulls of all the sons of Sheph. Now that's a very difficult phrase in the Hebrew, open to a number of interpretations. The two that I opt for as most likely are neither of them, the one that you see there in the NIV, all the sons of Sheff. It could refer to a little-known country that has come recently to light in archaeological studies, the nation of Shut. And that nation of Shut was a nation that was within the borders of Moab, their general territory, and may refer to just as Seir is identified with Edom, this little nation of Shut identified with Moab. I still think there's a more likely interpretation. It's based on Jeremiah 48, 45, where Jeremiah seems to be quoting or at least alluding to this prophecy. And when Jeremiah talks about the crushing of the forehead of Moab, he links then this second line with a possible reading of the Hebrew. Which basically comes out that he will destroy all the noisy boasters, all those who lift up their voice of arrogance against him And I think that's probably the way this line should read, that he would crush the forwards of Moab and the skulls of all the noisy boasters. All those who think that they will raise themselves up against him and his people and think that they can bring about cursing upon the people of God And then he moves on to another specific. He moves on to Edom. And he says, Edom, which was also in that general area east of the Dead Sea. Edom will be conquered, and Seir, his enemy, both of those identified together, will be conquered. But Israel will go strong. Remember, Edom came from Esau, the brother of Jacob And that nation was set dead against Israel in all of its dealings with Israel. And Balaam was saying, but no matter how much Edom tries to wipe out God's people, he'll never succeed. Israel or the Church of God is going to grow stronger while Edom will finally be destroyed and conquered. Then he moves on fourthly to Amalek in verse 20. Amalek was the first among the nations, first how was the first nation to attack Israel when he came out of Egypt, you remember? It was Amalek who first assaulted Israel, that weak people, that motley mob of a couple of million of men, women and children. Am and thought that they would make easy prey. And God said in his work there of redemption that he was going to show his power. And of course he defeated Amalek. And here's the prophecy that comes again. Amalek's going to come to absolute ruin. It's not been destroyed. All those spiritual victories that you and I experience are never permanent at this point. We always find, no matter how great there seems to be that victory over sin, that it waves its ugly head again. And we're surprised sometimes by how quick we turn the temptations. But Amalek, though it comes again and again, finally is going to be destroyed, and it will never again be a harassment to Israel. And then he goes on to verse 21 and refers to the Kenites. Now the Kenites are an interesting people because they were not the enemies of Israel. The Kenites were a people who are the descendants of Moses' brother-in-law, Hobad. And the Kenites were the friends of Israel. But The Kenites never adopted the God of Israel. Though they were friendly to Israel and they were sympathetic to Israel's God, they never bowed the knee to worship the Lord as their God. And so Balaam was saying in this, but don't patronize Christianity by being sympathetic to it, and think that thereby you will escape the wrath of this conflict. You either bow your knee to him and belong to him with your absolute allegiance, or you are part of those who will be destroyed and conquered in the end. And so he says to the Kenites, your dwelling place is secure, because you see you are friends of God's people. Your nest is said in Iran. Yet you Kenites will finally be destroyed. But Asher takes you captive. Then he goes on to Asher and he says, Well now Asher, lest you uh become complacent and think that uh that uh you're going to escape this, then down in verse 24 He says about these ships that will come from the shores of Kiddom will subdue Asher and Eden. They too are going to be destroyed and come to ruin. And then finally, seventhly, he talks about these people who are going to come from the shores of Kidd. Verse 23 and 24. Who can survive and live when God does this? Ships will come from the shores of Kitten, and they will be the ones that will destroy Asher and Eden. Now who are these people? Most commentators think that this refers probably to the Philistines, those people who came on ships. from over in the uh Grecian Isles and came across the Mediterranean, settled just around this time and a little before it in the land of Palestine, along the coast And the Philistines, of course, were one of the greatest menaces to God's people. You read again and again in the book of Samuel, the Kings, about the Philistines harassing Israel. But he says these people who will subdue Asher and Ibrahim, even they are going to come to ruin. The greatest power, the greatest threat at that time, even then, is going to come to ruin. Now who's this referring to is going to do this? Notice this before we understand what this means as it applies to us. Who's going to do this? Well, I believe that the immediate reference is to David. And I believe that because in 2 Samuel chapter 8, we read that David in fact destroyed these very kingdoms. David, who was the man after God's own heart, was the one who was going to come and God would raise him up to defeat the Moabites, and he would defeat the uh uh Philistines particularly and some of these other nations as they were there were remnants of them. But David did not fully defeat them. And just as it's true throughout all history, whenever you have a golden age and people think, oh, it's peace at last. And we're going to have security finally, and our hopes are placed in that earthly success. Things begin to go downhill. And the golden age becomes jaded, and corruption sets in, and strength becomes weakness. And so it was true. And David. David's kingdom passed to Solomon, a kingdom of great strength. But Solomon passed it on to Rehoboam. And there was the division between Rehoboam and Jeroboam, and things went downhill very, very quickly. In fact, if you read in Isaiah chapter twenty-five, verses ten to twelve. Isaiah chapter twenty-five talks about the crushing of Moab, same kind of language, the crushing of Moab still to come, three hundred years after David. So clearly this wasn't fulfilled in David. In fact, Isaiah identifies the crushing of Noab to that final kingdom banquet that's going to come when God displays his power once for all. And so you have the New Testament opening with an Israel that is not in power, but an Israel that's defeated. You have the New Testament opening and here Israel has been through a series of bloody civil wars. Israel has been subjected to the Egyptians and to the Syrians over the last couple hundred years, and sixty years before that time the Romans Have put their sandal upon the neck of Israel, and Israel is an absolute subjection to the Roman Empire. And it's in that kind of a situation that an angel appeared to Mary in Luke chapter 1. H And the angel said to Mary in Luke 1 and verse 31. Don't be afraid, Mary. You found favor with God and you will be with child and give birth to a son. Give him the name Jesus. And he will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. Just a few months after that, Zechariah, with the birth of John, prophesies concerning this same one who must have come. And how does he describe it? And John says in Luke 1, verse 69, that he, the Lord, had raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he said to his holy prophets of long ago, salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. Same idea as Numbers 24, there's going to come a ruler and a conqueror. Who's going to save us from all of our enemies and all those who hate us? And who is this one? He describes him, we see in verse 78, as the rising sun from heaven. For the morning star, the day star, the star and the scepter out of Jacob. And so when Jesus was born In Bethlehem Judah, you read in Matthew chapter 2, that there came wise men. Did you ever notice where the wise men came from? Came from the same country that Balaam lived in. Balaam fell over the river Euphrates, we read in Numbers 22. And the wise men came from that same area. And what do they say? We've come, and they say they come to Jerusalem and they say, Where is the one who has been born, the king of the Jews? But we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. How did they know that a star would be a sign of the coming of Messiah? Because they knew the prophecy of Balaam. He was one of their prophets, not from Israel, but from that Gentile nation, east of Noab. And they knew that the star was a symbol of the king. And so these wise men come and they say, where is this one? The woman Who's symbolized by the star that we've seen in the East come in fulfillment of his coming. So this baby Jesus. Grows up. And he engages the enemy of God's people, Satan, single-handedly. He engages them in the wilderness in temptation He engages him as he cast out demons one after another, and those who are held captive by him. He engages him in the preaching of the kingdom and in Satan's attempts to silence him. And he engages him in the Third of Gethsemane, when face to face he faces the horrors of hell and all that Satan can do. And he engages them on the cross. When Jesus took your sin and my sin, that sin which should have condemned us and placed us under the mercy of Satan in his kingdom to absolute destruction. But this one, the conqueror, has come and he's destroyed the destroyer. And he's come not only to destroy him, but to set up and to establish his kingdom A kingdom in which there are no enemies, but only his people forever and ever. And so we read in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. We read the first of these people that are referred to here in Numbers 24. It refers, you see, first of all, to people who curse you. and seek to make your life or my life miserable because we're Christians. Now notice, not because we're obnoxious, because we're Christians Who are dead set against us in everything we stand for, because of Jesus Christ. In 2 Thessalonians, God says, in verse 6, 2 Thessalonians 1 That those who trouble you will be punished by the Lord, for he will give relief to you when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his powerful angels And he will punish those who do not know God and who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. And he will come in that day to be glorified. And he will destroy them absolutely with the breath of his mouth. These people also are a picture to us of all the ideologies and the nations that are arrayed against Jesus Christ and his kingdom. So we read in Revelation that all those ideologies and the world system that is pictured in the symbol of Babylon would be destroyed by this conqueror, the Lord Jesus. He says in Revelation 18, in verse 2 Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the gate, great, for she has become a home for demons and a haunt for every evil spirit, a haunt for every unclean and detestable bird. But he says in verse 10, Woe, woe, great city, O Babylon, city of power, for in one hour your doom has come. Logas, riches, and glory that he describes, mis described in the last chapters, all going to go up in smoke. So he says in verse 21, with such violence, the very city of Babylon will be thrown down, never to be found again. For this one, we see in chapter 19, will not destroy only those who curse us and hassle us as Christians, those who are set against us because of our identification with Jesus Christ. Not only against the world powers and the ideology set against him, but Moab and those nations ultimately stand for the enemy against Jesus, Satan himself. It's on Revelation 19, you read that Jesus comes in verse 19 to 21 to destroy the beast and the false prophet. Those from the very pit, who have been from all ages, from the very beginning in the garden, set against God and his people. Jesus is going to destroy it. And you and I will never be tempted, never be bothered. Never be hassled by sin or by Satan again. Who is it that's going to us accomplish with such Such tremendous power, such force, such righteous judgmental force, all of those things which we need We read in Revelation chapter 22 and verse 16 who it is. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give me this testimony for the churches. And who is this Jesus? I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright morning star. The star of Jacob. The scepter out of Israel. The star that was sent by God to destroy all the enemies of him and his people. The star. Because a star is a picture of majesty and power. You know, if you were to take a pinhead of material and heat it to the temperature of the core of the sun, it would kill you in an instant from a distance of 100 miles. And the star Regal is fifteen thousand times brighter than the sun. But Regal pales before the bright and morning star Jesus. The Regal is simply a creature, his handiwork, that which he's made. But Jesus is the bright and morning star uncreated. He's the source of all power and majesty. In him inherently is life and majesty and power and dominion. And so Numbers 24 says to you and to me for our comfort, when God has set his blessing upon us, nothing, not even Satan himself, will ever be able to change that. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, then your salvation in him is absolutely secure. He holds you in his hand. That hand which will destroy the nations and all things that are set against him. But there's a warning here, too. And that warning is that you and I, while we tend to fear that God may not be faithful. But rather are complacent toward our sin. Find ourselves fearing the wrong thing. We should be absolutely secure that God is faithful, but rather we should fear our sin. But Israel did not. And you remember in Numbers 25 the story that we saw last week of how they fell into sin and were judged and chastened by the Lord because of that sin. What we have to fear, brothers and sisters in Christ, is not that God will not be saved, not a lack of his power, not that he won't fulfill his promises. But rather that you and I will not cling to those promises. That we will go our own way in sin and we will reject the promises that He's given to us. So if there's anyone here this morning who has never bowed to Jesus Christ, I plead with you before the ruler and the conqueror comes in that final demonstration of his destruction of all evil, give your life to him. Let's worship him the Lion, the Star and the Scepter. In our age There has been raised up secular humanism and materialistic Marxism to curse the church and the people of God. But the news of the gospel in Numbers 24 is that there's coming that star to that scepter. And that secular humanism and materialistic Marxism will be destroyed by this one, either before or at the time of the coming of Jesus. And he will destroy all. Those ideologies, secular humanism, materialistic Marxism, and everything else that's derate against him. Live aggressively for Jesus Christ in his victory this week. That's weird. Lord, we come to worship you, to adore you, because a star has come out of Jacob. And a scepter has come out of Israel and has destroyed the foreheads, crushed the foreheads of Moab, and all the noisy boasters who array themselves against you and say, But the work in the Church of Jesus Christ are foolishness. But all those who mock you and blaspheme you shall be found to raid with Noab and Edom and Seir. And the Philistines and all the rest, as they tremble before you in that final day, when you shall come to display your great and righteous power. How we thank you, Lord, for your great power that when you establish that kingdom, that eternal kingdom of the Lord Jesus, that kingdom is not a kingdom that will continue to fight against him. But you, Lord Jesus, when you come again, will finally destroy all that evil. And it will never be again. And there will only be righteousness, love, joy, and peace. Oh Lord, how we look forward to that day May we live with eyes that see it. And may we be able to live this week in the hope of it. May we live worshiping you and loving you, our star and our scepter and your great power and your room. And may we live aggressively. Because, Lord, you have called us to be in your kingdom, which has already accomplished that victory. Lord, we pray if there's any here who has not bowed to you, who continues to put off, they're giving their lives to you Bring them, Lord, out of their foolishness and procrastination to come and to give their lives to Jesus Christ before it's too late. And we pray this in the name of Jesus. Him one sixty three describes for