Well, for three weeks we have looked at Mary, a woman who gave what was most precious to her. Because of her love for Jesus and because she believed what he said when he said he was going to die at the Passover. You saw that she did this because she was not in denial, like the disciples. She believed him and she anointed him as a fragrant offering for sin. That she herself took on his fragrance as a picture of you and me bearing the aroma. And now this morning, in contrast to that, we look at a man. A man who is not a giver, but a taker. A man who is, in fact, a thief. A murderer and a terrorist. Of all the Titanic events that occur on that morning In fact, the evening and the morning of Jesus' trial and death, only a very few are recorded in all four Gospels. Judas' suicide, for instance, is only one of the Gospels. Mary's anointing and the Lord's Supper are in only three of the four Gospels. But the incident we look at this morning, the seemingly insignificant incident coming at near the climax of the trial, is recorded in all four Gospels. Mark's is the fullest account, and so we looked at his record. Do you remember the verses that Tom just read? Let me just read three of them, verses six to eight. It was the custom. At the feast to release a prisoner whom the people requested. A man called Marabbas Was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising. The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did. This refers to a custom releasing a prisoner that the Jews requested at Passover that scholars for many years said was not based in history. It was not based in fact, it was simply something that the gospel writers made up for their own purposes until somebody found in the Mishnah, probably from the first century, a rule that stated. that a paschal lamb may be slaughtered for the one who has been promised release from prison Almost surely referring to this custom. Probably it was a custom from the Roman government to kind of throw a bone to the Jews to help them in their celebration of Passover, giving them some prisoner that they chose. Pilate seizes desperately on that custom as a way to free Jesus. He wants to release Jesus. And they want this man, Barabbas. Barabbas, very interesting name. The name simply means son of his father. Yeah, you know, just kind of son, son of his father. Why was he given such a name as that? A lot of speculation on it. Um, you know, maybe the guy had five daughters and then he finally had a son. So they called him Barabbas, the son of the father, you know, he finally got a son anymore. Or maybe he was the son of a rabbi. Rabbis were sometimes called Abba, father, and uh maybe his father was a zealot rabbi who trained Barabbas to hate the Roman government and raised him to be an insurrectionist. All kinds of speculations. We really don't know. What's interesting, however, is that his name was almost surely Jesus Barabbas. I say that because in Matthew 27, in this same incident, Matthew, in the earliest manuscripts, calls him Jesus Barabbas. That name dropped out after the early manuscripts, presumably because some copyists decided that to give an insurrectionist murderer the same name that had become so precious to the early church was offensive and simply j dropped the Jesus part. But the fact that his name was Jesus Barabbas helps you to understand why in the accounts where Pilate says, who do you want me to release? And Pilate says, oh, you want me to release Jesus of Nazareth? You see, he's picking up on the name. You're saying, no, no, no, not not that Jesus, Jesus Barabbas. Well Think of these two Jesus and compare them. For instance Barabbas was a terrorist. We're told in verse 7 that he was in prison with the insurrectionist who had committed murder in the uprising, the uprising, something that at that time would have been known. Doesn't identify it. There were lots of uprisings. But there had been one recently, and um Barabbas was part of it. He's a terrorist. Interesting that that term is one that twenty years ago would not have been very familiar to us. But now it's all too familiar, isn't it? He's the Massawi of his day, the V for Vendetta. He's the terrorist. He believed That violence was justified in the overthrow of the Roman government in order for the establishment of the earthly kingdom of the Jews. He was a terrorist. Now contrast Jesus. Jesus was also seeking to establish a kingdom. But Jesus' establishment was a peaceful establishment of a heavenly, eternal kingdom. A spiritual kingdom, a kingdom not of this world. Now, don't miss the irony of this. What was the charge against Jesus at the trial? That he was a seditionist, that he was seeking to overthrow the government. And so what they do is they take Jesus, who had never taught a shred of overthrow of the government. And they take a person who truly was a convicted seditionist, and they release him, and they condemn Jesus. What an irony, what injustice. Barabbas was also a robber. In John 1840, you see that. Uh John points out that he was a robber. Probably what John means by that is that he was a looter, that when they would uh involve himself into terrorist activities, if they, for instance, attacked a Roman post and people were killed or fled. He'd help himself to the things that were there, either for the cause or for himself, but he was a taker. He was a A thief. Jesus, on the other hand, was a giver. In fact, just hours before, an armed guard had seized Jesus to arrest him. And Peter, in an act of impulsive courage, had sliced off the servant Malchus of the high priest, sliced off his right ear. And Jesus gave him back his ear, attached and whole. Jesus was not a taker, he was a giver. What a contrast. In fact, Barabbas took life. He was a murderer. The third thing. It says that he had committed murder in the uprising. He took life. Jesus Contrary to that, gave life. In fact, uh, you remember the incident we've been talking about with Mary, was to was at a banquet that was to celebrate the fact that Jesus had given Lazarus back his life from the dead. Jesus restored life. Barabbas took life. Again, what a contrast between these two characters. But now as you contrast Barabbas and Jesus and see how different they were. Look at Barabbas and you and me and compare our hearts. Barabbas, they say again, was a terrorist. That is, he cast off Rome's authority in order to have his own way, to establish his own kingdom. You and I live under God's authority. A righteous authority, a rule that is perfectly just. All his laws are for our good as well as his glory. And we have cast off the constraints of his authority. in order to establish our own kingdoms, to have things our own way, to gossip when it suits us To build up my image, even at the cost of truth, to take what I want to take, to establish my own glory and my own honor. Barabbas was a terrorist against a human government. You and I are terrorists against God's government. The rabbis is a picture of the autonomy of our own self-centered hearts Barabbas was a robber, a taker. As I say, all all the world can be divided into takers and givers. Barabbas was a taker. Jesus was a giver. Which one do you line up with? Well I know in my case I'm all too often a taker. James Denny of Scotland once said, before Christ, a person uses people and loves things. And after Christ, they use things and love people, but it's not quite that consistent. I still use people and love things. I still find it's all too easy to even want to use God for my own control, for my own desires. At heart, I'm a taker and not a giver. And you and I, we're honest looking at our hearts. I see that our hearts are grasping, and Barabbas is simply a reflection, isn't he? Barabbas was, again, a murderer. Barabbas literally killed people. It was necessary for his purposes. Jesus said in Matthew 5, 21 and 22 that when you and I hate someone, We wish them ill. We wish that they would die, disappear, some harm would come to them, would make us happy to hear that something had happened to them. We murder in our hearts. We can't carry it out, but we desire it. It's what's in our hearts, Jesus says, that matters. And so Barabbas is in each case A reflection, a visual representation of what your heart and my heart is like. But now compare what happened to Barabbas and what happened to Jesus. Barabbas is hopelessly condemned by the Roman government. They said, Barabbas, you deserve death, and you are hereby condemned to be crucified upon a cross. There's no appeal. It's done. Jesus, on the other hand, had been approved. By God, on two occasions, saying, This is my beloved Son. In him I am delighted. I am 100% pleased with every part of his life. There is no higher declaration. That is God's statement. infinitely above the statement of the Roman government. And yet there comes a point in the trial when it's either or is either Barabbas gets released or Jesus of Nazareth gets released. Can't be both of them. And as I read this again, I realized my heart should break. Your heart should break. When you hear the crowd say Give us Barabbas. He deserves to live more than Jesus What twisted values could say, give us Barabbas. He deserves to live more than Jesus. And yet the world will always choose Barabbas over Jesus, won't it? Because Barabbas is one of them. Barabbas shares their values. The world will always choose Barabbas. It said that people Following rabbis at that time were told that if the rabbi says that black is white and white is black, you are to believe him. For the rabbi's word is final. Mark tells us that the chief priest stirred up the crowd to have Pilate release Barabbas. Did they believe it in their hearts that Barabbas deserved to live and Jesus to die? Were they simply stirred up by the chief priests? Who knows? But just five days before this, these people had wanted Jesus to be their king. Hosanna, he who comes in the name of the Lord, let's make him our king. He's the Messiah. And now they cry out in a frenzy for his death. Give us Barabbas And here we come to the heart of the story and why I believe it's in all four of the Gospels. The point of substitution. It's either Barabbas or Jesus. And we read that Pilate, wanting to satisfy the crowd, released Barabbas, had Jesus flogged, and handed him over to be crucified. So Jesus is bound. And Barabbas is released. Jesus is killed. Barabbas lives. Jesus is cursed. Barabbas is blessed. And get this. Barabbas, bar Abbas, the son of a father. Is released because the Son of the Father is condemned in his place. Do you ever put yourself in Barabbas' place in your imagination? Try to do that for just a few moments. You're sitting in that cell waiting for the executioner to come. You think that morning while this trial is going on of your own trial that occurred just yesterday. You'd been caught, taken captive by the Roman government, brought before Pilate, and you knew from the start that you had no chance. There was no appeal. He simply got caught. And your mind plays back on all the what-ifs. What if I had done this? What if I could have gotten what if, what if, but all that is in vain because What happened is you got caught. And you know you're guilty. And all the replaying of it won't help. You didn't sleep very well last night You were trying to decide, do I try to stay up all night, my last night, just to experience consciously the last hours of my life, or do I just drift off and forget about it and go to sleep? You spent the night tossing and some wakefulness, half sleep, every slightest sound would waken you and think, is that them? Are they coming and what's going on? And now you're sort of groggy and You look at your hands. You think in a couple of hours they're going to drive nails through the palms of those hands. I love my hands. I don't want to see them pierced by nails to a cross. I I can't imagine having them pinned to a cross and then the cross dropped into the ground and my bones will shake and perhaps be put out of joint You take a breath and you think, how easy it is to breathe now. But then Then every breath will be torture. I'll have to raise myself up on the nails in order to get the slightest bit of air into my lungs, and it will be excruciating. And then you smile just a bit thinking of that word excruciating because it comes literally From meaning out of the cross. You've seen men die of crucifixion. You've seen them lined up along the Appian Way. You've seen those poor souls that had been scourged and flogged and mercifully They were placed on the cross already half dead and only lasted for a few hours before they expired, not able to gain any more breath. But then there were the wretches that you'd seen that lasted a day or two or three, and sometimes even more, who died insane with dehydration. Madness from the pain, oh, the insufferable pain, and you anticipate you're going to experience pain like you have never experienced before. And there's no hope. There's no appeal. There's no bribes. No way that you can get out. You simply got caught, you gambled, and you lost. And you pray that it will be quick You hear a commotion. Something's going on, and you you can't hear through the walls very well, but you hear something going on out there You think that you hear the name Jesus, and you think, oh, another poor Jew by the name of Jesus is going to die with me. And then after a while you begin to think that you hear the name Barabbas. You know, you always hear your own name easiest of any names. And you hear you think you hear, again, Barabbas. And then some short while after that, you hear the guard coming down the hall. Jangling of his keys, and he opens your cell. He looks at you with a scowl and he says, Well, Barabbas, looks like this is your lucky day. Because of that Passover custom. You get to go free because another Jew out there is going to die in your place. Free? You're released? Your mind can't comprehend it. Fyodor Dostoevsky was also an insurrectionist. He was captured by the Tsarist government with some of his friends. They were lined up before a firing squad with their coffins laying there handily close by. The firing squad raised their muskets, pointed at these men, when the shout halt came. The messenger came and said, the czarist has decided to commute your sentence from death by firing squad to ten years in Siberia. It is said that some of the men went mad on the spot and never recovered. Some died a short time later, also insane. Dostoevsky at that moment had the first of many epileptic seizures through the rest of his life. Went to Siberia where someone gave him a New Testament. And he read about the sacrifice of Christ and received him. To be told that you're dead and then alive is more than your mind can easily comprehend. What did Barabbas do? We don't know. Perhaps he staggered out of that cell and wandered down the hall and outside into the blinding sunlight and looked at that Jesus who was carrying his cross to Golgotha. Perhaps out of fascination He followed along and then saw the Roman soldiers there at the hill of the skull, hammering nails into Jesus' hands and thinking. Those were the blows that I was to receive. And as he sees him placed upon the cross, that's where I was to be this morning. And I'm free. Because he's hanging there in my place. Perhaps he thought, why him and not me? Just goes to show you there's no justice in this world. But in a more profound way, absolute perfect justice was being done. For Jesus was receiving exactly what your sin and my sin deserved. How often do you and I ask ourselves that question, Lord, why you instead of me? Why did you choose the nails so that I could go free? Does that grip your heart? Or is it information? To travel over the top of your mind, and then quickly leave Middlebury, Massachusetts, 1741. There was a preacher, Peter Thatcher, who had preached the gospel there for some years and said that he had not seen very much evidence. that people cared all that much. And one morning he was preaching the gospel in 1741, and he records, someone cried out in alarm. And the congregation was struck with awe. He was somebody that took the message seriously. Somebody that was actually affected by it. Somebody that thought. My God, what do I do? What would you do if somebody cried out here in the congregation? Somebody that thought of themselves in Baraba's place and said, you know, this is real. This is not just a fairy story. This is not something that's just kind of like interesting. I either have Jesus as my substitute or I don't. My God, what do I do? Would be think that's kind of strange. Get a grip. But would we realize like that congregation, here's somebody that's in touch with something that I've been suppressing The result of that was that they asked for another meeting. Monday. They didn't say, you know, we'll come back and hear you next week. Monday, they couldn't wait. They said, come on. Give us a message tomorrow. So he preached on Romans 8:1. There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus and talked about what that meant. He recorded further that many were melted that day. In fact, 76 people stayed to say, how do we find out whether we are in Christ? What does that mean? And their hearts were broken. They called for more meetings. In fact, they had four meetings a week beside Sunday. The people were so roused. And then many began to cry out. And many would stay, and many would seek counsel, and many would say, how do I know if I'm in Christ? I need to know that. The result of that stature says that many said Jesus has become for us meat and drink like we have never known before. In fact, he said there was a joy that came upon the congregation that he had never seen. He describes some of the changed lives. Let me give you his words. He says, the drunkard is sober. The churl peaceful. Personal feuds that have been subsisting more than eleven years are buried. And love takes place and power where envy and malice and hatred had formerly ruled. Do you believe that gospel has that kind of power? Transforming power? You can't believe someone else has taken your place in a life or death situation and not be changed by that, can you? Has your heart been transformed by that? Have you seen yourself in Barabbas' place and then say, Lord Jesus, you took my place. You chose the nails for me so that I wouldn't die, so that I could have eternal life with you. Has it ever gripped your heart? You know, there's one big difference between Barabbas and you and me. And that is that the substitution of Jesus for him was neither personal nor permanent. It wasn't permanent. Because all it did was delay death for him. It didn't give him eternal life. Rabbit still was going to have to die. It was a physical substitution. What Jesus offers to you and to me is a spiritual substitution so that though physically we would die, spiritually we will never die. And that relates to the second thing. It wasn't personal in Baratha's case. It was purely circumstantial. You see, a day before or a day after, it wouldn't have been substituted. It simply happened to fall on the right day. But for you and for me, Jesus' substitution. Was intensely personal. Look at Ephesians chapter one, where you see Paul describing again That particularization of the substitution. Notice the color. For he chose us, chose you and me. In him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us. That is, he chose, set his heart on you and me to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will. To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given to us in the one that he loves. Given to you. In him we have redemption. Through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace. That he lavished on us, lavished on you, lavished on me with all his wisdom and his understanding. Have you received that personal? That transfer, that substitution That Jesus intends for you if you have a personal relationship with Him Think this week of the substitution of Jesus for Barabbas. Place yourself in Barabbas' skin to feel what it means. To have someone die in your place. And then come to the Tenebrae service and hold those elements, the pledge of Jesus' love for you. Because he died for you. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how difficult it is for our minds to grasp the idea of substitution To ask Lord Jesus, why would you knowingly, purposefully take my place upon a cross? Why would you die for my sins? Why do I go scot-free and you pay the penalty? Our minds can't absorb it. But may we never lose the wonder of being reprieved. Granted the gift of eternal life through that substitution. Lord, I pray for any here who are not Assured of that, to continue to put you off as an inconvenience. That you would show them that they are in Barabbas' place condemned without hope of appeal or escape, that you would make them miserable. Until they come to receive the offered substitution of Jesus. Lord, give our hearts the song of redemption. May we this week live as those freed from death and enter more deeply into the wonder of that old story. We pray it to be transforming in us through Jesus Christ and to his praise and glory. Amen. And if you have any question, whether in fact you are assured that Jesus has died for you, put a note on the gray slip, put it in the basket. And I'll get back to you to talk about that.