And terrible events of that day is an event which nevertheless captures, I believe, the essence of the gospel. I'm referring to the incident about Barabbas. And I think it's helpful for us to meditate on that this morning at the beginning of Holy Week for this year. That incident is mentioned in all four of the Gospels But Mark's account is most helpful for our purposes. So let's consider now the beginning of the day which we call Good Friday What happened in the early hours of that day, and in particular, this incident concerning Barabbas. Mark chapter 15. Begin reading God's word at verse 1. Very early in the morning, the chief priests, with the elders, the teachers of the law, the whole Sanhedrin reached a decision. They bound Jesus, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. Are you the king of the Jews? asked Pilate. Yes, it is as you say, Jesus replied. The chief priests accused him of many things. So again, Pilate asked him, Aren't you going to answer? See how many things they're accusing you of. But Jesus still made no reply, and Pilate was amazed. Now it was the custom at the feast to release a prisoner whom the people requested. A man called Barabbas was in prison with the insurrectionists who had committed murder in the uprising. The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did. You want me to release to you the king of the Jews? asked Pilate, knowing that it was out of envy that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him. But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have Pallate release Barabbas instead. What shall I do then with the one you call the king of the Jews? Paul asked him. Crucify him, they shouted. Why? What crime has he committed? asked Pile. But they shouted all the louder, Crucify him, wanting to satisfy the crowd. Hallock released Barabbas to them. He had Jesus flood and handed him over to be crucified. As you look at this account, You need to understand that verse 6 and 7 are historical background. They tell us about a custom that took place each year during Passover. where Rome would release one prisoner whom the Jews would choose. And that there was, in fact, at this time a prisoner by the name of Barabbas who was in jail because of insurrection, murder, and also robbery. Then verse 8 describes what I believe is a separate crowd from the crowd that was around where Jesus was. You need to understand that. Here's a group of people. These people may know or may not know a whole lot about what's going on at this trial of Jesus. But these are people who will come up to ask for this annual request to be fulfilled. And so this crowd comes up in verse 8 and they say, uh, say it's Passover and you're supposed to release a prisoner. Now let's come through with this. We're here to ask for that person. And apparently it hasn't been decided on who that person would be yet. But pilot, who has been searching frantically for some way to release Jesus because he cannot in good conscience carry out what the chief priests want him to do. Pilate is looking for some way to get out of this. And all of a sudden he sees a solution. He sees the possibility of letting Jesus go. And also just as kind of a fringe benefit, frustrating these chief priests. priest who has in a great mother. And so Pilate says, oh yay, that's a good idea. But how about we release Jesus? And he's thinking that since Jesus is popular, in fact so popular that in his understanding the only reason that the chief priests have even brought him, verse 9 tells us But because of the envy, verse 10 tells us it's because of the envy. He sees the chief priest is simply jealous of Jesus' popularity And so I say, well now how about we release Jesus? And in his hopes, of course, the crowd is going to say, let's have Jesus, and the G priest will have nothing they can do except to accept that The one thing Pilate didn't count on was the immense, unanswerable authority of the rabbis of that time. Alfred Edterschein has written that if a rabbi told you that white was black and black was white, you believe him. Their authority was unquestionable. And that was even for the rabbis. We're dealing now with the chief priests, two men holding this office simultaneously at this time. Two men who are the chief of all the Jews. How much authority they must have had. How they must have argued with the crowd. How they must have intimidated the crowd. How they must have turned them. From considering releasing Jesus to stirring them up, the Bible tells us, so that they would ask for the race. And so Pilate finally has nothing that he can do when the chief priests have stirred the crowd to ask for Barabbas and have Jesus crucified. And there's no alternative. But in seeing this incident, don't miss its significance. It's not simply a minor incident of historical interest about this fellow who was in jail, and we see how he got released instead of Jesus. We see in this instance, in this incident, a miniature of the gospel. Because I believe we should understand that Barabbas represents you and me in three important ways. First of all, Barabbas represents you and me in his guilty nature. Three crimes were attributed to Barabbas. Notice what they were. First of all, he's called an insurrectionist in verse 7. There was uh a prisoner, a man called Barabbas, the in prison did the insurrectionists And uh he was one of them. He was a fellow who was a political rebel, therefore. An insurrectionist is a political rebel He's a fellow who had refused the authority of Rome in a popular uprising. He sought to overthrow Rome's authority and power. And he wanted to establish his own rule. And all of a sudden, it occurs to you, as you think about that, that you and I are insurrectionists. The rabbis refuse the rule of Rome. You and I are insurrectionists against the kingdom of God. God Himself has established His rule. He's established His laws and commands and said, this is the way the world's to operate. And you and I have chosen to go our own way. You and I have chosen to establish our own rules, and we've refused his authority. We are rebels against God's kingdom. We refuse to submit to his laws. We think that we have a better way, a better authority, a better law, just as the insurrectionists with Moranists And so you and I, with Barabbas, are insurrectionists. Secondly, Barabbas is called a robber. Mark doesn't tell us this, but John does in chapter 18, verse 40. He mentions that Barabbas was a robber. Now that's something worth noting because I think it gives us some insight into Barabbas' character. If you simply saw that he was an insurrectionist, you might think he was a man of high ideals. He was a man who was a political prisoner, simply suffering for a concern about the kingdom of God. But the fact that John tells us he was a robber tells us something else. tells us that he was like a number of people at that time who were hiding behind so-called wealthy ideals to mind their pockets. They were a group of people, a kind of scruffy lot, who said that they're insurrectionists, but in fact what they were was looters. They would take advantage of any kind of opportunity to bring about chaos, to disrupt the order, so that they could then use that to their own advantage and to rob and to plunder and to loot. And it reminds me of many people who will say, I can't accept Christianity because I have some principles and some questions and some difficulties with it. I can't accept Christianity because of my philosophy or my idea of God. And in fact, the real reason is that it will violate my lifestyle It's inconvenient to me to accept Christianity. And in our own lives, we seek to rob God of his own glory. We rob him of his honor by placing ourselves at the center of our lives. And so, while hiding behind lofty ideals about why we can't accept Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, and why it is that we have difficulty with the Bible, in fact, we're minding our own pockets. We're seeking to simply live in a way that gratifies ourselves, and in doing that, we rob God of his own glory. You and I, with Barabbas, are robbers. And Barabbas thirdly was a murderer. We read there in verse 7 that this man called Barabbas was imprisoned with the insurrectionist who had committed murder in the uprising. Luke makes it even plainer that Barabbas wasn't simply an accomplice. He was one of the murderers. And so Barabbas murdered in his exploits. He took at least one person's life, if not a number of people. And Jew and I say, well now I've got you there, because I'm not a murderer. But do you remember what Jesus told us in Matthew chapter 5, verse 21 and 22? Jesus said, You've heard that it was said to the people long ago, do not murder. And anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment Again, anyone who says to his brother of Racha, which is somewhat equivalent to saying, go to hell, is answerable to the Sanhedrin. But anyone who says, You fool, will be in danger of the fire of hell. And so you and I, in our hatred for people that we have been bitter against, people that we have loathed, and we've had great difficulty with, God says that's like murder in our hearts. And you and I, like Barabbas, are murderers. And so the picture we have of this fellow Barabbas is that he's a rather scruffy character A fellow who's perhaps a bit hypocritical, who hides behind lofty ideals to get his own way. A fellow who will stop at nothing to get what he wants out of life. Who will weap, who will murder, and who will join with a gender of mob of people to bring about chaos, to announce all authority over him in order to get what he wants. He was notorious, Matthew tells us, perhaps a rather colorful character. He appealed to the baser nature of the Jews at that time who also hated Rome. But he was a fellow who deserved what he was getting. The second thing we need to see about Barabbas in how he represents us is that Barabbas represents us in his hopeless situation. In this hopeless situation, Rabbit is in a Roman prison, probably in a dungeon, a well-guarded dungeon. No possibility of escape. Perhaps Barabbas has been scheming with some of his fellows about some ways that they might be able to get out. And they see that it's absolutely hopeless. Well deals with people like this all the time. Now the incarceration would probably have been rather brief. The rabbits may be looking to crucifixion in just a matter of a couple of days, and there is no time, no opportunity, no hope of any way to find an escape. Besides that, there's no appeals. There's no lengthy appeals to be exhaustive to a certain succession of courts, to appeal to the Superior Court and the Supreme Court and everybody else and the governors and on in between. Lord has no problem with capital punishment, and they're not going to be predisposed to give him a hearing. It would be a joke for Barabbas to think that he could have feeled his way out of the situation. Rabbus has absolutely no hope of an accused. The final court has spoken. It has sentenced him to death. Death probably by crucifixion. And that death could probably take place within a couple of days. And so Baradas sits in his prison absolutely hopeless. No way that he can get out of this situation, counting his final hours before the sentence is executed. But perhaps you might say Barabbas would think something like this. He would say, well, sure I've done some wrong things. I mean, nobody's perfect, and yeah, I've blown it worse than some. But maybe if I'm really good here in prison, maybe if I really do some good things to my fellow inmates, you know, and I really treat the guards nice, and I try to live a good life here, Maybe then the judge will reconsider my sentence. Maybe he'll say, well, that guy Barabbas isn't such a bad idea after you all. Let's give him another chance. Would there be of any such possibility? It's laughable to think of it. Joan had no question about his sentence. What he did in the prison was irrelevant. The sentence had been passed and had to be carried out. Yet, how many people say, Well, yes, I know I've done some wrong things against God? Sure, I'm an insurrectionist, sure I've robbed him of his glory, sure I've heated, I've done my share of sin, but maybe if I live good enough. Maybe if I go to church and if I do enough religious things and try to serve God, try to love people and be sincere, then maybe God will overlook those things. Friend, you've got as much chance as Barabbas against the Roman governor. Because God is just And those sins cannot be overlooked. Barabbas is in a hopeless situation. Can you feel the hopelessness of Barabbas' situation as he lays there in prison? No possibility of escape. No possibility of appeal. No possibility of working or earning his way out of this situation. Rath is a dead man. Then you think of the third way that Barabbas represents us. He represents us in his freedom by undeserved substitution. Of freedom by undeserved substitution. Totally without his cooperation and against all of his calculations, Rabbas. Sits there in prison while there is a question being asked outside of that dungeon in the same court that sentenced him to death. And the question that's being asked by the judge is Jesus or Barabas? Jesus or Verabus? It can't be both. Only one can go free, and the other must be crucified. Jesus or Harads. And having asked that question, We then move on to the next obvious question. Who deserves to be executed? Jesus or the Lattice? Who is the one who deserves to die? And if Barabbas knew anything about Jesus, surely any hopes that he would have had in hearing that question would have plummeted to absolute darkness and dismay. What questionnaire could there be about who would deserve to live and who would deserve to die, Jesus or Barathas? Absolutely no reason whatsoever to choose Barabbas over Jesus. Barabbas was a rebel, an insurrectionist. Jesus, we read, always submitted to his Father. He did everything that pleased him in every way, and never resisted authority. Labbas was a robber. He took what didn't belong to him. Jesus, we read, gave all that he had to the poor and everyone that he met. And his whole life was a constant giving of himself to anyone who had need. Baradas was a murderer. He took the life of the living. Jesus, we read, gave life to the dead. He not only helped people in their living, he took people who had died, and he raised them back to life. Who then deserves to die? Genesis 9, 6 is absolutely clear. He who sheds man's blood by man shall his blood be shed. Barabbas deserves to die. The Bible is equally clear in Deuteronomy 28 and 29. If you keep all these words of Allah, you shall live. Jesus has kept every word of God's law perfectly through his whole life. And so uniquely, of anyone who ever walked to the face of the earth, Jesus deserves to live. That's something you could never say about anyone else, whatever wrong to the face of the earth. He deserves to live. There is absolutely nothing against this man. God Himself in His omniscience can see no flaw in His character. Jesus alone deserves to live. And yet, seemingly against any concept of justice in the universe, God allows the people to cry out for Grabis to live and for Jesus. To be crucified. And Jesus and Barabbas change places. Jesus and Barabbas trained the places that they each have. And Jesus gets what Barabbas had. And Barabbas gets what Jesus had. Do you see that? Jesus had liberty. He gets the bonds that Barabbas had. Barabbas was in bondage for his crimes. He now gets liberty. Jesus had honor, honor with all eternity, honor with the Father and with the Spirit. And when he made the angels, he had from all time of the angels' existence all of the honor of thousands upon ten thousands of angels who worshipped him. When he made us as creatures who subconsciously were able to worship him, he should have had all of our honor as the one who has made us Jesus, who has sold air to honor to all of creation, now receives disgrace. And Baradis. Who was in justified disgrace receives fire. Jesus Who was the well beloved of the Father? Believed that after 30 years of his life, when he was baptized, the Father said, Here is my beloved Son. In him I am well pleased. Jesus is cursed. And Baradas, who was cursed, receives blessing. Then Jesus, who not only had life, but who was life Jesus, in whom was all life, so that the Bible tells us that there was no one who received life unless they received it from Jesus. Jesus is the source of all life. And Jesus receives death. His back is bloodied with the rods. He carries his cross. The nails are hammered into his hands and into his feet. And Jesus, who is life, is crucified And Baradas, who is under the unalterable sentence of death, with no possibility of escape or appeal. Receives life because Jesus died in his place. You know what the name Barabbas means? Baradas means a son of a father. That's such a inane name that nobody believes that that was his full real name. Either it was an alias to hide from the authorities, or it was part of his name. There's no tradition in the sense that his name was actually Jesus Barabbas. Not a lot of evidence for that. But the name that we're given in the Bible is Verandes, a son of a father. And a son of a father is delivered and given life. Because the son of the Father was condemned. In conclusion Notice that there are three people who must respond to this story. Three people who must respond to Pilate's Decision to have Jesus and Barabbas change places. Pallate receives Jesus as a free man, he condemns him. Palap has Barabbas as a man under sentence of death. He releases him. There are three people who must respond to that message. First of all, there's the messenger. The messenger who is to take this news to Baras. The messenger who is to take the good news of deliverance because Jesus has taken his place. The evangelist, the word evangelize, means simply to declare good news. And this herald who brings the message to Barabbas is an evangelist He is the one who declares the good news to Baradas. He has to respond to the message. Now, notice there are a number of ways he could have responded. First of all, he could have refused to take the message. He could have said, I know that scum. That guy doesn't deserve to live. Let somebody else take the message to him. He isn't worth it. And so would refuse to go. Or the messenger could have said, well, I'm kind of embarrassed about doing this, to tell you the truth. I think I'll wait until Barabbas raises the subject. Uh maybe if I just sort of hang around them and develop a relationship, Barabbas will they not the subject of you heard any good news lately or You know. Is there any way for me to get out of the prison or something? And you know, I I just pray that God will give me an opportunity, but I'd be embarrassed to bring it up by myself. Or perhaps the messenger could have said, okay, well I'll go and I'll tell him, but boy, have you seen my schedule lately? I mean I've got so much to do today. I mean I've got to clean the prison and I've got to go down and I've got to do this and I've got some errands to run. I just can't talk to that guy now. I'll get to it. Believe me, I'll get to it. I'll make sure that he hears before his time comes. I'll try to get to it. But sometime I'll do it. I just can't do it right now. Well maybe he could have responded by saying, Well, that's pretty amazing. I mean, I'm not sure I believe myself that you're actually going to condemn Jesus, who absolutely has done nothing wrong. To release this fellow, this scruffy character, this hypocrite who calls himself an idealist and just goes around robbing and looting. That you're actually going to release him in Jesus' place. I have too many questions about that. I don't understand that. But what if Barabbas asks me about how that happens? And Barabbas says, how come it is that they're releasing me instead of this fellow? I won't be able to answer him, but I don't know the answer to a lot of his questions. Maybe I'd better study up one a little bit more of Roman law and understand a little more of how this could happen. Understand more of the custom of the feast day and how that derived so that I can answer Barabbas' questions when he asks me about it. Until that time I better just lay low and not bring the subject up Well perhaps the messenger could have said, I'm just afraid to tell them. They'll probably laugh at me. And he'll say, that's ridiculous. I know that I'm going to die. And I'll say, no, no, you're really free. And you'll laugh at me. And I've got a pretty fragile self-image as it is right now, and I don't want people going around laughing at me for things I don't. I think I'll just let somebody else tell Or the messenger could have simply said, I will simply take that simple message, and I will trust the inherent power of that message that he's released because of what Jesus has done. And I will trust simply the power of that message to have its own effect, because that message is backed by the entire authority of Rome Carl and Rome stands behind the fact that Barabbas is released because Jesus is taking his place And I'm going to just simply trust that no matter what his questions are, I come with the authority of Pontius Pilate, who stands under the authority of Caesar. And I'll simply mention the message. I'll mention that message, trusting its authority. The second person that needed to respond to this is Baradas. Now there are conceptually three possible ways that Baradis could have responded to this. First of all, Barabbas could have rejected the message. He could have said, that can't be true. I don't believe it. And Barabbas would have gone to the cross a day or two later. Even though the payment had been made, even though the pardon was offered, Barabbas had to receive that pardon, to believe it, and to walk out, to be a free man. Is there possibly here someone this morning who has heard this message again and again, but still refuse to accept the pardon that has been freely offered? Moratus would indeed have been a dead man if he had not received the party. The second thing that the rabbis could have done would have been to reluctantly receive the message. The rabbis could have said, really, I am free. That's terrific! And he could have walked out of the prison, but as he walked out, he could have had some nagging thoughts about, I really don't deserve to be out of here In fact, I really deserve to buy. In fact, in order to feel okay about even being able to walk out of here, I'm going to have to add something to that payment. I'm going to have to feel crummy about it. I'm going to have to carry that guilt around and I'm going to nurture it. Just to show that I don't take very lightly what was done. And Barabbas could have taken his dungeon with him The dungeon of his guilt and his burdens, and all that went along with him because he refused to take the pardon and face value. He says, that's too embarrassing. To actually receive that at face value. And because of it being too embarrassing, he adds his own burdens. And so while a free man, he walks with the guilt in the dungeon strapped to his back. Of his own making. Or thirdly, Arabis could have received the pardon fully. He could have received it and simply said, I don't understand it. It doesn't make sense. But I accept it. Jesus, who deserved life, has taken my place. And I'll live the rest of my life in gratitude to that man who has done so much for me. I'll praise him and I'll adore him and I'll live to the full to release the freedom that Jesus accomplished Because he who didn't deserve to be cursed was cursed for me. And I'm a free man. As free as God's own law himself can make me. Where do you stand this morning? Or you're the third person who must respond to this story. Let's pray. Oh my god. How incredible that you in your justice would pierce your own son Who deserve nothing but accolades and honor and blessing and worship or strucky characters like us Who, like the rabbis, are insurrectionists and robbers and murderers. People who are greedy and self-centered and self-absorbed like we are. The Lord we come before you to cry, why? Why? Why did you send your own son for us? But like the rat of us know that all we have to do is to receive the pardon. To realize we have never deserved it and never could. But to be free, to walk out of that prison, and to know that there is nothing we can or ever need to pay. Oh Lord, receive our lives as offerings of gratitude and worship. That this week we might be a people who sin, because we're a free people. We're a people who have been purchased. We're a people who go greedy before the face of our God. Because the pain has been made. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. Amen. I don't suppose