I want to start by explaining to you that this um Will indeed be the beginning of your missions conference. I understand this is to be the first message in which I am basically wanting to give you In a different form, the renewed call of God to the world and to world evangelization, the renewed call of God to mission And help you to see again in a different and a fresh way that God has called and empowered us. To go into all the world of the gospel. And that is inherently part of who we are as the body of Christ. I've chosen a rather unusual text because I very, very much want to encourage you and give you a great sense of of hope and confidence. So I chosen a text about our weakness, to which I very much relate. So we could actually title this talk with two titles. One is God's Mission Plan. And I want to show you what God's plan is for world evangelization. It's a rather startling and surprising plan. We could also title it Be a vessel, let it flow. Now I chose vessel because that's in the text and I wanted to have something out of the text. It might be better to use for the sake of my um uh uh illustration be a channel let it flow because you usually think of something flowing as flowing in channels but either way be a channel let it flow our actual text is 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 7 through verse 18 will be the primary section on which we will work. I feel like I'm blessing you here. Let me get me begin this way though. If I held up before you a tiny little wire, so small, in fact, I could say to you, I'm holding it up here now because it the wire that I'm thinking about is so small that you could not see it from that distance. And this tiny little wire would be so small and so fragile that with great ease you could take it and just snap it with your hands. no effort. But now if I take that little tiny wire and I put it inside of a of a bulb And then I put 200 or excuse me, 120 volts of current to that bulb. You could have, out of that will come a brilliant light. That could literally blind you because of its brilliance. And yet that tiny little wire is very small and fragile, easily broken. The bulb itself, for that matter, is very small and fragile. It has no power in itself. I thought about actually bringing something like that and all of a sudden turning it on and you know blinding all of you and then for the next five minutes you'd wonder where I disappeared to. Um it would be a dramatic illustration of what I'm trying to uh show you and what I think God is saying to us in the text that that wire has no power in itself, does it? But when it becomes a channel of electrical current, it can produce in tremendous splendor, radiance, and brilliance. And that, brothers and sisters, is the situation with us as the people of God. And that is God's plan for world evangelization. To take very weak and very fragile people, mortals, and to flow through them with his power. In a way that the brilliance and glory and radiance of the gospel has a tremendous impact in the world. Let's look at this. 2 Corinthians then chapter 4 and verse 7. We've been talking about the light before this in the passage. The glory of the of the new covenant, the glory of the new dispensation, which is so much greater than the old dispensation that was fading away. We'll come back and look at that a little bit more. I realize that one of the problems with Bible readings is we don't really know what to attend to or what to pay attention to because we don't know why we're reading it. So we'll have to go back and look at it a bit. But let me just point out that what we have been seeing and we'll see more clearly in a few minutes is that the gospel The new covenant is so glorious, it's so fantastic, it's just almost incredible. And that glory Now is given to us. But now look at this. Verse 7 says, but we have the contrast. But We have this treasure, this glorious gospel, in its immensity, where? In earthen vessels. Homer Gracious. Earthen vessels. And the image here, by the way, is an image of something that's very common in the ancient world, and that was that people would keep their gold and silver stored in earthen jars. Very fragile and inappropriate in the sense to the gold and silver. Um they didn't have the banking system, I guess, that we have nowadays So they would store their gold and silver in earthen jars, and there is the contrast there between that earthen jar and the immense treasure within that jar. Now the tr the earthen jar here obviously is referring to us. And Paul says, in spite of the greatness of the gospel and its majesty and its power and splendor, That gospel is put into us who are so fragile. And he implies that that is really incredulous. Why? Incredible. And then he goes on to say, why does God do that? Look at this great statement to show that the transcendent power belongs to God and not to us Did you get it? God's design is precisely to put the all-powerful, the incredible gospel, the glorious gospel, into fragile human beings. And to use our fragiless, to use our weakness, to show that the gospel is great, that He is great and not us. In other words, God needs our weakness, if you please. God is deliberately working through weakness in order that He can show, without mistake, That the power belongs to him. And by the way, that is one of the reasons that it is really wrong to try to make ourselves look great and to use all sorts of great human um endeavor and put on try to impress people with the greatness of our gift and so on and so on so that uh that actually then begins to stand in the way of the gospel. And I believe that that's happening more in the or in terms of Christendom. There are many ways in which Christians, uh through the use of media and other things, are trying to give image to Christ. We're trying to help him out. We're trying to show him that earth and vessels aren't really so weak. And so we have superstar evangelism. We try to increase Christ's reputation by saying, Have you heard about so and so he became a Christian? You know. Or so-and-so, some great movie star, some uh uh athlete or something, and so we try to enhance the reputation of Christ But the design of God, this great plan, which seems like in one sense like it could have been doomed to failure, is to actually put the treasure of the gospel in earthen vessels. so that the power of God will be more greatly displayed. Now let's let's get into this a bit more. What is The weakness that we feel. Let's talk first of all, then we're going to talk about three things. The weakness we feel, the glory of the gospel, or the treasure of the treasure um the treasure we have and thirdly showing the power. First then, the weakness we feel. How do we feel as earthen vessels? Paul goes on here. He says he actually switches metaphors and he suggests the picture of a soldier who progressively goes from bad to worse in the battle. And the words here actually suggest something more like this. The soldier on the field, in successive stages of battle, first he is surrounded by the enemy. Then he is hard pressed. And you can see the image here. probably of a person fighting with a sword, hard-pressed, beaten back. Surely looking like he's going to be defeated. But that's not all. Finally, he's driven back and driven from the field of battle, and lastly, he's struck down by the enemy's sword and finally given over to death. And yet at every one of these points God delivers him. And you'll see that uh he we're afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair. And those words there are really better uh understood as those five progressive stages of the battle. But at every point God delivers. And so we are weak. And how many times do you feel that way? Is it real? Do you feel weak as you stand for Christ, as you live for Christ in your arena of the world? I know that I do And there I think there are several aspects of the weakness that we feel. One is physical limitedness. Let me just go on here and pick up and help you to follow the text. Verse 10. We're always carrying in the body the death of Jesus. And again, the purpose, so that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our bodies. For while we live, we are always being given up to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. This last statement has to do with the overall argument that Paul is doing. He's arguing for the uh authenticity of his ministry and he's saying that as we as ministers of the gospel for the sake of you Corinthians are pressed down and uh struggle and suffer for the cause of Christ, we do that for your sake, so that the life of Christ, as it comes through us, may come to you and empower you. But then as we think of ourselves also as being ministers of the gospel. And people who are carriers of the gospel, vessels of the gospel. The concept here is that we are always carrying in our body the death of Jesus. We share In the call to in following Jesus of the suffering that he takes. Jesus opposition becomes our opposition Position. Jesus said, listen, they've hated and they've opposed the teacher. Is it any surprise then that they will oppose the servant or oppose his followers? And so in that sense, we take on the death of Christ. But there's another aspect here, and I think it's summed up in the concept that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal flesh. And the concept here is that we are dying people. Soon after we're born, we begin to deteriorate. Go down to verse 16. We do not lose heart, even though our outer nature is wasting away. And then it goes to say our inner nature is being renewed every day. But Scripture affirms the reality that for human beings who are mortal, That w the word mortal means that we're dying people and that we are dying people. And the poem that um Larry, Larry Red, uh is an excellent illustration of that downhill decline that occurs in our bodies because we are physical beings and we are not yet fully redeemed. And yet it is in the midst of that weakness that the greatness and the power of the life of Christ can be shown. But then what is what does the mortality of our of our being mean to us in terms of weakness? I think it means we have physical weakness. I think it means we have spiritual weakness. There is the fallenness of man. And third, I believe that impl implied in that is also what I would call uh sociopolitical weakness or weakness in terms of our position in calling people to Christ. First our physical weakness. Let me illustrate a little from uh my own life and the and the wife and my and my wife There are many times as we've been involved in Christian ministry when we're simply tired. And uh so much so that when the phone rings, we're afraid. that it's somebody needing our help. And we just don't want one more phone call. We're out of energy. We are limited. We're limited in energy. Secondly, we're limited in time. How many times do you feel guilty and frustrated? Because as you've grown in Christ, you've you've come to see more spiritual need. You're more perceptive. And you know that there's these neighbors all around you that maybe are uh have some openness to the gospel. Or you wonder if you should know whether they have some openness to the gospel, but you haven't even had time to find out. And then there are people right here in the congregation that you know that you could care for more. You know that there's some are hurting. And you help some here, and you reach out there, but you run out of time. And you feel very much your physical limitedness. All of us feel it, don't we? Secondly, our spiritual limitedness because we are fallen. And perhaps this is the mo uh more pressing and the more um uh paralyzing of the two. How often do you feel um the limitedness of your love? In a couple of ways. One, you run out of it. You just don't have any more to give to anybody else. You've been loving and caring for people and you just can't bear for another person to need you. Secondly, there are some people that you find it very difficult to love. And you know that loving them involves confronting them. And you know that if you confront them And you make that commitment to carry that means making a commitment rather to carry through with them and that's going to be a tremendous amount of effort. And you're just not sure you really want to do it. And so sometimes we flee, don't we? Ken and I have repeatedly have street people come into our lives. And we don't feel like we've been very successful. This scenario, not only do we feel frustration, but even failure. Now a lot of it has to do with who they are and their own fault. But on the other hand, we keep wondering, have we loved them right? And as they come into our lives, and we have thought to help them, both to help call them to Christ and to really help them to begin just to become responsible. Because many street people where they are partly because they'd rather be there uh than to be more responsible. And so it means counseling them. It means confronting them And we wrestle with, are we willing to pay that price again? Will it pay off? Do we really care? And can we do what it takes? Well, you know where some of your areas are struggling with your limit isn't. And then the last one I would mention is failure. How many of us struggle with failure? We feel guilt. Maybe we feel impotence even. This is going to be one of the most paralyzing things because we realize that we have failed in loving perhaps children. Failed in loving neighbors, failed in loving whoever. We feel, in other words, our fallenness and our brokenness because of the fall. And we feel our weakness, and God leaves us in a sense weak. How do we handle that? How do we go beyond failure? Well then the last thing. Right now I'm painting a rather grim picture, but I we're getting to the treasure, so hang on. Um The third thing is that we are in a posture of weakness when it comes to standing for Christ in the world. Not only do we wrestle with our own internal weakness, Physical limitedness and spiritual limitedness, we wrestle also with the fact that we can never even legitimately use force in evangelism. The crusades were a mistake from the beginning. They're a terrible blot upon the history of the church. Because God has never given us the right to use force. Why? Because people And coming to Christ must do what? They must voluntarily turn, or it's not real, is it? And therefore we are left helpless. We cannot use the kind of power that political governments use. And many times we feel our powerlessness to persuade people, to move people towards Christ. As a result of that, even Christians suffer around the world. It's been the lot of Christians to suffer. suffer under the opposition to Christ and some are die some die. In fact I would suggest to you that all around the world today there are Christians who are imprisoned, there are Christians who are suffering and there are Christians who may at this very moment be dying for the cause of Christ. Because we cannot use force. We are the innocent and we are the meek who would take what is handed to us. We seem powerless, don't we? But not only that powerlessness, but what about the powerlessness of when we do give the gospel, we do have the freedom to give it, we give the word, we give the message, then what Do you ever feel frustrated and powerless? You've given the message and the person doesn't hear? You've given the message and the person seems blind. You've given the glory of the gospel and the person just sits there. Or they argue or they oppose it. Do you feel powerless? We are in ourselves. All this God says that He does. Paul says to us that God does this so that out of that powerlessness, then the gospel flows through us. People will be saved, and they are being saved. And God does give us the power to overcome our weakness, our brokenness, our failure, our sin, and so on. Let's go on to that now. To the treasure of the gospel. What is the treasure that we have? And I want to suggest Three things. One is the incarnate Christ. That is that God Himself has become flesh and dwelt among us. Now here is the great model. God Himself chose to take on human weakness, now apart from the fallenness part. We realize that. But do you realize the tremendous good news and encouragement and the fact That God became man, the word became what? Flesh. Mortal flesh. And one of the startling pictures of Jesus is the way in which the power and authority of God continually was breaking out. One of the pictures I love is Jesus asleep in the boat in the storm. Remember that? He's sleeping the sleep of human exhaustion. He is limited. He is weak. He is so tired you realize that he is sleeping through a terrible storm. A storm that has taken the boat down that is going to drown these men, four experienced fishermen come to a, I would say, a rather considered conclusion that that's true. These guys know that's lake and they know it's true, and they were going to drown folks. But Jesus so tired he's sleeping through it all. He's limited But he wakes up, sees the situation, and all of a sudden the power and authority of God burst through again. And they're utterly startled, and they're terrified of him, even Mark says. Phenomenal picture. And that's what I want to say to you and to me. The great word of encouragement. That is the way the power of God works in us. It breaks through. And do you remember some moments when somehow you've been able to touch somebody with the power and love of Christ? Sometime when you've been able to give that word that was beyond the your usual wisdom and insight. Yes, it brought together some of your homework you've been doing and walking with Christ. But something came through. Those moments when the power of God burst through or somebody just responded and you can understand why they responded because there's nothing fabulous or fantastic about your evangelism or about your witness. anyway. But we need to understand that the incarnation gives us begins to give us hope. In Jesus we saw the Father He who has seen me has seen Father. The second aspect then is simply this, and the incarnate Christ, is that we have been able to see who God really is. Does that excite you? It excites me. We can know him because we can know Christ. Well, I want to develop that one more. I'd love to talk about the way Jesus is uh love and tenderness is expressed. One of my favorite stories is the story of the leper and Jesus' incredible perception of cultural and personal implications of that man's condition. When he touches, he reaches out to that man when he says, If you will, you can make me clean. And the question of that leper The horrible, burning, self-deprecating, despairing question of that leper is whether Jesus would ever want to. A man who's had to bring on himself his own ostracism from his people and from his own family. He has had to cry out, unclean, unclean, get away from me. No wonder he has a rather low self-image. Not having had human touch perhaps for years, except from other lepers. And Jesus. When he said when he asks that, the text says first that he touches it And says, I will be clean. He does three things, not one. He could have just said, be clean. But Jesus immediately perceives and feels this man. And he touches him acceptingly and says, I accept you. I will not run from you. And he gives him the touch of human acceptance and affection and says, I will. I want to heal you. Be clean and I want We may feel like lepers in our brokenness and uncleanness. But one of the things that we see in the incarnate Christ is the one who is continually touching lepers and saying to us us I want you to be clean be clean I will purify you I will empower you and I will use you Well, of course, after that the leper couldn't sit still. He just couldn't even obey Christ. He just told him to shut up until he got to the priest and got the official approbation and seal of approval. Which is the appropriate thing to do by the law, but the guy just couldn't keep it to himself and began blabbing it everywhere. And that's the way it ought to be with us. Because we see the incarnate Christ. We have this incredible treasure of the incarnate Christ. The second thing we have, though And the treasure of the gospel is what I I was trying to get another one that started with in, because I've got incarnate Christ and then my a third one under this one is the indwelling Christ, but I couldn't think of one. If any of you can think of Please give it to me. But at any rate, the second one is the substitutionary Christ, the Christ who has died in our place. Jesus often has compassion on that leper and is willing to embrace him. But Jesus must pay the price for our leprosy. The burning question of scripture is how can a holy God love and accept and redeem rebellious, treasonous human beings like you and me? And the answer is that God so fixes his love upon us that Jesus Himself goes to the cross and comes under the judgment and wrath of God and God pours out his fury on Jesus Christ and saves us. Satisfies it because all the time on the cross, Jesus is looking at you and at me. Because the scripture says, who for what? The joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. And all the time Jesus is looking with longing toward you and me because he loves us and goes through the immense torment of physical crucifixion, and even worse. Of the satisfaction of the judgment of hell on himself. Because he loves us. That's the treasure of the gospel. And then thirdly, the indwelling Christ. Now I want us to look back. And pick up more on the glory of the gospel. We read this earlier The text is just for some review. The text of the section actually begins in chapter 2 and verse 14. I didn't think we had enough time to read all that, so I did not have us read that much in the reading. But just briefly it goes like this. Thanks be to God who in Christ always leads us in triumph. Don't think that we're losing. As we go in the ministry of the gospel, he leads us in triumph. And then he goes on to give this image the image of a conquering general returning through Imperial Rome. leading behind him his troops and his captives. And as he goes, some of the messengers would carry before him the burning incense of the celebration of the victory. And Paul goes on to say, we're that infant. Which is a savor of life to life to those that are being saved. To those in the army, it's tremendous news. It's the image of victory. But to those who are the captives being returned, it is the Stench or the fragrance of death to them. It means their death will not follow long after. So for those who refuse Jesus Christ, our gospel as it comes is a very sobering thing, and Paul says, who is sufficient for these things? And his answer is, we are simply because God has entrusted to us the gospel and we speak with integrity. And uh we'll get a little more to that in a minute. But then he goes on to say, second uh point about the got his ministry. In chapter 3, verse 1 is that you are our letters of recommendation. You are not like the old covenant in which God spoke and wrote on tablets of stone, but this gospel, this New Dispensation, is actually written on hearts through transformed lives, and as people see the transformed lives of you Corinthians They see the authenticity of our ministry. That is also the new glory of the gospel. It's victorious. Secondly, it is more transforming than the old covenant. And then we come down, in which he really gets carried away with the glory and splendor of the new covenant, the part where you started reading. Verse 4. And the whole concept here revolves around the idea that the glory of this gospel is so surpassing the old covenant. Because the old covenant was temporary and fading away. Just look at it. If the dispensation of death See, the old covenant was a dispensation of death, and now this is oversimplified, and Paul is talking about the old covenant in as much as it is written law. It is the demands of God. And what do the demands of God do to all human beings? Do they ever save any human beings? No, never. Whenever you state the law, the standards of God, you always damn people because no one lives up to the standards. And so Paul says that the old covenant written on stone was a dispensation of death. Because that could only bring death. Now, yes, there was grace in the old covenant, and God also in the old covenant uh regenerated people and brought them to himself But in the sense of having law as standards, it was a damning situation. And he goes on to say If that dispensation came with such splendor that when Moses came down from the mountain, his face shone with the majesty and somewhat of a reflected splendor of God, how much more this dispensation? Is glorious. And then he goes on to explain that not only did that dispensation have brightness, but that dispensation had a fading brightness. That when Moses came down from the mountain, what would happen? Is Moses' face shone at first so much that the people were scared of him? And they ran away from Moses. Moses called him back, and the people came, and they listened to Moses as his face shone with the radiance of the reflected glory of God. But even as he spoke, The glory began to fade some, not too badly. And when Moses finished speaking, the Old Testament says that he put a veil over his face. Why? In order to hide the fading. And then when he went back into the presence of God to speak again with God, he would take the veil off to get recharged. And then he would again come out, and people would see the glory of God in Moses' face, but he would cover his face again after that, so they couldn't see it fate. And the old covenant Had tremendous splendor, but it faded. It was continually fading. However, the new covenant has a glory that never fades. It is the glory that is replacing the old covenant because Jesus has come and Jesus has died and the Holy Spirit now has come and he Does this new work of writing the law into the hearts of people who are redeemed. And so there's a greater glory than the old one. But then not only that, not only is it greater in the sense that The uh new uh situation does not fade, but it's also greater in this sense that um um The glory does not decrease, but rather it increases. And if you go down now to verse 18. It says, and we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being changed into his likeness from one degree of glory to another. And here's the picture. Not only is this glory permanent, but this glory which is deposited in us and being expressed in us is increasing. It is going up. As we become like Christ, as we behold his glory, see, unlike Moses, who only could go in when God called him, we can go in regularly into the presence of God. Because of the work of the Spirit of God, that is true. And because of the work of the Spirit of God and the new level of transforming power, God leads us into greater lightness to Christ from one degree of glory to another, so that as we live on the earth, we can actually increase in the glory that shines through us. The only condition is looking with unveiled face at Jesus for him. Now I just find that tremendously exciting. Weak vessels. But the glory shines through. It's letting the power flow, you see, through the circuit. We're merely a fragile wire. But as we let that power flow, we can go from one degree of glory to another. Um there's one more superiority of the new to the old, and that is You notice that it was Moses who glowed. But in contrast to just being one leader of the people who experiences that experience of the presence. Of God, you'll notice that Paul says, and we all. So what do I see is I look out in this room, I see a room full of new Moses. All of us being able to grow from one degree of glory to the next through the empowering work of God. Now, isn't that a super Isn't that an incredible superiority of the gospel? And that is why Paul says, uh-huh, you know, but it's a to him it's an incredible contrast, but this treasure Has been put in earthen vessels so that the transcendent power can be shown to belong to God. Now showing the power. We need to wrap up. Let me just say this first. The nature of the transcendent power, I just want to point out to you one thing. Well, make clear the whole nature of God's plan. And the fact that we are called. One of my favorite versions of understanding the missionary mandate is Acts chapter 1. You remember the text, don't you? Alice undoubtedly preached on it by now. Acts 1 is a mirror image of the Great Commission statement in all the Gospels, where it is given as a command. However, in Acts chapter 1 There is no command given. Rather, there is a prophetic statement of immovable direction of history. And what it says is this. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and at the end of the earth. You get it? The statement is: you're to go and wait in Jerusalem. And what's going to happen? Is that the Spirit will come. But what does it mean for the Spirit to come? Well, I believe that the book of Acts shows that the pivotal empowerment of the Spirit is the empowerment for witness. He says, you'll receive power and you will be my witnesses. Cause and effect. You will not be able to help it. You will receive power, you won't be able to stop that. That'll be the cause. And then the effect will be that you will be my witnesses to the uttermost parts of the earth. And then you need the book of Acts in Acts is the unfolding of that story. The Spirit comes, chapter two, and people can't quit talking about Jesus. They become blabberbows for Jesus. They are so excited and powered for Jesus. And the story is, as we read it, Peter Rash and yet scared when the pressure is on, is totally transformed and gets up and preaches at risk of his life, time after time after time. Because the Spirit has come. And I want to say to you, listen, the Spirit has come upon every one of us. And well, I know something. And that is that you can't keep quiet. Do you know why you're uncomfortable? Not talking about Christ. When fear does win, and sometimes it does, you're not happy. Why? Because the Spirit has come and invaded your life. And there's this longing and this restlessness to declare Jesus to people around you. You know what the implication of that is? The the implication is that the power is flowing. And sometimes it gets blocked. But there's a new age, folks. And this is part of the splendor of the new gospel, of the new covenant. That you are empowered, and I am empowered. Yes, we're weak, and we feel our weakness And often we get bound up by that. But the the repeated and unrelenting story of Acts Is that the gospel keeps breaking out through God's people. And the more they see his power, by the way, the more they understand the power of God, the more free they are to talk about it. So you've got to be in God's presence. And then the book of Acts goes on and on and on. The gospel expanding and expanding and expanding finally gets to the end. The gospel still expanding. Paul's gotten out to Rome as a prisoner. God even using his imprisonment to his advantage. God never wastes a stroke. And the book ends without having an end. Why? I believe this is the reason. I believe the reason is that we are still in Acts. And that statement is a statement of the nature of the church. And now we're back. The transcendent power belongs to God and not to us. That that is what God is demonstrating. God is flowing through us. You do have the motivation and you do have the power to proclaim Christ. So I say to you, be a channel. Let it flow. The key thing to do is to unblock it. I want to suggest just a few things. Number one, revel in your weakness. Begin to revel in the fact that you are broken, that you don't have power in yourself to live for Christ as you wish. Revel in your weakness and your physical limitedness. All that is so that God can really show himself off in you. God wants to show himself off. And in the love that is in our hearts, that is what we long to see. Well, how will we do that? The first step is to be enjoying Christ. The second step is to incarnate Christ. The third step is to sow the seed. And then fourth is to partner with the world. Just briefly enjoying Christ. There's no substitute for the enjoyment of Christ. Christ just invites us to relax. And what I'm saying is, God's plan is that we should relax and just enjoy Him so that we're so filled up with Him that it does flow through us. Have you ever seen somebody in love? Do you need to tell them to talk about their partner? What you do is like pushing the button. The trouble is getting them to stop. And that's the concept. Do you remember Jesus and the love that you saw as you came to him Do you remember those times when you've really thought about and understood the cross? That's what we need to do, to think often on the cross, to meditate on him, and let him captivate us. Sing those hymns, Jesus, thou joy of loving hearts, thou fount of life, thou light of men. From the best bliss that earth imparts, we turn unfilled to thee again. Or Jesus, the very thought of thee with sweetness fills my breast, but sweeter far thy face to see, and in thy presence rest. What we need to do is to be in the presence of Jesus, enjoying his face. Just Looking, just slowing down, just relaxing, and just enjoying that love relationship. That's the key. We've got to let the current flow, in other words. Second, we need to just simply incarnate Christ, relax. And as Christ fills us with his being and with his likeness, see, as we do the first, we will be transformed into his likeness from one degree of glory to another. And we begin to live out his life. And I want to say to you that the primary idea of evangelism in the New Testament is not running out somewhere and proclaiming it, it's simply living it. It's it's simply living out price-likeness. Now Blee to understand that this is redemptive is not just being kind of weird and different from folks It's not primarily negative, but it's primarily positive. And I want to say to you that as you think about your own evangelism, as your own part in the missionary mandate, your role is to be servant lovers of other people, or loving servants of other people. Servanthood is the key to begin to really give yourselves to other people. Now you can't do it to everybody. We are limited. We've got to accept our limitedness. But pray that God will show you who to really give yourself to. And as we do that, things really happen, even in situations of powerlessness. I just heard this story of a woman we'll call Nadia who's behind the Iron Curtain in a country where it is against the law to ever give the gospel. If she was caught giving the gospel verbally, she would automatically get ten years in prison. One day, in this situation of seeming powerless powerlessness, Naughty looked out from the store where she was buying her groceries and noticed this woman that was and her uh child who were obviously undernourished and even malnourished. And she felt God leading her to give this woman her bag of groceries. She went out and gave them to her, chatted with her briefly, didn't even know the woman, where she lived, her name. But God laid that woman in her heart. She began to pray for her. And one day she was walking a few weeks later and saw this woman. And so she followed her home to find out where she lived. Still didn't know her name. Continued to pray for her. God laid on her heart to give this woman, to take to this woman. Oh my gracious, where's my nose here? What's the first thing? Um, a pair of shoes. That's what it was. So she went to the woman's house. She took her pair of shoes, chit-chatted, couldn't talk about Christ, left with the parachute. The woman was very appreciative, went home. Later on, she felt God impressing her to bring some sweaters for her children. So she bought the sweaters, brought them to the woman, again just chit chatted, and left. The third time, it was kind of strange. She felt God impressing off upon her to bring some handkerchiefs. So she brought some handkerchiefs, brought them to the woman, chatted. The woman thanked her and went back home. The fourth time she felt God impressing her with something really strange, and that was to bring this woman some underwear. She said, Lord, is this really right? Well, she became convinced. She took the underwear, went to the woman's house again, knocked on the door, gave her the underwear, and the woman's response was startling. She says How are you always hearing the arguments between me and my husband? Nadia said, I don't know what you're talking about. I have never met your husband, never heard anything And the woman went on to tell how her husband was an alcoholic. In the first case, she was coming home and getting on the bus, her foot got stuck in the mud. And the bus pulled away and she left her shoe in the mud. She went home. It was her only pair of shoes. And she told her husband, I lost my shoes. I need a pair of shoes. And he cursed her. And said, if you can't take care of your shoes, you can go barefoot. And Nadia just brought her those shoes when that happened. The next time her children were returning to school in the fall. And she said that the children need sweaters, and her husband cursed her. And Nadi brought the sweaters. The third time The children had coals, and of course, uh, I guess they don't have as much Kleenex there. So handkerchiefs are very utilitarian. And again the husband cursed her when she expressed the need, because they had no handkerchiefs at all. They were very poor because the husband was drinking of all the money. And not he brought the handkerchiefs. The last time The woman had gone out to look for a job. In order to get the job though, the people said she had to have a physical. Well, she had she didn't even have any proper underwear for going to get a physical. And Naughty shows up. With his underwear. And she says, How did you do that? And she said, God told me. And I want to say to you, brothers and sisters, there are two things illustrated in that that we really need today and that people are looking for. One is the demonstration of the supernatural power of God to love and to serve people. Not words, but doing. And second is the need for the demonstration of supernatural power that is in unrefutable, irrefutable That woman was led of God in a unique way. Now God doesn't always need to do that in that way. We don't all have to have those particular kind kinds of experiences. But we're at a time in history where Americans are less and less reasoning about things and are looking for things that look real. And so I just want to say that as we go with the gospel then As we live it out, people will see the power of God. They will see the gospel as we go from one degree of glory to another. And then we simply open our mouths and let the message flow. And don't and and find God's power not to let fear hold it back. We simply tell it it is the only one condition that Paul gives in this passage, and that is that we tell the truth with sincerity. We don't pollute the truth, we speak it like it is. You see, we don't have to work.