I would say that by that you mean to be advocated for Christians, to be baptized with the Holy Spirit for speaking What more emphasis on the priority of the need of the Holy Spirit in the Christian life in order to live Without our new identity in the mindset. I had an opportunity to talk with our Company, remember that name? Help her first by that. Probably not many years old, now I had been a faster, worth my spot to do it faster than probably about uh nearly a sixty of those years. And uh He said, I look back on my ministry and see the greatest deficiency. in my preaching was a lack of emphasis on the person and work of the Holy Spirit in the life of a Christian. He said that's the greatest But that's I think um An unfortunate reaction often that we have to some of the things that we see that are in wrong teaching or excessively and so on. Sit back on and neglect what in fact I think Paul would place much more prominence, placed in much more prominence than we also do. For example There are twelve references to the Holy Spirit. And you might get it if you divide it up chapters one to three. There are six references exactly to the Holy Spirit in the three chapters. And the command that we've been looking at last week in this five tool. Chapter four seventeen up through five point one. Uh that I like the command, be filled with the Holy Spirit is the victim between resurrection and the election of Father, which is five thinking. Even though it's still planned in a commercial position in his thinking. Last week, seven things, classic This week uh to look at it uh can't go into a great deal of depth, but I just wanted to cover three points and three observations about this first and everything and I'm gonna be able to The truck of the line would speak to the battery, but instead of the spirit. And that is pretty deceit. First of all, the part here brings I think that it's important to understand this command being done to the speed is actually the second part of the contrast we need to understand it in those terms. The intelligence there is first of all to put off the remember what it was the remembers B I Life is the artificial stimulus to produce joy, drunkenness, production, rage, and regret. of God for edification. We see that in verse nineteen and twenty one, which call the same beginning in verse eighteen, uh working out the practical joy that we experienced from the Spirit toward God and toward another God of the Spirit. Second of the command was the spirit two points, but that command is in the present continually that tells us that we're saying this in fact goal and continually build and have been uh made uh the experiments that made the down in your life at the point that you gave your life to Jesus pregnant. You are beginning to experience yourself And you can feel that and he's working that out in you. What does that mean? But rather um that uh if you look at the parallel command in collides Be fruitfully spirit is paralleled there by the command, let the word of Christ be you. Richard let it go. And so uh I summed that opening up what that means by that little statement getting there too late at the end. And uh um gonna try to put that uh carefully uh to show up what I think he's saying here. The feel of the gospel of fire in our hearts to produce compelling traveling. Yeah. This is the thing. This is the holy thing. In your heart, and my heart to produce supernatural, compelling. Experience identifies with black experts. Uh and by the way, what that's what that's saying is that you've got the spirit and you've got the gospel, and you you can never really separate those in a public Christian experience Just take the gospel. There it is, we can tell it and understand it. That's great, I believe it. But if we don't like that fire, you take the spirit and you may seem to have it Experience in the spirit, mystical, supernatural, miraculous, or whatever it is. But if the spirit is not taking the gospel, they object the gospel of Christ for sinners. That was forgiven, transformed, forgiveness by children of God by his grace alone. Then the Spirit will not produce possible. It's a combination of the That is because it's once again a command in the past, which is that's what happened for in Greek Thirty one where he said uh let it be removed from you. Well better than range banger, banger. I mean, how do I do it now? This is something that I don't do. Uh, he's telling me that sovereignly I get that coming here. So that's something that Paul wants for you to obey. And that brings us to the third thing, which uh been done in the year with somebody uh raise the last week. Please what is the birthday? Is it uh that we are to celebrate the spirit as a commitment uh tell me quick I'm curious Um what's the third thing? Well, the first third thing is what do you think here? The third thing is a what is subscription What? But I will get you can't push that I've done. Nobody in the first room does anything. Because anyone just like you were I can say that's a good idea. Yeah, okay. Uh that you need to see that in the context of all the whole thing here. That's something that's out of the book. He's bringing here from all the typical data that would see as kind of focusing on that one command. Yeah, well this is important to understand because um You know, we may be filled with the spirit and maybe kind of confusing to us, but before an important important biblical concept remember, uh God writ back in the uh plan of the uh tavern When uh the tabernacle has been completed here, what's simply a and uh uh not very spectacular you look at it, but then something happened The tabernacle. The tabernacle. Yeah, I can imagine a couple of minutes of like standing by there and uh looking at this thing and I heard this, Oh, this cloud just comes down and and tent just That is obvious. That is terrible. That's the same thing that happened to The earth will be built with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord because the waters cover the sea. Waters cover the sea, but waters are sea. You know what I mean? So that's the idea. You just despair, you were aware of it. It is uh overwhelming thing. called pre that our eyes would be open that we might see, and then he talked about the third thing in the first thing that we know him, to know his power. But then we'd also see that the eyes of our Something of the glory of the memory that's the really great to achieve it. We are at service. That's what he's talking about. But the converts be killed with spirit. But what does that mean? You can't spend a lot of time. Uh you have uh that great build bear black bearing uh appearing now. um deliverance and the power of God's Earth. Ten times in the book of Acts, ten times in the book of Lord. So here is one of the starting controls by the spirit of the ministry that will have right when the time is born. And then you remember uh when Mary comes to Elizabeth that Maybe in her mood, you read that Elizabeth, uh make her joy and spirit and praise the In uh chapter one, Zechariah, the fourth of John the Baptist Bible study, the later we put the prophetic word of the phrase of the full film. The Old Testament scriptures of the Lion Spirit is mine to clarify God in speaking these words. where he becomes the second Adam to keep Satan now not in the garden but in the wilderness because of the fall. And he is filled with a spirit in knowing that. And that's happened to reverse for what happens if they're sitting there and say what they're doing. But they're gathering their way on the thing that caused a point in time. And again, speaking, we just bring it never better. Praise God and to glorify it. Very significantly, I think verse thirteen. The people hear this If you can't explain it super accurately the way you explain it accurately, you don't think it's not all. With wine, do not try to have a false substitute exhilaration and intoxication, but rather be filled with a spirit that gives you a supernatural work Well uh Everything that if you go through that game and again you read the space, filled with the spirit, filled with the spirit, and in every case you see either And it's always done. Praise and proclamation of the witness of the grace and the power of Jesus Christ. Therefore, coming down to the bottom line out. What is this for you and for me. I believe that there are two ideas that God is taking to convey to us here to say on the backside that are bulletin two ideas of first is awareness. Awareness to be felt with a spirit and to be felt with an overwhelming awareness of God's presence. And glory. That is to be confident of his presence and his power in your life. To know that a Certainly in your heart, you are not alone, and you are not on your own with the Lord Jesus. One of the great tragedies today is And people spend so little time alone cultivating a conscious sense of God's presence. But in the last time They cannot alone with God for more than five minutes to just cultivate an awareness of his presence. And I'm going to ten minutes of Bible studies. I don't gotta tell these things out, I've got to read this book and but now I have to come before him and say, Lord, help me with a sense of your presence. I don't believe it. Unluckily until I defend you are here and you are with me. And this time at first bird you're taking something about your sense. Another meaning that God uses for us in this is the Lord's Supper. Because of the Lord's Supper. The great focus of that is that in those momentum needs something to meet with us and to make us profoundly aware beyond something we simply be. But in our spirits and in our whole being to know, I am living with the Lord. He has shown his spirit with me to do And then what happened? We all heard that. And many of you don't take Dependent. But that means of God's gracious. It already means to help with an awareness of his presence. If it never comes to speak to us Take advantage, brothers and sisters, of the meanings that God has given to you to be filled with the spirit of the collective awareness of his presence. The second idea that we have here, I believe, is I don't think awareness but In this case, why? We talk to somebody broke, they say he's under the influence. Do not be under that influence, but rather be under the influence, the control of the spiritual What he said to me before the context of that. Do you remember the back of chapter 4? It said having the What is Jesus the seal? The promise of the spirit. That's not the seal. And he said basically, Hands off, how is this my Hands off, demonic powers hands off, he's lying. That's the deal. That's the thing. Election. Let's make the real And therefore it's not something I pray that the eyes of your heart will be open by knowing it. In chapter two says in verse eighteen, we have access to that Father by that Holy Spirit He then goes on in chapter two, verse twenty-two, which says he has picture of the Old Testament background of the tabernacle of the Shekaiah board. In chapter two, verse twenty-two he says That's not a thing. That's not a command. That's a fact that you belong to Jesus Christ. You are a tabernacle, a part of that corporate tabernacle God dwells by the Spirit. Therefore, chapter three, when I pray, when I pray, because I prayed in verse 14 And there are the unfortunate priests. The tensions of the former Christ. Now chapter seven chapter three. I am made in my creation to be a living tabernacle, and dwelling place of my spirit, my spirit ministers to you What that means. Like all this in chapter five, verse eighteen. So he's helped with the spirit. That's what he's talking about. So then you feel me. You feel alone with you. You feel alone. You meet those commands. You read with God's intentions My presence and my power that he is present in you And I'm covering it by the nature. Now to appropriate the teacher to my home. That's the eighteenth century It was a simple school teacher. I'm being on a table. Everybody coming every message up in a church camera reading this Bible. God, Brian, God. You've taken my friend, you've transformed I want to know you. I want to know what you are, I want to know what you're like. Because at that time thought it began to overwhelm you with We need to act wing the sense of this balls. The sense of this presence of the spirits of the animals was my my being was built up till I had a present Overwhelmed with a sense. God's loving his presence with you. That's what Paul's talking about deeply experience. Without both, how we have to talk to people. Couldn't help them without a talent. The church wanted to preach and I'm not a preacher, I've been trained about worrying. So he refused to preach. But if you have a preacher's around the door, you can chair with a without even talking to them about it. But the gospel doesn't what the Spirit of God can do in their lives. And people are transformed by the thousands, by the windards. And the entire country of Wales and revival was the foundation of the Church of Wales in this day. Two years later, how that that power of uh the gospel people by the dozen to come to that correct um because Great sense it was back to school teacher and especially charismatic power to draw people but others to achieve But what broke in Christ wasn't a matter of sin, wasn't a matter of God, but you and I have reference to him. And then That's what I don't issue for it is. Anything beyond that question break one of the sporting is Well you read this commandment. Without having your seat to you to live in the Christian life. Christian life like a a person in a boat. Mark boat. Crush light seems also hard. Oh, let me discover this as scale. The thing three is the same. I can't make the progress. It is time for revealing to remain to our church to enter into a deeper experience. The presence and the power of God's current. I have offered an invitation to say that the side of the room this week to the satisfactory where people who were hungry and everything brought up on the city of people. And people praying, confessing and crying out to God for knowing different work of the Spirit. Anybody wants to come back? See what Donald? To the first service wrapping as I was walking out. But we're looking to our brothers and sisters. God is to take it. So that his presence is power and more evident. Oh Lord, it is hard to call it. Lord, some of us respect hard. You come and you speak to the remote that we don't come in with problems. Come just to take and control. Springs, streams, and water. Or pregnant the only pregnancy both of that first and quite you do the price to call them to of our relationship with you. They have to be intervened. Just make a plan. I'm trying to do a brand of the people that need one to do some particular work, which is this would be the main It's really hard to meet for me this afternoon to because I haven't time to take that time to be alone. Spirit, because I glorify you. You desire to give your spirit more than they desire to ask and say. Son and asked to the Father for asking the father. Somebody who asked the spirit and everything that we're going to We're hearing it. People started being left again than I was in the broken. What you were doing. Minister of the Gospel.