The second verse, the other version of the is chapter five verse twenty two. Wives here husbands and we'll be dealing with that now. sometime in the next plenty. But the verse that we come to deal with today, the other verse that is more controversial probably than any On the other thing that's a call system of patients is chapter nine, verse eighteen. Exciting, troublesome. Uh, it's not a verse that you can preach without emotion. I found that last verse I was preaching and And I I wasn't sure what people were hearing with a whole lot of feedback. And afterwards some people were saying things like you know a whole lot to get and save myself from saying something to the Lord. Um I said that was a happiness, but I didn't say hell of my lord. I don't I'd like to just pause for a moment and pray for God to rip our hearts, whatever it is. Or we we cannot look at that merry without some feelings. Wait, tell us. Too much of one. To meet the modern being filled with the spirit. You know that uh has caused great disagreements and display moment and um this person's intended to freeze and really the climax of a lot of what Paul's saying here. So Lord I pray that you About what it is that we need to hear and how to respond to this first into this now. I think again it's birth burst, but imaginating and also makes us uncomfortable. Some commentators interestingly thought Kind of recognition what Paul is saying here is um to be at the spirit. Um absolutely Very convention because it was likely to use in a number of other cases to refer clearly to the Holy Spirit. That's partly because we're uncomfortable in the Holy Spirit. But no matter how quite the link we can, we understand there's something about God as a Father that's there that we can relate to grasp something of what it means for God as a Father. We see a lot of things the Bible says if he does, we can say something Jesus as a person. He sees within the But when we come to the Holy Spirit, he's far more nebulous to us to be. In fact, uh generations referred to him as the Holy Ghost. That didn't help a whole lot. Made him seem sort of like a ghostly quality of the spirit that we can't quite relate to. And that seems to once again further off the models. person that film of the sphere makes them seem like sort of like winter or gas. And so I think we'd want to miss this some people in that trouble. need to remind themselves of always to call money other than it must be part of Right at the end of the day, but I'm going to understand too big on this verse. I heard from a Presbyterian Church of America pastor not long ago said, I've been preaching on this verse five weeks now. And up here can go on for four or five weeks, but um we're not going to disputate. Therefore I might just touch on a few of the highlights in this first. I want to do that by noticing it's three things in that. I think that's absolutely vital in understanding what that word. Talk about the contrast between self sacrificing love and self gratifying love and grants. Darkness, the death, morally intellectually. Let us be in Christ joined to me as by faith are from the light, the life from the dead. understanding spiritual truth are um values and moral transform that spiritual truth in contrast are the It was the contrast between and wisdom. Don't let us be unwise. Don't understand the words well because that's what lies and understand his will. Back to people, back to back to form is a spiritual contrast. Idea of this whole section. Do you remember chapters four, five, and six? I faith in your experience, what you are, what you have In chapter four seventeen we begin by talking about putting off that life of death without Christ, putting on a new life. Faith in Jesus Christ transformation. And then the first seventh command is that second. And I command to the section. So I guess we can just know that we're actually coming to the conclusion of the section. So now at the end of my second section here. Now, what is it that I was talking about here? I don't know if I command has the same pattern as the other side. So I'm trying to just break it. Or the complication of wine and with all the configuration of the Holy Spirit. Um of being filled with the spirit and the the setting of that contrast because it's a very important contrast to make being filled with the spirit. It's in contrast The problem with the command depends we cannot drop on wine, which leads to the water. He doesn't say don't touch wine. He doesn't say don't drink wine. What is it don't take up on the boy? The other thing is that maybe it's different from what we can expect. That Paul would say, do not think with the interface, but rather be super line with you know self-control or something like that. That's not what you have That's important to that. He says don't get people employed, but rather be just as parents. That means that in that economy has to be something that went to the Together. Between being multiple and being double current. It's a major contrast, but there's something that's happening. Comment what is that? Very important that we understand that. I'd like to offer my idea, but I think that contrast basically showing it all up is about. And I wonder what Paul was saying here is that why the need to do Waste and regret. One means to waste that we have a direct problem, which means to debauchery debauchery. There has a good idea of wastefulness. In fact, um, you know, we talk about the parable, the prodigal son, and the word prodigal means wasteful It's the very same word that we have here at Eastern 5 that appears in Luke fifteen thirteen to describe what the Lord did. Back in Luke 1513, The son that member took all of the Americans in the water and got involved with his friends. That is described in Jesus' words. After that the younger son got together over and he had set over a desert country. And the response is well in wild living. The word wild there about 1513 This is the same word here. Uh to both of me. It has to do with waste something. And I just waste at all with that, I put them to set to a hundred. The nature of the business of alcohol is always waste. Waste money. It waste time. It waste lives. It waste comments. It waste generations. And uh Of course I I had uh some people who I might expect and others that you know just not being that work out for a congregation because I just delivered all of them And uh one person that said to me afterwards, I know exactly. I know exactly why Paul puts that contrast. I've experienced it to my polls like firsthand. And the wastefulness uh the the waste of mine is is an attempt to fill up something by an artifact Let me try to have a pause for a moment here to do the change that perhaps the time Here's some kids about how neat it is to have a few bears together and all that's going out with party. I never talked to anybody who misused alcohol, so that there was abuse of it that led to waste And your kids need to understand it's not like your mom and dad And then you're saying that don't do that because it's not decent or doesn't fit our innate that God himself thirsty. Do not get developed That's with consensus. Because it's a waste. It waste us. It's in our interest to God protect the middle of this command. What is possible? The contrast to the God intentionally is the spirit who leads to worship and education. He needs to worship and education, he needs to worship and wisdom that evolved. It's important here to understand The verses eighteen to twenty-one are not only one paragraph, but one direction agreement. One command version eighteen being nothing Now for those of you that predict what participle is, those are the words that end with I and B. So let me read to you now if you follow in your Bible. Literal correct translation of the police here, so you can see the most importantness of all our thought. Instead of being filled with the spirit speaking to one another, the songs and the spiritual songs, singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Than God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, nothing to one another out of reverence for Christ. No, there's a pattern there. And submit to one another out of the reference that we have of the Lord Jesus. We're gonna uh take a look at those uh after the missions and before the next series, and we'll interrupt the easy for the Y series by the future for the rest of the series. They have in common is that they all have to do with joy. Joy, gother, and joy or one another. to one another in songs. Uh as we speak the message of God, we uh sing to God our joy, we uh beg God out of the joy for what He's given us in Element point for reference for Christmas to one another. Um that's the evidence I believe of the contrast then between the mind and the spirit. The mind The spirit is the spirit of joy. He is the spirit against joy. The third of the spirit is the joy. I can uh uh escape at least a brief period of time. My my reality. I can escape my misery, my insecurities, my I'm worried. I can escape my pain. I can escape the the burden of my life. I think he's also talking about TV movies and everything. And actually becoming uh a state. I call it a state and a state that we have to be round to be done Because he is supernaturally given joy, and that he is joy, even when you are under trial, even when you are Even if you're going to break and tell that not by massive clouds for But further by contribution that God is in here should be Circumstances that become clearer in just a moment. But let me read to them first that I think helps us to understand what Paul's saying here. First Peter in chapter one. You have here Peter describing to us in verses three to five the gospel. He talked about that gospel which has given us by God's great He's forgiven our sins. He's given us a new life, resurrection from the dead. He's made us to be his children. We're now no longer orphans to live on your own. of a heavenly father who's given to you all hope and that hope is reserved for in heaven. Nothing's going to take that away. You're living a light of that hope. And then you make the regard. You may have had to show for breaking in all kinds of crash, right? Even as a Presbyterians can have a glory. And that's a good music. And really I'm scared here. I think that it is a tremendous and a shame to the gospel when people look at Presbyterians, people who claim to have truth and say But if they mean we simply don't know how to have a good time. You see, that's a hundred next what Paul's saying, isn't it? We talk with why we are stimulant that people use in order to achieve the way but rather be filled with the spirit. your heart and your soul that produces a joy that transcends whatever worries, whatever difficulties, whatever things that are forbidden In your life, in my life right now, there is a gospel joy that is experienced in business, brothers and sisters, that you and Bobby need to experience as We need to know that. And we need to express them. We should be part of it. That's what they're talking about. There are two things about that commitment. First of all, it is a present continuous tense. And that means two things that first of all is for all Christians, not just for those who have received the second class of the back And it's an experience that every person needs. So it works all together The baptism of the Spirit or some second blessing of the Spirit, but rather it is the ongoing daily provision of God's presence in your life based on Baptism and the healing of the Spirit which you already have in crazy. Verses of chapter 4, 5 and 6, be what you are And what you have every command and every permit based on a fact, one of a fact, but more of what you have in Christ in fact is one of the right So what does it based on? Facebook chapter one, verses thirteen and fourteen. Take a look at that for a minute. What is to us there? I mean to read the document And we're not believing that in Jesus Christ. We're not even the prophets of earth that listen to all the believers and all he says have been more If you believe that Jesus Christ is true, then we're going to be the seal, the proud of the Holy Spirit, and the Lake Father, guarantee our inheritance to the redemption of the For God's position to the praise of his Lord. Let me believe Jesus Christ I thank this morning. You have been marked with the seal of the Spirit that you can't do. Baptized with the spirit of baptism is simply the initiation of his presence into your life. And you have that presence as your autonomy That's what he's telling you we need to do is that daily activity. been baptized with and are sealed in the Holy Spirit. Now, what exactly does it mean then to be filled with the Spirit? At this point we may Reminds me of the basic principle of interpretation of the Book of Ephesians. Book of Ephesians, if you ever wonder what particular verse means. Often, not always often. You can go to the book of collations to find out. Because collations and adhesians are like that people are parallel books. So you look to see if it's a parallel pattern. And if you look at the line, you will find that there is a pattern prevent parallel to what you had here in the patient. You think the logic one, right? And the same idea to put off and put on. And then you come to chapter three, verse sixteen, and there's a command there that continues all I'm talking about Happy to one another with God's word, giving magnet to him and praise to him with souls. And that's in my friends. Very, very careful to take a look at check it out yourself. You can do it to your own satisfaction. When it decides three sixteen says, that is the precise parallel command to what it means by 18 Well, take a look at it very clearly. Colossus, verse sixteen. Let the word of Christ will make you richly as you that mind. So he replaces the the free Spirit of Christ with the French Word of Christ. Does that mean it's the same thing? No. But what it does mean is that when you are experienced of God of Christ The spirit and the word are inseparable. They're helping Christians. The present God's Spirit is bringing revival to people's study and they write on them, they go to them, they talk to them. Very simple task of revival, very important for us in our day. True revival, false revival, what is the test, the biblical test, here's the simple? Ask the simple question: Is the word and the gospel of Christ becoming more Or that is prominent in the experience of those participating. That is the word of the Spirit, the Word of Christ will love You see, you can separate these ideas that people told us to report. But there is something greatly missing. The word of Christ is my prevail. The Spirit of Christ is the failure. I mean, we're talking about something very experiencing. Maybe that is a very personal question for you and for me. I think many of us here could be saying, Amen, brother. You know, get away from that mystical stuff and tell me, you know, it's about No? I think I let the word of Christ following your mind, which about the word of Christ about any being. How does that happen? So I believe it's a morning. Very designed morning here. That's a very definite warning here to Orthodox Presbyterians. You can understand this. What Paul's talking about. What Paul's talking about here. And freedom for us. It's just super natural. That is always right for many of us who are very Orthodox and our beliefs more than we do. The point I think about here is the stripping of our self-sufficiency. It's talking about the danger of losing our passion for Jesus Christ. orthodoxism without this girl lighting that orthodoxy in emotion and enjoy Trans circumstances experience life. Certainly something that God has has worked in your life. So you can test explaining there have been times when I know that the joy I have experienced is not natural joy. It's what God has done. God ensuring the gospel of the forgiveness of my sins of Jesus Christ. God adopting airless of exiled, making you progressive in his life. Serving for me, loving me, reserving for me. Heritage never small perfect thing. And I'm going to light a lot of the line of light of the face of the love of my love. Jesus comes to kill it. And in that meeting, you said that speaker makes a simple observation. He said, Why is it that we do not have a thought in our day? He said the answer is because we can't really without it. I'm not more filled with the spirit in the way that the Lord speaks to me. Day by day depends, day by day sense of the need that Nash Britain will need for him to make the possibility of high energy. And that's the spray. You intend for every one of us here to be filled with the spirit. If we have corrupted you and we have asked you to forgive our sins based on your day's work, we belong to you. We already have the spirit dwelling in us and we have in us. Because we can have that. We may not have experienced very much of that. We may be afraid of that. We may have seen a beautiful bat that it put us off. Now the bat keeps us from seeing right here takes value. We can command forces to be filled with the spirit and cause as the word is provided to richly and our whole beings. That's a bird of joy that supplants and replaces all artificial stimulants and needs to escape from reality in those ways. That we would be correct. without passion. Holy Spirit, I pray it is for my life and for those of us who join me this morning here now that you come and do it something. Lord of your each of us as we cry out to the other of our own hearts and only do we come and do it to kill us. The worry of Christ and the joy that only you can predict us.