This is a re week that you will remember for the rest of your lives. You will always remember Exactly where you were when you first heard about the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. And we are just now trying to get used to the fact that our nation is at war. Many of you are aware that our own Max Bilke perished in the attack on the Pentagon. And Lisa and Susie and Joseph and Luke are back They're worshiping with us this morning. Max was here two weeks ago with Luke. Max um helped us to start Columbia Presbyterian. If you look at the picture of the first worship service that we held Right there in the front row is Max Bilke. You can't miss him. He's over six feet tall, well over six feet. And I have a picture of him back there in case anybody is new and wonders who Max Bilke was. to show you. Max would often be at the back there kidding with me afterwards. Um many of you have probably seen Max Billkin didn't even realize it. He um was the last soldier out of Vietnam. And so that famous picture of the helicopter on the roof leaving from Vietnam and the soldiers lined up, Max Bilke's in that picture Max Book is the one who presented the flag that we have downstairs on the wall, because that flag was flown over the Capitol the very day that this building was dedicated to the Lord to remind us. That were Christian citizens. And now he's gone And so none of us are the same. The unthinkable has occurred Our country has been attacked and we are plunged into war. One of my first thoughts after grasping what had happened was How do we deal with this and get back to normal? And perhaps you had such kinds of thoughts and like me after a while you began to realize We're not going to get back to the same kind of normal that we ever knew before Tuesday. And for the rest of our lives, we'll think In terms of things before nine eleven oh one and life after nine eleven oh one And God has thwarted our purposes to remain comfortable without Him. Former Secretary of State William Cohen this week in an interview on television Said that we expect to have an attack on American soil of WMD, and I'll leave it as the letters. If you don't understand that I asked somebody. or weapons of chemical or biological warfare. In the and he paused and I thought he was going to say in our lifetime. But in fact, he said in the near future. The other side, however, is that we have been seeing God's grace manifested in a number of very moving ways, haven't we? The rescue workers Working beyond endurance, those who have so willingly given blood And those immortal passengers on the trip of the flight down from Pittsburgh More significantly, we have been seeing a vastly heightened level of spiritual interest. All of a sudden, the question of standing before God without warning and are you prepared is more than some theoretical religious interest. People are suddenly aware profoundly of the hand of God, whether in the nation or whether they're ready to meet him. I had a neighbor who asked about our services for the first time in all the time we've known each other on Wednesday We're seeing a deepening sense of evil. The fact that there is evil. Very interesting that I've given examples recently of how teachers find it difficult to get any kind of consensus Over any acts of history being without any qualification evil You know, it's the well I might not do that, but who am I to judge? But I haven't heard a single person this week say Well, I'm not into terrorism and I wouldn't do that myself, but who am I to judge? And I can envision The ideas of postmodernism, with all its rationale of relativism, its refusal to judge anything as absolutely good or evil. Evaporating and disappearing like a ice cube before a blowtorch in the feelings of the days ahead Which may bode for a return to an understanding of truth. A lot has changed And a lot is happening in our lives as Christians as we try to somehow get our hands and minds and hearts around what has happened and what God is doing. I've been preaching on a regular basis for 23 years now here at this church. And one of the things that I have learned is one of the most meaningful things to me about preaching. Is how I have seen God speak to me and how God has done things in my preaching and preparation and thinking to prepare me for things that I could not have known were happening. And two examples of that are that first this summer when Kathy and I were vacationing in our restful spot at Cape Cod that we've come to love and We're there enjoying ourselves, I found myself beyond my choosing to be thinking about suffering and God as our refuge I happened at the last moment to take along a book that somebody had recommended on suffering Gladys lent us two tapes on suffering. I was reading articles on suffering. Until I finally said, and I said this out loud, so Kathy's my witness, you can ask her, I finally said to her, Kathy, I don't know what God's preparing me for But I feel like something's going to happen because all I'm thinking about is what the Bible says about suffering, and God is our refuge, and this is our vacation, and I'm having a good time with you, and I don't know why I'm thinking about all this stuff. But I think I'm going to stop and I'd like to get a joke book because we're on vacation now. Secondly, as you know We uh have started the series on spiritual warfare from Ephesians 6, verses 10 to 20, with no planning of doing that this fall, simply with the next in the exposition of God's Word. And last Sunday when I mentioned to you that by beginning this, I anticipate to see, I anticipate seeing a greater intensity of Satan's attacks upon me and upon our congregation. But I never even thought, never even occurred to me to say upon our nation But here we are, by God's providence, entering into a study of spiritual warfare, this particular fall. And so let us, without belaboring any more introduction, let us come to that study. Um we've been listening all week to the news, watching the TV, hearing everything from a secular perspective And so for many of us, our hearts are hungry, aren't they, to hear God's perspective. What does God have to say about this situation? Now, let me say that as the week wore on, I began to toy with the idea of putting aside Ephesians 6 And just dealing with a topical message of a number of scriptures that would help us to get our hands on what is God saying to us, his church Through the events of this week, and how should we be responding and what should we be saying to those that we have conversations with? And I had begun to put an outline of seven to ten lessons. from this week as we begin to think about them. I decided not to do that for two reasons. One to stick with Ephesians 6 because the text seems so very appropriate even though I won't be able to deal with it the same way I wanted to. But secondly, because the the temptation always in our culture is to think quickly but not necessarily deeply You need to process some stuff. And so I'm still toying with should I do that next week or should I continue on about spiritual warfare from Ephesians 6. If you have any input on that, I'd be glad to receive it at the door or on your gray slip or anything, but I need to decide in the next couple of days what we should do for next Lord's Day. But let's look at this passage this morning and see what God has to say to us. Do you remember again that Paul begins this with the word finally? Because he's introducing the fourth and last section after having talked to us about what it means to sit and rest in the finished work of Christ. To know that it is because of Jesus Christ that God raised you from the dead. He forgave your sin. He has adopted you as his children. You are precious to him. He has called you into a family, and he has taught you to kneel so that you might ask to know the fullness of his love and of his power in every situation. And then he says, now you live out of that gospel in community and in various parts of your life where you're putting off the old nature without Christ, putting on the new nature. in the power of the Spirit that you have in Jesus Christ. Seven different ways he talks about doing that. Ending with how we are changed in our marriages, our homes, our relationships as parents and children, and our relationships at work. Then he says, Now, if you are seeking to walk with Jesus Christ, you're going to note that you'll be meeting opposition, not just from your sinful heart, but an opposition that is outside of you. And that opposition is from an enemy that you can't see that's much stronger than you are. Therefore, finally be strong in the Lord. You need his strength. And be strong in his mighty power. That's the verse I want to look at this morning. I want to look at three points in it. Number one, you notice the command is to be strong. And that takes on a whole new meaning this week, doesn't it? Be strong. That's military language That is language that is used several times in the Old Testament, but let me give you just two examples. of this command to be strong in a military war context. These two examples were the ones I planned to use this summer when I prepared these messages. The first example is from Joshua. Do you remember that Moses had brought a couple of million slaves out of Egypt? People who had never fought a battle, who had no training whatsoever, and suddenly they're confronted with the Amalekite army. Hardened, trained, vicious soldiers. And the Bible tells us in Exodus how God was their strength, delivered, and protected them. And then they faced the Amorites, and then mighty Og and the Bashanites, and God brought deliverance in every case. But Moses is gone, and now it's Joshua who has been promoted to commander-in-chief. And Joshua is now with some fear and trepidation in charge of a military campaign to take Canaan. The Canaanites were a terror of their day. They were physically very large. They were a vicious people who sacrificed their own children in fires, hardened, and they lived in walled cities. And Joshua is to lead God's people into that land to take those cities. And so the word of God comes to Joshua in Joshua chapter 1, verse 6. Joshua, be strong and courageous. Because you will need these people to inherit the land that I swore to their forefathers to give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. Do not let this book of the law depart from your mouth. Meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be terrified. Do not be discouraged, for the Lord, your God, will be with you wherever you go. And so you uh read a couple of chapters later that Joshua, after they've crossed the Jordan and are celebrating the Passover. He gets away from all the party. He goes up on a hill, and he's likely looking over toward that walled city of Jericho. And he's thinking, how in the world are we going to take that? God, what are you going to do? The Bible tells us in Joshua chapter 5, verse 13. And when he's near, alone now, looking up, he sees a man standing in front of him with a drawn sword in his hand And Joshua went up to him and asked, Are you for us or for our enemies? Neither, he replied. But as commander of the army of the Lord, I have now come. And then Joshua fell face down to the ground in reverence and asked him. What message does my Lord, my Adonai, have for his servant? The commander of the Lord's army replied Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy. And Joshua did so. And Joshua says, Thank you, Lord, I needed that. I thought I was in charge around here. And I needed to be reminded that these are your people And you're the one that's in charge. And the important thing is for me to hear you, to humble myself before you, to be strong in the Lord. And in his mighty power. Lord, what do you want for us to do? And he receives that strange battle plan from the commander-in-chief of the Lord's army. You're going to march around the city once a day for seven days, and on the seventh day you march around seven times, and then you blow the horns and the walls are going to fall down. What a battle plan Can you imagine the expression on Joshua's faces of Joshua's newly appointed generals when he comes back and he says, Okay guys, here's the plan for taking the city. And they think, what kind of a crackpot do we have leading us now? But it was so the Lord would receive the glory and the deliverance, so that they would know that their strength was in him. And not in their battle plans or in the might of their army. When look out Canaan, because now you've roused the lion, and here we come. And that's proven to him when you remember that after taking Jericho and the Lord delivered it in history, Something we have to remember is not simply a Sunday school story, but God really did cause those walls to fall. There's even archaeological evidence. And then after that, they come to the little town of Ai. It's so small only has two letters in its name And they say this this one's just a mop-up operation. Most of you can have the day off, we'll just take three thousand soldiers and clear this one off the map. And they're utterly routed. Why? Because the Lord wasn't with them. There was the sin of Achan in the camp. And Joshua hadn't consulted the Lord. He had done it on his own presumption. Because God wasn't with them, it didn't matter how the numbers lined up. It didn't matter how it looked humanly speaking. The whole question was, is the commander of the Lord's army with us, or are we out on our own? And so when Joshua confesses that, he learns the important thing is not numbers. The important thing is to follow the Lord. Be strong in the Lord, and in the might of his strength A few hundred years later you come down to Hezekiah and you have the same kind of language. Now it's the Assyrian army, 200, nearly 200,000 strong, sweeping down out of the north. And they take city after city in the northern regions of Samaria. And they're moving down toward the capital of Jerusalem. The Assyrians were the terrorists of their day. They would seek to intimidate their enemies like a roar of a lion that paralyzes its prey, then they would come in and ruthlessly so destroy the people. that all others would quake to see them coming. And the Rabshaka, representative of Sennacherib, comes to Hezekiah and his soldiers and the people of Jerusalem. And he says, do you want to give in now or do you want to be slaughtered? And don't give me this business about God is on your side, this Yahweh that you trust in Because look how he has saved the people up north. In fact, it is your God, he says, who is with us. He has abandoned you. Give up. Terror. It's at that point that you read in 2 Chronicles chapter 32 that Hezekiah Remembering that the Lord is his strength, says to the people, it says in Second Chronicles thirty two in verse six that he appointed military officers over the people, and then he assembles them in the square at the city, and he encouraged them with these words, be strong and courageous. That's the same thing as to Joshua. Do not be afraid or discouraged because of the king of Assyria and the vast army with him. For there is a greater power with us than with him. With him is only the arm of flesh, but with us the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. And the people gained confidence from what Hezekiah, the king of Judah, said. It's interesting, when I was preparing this this summer, one of the things that I jotted down and was struggling with is How in the world are the people of CPC going to understand the fear and the terror of those in Jerusalem when war is so remote to us? And I actually thought this was going to be difficult to convey. But when you and I think about the fact of how easy it would be For one person with one virus to infect the city I mean the technology, the opportunities today make it so ludicrous to say, but our government can protect us. I mean we're roused now, so look out. The point was from Hezekiah, there is greater power with us than with him. Now, when he said that, and the people were roused to confidence, interesting thing is things got worse instead of better. That may happen with us. Until Sennacherib is at the very gates, and he's still coming on, and they say, Lord, we prayed about this. What's happening Nothing's changed. In fact, it looks like they're going to attack tomorrow, and there's no hope left. Now let me be clear at this moment We are not, as a nation, the Lord's people. God is not the God of America. You can't draw this parallel and say that He is with us as He was with Israel. God's people today are to be salt and light within a basically secular heathen nation. But for God's people all over America who pray, our hope is still in the Lord and in his protection. Because his power is our only hope. Amen? Be strong in the Lord and the might of his power. And that very night The angel of the Lord came through the camp of the Assyrians and struck down 185,000 soldiers who lay dead the next morning. Sennacherib went back to Nineveh, capital of Assyria, just as the prophet told Hezekiah. And his sons assassinated him One of the big concerns of our government right now is how are we going to find Osama bin Laden How will we get him? You understand, brothers and sisters? If the sovereign God intends He could convert Osama bin Laden, show him the truth, or he could eliminate him, totally apart from the U. S. government, by an assassination. From within his trusted people. He doesn't need us, but we need him desperately. You come to the third example, is the Apostle Paul You have the same language, only in this case it's clearly not physical warfare. To remember, the enemies of God's people were ultimately a picture of the demonic host and the spiritual battle that we're in today. When you come to the New Testament, that spiritual battle is very plain. And so when you come to 2 Corinthians chapter 12 Paul says in verse 7, after reluctantly describing how he had been taken up into heaven to see a vision of things that were too sacred even to utter. He says, to keep me from becoming conceited because of these surpassingly great revelations, there was given to me a thorn in my flesh. Some physical ailment. But what does he call it? A messenger of Satan. This is a spiritual battle, you see. Satan is seeking to attack. To discourage me, to drive a wedge between me and my Lord Jesus. Because three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. And it wasn't. But he, the Lord, said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why for Christ's sake I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, and persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I'm strong. Be strong in the Lord. When you realize your weakness and in the might of his strength I had wanted to take time to go through chapter 11 and help you to feel the things that Paul, as a mature Christian, following the Lord, the best he knew how, endured. He was not protected from physical beatings. He was beaten and whipped eight times. He was shipwrecked. He was stoned and left for dead. He was betrayed. He goes over Many different ways that he suffered. And you say, and this is one that God loved as his precious apostle? You see again, we so much want to get back to normal. The idea of suffering The idea that things could happen in the next months or years that we would shudder to contemplate make us think, how do you square that with God? But again, God has no obligation to protect and to defend America. God is committed to his people, and his people suffer in normal times. But it's at that time the one who suffered all that, it is he who wrote in Ephesians 6, finally, be strong in the Lord and in the might of his power. And Paul understood the sweet strength of spiritual infilling and empowering that comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ that says, I wouldn't choose the suffering. But I wouldn't remove it because it has brought me into an intimacy with him and an experience of his power to bring him glory. That I would not have experienced otherwise. And so the second point, how we get this, you see, reminds us that the whole point of Ephesians is Commands are based on the facts. The command: be strong in the Lord and in the might of his strength. Is based on what fact? Well, it's what he told us in the beginning of the book in Ephesians chapter one Where he prayed that your eyes and my eyes would be open to see his incomparably great power, his power, for us who believe That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. What power? The power that raised Jesus from the dead. That's the power that is available to you and to me who believe And that power that seated him in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every name that can be named, both in this world and the world to come. And he's seated there as the head of the church, in whom is the fullness of Christ, who fills all things. And he wants to display that. And he does it in a people who are made weak. In a people who realize their weakness. And he goes on in chapter three to pray that you would be strengthened by the realization of the dimensions of his love. This week I've had a new and precious awareness of the love of Christ. I don't know about you, but when I heard the story of Jeremy Glick, On the flight coming down out of Pennsylvania. And the story of how he heard from his cell phone of the attack on the World Trade Center And therefore concluded that they were about to die, that he mobilized a couple of other passengers And decided we're going to die anyway. Let's see if we can take out the terrorists. And from all that we know, they were successful and saved untold numbers and perhaps The fabric, a crucial part of our government in that process. Do you see the spiritual behind the physical of what's going on? Do you see that the two attacks upon our commercial center were successful But an attack by an as far as we know an Islamic fundamentalist group which is not saying that it is any way related to mainstream Islam, but does see itself as religiously, spiritually connected, launches an attack upon a president who is known as a Christian And that attack, whether it was upon him or the government, failed, even with great loss of life at the Pentagon. He went against Jeremy Glick and the others against all human instincts of self-preservation to sacrifice themselves for strangers. And then I think of my Lord Jesus, who not in a moment of panic, not in a moment of inevitable suffering, but in heaven. Far removed from all suffering and sin, decided freely to come and take on human flesh, that he would suffer and be tortured and die. To give his life freely for you and for me. So that when we stand before God, we can face him unafraid. Whether there's warning or no warning. We have life in Jesus Christ because of his love And so he says to you and to me, in the world, you'll have trouble. And you say, no kidding, Lord. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And chapter three ends by saying that his power is available to us Which is a power far beyond all that we could imagine or think. But it's a power available to weak people. In conclusion, my greatest fear For us as a nation at this moment is of civil religion. For civil religion uses God words and talks about prayer And sings hymns and quotes scripture with no content. Civil religion is the use of Christian language and symbols, but behind it is pride joined with superstition And simply using Christian ideas as an emotional rallying point But behind it is not a sense of weakness and humility, a sense of sin, a sense of we deserve every day to have God's protection removed from us But it's the notion that America is great. Look out, because God's on our side and here we come. And my brothers and sisters, that is miles from Ephesians 6. 10. And so, for us as Christians, this is the opportunity for us to demonstrate a sense of weakness, a sense of repentance. A sense of thankfulness to God for His common grace that is extended to us normally. And when it is at a moment removed We see the horrors that can occur without his protection. And for each of us, In your situation, in your life, whether it is temptations that you struggle against, whether it is the fears that you feel, the grief Whatever it is now that Satan is doing to attack you and to separate you from Jesus Christ The word is clear. Jesus Christ, as if he was physically here, stands before you and says, Be strong. Be strong, you whom I love. In me and in the might of my strength available to you. Let's pray And oh Lord Jesus, how thankful we are that you stand here before us, you who destroyed the Canaanites in their walled cities. You who were that commander-in-chief of Israel, you who protected her from the Assyrian army and slew 185,000 of the Assyrians. To protect your people. You who allowed the thorn of the flesh to plague Paul, but demonstrated that your grace was sufficient in the suffering. Whatever lies ahead for us, we come to you now with confidence in our own weakness. And we ask you, Lord Jesus, to make yourself known to us, to those who don't know you as Savior. That you would make yourself known as the one who can give life and forgiveness. For those whose hearts are quaking in fear, that you would strengthen us by resting in you and in the power of your might. to see the spiritual battle behind the political and physical events that we hear about and will continue to hear about. To make us available to you to lift up your name to others who are in fear and are asking questions. That you would help the Bilke family and their grieving, and thus who grieve with them. That you would show your strength and honor your name through us. In the days ahead. For we ask it in the name of the risen ascended Christ. Amen.