To the memorable sermon series of the past. And unlike the other old sermons that I've done, Most of you are aware of the book of Ephesians, right? Uh I preached that series From February 1996 through October of 2002, the major interruption for the millennium That was over six and a half years, of course, number of interruptions. I began the series to be a series of 21 messages. Went from twenty-one to forty-two to eighty-four to finally a hundred and twenty-five messages. Uh and I I wonder how many of you have started coming to Columbia Presbyterian since the book of Ephesians? Put up your hand if be be don't be ashamed. It's okay. Yeah, a number of you, a number of back there. Um There has arisen a generation that knew not Ephesians at CPC. And uh so uh we're gonna acquaint you with it here. I spent so much time on this book because um the more I studied it, the more I realized That it is the most masterful, succinct statement on the Christian life that Paul or anyone ever penned. The book of Ephesians is Paul's manual, his definitive manual for Christian living. It's unlike any other book. It was probably not simply written to the Ephesians. Uh first a couple of very early translations of it do not have to the Ephesians in that. In fact it may have been that the book was written as a circulatory letter to the same seven churches that Jesus addresses in Revelation 2 and 3 in Asia Minor, now Turkey. Um however that may be, um it was his basic definitive statement on the Christian life I keep coming back to it again and again in my own life, as well as in counseling or seeking to make clear to other people what the gospel is, what it means to live out of the gospel. And today I want to review for you the basic overview of that book of Ephesians, plus Some new material that I never gave you when we went through the series. So if you think you heard it all, hang on. It's divided the book into two halves, two parts. Chapter 4, verse 1 is the link pin between the two halves. Let's see it up here now. As a prisoner for the Lord, Paul says then, I urge you, and uh the NIV says that you would uh live worthy, live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Um we'll get into this, but bring your life into equilibrium balance, live a life or walk worthy of the calling, of the calling that you received. What you see there is um I want to focus on two W's. two key W words in that book. But what you have to keep in mind is the first word in the NIV and most translations is not translated with a W. It's the word live, which should be walk. The second word is translated with a W word, worthy, and it shouldn't be. So two W's, two critical W's. First the word walk. It's the word live in the NIV in many translations. I urge you to live, literally, I urge you to walk. And that reminds us that the book of Ephesians is really about the four postures of the Christian life. You could reduce the book of Ephesians to four words. Sit, kneel, walk, stand. Those are the four basic words. Let's see the chart up here now. And you see the divisions of that. Sit, kneel, walk, and stand. Now, I urged you when we went through this that you arise in the morning by preaching the gospel to yourself through these four postures. Let me review for you what I meant by that. When you get up in the morning, I did this this week, because I hadn't done it for a little while and I was really blessed to start, you know. You get up, you wake up in the morning, you know, and you're you're laying there And you uh instead of just thinking about all this stuff that's going to be the drag for the day, you know, you you say, Lord, as I get up, you sit on the edge of the bed And you say, here I am, this day, I want to rest. Just like I'm sitting right now on this bed, I want to rest on the finished work of Christ. You know, I'm not laboring for anything, I'm not trying to do anything, I'm just sitting. But it's not only sitting on the work of Christ, it is also sitting with Christ. Because he says in chapter 1 that is Jesus when he rose from the dead was raised in the heavenlies to be seated at the right hand of God. Then chapter 2 verse 6 he says, He has seated you and me with him. So here I am in this privileged position, sitting, resting Doesn't depend on anything I have done, doesn't depend on how I messed up yesterday, doesn't depend on anything I'm going to do today. Lord help me to just sit. But as you realize, as you do that, you realize I can't just keep sitting here. I need to ask you to work in my mind what that means. So you turn around and you kneel down, second posture, you kneel down along the edge of the bed And you pray whatever you can form the paraphrase, personal paraphrase of chapter 3, 14 to 21. And it really is helpful to go through that, to memorize it, and then to just pray it. Lord, I kneel before the Father. From whom the whole world of heaven and earth have derived its name. And I I pray now that you, out of your glorious riches Would strengthen me today by your spirit in my inner being so that Christ would dwell in my heart by faith. And I pray that even though I'm rooted and grounded in your love, Lord, I want to perceive that. Together with all the saints, give me power so that I might be able to grasp something of the height and the depth and the length and the breadth of the love of Christ which is beyond comprehension. But Lord help me to grasp just a little bit more of it today So that I might be filled a bit more to the measure of the fullness of who you are Lord, I know that what you're able to do is infinitely beyond anything I can think or even imagine. And all the problems I have today. So Lord, I pray that that power which is at work in me might then reflect your glory in the church. Now and forever. Just this one little day, Lord, do that. Two things you see you're praying there. Know your power and know your love. I mean come on be honest, right? So when you do that And you're just and you just you know you focus on different parts of that prayer on different days. Lord, here's the thing I particularly need today. That's what I love about that prayer. There's so much. I mean what can you not comprehend in your needs in that Then you get up and you say, okay, gotta get going. So you walk. Third posture. Presumably to the bathroom, right? Okay, so you walk as you're walking from the bedroom in the bathroom. This is the way I'm gonna live today. Step by step. I'm not flying to the bathroom. I'm not leaping. I'm not jumping. I'm walking one step after another. Very simple. Lord, help me to walk today, step by step, by the prompting of your Spirit, what I know to do. Enable me to do step by step. And as you get to the bathroom, you turn around, you look in the mirror, you're reminded of the fourth posture. I'm gonna get opposition, and I don't trust that man or that woman that is staring back at me because Satan is gonna try to oppose my desires So I stand and I remind myself I'm going to get opposition today. Not only from in my heart, my own desires, but I'm There is there is an evil force that is going to oppose me in all this. It's very nice to sit and kneel and walk here, but it's not going to be that easy when I interact with people You know, it's like the person that said, Lord, I I haven't gossiped or criticized or lied or lusted or Son any of those things so far today, but I'm gonna get out of bed now, and from now on I'm gonna read need a lot of your help. So there you are. Now, those are the four postures. The word walk appears seven times in the book of Ephesians. Let me urge you, do it tomorrow morning. Just experience that as a way of preaching the gospel to yourself. And then modify it however you want, as often as you want, at least once a week. I think it's good practice. But anyway, however you want to do that. That's the first point here, the idea of walking. All right Second is the idea that word worthy. I want to unpack that again for you a little bit because that's so rich. The word Worthy is really a very poor translation because of what it connotes to us. There's a prisoner for the Lord then. After having all told you about the gospel of grace, I want to tell you you've got to get out there and live worthy of it How in the world can you do that? See, it undercuts the idea of grace. But it really isn't what the word means. The word is a word, it's a commercial word that means to bring a scale into balance, into equilibrium. So what Paul's actually saying, as you see up here, is I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium, bring it into balance And so you picture a scale. Remember when we went through this, I said, okay, think of me as a scale. A scale has two parts to it for the balance. Let's suppose On this side of the scale, you put a five-pound weight, so the scale goes like that. That's chapter one to three. Now let's suppose for your under-shepherd home elder home meeting today. You're going to pray that the rain's going to stop. It's going to clear up. It's going to be a nice day. And you're going to have a picnic. You want to have shrimp, right? That's here for shrimp. So you gotta go up and buy five pounds of shrimp. So there's the scale down there. You say, give me five pounds of shrimp. As the Guyan Giant or Safeway puts the shrimp on, gradually the scale comes in to Axios, the word he uses in chapter four, verse one. Balance, equilibrium. What Paul is saying there is simply I as a prisoner for the Lord, I'm urging you As you consider the weight of glory of the gospel and your new life in Christ. Now, begin to bring your life your daily experience into equilibrium with the truths of the gospel. If you've been through the Discoverers class, you remember that statement. Before I get into that, let me Um give you three uh contrasts we've talked about before and uh see if uh any of you can remember them. I am uh encouraged to do this because the first service did pretty well, so uh I don't think I'll humiliate myself, hopefully. Uh the contrast, three contrasts between chapters one to three and four to six, the C is your what he talks about up there, your what? Calling. Very good. Okay. Again, the pressure's on you now, you know. Because uh they were half asleep. So the calling, and then the second part of that is your W Walk. Very good. I don't see who it is, but I hear it. Alright. Chapter 1 to 3 is your calling. Not what you do, what Christ has done. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 is your walking out of that calling. Chapter 1, 2, and 3 tells you who you are. So chapter 4, 5, and 6 says this is what you are to be. And get that one if you just read the title of the sermon, right? So the idea here, the key to the book of Ephesians is be what you are. That's not a new age idea of just kind of get in touch with your inner being, you know, and just kind of be what you are or let it flow. No, it's saying Be in your mind and your new walk thinking what you are in Christ, the gospel that Christ has come into your life. Then finally the last thing, chapter 1, 2, and 3, tells you the of the Christian life, the F Four letter word. The uh and then there are the remember there are the indicatives and the imperatives which you base it down simple as the Facts. Thank you, Matthew. And then there are the based on the what? Command. Thank you. Thanks, Pete. Okay, so you got the commands, they're based on the facts. Now again, appreciate. Don't get so used to this. That is so distinctive to the gospel and to Christianity. The commands are based on the facts. God never tells you to do anything as a Christian. That he hasn't already told you is already true of you in Jesus Christ. Three examples. He says, you are righteous. You have this new life in Christ. You are righteous in him. Therefore, be righteous. That is, act righteously. Because you are, you see. Or, second, you are pure. Your whole being and soul and mind has been purified in Jesus Christ. Therefore Walk, think, act purely. Not something you attain to, but something you by faith appropriate from Christ. Thirdly, you are at peace in the gospel. He has accomplished peace for you, he says, chapter 2. Therefore, live at peace, whether internal or internal peace of mind or relational peace with other people. Live at peace because you are at peace. Let's go right back up to that. Just above it. You see, those of you who've been in the discovering CPC class Remember, we tried to summarize all of this by that one simple statement. Go over it again. The Christian life is nothing more, don't add to, or less, don't Pair it down and compromise, it's nothing more or less. The making true in my experience by faith. That's the walking, the being, the commands, that which is already true of me in Christ. That's the calling, the facts. the B part. I mean the R part. Right? Let's say it together. Just the simple thing that's in the bulletin outline. Read it if you need to read it. If you Remember it from our times in the past, just say it with me as a confession of faith in the truth of the gospel. Let's do it together. Ready? The Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience by faith that which is already true of me in Christ. Let's do it a little more like we believe it and say it together again. Everybody affirm it The Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience by faith that which is already true of me in Christ. Do you believe that? Amen. Man makes all the difference. You see. That's it's uh everything. So for you You are learning to put off that old nature. You remember we talked about that filthy dirty t-shirt, which I still have in my garage and I still use when I change oil Oh the grimy, filthy, grungy thing. You put off that chapter four, verse twenty two. And you put on Great fresh out of the bag, fruit of the loom, fresh, clean, new t-shirt. You put it on, that new mind, that new nature in Christ. That's what Paul says Now here comes the new part. This is what I never told you before. There's something new in Ephesians. Isn't that the wonderful thing about God's Word? You can always go back and find something how many times you study, you'll find something new there. Now, in order to tell you this, I need first to give credit to John Barnes for this, because I owe this to John. Now you see every Thursday morning after prayer meeting, John and I run around the lake. So if you ever come to prayer meeting, I always see John and me in our shorts and t-shirt And that's how we have our meetings. I don't ever meet with John unless I'm running. I don't know what it would be like to sit down and have a conversation with John. We run together. And uh John is a guy of a very searching mind, keen intellect, so we'll discuss everything from ministry to kids in college to detailing cars and you know, anything fit. Comes up. But there are times when he will press me on theology and things of ministry, and one day he was kind of pressing me on In the Christian life, what's the connection between our responsibility, what we do in growing in obedience and faith, and what God does in us You know, the old responsibility, sovereignty, kind of thing. So we know we're coming around the back of the lake and he's you know, but what's the connection? I understand it's mystery, I understand that, you know, you hang on to both truths, but Is there anything that helps us to see how those things interface? And as I'm, you know, winded, going up a hill, I say, John, it's a mystery, but John, the passive imperatives. You know, and and John says, right, I had forgotten the passive imperatives. You know, so you know, people always look at it's kind of strange as they're walking their dogs and we're talking about this stuff. But you know, it occurred to me at that moment, I had never opened out, that there are four times, at least, I just found these four, that in chapters four, five, and six, Paul strains language. To make a point that is so distinctive and insightful, he tells you to do something in the passive Now how do you do that? Let me give you the four examples and see if this can become clear because it can really help you, I think, as you wrestle with those areas of your life that you wish that the Spirit would change. And how to lay hold of the gospel for them. Four passive imperatives that Paul gives in four critical statements in chapters 4, 5, and 6. The first one is in chapter 4. After he has told you that you have a new mind, he reminds you of that in chapter 4, 17, the Tom reads. You know, your n your mind is not the darkened futile mind of the Gentiles. You've been given a new mind in Christ. You know, verse twenty, you haven't learned Christ this way, the way that the uh people without Christ. If you're sitting here this morning, Christ is not in your life. You don't have this new mind. What I'm saying to you is only half intelligible. Doesn't make sense. If you are a Christian, if you have given your life to Jesus Christ And still only makes three-quarter cents, you know, and I'm trying. But you know, you're able to grasp some of the spiritual truth. Now what Paul says here is something amazing If you look down at chapter 2 chapter 4, verse 23, verse 22 where he said, you were taught with regard to your former way of life, put off your old self, the old dirty t-shirt, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires. To be made new in the attitude of your minds. The Greek, more literal translation of that would be what you have in your bulletin. To be being renewed in your mind. that you would be being renewed. Now yeah, how do you be being renewed? You see, it's a choice. He's saying, put it off Put on this, but what you're putting on is the process of being renewed. Active command, passive fulfillment. You see, it communicates those two things brilliantly. You do it, but even in your choosing to do it, God is prompting and working in you the desire for that as well as the process and the accomplishment of it. I'll give you a second example. He says in chapters 1 to 3 that you are forgiven. Chapter 1, verse 7, and 8, chapter 2, verse 4, 5, 6, on through there and a number of places. You have been forgiven. Then in chapter four, he goes and looks at people that you find it hard to forgive. They've hurt you. You find that it's you cannot excuse what they've done. And he says to you in verse 31, get rid of all bitterness. Now, talked about the other things. But in the Greek More literally, you see, and I don't I don't blame anybody for not translating it like this. It would be hard to you know, just be a really little What he literally says is, therefore, let all bitterness be removed from you. So he is calling you to do something But what he is doing is he is calling you to open yourself to the process of the Spirit removing the bitterness. You can't just take it out. I had a woman come to me in tears after the first service. I am so angry, she said. What do I do? You see, and so w we need to both realize I can't simply say, I'm just gonna stop being there about this, you know, I've got to move on with my life There is that process of letting you choose. I'm calling you, I am saying, don't make excuses, don't say, I'll just wait till God takes it away. He commands you. Verse 17 is very strong language. I tell you this, I insist on it in the Lord. You must no longer live. As the people without Christ lives. So let bitterness be removed. Now I've got to go back to that, so let me hold. Third example. You're sealed with the Spirit. Chapter 1, verse 13-14, he says, Having believed in Christ, you have been marked with him with a seal, the Holy Spirit, who is a down payment of the new life which is to come in the new age of heaven. You are given a taste now, a down payment. The same kind of life, but now it's just the Holy Spirit, enabling it. Perceive a little bit of that. But the Spirit, he says, is in you So chapter five in verse 18 comes back to that and he says, Now, don't get drunk with um wine which leads to debauchery. Uh we went through that and I said Really the uh better way of looking at that is don't become intoxicated with artificial stimulants to cope with life, basically. But rather Be being filled with the Spirit. You see, it's a command in the passive. Be being filled. Not fill yourself up, go tank up with the Holy Spirit. No, be being filled with the Spirit. The Spirit comes and fills you. But you are involved in that process. Of experiencing the fullness of the Spirit who already resides in you. There's a choice you make, but that choice is sovereignly prompted in a way that brings in a beautiful connection Your responsibility and God's activity. See? Amazing. Last one comes to that critical spot, comes to the end, moves from the walk to the sand He had said back in chapter 1, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you might know his power Which is at work in you. That power is like the working of his mighty strength when he raised Christ from the dead. That's the power, resurrection power. Then chapter 6, verse 10, he says, Now I'm going to tell you about Spiritual warfare. That's the next oldie coming up. He says, I'm going to tell you about spiritual warfare. Therefore, be empowered in the Lord against these assaults. Be being empowered is more literally what the Greek says here. See, so it's he's telling you, you know, it's not see you look at the NIV or other translations, be strong in the Lord. Well, that's nice. But it's being empowered. So you know it it it thrusts us in our helpless and weakness to say, Lord, I don't know how to do it, I can't do it. He said, of course you don't Cast yourself on me in your weakness to be empowered by the Holy Spirit. Now, maybe to wrap it all up To try to give you a uh one one last attempt at making something which is very complicated, very difficult. It is a mystery And yet I think it is so much at the heart of the gospel that it's worth belaboring. Let me go through an example. And let's just take one example that would be a way of applying this. Let's take the example of bitterness, one of those four. And let's say that you are bitter, you're angry at somebody Uh, you're like this woman in the first service, there's something you're thinking, there's somebody who has hurt me, somebody that's wronged me, or it's a group or you know, whatever it is. I mean, in in this case, um, when the woman came into the first service, she said, I'm not even sure who it is. And so usually when we're not sure who it is, it's the Lord. She said, I think you're probably right. So who are you bitter at? Who are you angry at? Who have you been wronged by inexcusably? Now what do you do about that? Taking this process, what you would do is you'd look at chapters one to three and you would say, okay, let me what are the facts That are relevant to this. The facts are I have been forgiven. God was angry at thee. Chapter 2, verse 3. I was an object of his wrath. And he had every right to be angry at me. He made me for his glory, and I've ignored him. I've spurned him. I don't depend on him. I don't thank him like we talked about last week. I don't glorify him. I don't thank him. And I change all of my affections that should be for the creator, toward a creature, and I distort everything about life, twist it to become self-centered. He was angry at me. But God who was rich in mercy forgave me, chapter 1, verse 7, raised me up to be seated with Christ, chapter 2, verse 6. So he in his infinite mercy has gone so far beyond anything I could have expected or deserved. Now he tells me in chapter 4, verse 29, don't let garbage talk come out of your mouth. But rather that which builds the other person up. How do you do that? Verse 31. Let Be involved in this process. Decide, Lord, I want to get rid of this bitterness, but I can't do it. So let Bitterness be removed as you meditate on the gospel. Your heart is longing, it is seeking, Lord In my helplessness, take away the bitterness by showing me, as I stand at the foot of the cross, what you have forgiven me. And in that process, I let the bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, slander, with every form of malice be removed And in its place can't be a vacuum. Lord, then by your Spirit bring kindness, compassion for this person, forgiving them even as in Christ you forgave me. So that I'll imitate you as a dear child and live a life of love just as Christ loved me and gave himself up for me as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. So what do I do? That means that when I see that person and I think of them, I don't assume That they bear all the wrong, the guilt, and I am justified in my anger and bitterness against them But I look back at the possible beam in my own eye, and I say, God, you've forgiven me. Help me to see their sin to me in the light of my sin to you. And help me to understand. Help me to go to them and to just seek to understand their heart. But remember, forgiveness at its root is not understanding. It's canceling a debt. I may understand their heart perfectly, and they are. Inexcusable and wrong in what they've done toward me. So ultimately, it is not understanding them, it is understanding more of the cross that enables me To let the bitterness be removed. See, it's that process of the gospel. I'm desiring it, recognizing my helplessness coming, that the process by the Spirit will work in me. And then when that bitterness sneaks back, I again come back and repent of my self-righteousness, my thinking that I have the right to judge their heart. And to come back before the cross, Lord, let that bitterness be removed by understanding the gospel. And what's the issue in your life? I'm challenging you that you take this summer, what's left, between now and Labor Day, and pick one area. Particularly if it's related to either any of those four passive imperatives or just any command of chapter 4, 5, and 6. Related to the facts of chapter 1, 2, and 3. Any I'm sure that in your life, whatever the areas are, there is something that Ephesians touches on Apply that, that principle and that process that we've just talked about, and see what God does. See how big a Savior we have who holds Himself out to you this morning that you might experience His power. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we come before you and we we recognize, Lord, we we so often walk in our strength. We are so, we so trivialize the gospel. Lord, I so do that. We say these things and we think of the gospel as something that's, you know, it's it gets me to heaven, and I just sort of cope. Between now and when you come. Lord, help us each day to live out of the gospel. Out of that calling by faith. Learning what it means to live as those who are obedient, but recognizing even in our obedience, our helplessness, that you even speak of the processes one in Which it happens to us even as we open ourselves to be changed and to obey by faith Lord, you know, for some of us that's a whole new process. For some of us, Lord, we've been struggling. Lord, I pray, as we pick that area, help us to To take that area that really is what your spirit wants to deal with us about. Maybe an area we've been so discouraged, we wonder, can I ever change in that? And so often, Lord, maybe we've been just trying to change ourselves, trying to just discipline ourselves, memorize more scripture, grit our teeth. Lord, help us. That we would by faith lay hold of your power, of what you say about who we are in Christ. Believe that, to really believe it. And to let that process begin to work in us, to change our hearts, not just our behavior, our hearts. So that by Labor Day, Lord, we would be able to look and say, I've seen God work, I've seen Him do something, just something in my life that I hadn't seen before. And to you will be the praise, and to you will be the glory. That's what you delight to do in sinners like us. We pray you'll do it in Jesus' name. Amen.