Well, this is the third of three messages on prayer. The first, you remember, was about faith. You may not know if God wants to do what it is that you're praying, but it's never a question of whether He is able to do what you're praying. For he created all things, and this earth is just a dot within the dot of a particular galaxy. And he is able to move a mountain, Jesus says in Matthew 21, if that's what it takes in order to accomplish the prayer that you're asking. Then we uh and we saw that the faith is God honoring confidence. And prayer is the means by which we lay hold of his power and his promises. But we saw last week that if To expect to have our prayers answered, we must have unwavering confidence in his power and his ability. then prayer becomes uh an illusory power that mocks us because who here has that kind of confidence? Who here has unwavering faith? But we're like that man in Mark 9 who said, Lord, I believe. Help me overcome my unbelief. And so we saw last week the good news that Jesus is compassionate. He answers the prayers of doubting, weak sinners like you and me. He healed that man's son. He showed his power because we are not called to introspect on how great my faith is, how high on the thermometer it is, how good the confidence is, but to look away from ourselves to the faithfulness of God. To focus on Him, to see what He is able to do. And now this week, the last week, I want to deal with one of the most difficult questions that we encounter as Christians upon about prayer. And that's the question of, but does prayer really change anything? I mean, think about it. If God is sovereign And he's omniscient. He knows all things. He's not confined to time. What difference does it make whether you or I pray? Can we change God's mind? If his mind is perfect and omniscient, why would we want to change his mind? Can we make him do something he wouldn't have otherwise done? What difference, what real difference in history, in lives, in things that happen, does prayer make? I believe that because you and I doubt from time to time whether praying really makes a difference It's one of the reasons, one of the main reasons why we place such a low priority on prayer. I mean we're we're so busy you you gotta do what makes a difference, right? You gotta always think about the return on the investment. What difference is it going to make if I do this or if I don't do it? And I'm not sure it really makes a difference if I take a half hour to pray. Or if I join with brothers and sisters Thursday morning over there in the library from 6. 30 to 7. 30. When I could be having a second cup of coffee or I need to get to work, and I know some of you couldn't get there. But you could say, you know what? I can't make it then, but if you had this time, I could come that time Why is it that we think, eh, I'm just doesn't fit? Why? Because I'm not sure it really makes a difference, right? Why is it that even when you're here do we have few people? You always have couple, but a few, very few people that gather back there in that prayer room during the service to pray for the power of God in the preaching of his word to change lives. Once a month is my challenge to you. Once a month to come and just you don't have to tell me just Go back there, sign up on the sheet, send you the email, what God did. Why is it that not many people do that? Isn't it because we say, well, I you know, real what difference will it make if I'm back there or not? It takes an hour of my time and what's it what's it accomplish? Yeah, I still recall the time last September, Thursday morning Katrina had hit New Orleans just recently, and we're still seeing a lot in the news of the nation reeling from the devastation down there. I was driving to prayer meeting and I heard on the radio um about another hurricane coming. And they said, this one's also a category five. Looks like it could even be more devastating. Rita. Remember that? And they said Rita is headed straight for Houston, west of New Orleans. And it's expected to hit landfall Friday night or Saturday morning. If you remember, there was over a hundred mile traffic jam of people trying to get out of Houston, Texas. I remember when we got to prayer meeting that morning that we a number of us have had heard about it, and so we just prayed. We prayed concerning this hurricane Rita. And it was not a perfunctory, Lord, deliver those people and do something and your bill be done on it and moved on. We implore God, God, be merciful. God, do something. I don't know what you could do. The thing's headed straight forward. It's cat five. It's picking up more energy. What could you possibly do? But we pray, be merciful. And we lingered on that for a while. I still remember turning on the TV Saturday morning breakfast, which I rarely do, but I wanted to see what happened And hearing the news anchor saying, well, we don't know what happened, how to explain it, but Rita just sort of petered out, and Texas was really lucky. Yeah. Coincidence? Did the prayers of God's people downsize a hurricane? I remember April 1999, the Columbine shootings. Remember that? Twelve students shot down plus one teacher. plus the two murderers turning the guns upon themselves. It's about a month later, it was May, and there were rumors that there would be a shooting in the Howard County School system. The Howard County School System considered closing the schools for the week because everybody was alarmed and it was pretty tense. Just recently, a number of us pastors had met with the superintendent of schools for Howard County, Hickey at that time, and we had said, we as churches are here to serve. We want to work with you. We talked about some things we could do. We said we want to pray for you. And we prayed for him at some length. And so one of our pastors contacted him and said, Don't close the schools. We pastors and churches are going to pray that God would prevent violence from occurring. I don't know how in the world it happened. Hickey must have spread the word or something, but it was on I think Channel 2 News that night. I didn't hear it, but somebody told me. You always on Channel 2 News, they said the churches of Howard County are going to pray that there won't be violence in Howard County school system next week. And I thought, I don't know if they were making fun or mocking or you know, like, oh yeah, big deal, what's this gonna do? And you know what, the school system stayed open. Not only was there no violence that week, there was no violence for the rest of the semester. Coincidence Did the prayers of God's people cause something to happen or not happen that would have been different had we not prayed? I know that as a result Jesus Christ got glory. The people didn't mock and say, you know, the churches are going to pray. It was, well, I don't know how it works, but we're sure glad they did. You see, this is all about power. There's all kinds of power. There's political power That's why we're already hearing about uh the fall elections and state and you know, we have somebody I understand from our own congregation running for state senate And people are gearing up for the 2008 elections already, because political power is a great force to be reckoned with. There is also economic power. We hear a lot in the news about China and India now because their economies are growing so large, and so they're becoming more significant players in world events because of their economic power. We hear about Bill and Melinda Gates, who have given so far $26 billion to causes that they believe will change history. 26 billion dollars, do you realize that all that the Carnegie's and the Rockefellers gave in the What we think of as the apex of philanthropy in the early part of this century amounted to about fourteen billion dollars. The Gates's alone have given almost twice that, and now Warren Buffett is going to add another $37 billion over the next few years. That's power. And then there's media power, the power to affect minds and values through TV and movies and um the various media outlets. You think of a fellow like Bono who was playing in an Irish band, you know, years ago and Through his understanding of media has taken his influence, not just from the songs that he writes and that they sing, but is contacting heads of states around the world to change history because of the influence he has through the media Where you take grassroots power, just the number of websites that have sprung up to mobilize people, to act on causes. Think of the Christian singer Natalie Grant who was watching TV one night and she saw a special on sexual trafficking. She got up so so upset That she formed this little website and tried to gather people together to influence countries and policies against sexual trafficking, all kinds of power. The Bible talks about spiritual power. And we tend to think of spiritual power as in a totally different category. There's all these other powers, political, economic, the rest of the You know, those make things happen. Those change the course of history. Spiritual power, well that you know, that changes us. But does it change history? Does it change anything objectively out there? The Book of Revelation is about spiritual power. It's about the conflicts of the two ultimate spiritual powers. The Book of Revelation, remember the word revelation means reveal. It's about inside information. Concerning history. The book of Revelation is written to give you and me inside information on the course of history. On why things are the way they are, and what is going to be the final outcome. It does this in terms of symbols. Now I have preached on Revelation before, but just a quick review for those of you who have not ever heard that material. It does it in terms of symbols. For instance, God's people, the church, the kingdom of God is pictured as Jerusalem, a city. Which is in conflict with what? Babylon, the city of the world, Satan's kingdom and power. They are headed by two personages, the lamb versus the beast. The Holy Trinity, 777, versus the unholy counterfeit trinity, 666 The dragon, the beast of the sea, and the beast of the earth. And these symbols depict power, the conflict of power, what makes things happen in history. Now, when you come to chapter 8 of the Book of Revelation, you have there what I believe is a dual focus on what is happening in history. And it's one of the most powerful passages in all of Scripture that I know of to show that prayer actually changes the course of events. In Revelation chapter 8, you have a picture of how the weak prayers of sinful saints like you and me. Is able to change the course of history. Revelation 8 is all about the seventh seal. The seventh seal obviously follows the first six seals, which are described in chapter six. Now remember the Book of Revelation, I believe, is structured around seven series of seven, seven sevens, seven churches, seven seals, seven trumpets, seven bowls, and so on. Each of these, the seventh, opens up the new one. And in each of these cases, what is described in each seven is the course of history from Christ's first coming all the way through to his second coming. So in chapter 6, the six seals are about what happens between Christ's first coming and his second coming. And in those six seals, which you can read this afternoon, covering this whole span, you have the seals of deception. Wars, economic conflict, death, martyrdom, universal upheaval, probably a glimpse of the final judgment, covering all of this history, and it takes your breath away as you read it. So when you come to the end of that, and people are crying out for mountains to fall on them, and stars are falling from the sky, and the whole universe is in chaos. You're about to faint, and God brings in chapter 7 as a relief, a reprieve. It's a picture of heaven. And in that picture of heaven, he shows that God's people are sealed and protected, and that there's going to come a day when there will be no more suffering and no more strife. You read in verse 10 of chapter 7 that these God's people cry out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And then the depiction of what it's going to be like after all this chaos and death and suffering and all the rest of that, they are before the throne of God and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. That's a picture of his protection. Never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat For the Lamb is at the center of the throne, and he will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. What a beautiful picture. Of peace, of intimacy with a shepherd who will wipe away your tears. The very next verse, chapter 8, when he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about a half hour. Now, what more could there be after these six seals? Now remember, as I've said before, whenever I preached on Revelation, Revelation is written to the imagination, don't sweat the details. It's written to give you vivid technicolor pictures of the ultimate sources of evil and the triumph over evil in Jesus Christ. Now, what's going to happen in the seventh seal? Why is there silence in heaven for a half hour? I believe it's because he's picking up from the sixth seal, the final judgment, and what he's going to do is in the trumpets he's going to come back over history again and talk about trumpets are for warning, among other things. He's going to talk about the warnings that God gives through history concerning the judgment that's to come. But this is a picture in verse 1 of heaven, not earth. We don't see that judgment. The angels have just seen a glimpse of the final judgment Because you and I don't see that final judgment is no big deal Some of you sit here this morning and you are outside of the protection of Christ. You are here for whatever reason that God has brought you. You are here from curiosity, from loneliness, from I want to Come and I want to check out this church for what? Whatever the reason. But if you're outside of Jesus Christ this morning and you think about the final judgment, what goes through your mind? Well, you know, I'd rather be in hell anyway, because that's where my friends will be, and you know and we we make light of it. Listen. Revelation 8. 1 says, when the angels get a glimpse of the final judgment, they are stunned to silence. They stop their mouths. For a half hour, no one can breathe or speak, and they just stand in stunned all. Of a holy God revealing his wrath and power against an impudent, arrogant group of creatures who say, you run the world the way you want, I'm running my own life I plead with you, if you are outside of Christ, come to him and the work he's done at the cross and his resurrection for protection. Now look what happens next. In verse 2 he says, I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and to them were given seven trumpets. The seven trumpets usher in what happens, uh it's described in chapters eight and nine But these trumpets, before they're blown, they're waiting, see? The angels are given, and then there's this other angel, verse 3. And he has a golden censor. And he came and he stood before the altar. Now you see the way this is described, the background of the sky and the clouds, is to picture this is all taking place in heaven. So this angel comes and he stands before the altar and he has much incense and he's offering it up to God. Then the scene switches. It's like a movie. Now we're going to switch to get the other perspective. So you go on to verse 3. with the prayers of all the saints. So he's offering incense along with prayers. He notices of all the saints. It's just sort of Of certain saints, of the really powerful saints, or the ones that are really recognized. It's the prayers of all the saints, the prayers of weak, vacillating, doubting, sinful Creatures like you and me. These are offered. Now why the incense? Because your prayers and my prayers, what do they amount to? I God want you to do this, God, and would you do this please? And you know, and here's what I got to bargain, and here's what I have to offer, and you know, I have very much, and so you why just give up and shut your mouth. But the incense, incense was offered in the Old Testament with the sacrifices. Incense was a picture that the sacrifice was pleasing to God. Because the sensor that it talks about was like a little pan on a pole, and then it were coals, and you poured the incense on it, and that would cause the incense to burn. And it was a fragrance that wafted up. And it reminded you as you smelled that and you said, that smells so good. That when God smells the prayers of his people, obviously this is anthropomorphic language, when God receives the prayers of his people, he goes, My prayers? Your prayers? We picture, he goes, you again? Oh, come on. Can't you raise the level? It says, with the incense, the incense is because of the sacrifice of Christ. Jesus died for your unbelief, your sin, all your self-centeredness. You trust in him, and your prayers are transformed. Both objectively and subjectively, to that which is pleasing to him. He receives it. And so you have this picture here on earth, these weak people, and they're just praying, God. And what are they praying? Well, chapter 6, it talks about the saints who are martyrs. Martyrs beneath the altar and they're growing, oh God, how long before you avenge our deaths? How long before you make things right? The prayers are coming up. Based on the simple prayer of the Lord's Prayer, Lord, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. God, show your power, display your kingdom, show the sovereignty of Christ, show among the nations. Lord. We're so tired of people ignoring you and acting like you don't matter. Lord, show who you are. Now watch what he does. This is the earth. Now he comes back again. Verse 3, back up to heaven. He's offering these on the golden altar before the throne, God's throne. Now again, you get the smoke of the incense, then switch back to earth again. He's keeping it back and forth, together with the prayers of the saints Again, I mean this is kind of important to him. He's driving that home. You see? Incense. Plus the prayers of the saints. The incense, fragrance to God, plus these little Weak prayers of people that are saying, God, we believe, but help us in our unbelief. Lord, expand our thinking, expand our imagination to see who you are and what it is that you want to do and what happens. Back up to heaven. They went up before God from the angel's hand. Then the angel took the censor. Now you see, this is the critical point. Okay, the prayers are pleasing to him. Oh, okay, that's nice to know. He likes his people to pray. But does it make any difference? Does it really change anything? And now you read. Verse 5. The angel took the censer. Same censer that has just had the incense that brings your prayers pleasing to God. He fills it with fire from the altar and he hurls it upon the earth. And what happens? Back to Earth. And there came peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake That's the same symbols you have at the end of chapter 6, talking about the judgment. And then now the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to sound them. Now guys, go. Now what were they waiting for? Why weren't they going? What was all this? It's all poised. You see, there's this silence. There's this waiting. Here's these angels with the trumpets, and they're all waiting. What are they waiting for? The prayers of the people of Columbia Presbyterian Church and the rest of the saints. Your prayers. My prayers. To do what? To unleash the power of God upon the earth. To unleash the power that is irresistible, that comes in the trumpets of warning, the sound of the gospel, that comes upon the earth, that comes among the nations. But it waits for the prayers of God's people. And when that comes, God's power is unleashed. He hurls it upon the earth. What more vivid picture could you or I have of prayer changing the course of history? Brothers and sisters, can you see it? God, open our eyes to see the power of prayer before a God who unleashes from his throne. Kingdom power upon the earth. Now what happens as a result? The seven trumpets describe the warnings. The end of chapter 6, you have all the stars falling, the sun's dark, and all the rest of this. In this case, it's a third of the stars, a third of the earth. So you have these precursors. God is saying, I give through history, through plagues, through wars, through these different things. calls, shouts to come, because we know through history that when there are disasters and wars, there are a there's a greater response to the gospel. Now, is it simply because of the disasters? No. Chapter 9 makes that quite clear. You look at the end of chapter 9, extremely pathetic verse. Verses twenty and twenty-one, the rest of mankind that were not killed by these plagues, this is the end of the seven trumpets now, not killed by these plagues, still did not repent of the work of their hands. They did not stop worshipping demons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone, wood, idols that cannot see or hear or walk. Nor did they repent of their murders, their magic arts, and their sexual immorality or their thefts. Didn't change them. So is that saying, oh so what? Then all we did was pray for devastation? No Because back in chapter 7, he had given you the other side of the picture. In chapter 7, in verse 9 He reads that as a result of this, while this is going on, as a result, when John looks up into heaven, he says, I look there, chapter 7, verse 9. And there before me was a great multitude that no one could count, from every nation and tribe and people and language standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. And they were wearing white robes, and they were holding palm branches in their hands, and they were crying out to God, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. You see, God is calling out in the midst of all of this, in the course of the conflicts of history, He's calling out a people for Himself. And that, brothers and sisters, is why we are adding to our staff a coordinator of outreach ministries. Because we believe God is calling a people to Himself out of our community. It is not just for us to gather together and talk about how bad things are getting. It's for God's people to pray. It's for God's people to believe that because of Christ's sacrifice, incense is offered and mingled with those prayers, and they come to God, and the power of God is released upon earth, and some people resist. And they refuse to believe, but others are being drawn to them. And they will stand in white robes with palms and say, Salvation belongs to our God. Thank you that you shared Christ with me. Now, does that motivate you? I mean, what do you do with that? I mean, after the first service, I had people coming and saying, you know One guy comes and he says, You talk about this prayer portfolio. Man, I've been working, yeah, I had this, I've been doing this for years. And he says I hey it's a it's a steno notebook and one part began at the back and one in the front and he says, and now they've met, and he says, How it's encouraged my faith. God answers prayer. I say it Another person came and said, I'm really stirred this morning, but I've got to figure out how I'm going to apply it. Well, what are you going to do? I mean the first thing is to simply look and say, where is the priority of prayer in your life? Where does it fit in your schedule? Why don't you set aside a higher priority in your schedule to say, I'm going to begin the day, not just with a verse and turn on a Christian radio or something, I'm going to pray, I've got to pray for God. To not only do the small things which are absolutely appropriate, Jesus taught us to pray, give us our daily bread. James 5 teaches us to pray for healing in sickness. No problem with that. But are our prayers restricted to that? Do we only pray for ourselves and our families? Do we pray for the extension of the kingdom of Christ, believing that our prayers make a difference in Howard County? The United States in the desperate need for revival to turn back to Christ. For missions and our missionaries, global events, the The continuing of Islam. You read the papers in Indonesia Seven radical Muslims confessed to the beheading of three Christian schoolgirls because they were unbelievers. were Palestine, Pastor shot to death after six years of harassment, beatings, and threats to his children. Or Alexandria, Egypt, simultaneously in three Christian worship services, Christians stabbed by Muslims with swords, crying unbelievers. I say again, it is only a small portion, a small percentage of Muslims who are violent. But how great the damage. And the prayers of God's people go up. Lord, hello. Lord, show your power. Lord, come in the midst of the suffering. Come in the midst of the gospel. Come and display yourself to us and through us. Come Thursday morning. Gather as we this month considering Ephesians 3, the immeasurable power of God in answering prayers. Have your faith built in. Even 6 30 in the morning. You know, you prop your eyes open with toothpicks. You get coffee there if you want. And you just hear, here's what God's able to do. Now come on, let's and we just give you the requests We don't take a lot of time talking about it. Just here they are. Let's pray and see what God does. And we talk about the answers. Or come on Sunday morning, just show up. Once and say, I'm just gonna see, I'm gonna pray, see what God does, and and see what he does. Spurgeon had 500 people praying in the basement of his church when he preached, and thousands were changed in that ministry. I mean, do I see, you know, get 20 verses 10, what's that mean? I don't know. But it means that we as a church take them seriously. We believe that we honor God by a confidence that says, God, you We are a needy people. We come to you to ask you in our lives and for our community to display yourself. Are you willing to begin to build your own faith portfolio this summer? Your own simple record, another brother came and said, now what I've done, I've taken a simple spiral notebook. And each day I record the top three things that are of concern to me. And then he says, I review these, those each Sunday, and I review what God has done. See how that's tracking and he says what a blessing it's been to my life through the years. It came out of a sermon years ago and he said I began to do it and he said I just want you to know because he responded after the first week of this prayer series And he says, over the years, he says, I have seen so many of the requests, I move them over into the praise column. And I track it, and because I have the record, when I get discouraged, I can go back and I can look at all the prayers that God has answered. Prayers that seem so unlikely. At the time I prayed, and now I see what God has done. I had a brother tell me after the first service, I have a really good memory, so I don't know that I need to do that. And I said, yeah, but you know what? When you're depressed, your memory plays tricks on you. You don't remember God's faithfulness the same way. Keep a record, a faith portfolio to build your faith, your confidence, and as you do, let your request grow larger and larger for the kingdom of God. I mean, you don't want to miss out when seeing what he does, do you? You know, you don't pray, God's still working, but you miss out. When seeing what he has done as you've cooperated, as the incense has taken your weak prayers, and the angel has brought it up to the throne and returned it in power. Don't miss out. Let's pray. Our Father, we confess that we do wonder at times. What difference does it make? Give us eyes to see, we pray, Lord, the difference that prayer makes, to see the angels poised, waiting for the prayers of your people, our prayers. Mingled and mixed with others praying for the work of God in our country, in our community, in our church. That we would recognize and acknowledge freely to you. We are dependent. We are weak. We need you to show your power. Fix this image in our mind. Show us, Lord, increase our faith, increase our imagination of the kingdom of Christ extended through prayer, the foundation of the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian built upon prayer. Do that. We pray. I can only pray it, Lord. I got to pray for myself and I pray it for my brothers and sisters. If you would do that in Jesus' name. Amen.