And our custom in December is to look at an Old Testament prophecy of the coming of Messiah. Last week I began an introduction to the servant songs of Isaiah, and we saw that there are four songs Among that are among the clearest of all the Old Testament prophecies of Jesus, of his person and of his work, written about seven hundred years. Before Jesus came. That would be like saying that if Jesus was a contemporary today that Isaiah had written around 1300 A. D. some very specific, unusual, unique prophecies to describe his person and his work. And so I claim that these songs, these four songs that you see listed in your sermon outline, where they are, are major faith builders. They are tremendous in encouraging you as they have encouraged me through the years that the Bible is true and that Jesus is trustworthy. And whatever you're going through in your life now, if you need that affirmation, I can trust this book. Everything that it says, I can rely on. That Jesus is really trustworthy in all that he says and claims to be able to do in my life, then the servant songs are among the best encouragements I know. For your being uh helped in your faith to believe that God's word is true. They're so significant that I'm taking two messages this year simply to introduce them as a whole, taking as my text, Isaiah chapter 42, verse 1, here is my servant, or behold my servant. You see, as I mentioned, where those songs are in chapters 42, 49, 50, and 52, 53. Last week we saw concerning these four songs that they are utterly contradictory in the kind of person and the work that that person will do as far as you can tell, in terms of this person being both abjectly humiliated and then also being exalted as king of all nations. As the one who is utterly rejected, and then the one who is absolutely accepted as King of Kings and as Lord of Lords, the one for whom there is despising and then adoration. How do you put these things together? No Jew None of the rabbis were able to understand what these songs meant until Jesus of Nazareth, son of a carpenter, came along and figured out what this meant. Not only did he figure it out, he fulfilled it. And that's even more amazing. Because the nature of these contradictions, these apparent contradictions in who this person is and what they that person will accomplish. is such that no one could have ever engineered accomplishing it. We look today and we think of a person who is uh rejected that they're not going to all of a sudden be accepted and taken as king or as ruler by popular acclamation. Now Jesus could have never engineered that he would be utterly rejected by his own people, crucified, and then rise to become Lord of the nations. But this is exactly the kind of picture that you have in Isaiah. It gets clearer as you get to chapter 53 and the climax of it. And so Jesus not only understood it, Jesus fulfilled it. And Jesus had enough of a love and desire for you to be part of his kingdom that even though he meant that the suffering meant the ultimate of sacrifice and of laying himself down. Of giving up the fellowship that he had had with the Father, taking upon himself a finite body that he would inhabit through all eternity. He did that Because he loved you, and he loved me so very much. And that is the Jesus for whom you and I await. As those in Isaiah's day read the prophecies and had some dim recollection of what Messiah was to be when he came. So you and I in the fullness of the revelation that we have, still with dim understanding, look, to see that Jesus is coming again. Amen? We look for him, this same one to fulfill all that he has said in Isaiah, and to establish his kingdom and consummate it forever and ever. And that's the hope. That's why we read these things, you see, you know, to get into beyond all the stuff that's the decorating and the eating and all the things we consume and all that from this holiday season to recognize. what it is that you and I hope for. And so this week, what I want to do in wrapping up the introduction to these songs next year we will look at Isaiah 42 particularly. And I'll tell you, as Tom was reading through Isaiah 42 a few minutes ago. I was reading it and I've been studying this and meditating on it and each verse now has become so precious to me that I I kept thinking, I can't wait till next December, you know, to begin to open up those verses, because wow, they're really something. Well I gotta wait for that. So just the introduction now and I'll try to contain myself. But it's it's neat, I'll tell you. It's in fact it's so great that next Christmas I'm probably going to go beyond Christmas. I can't get it all in between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Oh, we'll see how far we go in that. Maybe we'll go to Easter. I don't know. But anyway, you know. I'm just kidding. This morning I want to look at three or four questions, wrapping up the introduction to this. First of all, who is it that Isaiah means by the servant? Secondly, who, if you don't believe it's Jesus, do Jews today or anti-supernaturalists say this refers to? What are the alternatives? And I will be particularly dealing with that question in the middle hour back in the storage room because we don't have time to deal with that whole thing. here. So I'm not dealing with that point in the sermon. It'll make sense skipping over that, but I will deal with that during the middle hour if any of you are interested in joining me in the storage room just for this one Sunday Third question is why must some of these prophecies only be fulfilled in Jesus? Why can only Jesus be the one? who uniquely fulfills them. And then fourthly, what does this mean for you and for me practically in our lives this week? Well, first of all, who then does Isaiah mean by the servant? Chapter 42, verse 1, here is my servant. Chapter 49, verse 3, he said to me, You are my servant. Again and again you read in these songs. Each song refers to him specifically as the servant. Now it may not seem like a very big deal to you. Who's the servant? Well, all right, you know, I guess New Testament says it's Jesus. Why is that such a big deal Let me tell you, one Old Testament scholar who's written many, many books on Old Testament says there is no question in the entire Old Testament, more debated and more written on, there are more books written on this one question. Who is the servant of the servant songs of Isaiah than any other question in the entire Old Testament? Another scholar surveying the literature on this said the table of contents runs for pages and pages and pages the number of references, books, articles, journals that were written on simply this one question. Who is the servant? Why is that such a big deal? Because remember That these songs are central to the church's claim that Jesus is Messiah, that he is the hope of Israel and the hope of the nations. The church committed itself to saying, Jesus is that servant whom Isaiah spoke of. Therefore, if he is not the servant, if Isaiah in fact did not intend Jesus by this, but something else, some other person or group or whatever, fulfills this. Or in some way you can demonstrate Jesus doesn't fulfill it Then your faith, my faith, is utterly shattered. But if you can demonstrate he did fulfill it, then it's very hard to reject the notion that the Bible is supernatural prophecy and that Jesus uniquely is Messiah. So the consequences of that question, who is the servant that Isaiah had in mind when he wrote this, is an absolutely crucial question. Now, when we go through this and I say, Jesus is the servant that Isaiah had in mind, and I demonstrate from these four songs what I believe is the evidence for that. You may be inclined to think, tremendous. Next time I see a rabbi over at the interface center, I'm going to go up to him with my Bible and I'm going to say, hey, Rabbi so-and-so. You know Isaiah 42 says this in 49 and 50 and 52-53. Don't you see that Jesus is Messiah? He's the Savior for sin. Now it's obvious, isn't it? You know Hebrew, you know it better than I do. Why don't you believe that Jesus is your Messiah? You know what he'll do? He will smile, and he will patiently seek to instruct you, Goim of the Goim, the Gentiles. That Isaiah in fact had no such person as Jesus in mind. That in fact this is simply the product of the early Christian church reading Jesus back into these prophecies. And by the time he is finished, for most people, he will have you convinced that Al Harris was an airhead. Who misled you and utterly was naive in thinking he understood what Isaiah had in mind. And for many Christians, you would go with your faith utterly shaken. Confused and wondering, is this prophecy? What did Isaiah have in mind? Is Jesus the fulfillment of this? For if he is, the Bible is true, and Jesus is uniquely Savior and Lord with his claims upon your life. If he's not the fulfillment of what Isaiah had in mind, he's a charlatan, and the Bible, the New Testament, is absolutely untrustworthy. So you see the stakes are pretty high in demonstrating this. That's why I'm going to take the middle hour in addition to this so that we can have some discussion on that for any of you who want to pursue that further. But now let's look at the evidence. Is the key word, of course, is the word servant, ebab in the Hebrew. It's a simple word. It means the verb means to work or to to serve. Very similar to our English word. So it's nothing complicated about that. Very, very briefly look at your outline there and you see the general usage of this word. It's used hundreds and hundreds of times in the Old Testament. The general usage, of course, besides referring simply to servants or slaves, is that God uses this word to refer to his people as his servants. For instance, Psalm 113, verse 1. Praise the Lord, O ye servants, praise O servants of the Lord, praise his name, the name of the Lord. God's people are referred to many, many dozens and dozens of times as his servants In particular, those who he called as his leaders, such as Moses, Joshua, David, and many others, the prophets are called his servants. But those who he called into particular service for him are often designated by this term, Moses my servant, Joshua my servant, and many others. Now, more specifically, more particularly though, more interesting to us, is how did Isaiah use the word and to whom was Isaiah referring? And you find, if you look at chapters 40 to 66, which are particularly the section of Isaiah which has to do with the comfort that is coming after the exile, you find something very interesting. Somebody once figured out, noticed, that if you look at chapters 40 to 53 within which there are the four servant songs, the word appears 20 times. Every one of them is in the singular. If you look from beyond chapter 53, 54 to 66 in Isaiah, the word appears 11 times, and every one of them is in the plural. Now what's significant about that is every time it appears after chapter 53, servants, it is referring to God's people as his servants No, nothing very mysterious about that. My servants will experience my salvation, inherit the kingdom, and on and on and on. When you look at chapters 40 to 53, within which you have these four servant songs, uniquely every one of those 20 times is in the singular. And there are three kinds of references. And I've tried to illustrate it by the triangle. Alright, so you see this triangle I finally figured out how to do on my computer. And so please use it. Now what I want you to do is you look at these three sections of this triangle, there are three references. And those three references are very significant. The bottom reference, which is illustrated by chapter 42, 18 to 20, is the reference to Israel as national Israel. So you write in that bottom part there, national Israel. It's very clear if you read chapter 42, beginning verse 18. Hear you deaf, look you blind, and see, who is blind but my servant? And deaf like the messenger I send. Who is blind like the one committed to me, blind like the servant of the Lord? You've seen many things, but paid no attention. Your ears are open, but you hear nothing Who's that he's referring to? Well verse 17 makes it clear. It's those who trust in idols who say to images, you are our gods, will be turned back to utter shame. God is speaking to Israel. He is condemning them for their idolatry, and he says, You are my servants. Now of course the word is used here somewhat sarcastically What God is saying is, I called you to be my servants, and the last thing you're doing is serving me. You're serving idols. So that's referring to Israel in name, national Israel with whom the covenant was made. Now, within that there is another reference, and that is illustrated, for instance, by Isaiah chapter 41, verses 8 to 10, and that is to spiritual believing Israel. God uses the term not only sarcastically, ironically, he also uses the term genuinely to refer to those who are his servants. Look at Isaiah 41, begin with verse 8. He says But you, O Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, you descendants of Abraham, my friend, I took you from the ends of the earth, from its farthest corners I called you I said, you are my servant. I have chosen you and not rejected you. Now notice, so do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. God is saying here, you are my people. My precious ones, as you go into the exile, I will sustain you. I will bring you back. You can trust me, I am with you. Alright? Nothing very difficult about those two. General agreement among scholars that those are at least involved in who Isaiah has in mind. It's so patently clear from the text. But we as Christians hold that there is a third reference, and that's the controversial one. Clearly, this means more than just national or spiritual Israel. The New Testament, Matthew chapter 12 and Acts chapter 8, make it very clear that these servant songs refer to Jesus as the true servant. Now, why is it that we hold to this? Well, again, let me say in the middle hour we'll look at those who say that this refers uh to national Israel only or ideal Israel, Israel as it should be. Some people say it refers to the prophets, some people say it refers to various individuals. We say it refers and must refer to Jesus. Isaiah 42, 1. Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him, and he will bring justice to the nations. A person, an individual. Now, secondly, let us look. Why can some of these references then only be to Jesus? First of all, because the servant clearly is a unique Israelite with a global mission. He's a unique Israelite with a global mission. Chapter 42, verse 1: I will put my spirit on him, and he will bring justice to the nations. Verse 4. He will not falter or be discouraged till he establishes justice on earth and in his law, his teaching. The islands will put their hope. Islands refers to the ends of the earth. It's kind of the far reaches. It's saying everybody, as far out as you can see, everyone is going to put their hope and wait on his law. Chapter 49, verse 6. It's too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob and bring back those of Israel I've kept. I will also make you a light for the Gentiles. Remember the word Gentiles is the word nations. Same word. I will make you a light for the nations. So that you may bring my salvation to the very ends of the earth. This then is referring to someone uniquely who has a global mission to rule the earth Nothing that can be contained within Israel. Secondly, he is uniquely rejected and then adored. Uniquely rejected and then adored in chapter 50. In verse 6, you read of the servant. Lost it there. I offered my back to those who beat me, my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. I did not hide my face from mocking and spitting. In chapter fifty-three, remember verse three, he was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, familiar with suffering. Like one whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. But then you go on to verse 12 of chapter 53. And you read of this one who's despised and rejected, I will give him a portion among the great. He will divide the spoils with the strong. You read in uh chapter 42, as I read before, that in verse 4, he's going to establish justice on earth, and I'll show, try to show to you next year that that establishing justice means establishing his rule on all the earth. And that phrase there, the islands are going to look, wait for his law means to expectantly hope for it. So this is one who is going to be first rejected and then accepted as king and lord. Now That's the opposite of what you generally see in history, isn't it? Someone rises to power. You know, uh uh uh Fidel Castro or Mao Tse Tung or some others like that, they'll rise to power and they will be accepted But then after a period of time they become less accepted. They become, in the reflection of history, rejected. Lenin, Stalin, many others, I mean there's just so many examples of this. The general pattern is for leaders to be accepted than rejected What other person can you think of in history was so rejected that he was executed and then he was accepted Of course, it involves resurrection. Isaiah 53 speaks of that. We'll look at that later. Here's one who is utterly rejected, then he is accepted by the nations as king. Thirdly, most importantly, see on this. He is the unique true Israelite who is separate from Israel. Most Jews see this servant as identified with Israel. He is the true Israel, or you know, the ideal Israel is Israel supposed to be or any of that. But clearly you have here an individual. who in many cases is distinguished from Israel. So he is Israel, but he's separate from Israel. Seems like a contradiction. But it's so important to understanding the work of Jesus. In chapter 42, verses 6 and 7, you read that he is going to open the eyes of the blind Who are the blind? Well I just read to you, chapter 42, verse 19. It's national Israel that's blind. If he is Israel, how is he opening his own eyes? He is the deliverer who is to open the blind eyes of those who refuse God's law. In chapter 42, verse 1, God says he delights in him. He has said that he will restore Jacob and Israel. How can he be Israel if he is going to restore Israel, a unique individual? In chapter 50, verses 5 and 6 It is specifically said that he will suffer, but he is not rebellious. He's going to be spat upon. They're going to pluck out his beard. They're going to torture him. But he says there he has kept God's word. It is not because of his sin. If there's anything clear, you read through Isaiah 40 to 53, it is Israel is going to be taken into the exile because of their sin. Chapter 40, verse 2, right at the very beginning, Isaiah makes us absolutely clear. You've received double for your sins in the exile, he says. It's for your sin that you are going to suffer these things. But in chapter 53, remember in chapter 52, 13, he's introduced the servant, my servant, here's what he's going to do. And in chapter 53, you see, he is going to be punished for our sins. Who's the hour? Isaiah speaking of one of Israel. He's going to be punished for what we have done wrong. We have sinned. He paid. Absolutely separate and distinct from Israel. But now go back to chapter 42, verse 6. Because this is absolutely crucial. Take a look at that. Chapter 42, verse 6. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness. I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you and make you to be a covenant for the people. Now what's that referring to? You see the relationship that God has with his servant. It's a unique and personal, precious relationship. He delights in him, he upholds him, he puts his spirit upon him, he takes his hand, and he says, I will make you a covenant for the people. Now in order to understand that, remember God had made a covenant with Israel. He had made it with Abraham. He had made it at Sinai with Israel as a nation. God said, You are in a unique relationship with me. by covenant. And that covenant says, obey me, I will be your God, you will be my people, and I will give you my kingdom. Disobey me, suffer the curses and the consequences. Israel constantly disobeyed. They were unfaithful to the covenant. And so you read in the prophets again and again, God looks for a remnant, those who are faithful to him. You come down to Isaiah 42, and what do you see? There is only one in the remnant. There's only one true Israelite. Only one who serves him. He is my servant in whom I delight. And so Isaiah comes down to finally saying, there is only one true Israelite ultimately. It is the servant. He is what Israel should have been. He is the one who is faithful. He is the one who serves the Father and keeps the covenant faithfully. Therefore, he is uniquely eligible to be made a covenant for the people. Do you see what that means? It is saying that Jesus is the one who having kept the covenant is uniquely eligible to die in your place and my place as those who have broken the covenant. So that you and I would be reckoned as covenant keepers before God because Jesus died for our sins. Amen. Somebody ought to say hallelujah Do you see what that's saying? Do you see that is why Isaiah uses this language that the Jews could never understand? Why is it that he speaks of Israel, false Israel is the servant, as believing Israel is the servant, and uniquely one individual who will die for Israel made a covenant for them as the servant. Because he is saying he is identified with his people, but he is separate from sin, and therefore can be made a covenant for their salvation. Who 700 BC could have ever understood that theology? It is absolutely supernatural. Well, what does this mean for you and for me? It means, first of all, that you cannot You cannot look at the Bible as a book that has nice ideas, that makes you feel warm at Christmas time. And not bow to Jesus as Savior and Lord. This is a supernatural book. And it prophesies of a supernatural Savior. And so the first thing that it says to you Is that Jesus must be your servant? Do you understand that? He is the servant. But unless he is your servant, you have no part of him. Do you remember the night before Jesus, the night that Jesus was betrayed before he was crucified? When he served that supper to his disciples? He took off his garments, wrapped himself with a towel, and did what no one else in that room was willing to do. He knelt down and he washed the disciples' feet. Now, do you remember when he got to Peter? He said to Peter, or as he was beginning to wash Peter's feet, Peter said to him, Lord, you're not going to wash my feet. Peter understood the humiliation of this. Lord, I'm not going to let you wash my feet. I'm not worthy. Do you remember what Jesus said to him in John 13, 8? Peter? If I do not wash your feet, you have no part of me. Peter, if you don't let me serve you. You have no part with me. Peter says, Oh Lord, not just my feet, my heads, my hands, everything. And Jesus then corrects that notion. You see, you can look at this and say, that's interesting. It's nice at Christmas to think of the hope that that in general general speaks of. But where are you this morning personally with Jesus Christ? Have you ever come to the place where you recognize your sin and say, I cannot do anything about it? I need someone who is going to take that sin for me and from me to bear its consequences and its guilt I need Jesus to come and to serve me by his death in my place? Or are you too proud to receive that? Are you too proud to bring yourself before Jesus and say, Jesus, I need you to wash me? The servant must serve you first by offering you himself in his life and his death, or you have no part of him. And if you wonder about that, please make a note in the gray slip that we can get back to you. Steve and or myself to talk to you about how you can know Jesus, your servant. And your Lord. But the second thing is that the Bible makes it very clear that just as you and I Allow him to serve us in offering himself for us. If you belong to him, you will serve him. Jesus speaks of himself as Lord, and he speaks of himself Eleven times, as I said, in chapters 54 to 66, his people are called, those who trust him are called his servants. John Scott tells of a time when he was a student at Cambridge University during the war. He says that there was a librarian there who was a refugee from the continent. He was a very well-meaning fellow, a very polite fellow, but he hadn't mastered English very well And so Stott said that when he and the students would come into the library, this fellow would rise from his seat, go over to them and bow and say, Please dispose of me however you wish. Now, he meant to say something a little different from that, but it would always come out, please dispose of me however you wish. And Stott said he realized that is exactly to be the attitude of the believer. Lord, please dispose of me, however you wish. Do whatever you want with me. Because you have served me with your life, I now give myself to you, to serve you, to make myself available to you. And whether you choose for me trials or persecution, difficulties that I wouldn't choose for myself, I'm not the Lord. You are. Do with me as you wish. And then finally it's clear that if you will serve him, that means you will serve one another. You and I are called to be his servants. And that means we serve one another. You and I cannot serve Jesus. We serve him in our worship here. But in our day-to-day living, he is not physically here for us to serve him. But he has given us his body. You have your brothers and your sisters. You have those who belong to him. You have those who are needy all around. And Jesus says, when you serve them, you serve me. Edith Schaeffer was always behind the scenes at LeBrie, always serving the meals. Setting the table, many times it was written of how she would uh bring tea, cookies, hot breads to those that Francis Schaeffer was talking to about the gospel. Always just trying to slip around to see how can I make the setting more pleasant? How can I make the atmosphere more conducive towards spiritual discussions? And somebody asked her, how is it that she's able to always take the second place in doing that and being able to do it so cheerfully? And she said, you know, Jesus gave his life for me. And he's not here for me to physically serve. But when I serve the students, when I serve Francis, that's my way of serving Jesus. It's my way of saying thanks to him for all that he's done. God gives you, and he gives to me, the opportunity to serve him. With thankful hearts as we serve one another. Let's pray. Lord our God How wonderful to believe, to know that your word is true and you, Lord Jesus, are trustworthy. Forbid that any of us would look at this and simply say, I can't argue against it, but I do not want to give my life to Jesus. Lord, what arrogance, what pride. Humble us that we are willing to have you serve us with your unique sacrifice for our sin. Lord, give to us grace of grateful hearts to both serve you, making ourselves disposable to you, available to you. And to flesh that out in serving one another, making ourselves available to one another day by day. Speak your word to our hearts, and we receive it in Jesus' name. Amen.