Last August, I was sitting on Cannon Hill, right near Uncle Tim's Bridge, overlooking Wealth Leed Harbor up in Cape Cod when our family was on vacation. And in that d idyllic setting I was not very happy. The reason was because it was a perfect situation to be delighting in God But in fact, instead of delighting in God, I was thinking about how miserable I was. I was thinking about things that God had been making me aware of in my life, my tendency to self-protection, my lack of faith. I was had been reading George Mueller's life and was very aware, rather than being encouraged by Mueller's life, to how I could grow in my faith, I was feeling more rebuked and I don't trust God like Mueller did. And all these other things that I began to be thinking about. And as I was thinking about all those things, the worst part of it was that I didn't know how to change. I didn't know what to do. It was like I had plateaued. I had come to a certain point and No matter what I would do to focus on the sins, I felt unable to get beyond that. Do you uh any of you identify with I'm not gonna ask you to show your hands, you know, but do you identify a little bit with that? Um the first question you see on your bulletin outline is do you feel stuck? Unable to make progress in changing your life. There's things in your life that you know are displeasing to the Lord. And some of them aren't just displeasing to the Lord, they're displeasing to some other people too, and they've been making you aware of that. And so those people have been bringing to your attention, or other things have been bringing to your attention, that you're not where you ought to be. And you look back at your life and you say, I've been crazy. Christian for maybe so many years now, and why am I not able to focus on this thing and see some progress in it? And so maybe you've read books on that area, you've read articles on it, you might have gone to support groups on it, you've studied, you've said I need to get serious about this, I've repented of it. All these things you should do, and what's the effect of it? You're more tired, you're more frustrated, you're more discouraged, you feel more guilty about what you're not doing, but you don't feel somehow more progress. Now why is that? Well, as I was thinking about that that day and finding myself somewhat discouraged, in my reading I was drawn to a passage in 12 Corinthians chapter 3. And when I read the words of 2 Corinthians 3. 18, they about leaped off the page and jumped into my heart to bring refreshment like a soft breeze off of the bay coming that morning. Now, what were words that were so powerful to me? I want to read them and I want for us to consider these words in our series on delighting in God. And pray that the insight of this gospel truth will bring refreshment to you too. The words reverse are 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18, Paul says, and we who with unveiled faces All reflect or behold the Lord's glory. We are being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory which comes from the Lord the Spirit. As I read that, I suddenly realized that there is a profound truth In that verse, which I refer to, as you see on the bulletin outline, that beholding is the way of becoming This is an insight, I believe, of how to move from superficial change or frustration about no change into deeper heart change in our lives. Beholding is the gospel way of becoming. Now, first of all, need to understand that that word reflect in verse 18 Is a word that would better be translated behold. In fact, if you have an NIV, the footnote says or contemplate. Let me explain. The word literally in the Greek means to behold in a mirror. And so it can be a word which means if you hold up a mirror and you look into it while you're beholding it, you're also reflecting it. So it can be translated either way. But if you look at the context of Paul's thought here in 2 Corinthians 3, it's clear, it seems to me, that what he's talking about is beholding more than reflecting. Now, in order to get that, let's go back to verse 6 and pick up the thread of Paul's thought in order to understand this insight and how it can help us. In this passage, Paul's been talking about the gospel, and he's contrasting the new covenant, the gospel, with the old covenant. And in verse 6, he has said, He's made us competent as ministers of a new covenant, not the letter. That is the law, but of the Spirit. For the letter, the law, kills, but the Spirit gives life. And then he goes on to develop this contrast between the old and the new covenant. And in order that we don't miss the point that the old covenant was worthless and the new covenant is good stuff, he helps us to see that the old covenant was good. In fact, it was glorious. But the new covenant is infinitely more glorious. Now get the thread of his thought, because that's the only way you can understand the power of what verse 18 is saying. Verse 7 He says, Now if the ministry that brought death was which was engraved in letters on stone, the two tables of the law, the Ten Commandments, came with glory so that the Israelites could not look steadily at the face of Moses because of its glory. Fading though it was, will not the ministry of the Spirit be even more glorious? Understand what Paul's referring to. He's referring to the incident in Exodus chapter 34, after the golden calf, and Moses had come down, and in a fury he had smashed the table. of the law because of the sin of God's people who had gone and built this this calf and were in an orgy and all the rest of this And so in his fury he smashed those tap the tablets, and after God had judged the people, Moses goes back up onto Mount Sinai, meets with the Lord again. The Lord once again writes with his finger. uh that is God in his immediate presence, writing directly onto those tables the Ten Commandments. He brings them back down, and Moses comes down and a strange thing happens. He's coming down to the table and now people are waiting and they haven't been indulging in orgies and idolatry and the rest of this. But when they see him, they start running the other way And finally somebody comes up to him and he says, Moses, your face is glowing. And he says, Well, yeah, I can imagine. I'll tell you it's really been quite a 40 days up there. I mean it has been amazing. I have been in God's presence. No, no, Moses, I'm not. I mean literally, your face looks like a light bulb. I mean it's hard to look at you because the Bible says that Moses was not aware that his face was glowing. And so verse 7 here is saying that the people couldn't look steadily at his face because of the glory. And even then it was beginning to fade, but there was such glory. Remember we talked last week about how we are incapable as finite creatures, and particularly as sinners, to view the glory of Jesus just like we're incapable of looking directly as the sun. And so Moses now was just some dim reflection of that, but it was the same kind of thing. You couldn't look at him. It was just, it was, it was, it hurt probably, and it was just overwhelming. There was too much glory. And that was just a dim reflection. And so Paul's saying, now if that was so glorious, how much more the ministry of the Spirit, verse 9, if the ministry that condemns men is glorious, because that's what it does, These things you and I feel bad about, that we're saying, I can't why can't I get beyond this? I've tried so hard in my life. Why can't I make progress? If that ministry condemns us, the law shows us our sin Then, how much more glorious is the ministry that brings righteousness You see, because the Spirit comes, he shows you Christ, shows you that Jesus was the one who came, kept the perfect law of righteousness, established a perfect record for you so that as you trust Jesus and not your own record. For what he did, what we talked about in the discipleship weekend this past weekend, for those of you who were there, great encouragement to me in the hunger that you had for this. As we looked at this and saw that Christ's righteousness objectively outside us becomes the whole position. That we take in our comfort and in our satisfaction, in the contentment that we feel as Christians, because we have His righteousness. Isn't that infinitely more glorious? That's Paul's argument. If Moses bringing tables that come to condemn you was glorious. How much more when the Spirit comes and shows you Jesus? Who brings you righteousness? Doesn't show you just your unrighteousness. He brings you a righteousness to be received by faith. Now, if that's true, verse 10, for what was glorious has no glory now in comparison with the surpassing glory. There was no comparison of that verse eleven for if what was fading away came with glory. This was the whole testament covenant, that the sacrifices, the ceremonies, all that was fading away, how much greater is the glory of the world? of that which lasts. If you have the righteousness of Jesus this morning, that lasts forever. It'll never be taken away. It never fades. Then he goes on, verse 12, therefore, since we have this hope, we can be bold. You can be bold, brothers and sisters, this morning. Not bold because you've made progress, because you've accomplished, you finally got that sin under control. You can be bold because you have the righteousness of Jesus. That's what he's saying. Then notice in verse 13, now he he looks at himself as one who brings this message and he says, Now we are not like Moses. Who had put a veil over his face to keep the Israelite from gazing at it while the radiance was fading away. He couldn't stand it. We're not like that. But then notice in verse 14, he takes that physical image of the veil, the physical veil, And he says that that is symbolic of another veil, a spiritual veil, a veil that's over the hearts of Israel the people who do not see Jesus' glory as the fulfillment of the covenant. Now what Paul's doing is he is saying the veil you see was hiding glory. But he's saying there is another kind of a veil that hides glory. And it's a veil over the hearts of people who read the Bible and can't see the glory. So he says, verse 14, But their minds were made dull, for to this day the same veil remains when the old covenant is read. It has not been removed because only in Christ is it is taken away. Even to this day, when Moses is read, a veil covers their hearts. Not just their hearts. The heart of anybody can be here this morning with a veil over your heart because you don't understand the glory of Christ You look at this and you say, well, you know, it doesn't make sense. Bunch of stories. Don't see how it all hangs together. What's it mean for me? There's a veil. Doesn't make sense. Then verse 15. Verse 15, Faal covers their hearts. Verse 16 then. But whenever anyone turns to the Lord, that Baal's taken away. Now he says, this veil, this spiritual veil, when you recognize your sin, your need for Jesus, that veil is removed. Things begin to make sense. It all comes together. Who does that? Verse 17. It's the Spirit who does that. Now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. He's the one who brings that freedom from the law to rest in the righteousness of Christ. Now it is in that context, you get all that put together now, that he comes to verse 18 and he says, Now, we, here's us, you and me, who now with unveiled faces, you see, we have had that veil removed from our hearts and our minds. so that we can behold the glory of Christ. And you see the point of it is the beholding, not the reflecting. We then who with unveiled faces all behold the Lord's glory. are being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. Now in order to understand how powerful that is, I want you to focus on it under two points. See on your bulletin outline. The first point I want for us to see is the principles of New Covenant transformation. First of all, notice the principles. And the principles are stated, three principles, by means of contrast between the old covenant and the new covenant. Three contrasts. The first one is that we are not spectators, but participants. That's A. We are not spectators, but participants. Again, you notice in that story from Exodus 34, it was only Moses who went up into the mountain. It was only Moses who saw the Lord's glory. He was there for forty days, no food or drink. God Himself sustained Moses. What a privileged position. It was only Him. And then He came down and people saw secondhand. Wow, look at that, must have really been an experience up there. Look at that guy's face. And they see that glory reflected, but they haven't seen the glory. All they've seen is Moses. They didn't go up on the mountain. If they did, they'd have been burned into a cinder the moment they touched. They would have dropped dead. But now Paul says, verse 18, look at this. Now we who with unveiled faces all behold the Lord's glory. We all, that's you and me, common ordinary garden variety sinners Within Christ's church, we all behold his glory. He said, Oh come on, give me a break. I've never been had an experience like Moses up there looking on the mountain and being able to see God's You know, what the Bible calls the after effects. You see what this is referring to is that time when when Moses said, Lord, behold, show me your glory. Don't let us go on up into the land if you're not going to go with us. Lord, show me your glory. And the Bible says that God showed Moses the after effects, kinda like the reverberations, the the after effects. uh of the reflections of his glory, like we said last week. He can't see it directly. It's too overwhelming. But Moses saw something and he said, I've never seen anything like that Listen, what Paul's saying here is, when you every time you open your Bible and you read about how Jesus has fulfilled the law on your behalf, and that Jesus was God's own son And that he did that because of his love for you, and that he then, who was the one true covenant keeper in all of history, was then cursed as the one arch covenant breaker on your behalf. So that you and I are crucified with Christ as if we had hung on the cross, and God has done that for you to wipe out your sin, to transform your life, and to give you the glory of Christ as He transforms you to become like Him. You've beheld a glory that Moses could not have guessed at. Do you see that? That's a glory that's even better. And Paul says, we all get to see that. So when you look at the righteousness of Christ, you're looking at the glory of God reflected. We'll see how that's true in a minute. We all, we don't just, we're not spectators, we're participants. That's the first contrast. Now, second contrast And not only is that the case, but in Moses, it was simply his face that was transformed. We are having our hearts transformed. So what's changed? Not our faces only, but our hearts. Verses 7 and 13, you see there that Moses' face was radiant from his time with the Lord. But in contrast to that, Verse 18, we who with unveiled faces all behold the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness. See, when you look at Jesus Christ by faith and see what he has done, the Bible says the effect of that is to transform your character, your heart. It's like Romans 8. 29. He has predestined us to be conformed into the image of his Son. Now you notice that this does not say that that ought to be the case. It's not exhorting you to make that the case. It says, when you behold Jesus, That is the case. See? Verse 18. We who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness. Even a sinner like you can't stop that. Even somebody like me, sitting up there on Cannon Hill, thinking about all the things I'm missing, I can't keep that from happening. Now I affect it. We'll talk about that. But if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are being transformed. Not only are you being transformed But it's growing. That's the third contrast. You see, in the third contrast, it's not a matter of a glory that is fading. as it was with Moses. But it's a glory that is increasing. Not fading, but increasing. Now, look at uh how Paul emphasizes this. Verse 7. He talks about the Moses came down with a glory so that the Israelites could not look steadily at the face of Moses because of his glory, fading though it was. Emphasizes it was fading. Emphasizes that again in verse eleven. If what was fading away came with glory, how much greater is the glory that lasts? Again in verse 13. We're not like Moses who could put a who could put a veil over his face to keep the Israelites from gazing at it while the radiance was fading away. Now, put that in mind, and then notice the contrast to verse 18. We who with unveiled faces all reflect, behold, the Lord's glory, we are being transformed into his likeness with what? ever increasing glory. I want to tell you that that's a staggering thought, isn't it? Amen. See if you think about what that means that you know I've been here for 15 years. I've been around long enough. I just want the benefits of hanging around. I've seen some of your lies for a long period of time. And you've seen my life. Every once in a while somebody will tell me I'm a little easier to live with now than I was fifteen years ago. We've seen some changes in you, you know, you're a little better as a pastor. I say, wow, praise God for that. I'd hate you have been stuck with what you had fifteen years ago. And I see with you folks, I see people and I can tell you and believe me, if you don't believe it, ask me. Now come on, I've been around here for ten years. What have you seen change? I'll tell you I had three people walk out in first service and I said, Oh you know I meant that about you and I told them a couple of things. I mean their faces started glowing like Moses, you know, because it you know what happens? Like Moses, I don't think it's insignificant that Moses was not aware that his face was glowing I think for many of us as Christians, God is transforming us in ever-increasing glory to the likeness of Jesus. And we're not aware of it. They're not aware of it. Say, well, yeah, I'll just have the same old problem, same old sins. Why? Because you're aware on deeper and deeper levels of what needs still to be changed. So that's one of the very important benefits of being in a small group. In fellowship with people who get to know you over a period of time. So that when you come and your tail's dragging between your legs and you're saying, I don't think God's at work in my life, and I'm dealing with the same stuff and I'm really discouraged and my faith's so low and there's nothing left, and you know it's a flickering little spark and there's not And they say, oh come on, give us a break. Look, you know, five years ago this was a thing in your life, and now look what God has done. And two years ago you couldn't even believe him to do this, and look what he's done You know, you say, hey, that's kind of nice. You know, I needed to hear that. You ever have somebody do that with you? They're reminding you of the ever-increasing glory of the Spirit's work in your life. Our glory is not fading. We may have a few steps back, a few laps, but over the long haul, it's an ever increasing glory. Now those are the principles. But it's also good for us to see the practice, the process. So the second point in this is the process for how this change takes place. Notice the process. There's two parts to that process. Two parties that are involved in that process. First of all, there is God's part by his spirit. And then there's your part. And each of us does distinctive work. What God does, you don't do. What you do, he doesn't do. Notice how they two interface and what they are. First of all, God's part. He does two things according to this passage. First of all, we see that he unveils the heart. He unveils our hearts to understand the Bible. That veil that Paul talked about in Roman in verses 14 to 17, about when the gospel is read, there is a veil over their hearts But whenever anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. You notice that that's in the passage. We don't rip the veil off. Verse 17 tells us that's the Lord's work. Now the Lord is the Spirit. He's the one who is doing this work of righteousness that He's been talking about in all these verses. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. He's the one who produces that freedom by removing the veil. Now that veil is a veil that keeps us from understanding the gospel. It's a veil because of the blindness of our sin. He goes on to describe that in chapter four. Therefore, since through God's mercy we had this ministry, we don't lose heart. Why? Verse 2. Rather We renown secret, shameful ways, don't use deception, nor do we distort the word of God. On the contrary, now notice this, by setting forth the truth plainly we commend ourselves to every man's what? Conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those that are perishing. You see, if this morning the gospel doesn't make sense to you, and all that I'm talking about, you say It's kind of a mishmash and I don't believe this, uh, you know, and it doesn't work that way, I've not experienced. Maybe it's because there's a veil. But that veil is a veil of conscience, not simply understanding, it's not a matter of concepts. Not that you just say, well, you know, it's too hard to understand, I can't understand, you've got to go to seminary to understand. No, it's conscience. There's something in your life that you're saying, I don't want God monkeying with that area of my life. There's something I've done. I don't want to face that. I don't want to admit that that's wrong. I'd like to blame shift and rationalize and oh, you know, nobody's perfect, and you know, I had my parents this and my circumstances that But it's something I don't want to face. Paul says we bring the truth and we bear it on every man's conscience. And it's when the Spirit of God takes the veil away of that excuse-making. And all that you're doing to show you Christ, your one hope of forgiveness, that the veil is removed and the Spirit of the Lord gives freedom. You ever experience that? If you haven't, it's time to. That's what God does. He takes away the veil so the Bible makes sense. The second thing that he does is not only unveils our hearts, but he also transforms our hearts. He transforms our hearts, that's the second thing, to become like Jesus. And that's what verse 18 says. We who with unveiled faces all behold the Lord's glory are being transformed. Again, you notice the passive. We are being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory. How? Which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. It comes from the Spirit who is the sovereign Lord who does this work of His grace in us. And so once again, rejoice. Do you see what good news that is? Once again, it's saying that God's doing something even you can't mess up. He is working in you to transform you into ever-increasing glory because He who has justified you, who has given you the imputed righteousness of Jesus. Just given to your account will sovereignly work out that righteousness into your life And that means in practical ways, the things that you don't like about yourself because you know they're not pleasing to the Lord, he's changing. Changing those things. Comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. Now, does that mean that it's just passive? We just kind of say, well, that's really great, Lord. I'm just going to, yeah, boy, I'm really glad I heard this sermon. I'm just going to go home and wait for that to happen. Well, you know, it doesn't work that way. What is it then that is our part? And this again was what was so freeing to me as I looked at this. Our part is twofold, just like God's The first part is, of course, that we turn to the Lord Jesus. We turn. He doesn't turn. We turn. He takes away the veil. But verse 16 says, whenever anyone turns to the Lord, the veil's taken away. Two sides of the same action. From God's side, He's taking away that veil. From your side, the result is that you see your need of Christ and you turn to Him. But you don't sit there and just say, well, I'll just kind of wait to see what happens when the veil gets off. You are commanded to exercise faith in trusting Jesus. Again, verse 2 of chapter 4 The truth is being commended to your conscience. And so you turn as you see that truth from the things that you know are the center of your life, your self-centeredness, your self-dependence, and all the rest of that. Because if you don't, verse 3 says, if our gospel is veiled, it's veiled to those that are perishing. And you don't blame God for perishing. You can turn. You can this morning, by the work of the Spirit of God in your life, turn to the Lord Jesus. Because that's what He's commanded you to do. And then, with that, the other thing that he commands is that you and I behold him. Notice that second part. We behold his face. Excuse me, we behold the Lord Jesus. Behold the Lord Jesus in verse 18. We who with unveiled faces, what the Lord has done, taken away that veil, we all behold the Lord's glory. Now that's something you do. You fix your attention on the Lord's glory. And when you do that You are then being transformed. Do you see the combination? See how those two things work together? You behold, he transforms. Beholding is the way of becoming. Now you say that's still kind of vague. What is it that I behold? Well, two things very specifically. First of all, you behold his gospel. That's what he says here. You behold his gospel. Chapter 4, verse 4. The God of this age who has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Very clear there, isn't it? What is the glory that you're to see? It's the glory of the gospel. The gospel of the glory of Christ. It's the gospel that reveals the glory of Christ. The gospel that tells you that God, in his infinite justice, And in his wonder, his majesty, has also been infinite in his mercy to send his son to take upon himself the responsibility to do what you and I could never do, to keep that law that brings condemnation. And because he has done that, when you understand that, when you behold that, when you think about that, you get up every day and you look at that, and once again it comes into your heart, and you say, It's true, it's true, I stand in the righteousness of Christ. You're beholding the glory of Christ in the gospel. You're beholding the Lord's glory. Because his glory throughout the Gospels is focused on the cross. Again and again, Jesus said, My hour of glory, my hour of glory. Father, glorify yourself at this hour, the hour of his death. And so it's the gospel, the gospel of Jesus crucified for sinners that is his glory. And the more you look at this and open up your Bible and say, I'm going to understand that gospel. Well, I only understand some of the bearish facts of it, but I want to understand how Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. I want to understand his work and what that means. The more you do that, the more you're transformed by the work of the Spirit into ever-increasing glory. The second thing that you do is not only behold the gospel, but you also behold his face. You behold his face. You see, this isn't just intellectual content, but it's also a matter of seeing a person. Chapter 4, verse 6. Look at verse 6. For God who said, now get this beautiful verse, God who said, let light shine out of darkness. Now there it is again. See this idea of radiance, glory, beholding. God has said, let light shine out of darkness. You see those rays of glory. That same God made his light to shine in our hearts. When he took away that veil, that light shone in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, where? Say it, end of verse six. Give us the light of the knowledge. Somebody say it. In where Amen. See, now you get to say it and I say amen. It's the glory of God in the face of Christ. Now what does that mean? The face is what gives you the expression of the person. It reveals the person's character. And when you and I open up our Bibles to see what Jesus is like, Say that beyond what I see about the facts of the gospel, I want to know the expression of Jesus. I want to know what he's like. I want to know what he's like in his stand for truth. I want to know what he's like in his mercy and gentleness to sinners like me. And the more you behold the glory of God in the face of Jesus. The more you're being transformed. That's so true that I want to propose to you an experiment. I'm suggesting that between now and the end of June That you take 30 minutes a day, that's one half hour program, all right? Radical step here for believers. You know, instead of good morning America in the morning or, you know goodnight world or whatever else is going on in the evening. Whatever is going on. You say one half hour program, I am going to not look at all the things that I need to change in my life. My challenge to you is that you do one thing in these six weeks. Take a half hour a day to behold the glory of God in the gospel and the face of Christ. By understanding more deeply what the gospel is. And understanding more fully who Jesus is. And don't worry about all those things you need to change. I mean, this is a real risky thing, you know, I'm suggesting here that you don't look at your sin. That you just don't concentrate on all those things that you need to change and all the things you need to do to make this area better and that area more pleasing to your spouse or your kids or your parents or whatever. Just put that aside In a conscious way to say, just for these six weeks, I want to behold the glory of God in the face of Christ, in the gospel. And I want to see what happens. Observe what happens. And if you're with me on that, put it on your grace lip. It's going to do that. I'll pray for you specifically. Those of us who enter into this. We'll see God do something in enabling us to delight in the Lord in a way that perhaps we've needed to do, and to discover how this principle works in our lives in really practical ways. Let's pray. Lord, I sense from some of the folks here particularly that there is a hunger for this. There is a desire to behold your glory. We are so tired of looking at our sin and so tired of looking at all those things that just simply discourage us, and we don't make progress in them anyway. Lord, we pray that because we are so imbalanced in that, Lord, we know that there is a place for looking at our sin, to see it, to repent of it, to hate of it, to hate it. But Lord, we believe that for many of us there is much more of a need in our lives now to behold your glory. We have forgotten all about that. We've been so caught up in ourselves. And so we want, Lord, to see the glory of God in the gospel and in the face of Jesus. Lord, I pray that you would enable a number of people here to experience real satisfaction and delight in that this week that'll encourage them to do that. At least, Lord, just till the end of June to focus a half hour a day. Seems like such a big chunk of time. How are we ever gonna get it? Probably the only thing you can go is some T V program or something else that We're just going to have to sacrifice. Lord, we pray that we will see you at work because of that. That you will show the power of your spirit in increasing the glory in us. Through that transformation that only you can effect. Do it, Lord, we pray, so that Jesus will be glorified through our lives. Amen.