Korean Church, for those of you who may be new here today, um so glad that you are worshiping with us and those who are joining us online. This is Passion, or excuse me, Palm Sunday. K And as Pastor Bob said, all three services and all three of these sermons are going to come out of the book of Isaiah. And uh as also Pastor Bob mentioned, Lord willing, maybe this will be my last sermon as an intern. Uh so we'll see. Uh we'll see what happens by God's grace there. But It's a privilege, regardless whether I'm an intern or whether I'm an enduring ordained minister, to open God's word with you and for you We're looking at Isaiah 42 this morning, so if you have your Bible, feel free to open it up there. We'll look at the first four verses, but as you're doing that, I want to mention just a few things. So Isaiah was written. circa 700 years prior to this triumphal entry. And about a hundred years prior to the exile. You're familiar with the exile. If you're a Jewish person living at the time of this triumphal entry, a disciple of Christ, you're going to remember the exile. And why would you remember the exile? Partly because it was one of the most distinctly Obvious times God was working in the life of his people. They were brought into exile, and he brought them back from exile to their homeland so they can worship God again. But that was not the climax, though, of redemptive history. It wasn't the full point of what God was doing when he was working to redeem his people. There was more to be done. The Israel nation was waiting for something else. And what were they waiting for? Because what took a few years turned into decades and decades turned into centuries. But then now we have, again, a moment in time, Jesus Christ entering into Jerusalem on that triumphal day. And this is I think Isaiah is giving us an insight as to what exactly is he bringing into Jerusalem? Why is it so triumphal in the first place? So let's follow along here in the first four verses of Isaiah 42. I'm going to read the text and I'll pray that God would bless this time and we'll carry on. Saints in Christ, hear the word of God. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him, and he will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands wait for his law. This is the reading of God's Word, let us pray. Father, thank you for your word that is living and active and true. Oh Lord, as Isaiah speaks to us through your word, as you speak to us through your word here, we behold your text. And we ask that you would give us grace so far as whatever comes of this sermon this morning, as it's True to the scriptures, true to you, you would cause us all the more to behold the servant that this text is referring to, to behold our Lord Jesus Christ, who triumphally entered Jerusalem. Many years ago. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So the sermon has two outline or two bullets today. The servant's mission. And the servant's manner. And under the servant's mission, I'm going to give you two things to think about: the identity of the servant and what exactly is it that the servant was doing. When Jesus was going into Jerusalem, what was he going into Jerusalem to do? But if you look at the commentaries, excluding the New Testament that we have is sort of understanding the Old Testament as well. It's not obvious to a 700 years ago disciple reading the book of Isaiah who the servant is. It's not apparent right off the surface. But thanks, thanks, uh, we have the book of Matthew that tells us. You might recall when Jesus was being questioned about the Sabbath and the the Pharisees were now beginning to conspire to kill him. Matthew says This was to fulfill what was spoken to the prophet Isaiah. Matthew 12, 18 through 21. He quotes Isaiah 42 right here. So, who is the servant that Isaiah is talking about? It is none other than Jesus Christ. Jesus is the servant. And what does Isaiah call us to do? To behold him. Which is to say, fix your thoughts on him. Pay attention. Seize and stop whatever you're doing and listen closely to what Isaiah is going to say next about this servant and what this servant is going to do. Isaiah tells us a few things about the identity of this servant. Firstly, that he is a servant, that he is chosen, he is upheld, he is delighted in, and the Spirit of God rests on him. And what is a servant? A servant is none other than one who is obeying the will of the one who has sent him on this mission. Jesus Christ, if I can say if I'm going to quote Philippians here, would be one way that Jesus embodies the core essence of servanthood. He took on flesh. What does Paul say? Though he was in the form of God, he did not consider equality with God a thing to be grasped But he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. And being found in human form, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. And that reference there is the climax of what Good Friday and Easter Sunday morning is about, which Pastor Bob will discuss in the coming days. But Christ's servantness is manifestly known to the world on triumphal entry. This is God in the flesh. Behold him. And as Jesus is walking into Jerusalem that great day, he's being upheld in real time By his father. He is not going into Jerusalem under his own power, under his own strength, but as Isaiah points us to, he is upheld by God Himself, His Father. He's also chosen or elect. You can also translate that word as elect. He's chosen by the Father, but when was he chosen? It's an interesting question. 1 Peter 1. 20 says, He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake. In other words, the decree of God to send his son on this mission on Triumphal Day entry into Jerusalem That was a decree of God, not an arbitrary decision, a plan B made in time. It was a decision made in eternity past. Think about this for a second. It was never not in the mind of God to have Jesus walking into Jerusalem that day knowing what he's about to face. And part of why that's important for us to consider is because if you are his people, if you belong to Christ, if you are in Christ, There's a happy confidence that I think you have, an assurance of your salvation that is as eternally secure As the eternal election and the decree of God to send the Son and to send the servant on this mission, those two go together. You're the security of your salvation. And the decree of God to send the servant to secure your salvation. And so this is a chosen servant in whom the Father delights. And the servant who the Father, the Spirit of God, rests on him Your mind might go to that time when Jesus was baptized. Do you remember what happened when he was baptized? The Spirit of God descended on him like a dove, and a voice from heaven. This was the Father speaking. This is my Son, whom I love. With him I am well pleased. And if you're also curious that I just for sake of quick commentary, ever wondered does the Old Testament have a Trinitarian doctrine? Well, if you're ever in a pop quiz moment, this is a very great go-to text. The text says, behold my servant. So who's my in that moment? That's the Father. The servant is Jesus Christ. We have the Spirit of God resting on Christ. This is three in one. We have the Trinitarian work coming together in perfect harmony. Not in conflict with one another. They are of one mind, one essence, one mission. And what is that mission exactly? What is this servant that we've identified? What is he going to do? Well, this is what the rest of the second verse says. He's going to bring justice to the nations. It's going to bring justice to the nations. Justice becomes the theme at the end of verse 1, verse 3 and 4. So now we have a sense of who is this man, who is this servant, it is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And what is he going to do? What's the nature of this mission? He's going to bring justice. And what does it mean to bring justice or to bring forth justice or to establish justice? Because you don't have to go too far on any social media platform nowadays and find that the word justice is a hundred dollar buzzword. There's justice this and justice that. And there's all kinds of different forms of justice. But whatever, whatever difference there are in the forms of justice that we find in the world and what Isaiah is leading us to think about, The difference will be on who is it that's bringing the justice, which is Jesus Christ. So you can put it like this. To think rightly and truly and biblically about justice, you will have to think about the servant who is bringing justice. Jesus Christ. So that's his mission though. He's bringing justice. He's going to establish justice. But I think we helped answer this question. What is justice exactly? Is it purely a judicial matter? Is it a proceeding that happens in a court where somebody was offended and somebody was wronged and the right is made? Yes, it's at least that much. I don't want to minimize that by any stretch. But there's two things I want to draw and I hope I hope help and serve you well today. Which are not in your bulletin, by the way, so you can write this down as it as it as it helps. But justice is a mirror of the character of God. And justice is the means by which God reconciles the world to himself. I want to talk about those two things. Justice is a mirror that reflects the character of God. In Deuteronomy 32. It says, the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he. God Himself is just. All of His ways are justice and just. And so again, whatever form of justice That we might have in our mind, it must comport with the form of justice that relates to the character and the essence and the nature of who God is. But then the justice is the means by which God reconciles the world to himself. And the establishment of justice is the pinnacle of the work of this servant, establishing it and finalizing it and securing it forever. Do you remember a few weeks ago when Pastor Bob preached in Luke 9, 51, when he says, this is what he says, when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to Jerusalem. So Jesus is coming in on that triumphal entry. He's there. He has set his face several weeks prior to this moment. He is setting his face to Jerusalem, but he's setting his face to bring justice. He's bringing it forth in and through Jerusalem. And what lay ahead for him there in Jerusalem? Death. So the bringing forth of justice that Isaiah is referring to is The work that Jesus is accomplishing, the mission that he is on when he comes in, which is to go die. Now, in case you're curious, especially if those who might be unfamiliar with these stories, Is Jesus going to Jerusalem to face justice for things that he did? Wrongs that somehow committed by him? Certainly not. Quite the contrary. The justice that Jesus is bringing in to Jerusalem triumphally that day is a justice not for wrongs that he committed, but for all the wrongs that you and I have committed. Who has ever been wronged before and severely offended? And perhaps even have needed legal proceedings? And you want justice in those moments. We feel it in our deep inside of us. We cry out for justice when somebody offends us. Now what about when we know that we've offended God? How well how eager are we for justice then? I severely doubt any of us are, really. What we want is not justice. We want mercy. And why is that? Well, because we know that if God were to exact justice from us, we could not stand. We couldn't tolerate it. We would die. We would bend and break under the weight of his demands. In Psalm 134, it says, 3 and 4, it says this, if you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? And this is sometimes what we do with one another, by the way. Is we forget the pardon that we've received, and we'll we've been offended by somebody in our life, a family member or a friend, and we mark iniquities. And when we do that with one another in our lens of justice, they can't stand. It's really selfish, really, is my point. But But what does the psalmist also say? There's a but after that. What is the but? But with you there is forgiveness. So how is forgiveness possible exactly? When when Christ, this great high priest, or excuse me, great servant who's coming in, when he sets his face to Jerusalem, He sets his face to Jerusalem, to the cross, to bring justice, which means that he's going to go face sins, face punishment for sins he didn't commit. He's going to take responsibility for things that he did not do. And thereby, in this work, he's establishing and bringing forth justice. And that is the work of the servant. Now, what's the manner of the servant? How is all this really going to play out here? This is the second point for us this morning. Isaiah 42, 2 and 3. He will not cry aloud, he will not lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, or a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. I want to suggest to you that the way or the manner in which Jesus is coming into Jerusalem this great day to bring justice, he is doing so meekly and faithfully. Because what possible circumstance? You're looking at what Isaiah says here, he will not cry out, he will not lift up his voice. So if somebody is bringing justice and going to establish justice and make things right, in what kind of scenario does somebody lift up their voice and cry out and demand attention from everybody? What in the mind of the average Israelite and Jewish person there that day, it would be a scenario where justice is being established by force. And he's going to exact it. He's going to say political power, military might, and whatever whatever justice that even the disciples thought Jesus was bringing bringing It would be maybe the sort of justice that ensured the boundaries of Jerusalem would never be compromised such they would go into exile again. So just this overriding and weaning strength that's assumed there. But Isaiah is saying that he's not going to do this He's not going to cry out. In other words, Jesus, this servant, whoever is bringing justice that needs to be brought out, he's not going to go on a lecture circuit. He's not going to pick fights. He's not gonna using modern parlance here, he's not gonna be a keyboard warrior in social media platforms But there is another kind of circumstance where one might be inclined to cry out and lift up his voice. And I would say that's in the case of self-defense. So we're ruling out the sort of the negative agenda where somebody's bringing out justice in all the wrong ways, but what is somebody who's bringing justice in all the right ways and yet they might be in a situation where they're crying out? And lifting up their voice. It would be in the case where they're bringing justice and they're suffering for it. They bring punish for it. But in this case, we see what the servant is doing. Jesus is going to be coming in and he's going to be bringing a justice and he's not going to even open his mouth. He's going to bring establishing a justice for the world without opening, without one word. Think about that. So unlike the pharaohs, unlike the kings. He's not going to be doing anything by force. He's going to be doing everything meekly and lowly to the point of death. Now in verse 3, Isaiah switches, switches the subject a little bit here, talking about the servant. But now we're talking about the object for whom the service is bringing justice for. Okay, a bruised reed he will not break. A faintly burning wick, he will not quench. This is a metaphor to describe those who are going to benefit from the justice that Jesus is bringing. The bruised reed and the faintly burning wick. That's a reference to a people group. Specifically to God's people. And the servant who's going to bring justice, he's not going to exact it from them. Again, because what would happen if he did? Well, as as the text says, they would break And I don't know about you, but it doesn't take much to break me. I am weak very much in my own frame. And I know that if at just a breath the Lord would break me under the weight of his judgment. That's not to shame anybody here. It's good to be honest about that. Because when he when he says that he's not going to break us, there's a promise there. And the promise is this, that he's not going to break you, but he's going to break the servant, actually. That's what's going to happen. And that's how the justice is going to be brought forth. He's not going to break you, he's going to break the servant. And in breaking the sun, he will demonstrate great compassion and great love to those who are near and to those who are far off. Now in verse 4, it says this, he will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth. And the coastlands wait for his law. This gives us more insight into the extent of the work of this mission Because then again, remember, seven hundred years ago, when this text was written, Isaiah was written, it was it was not enough that they had just been brought back to exile, from exile, back to Jerusalem. Why wasn't that enough? Because Isaiah envisions this justice that is being established through the servant is going to go throughout the whole earth and into the coastlands. He's moving our minds to consider a much more vast expanse of God's redemptive work for his people. He's going to be saving men and women and children from everywhere Now the question we have to ask here is, has the justice that Isaiah prophesied That was going to be brought about by the servant, has it been established past hence in the earth Sort of a trick question. But it's yes and no. Yes, in the sense that what Jesus did on that triumphal entry day and what would happen in the coming days was a once-for-all work. Jesus does not need to die again and again and again for his people. So in that sense He established justice. And Bob is going to talk in great detail on Good Friday about what that means and looks like But no in the sense that when justices need to be established in the earth, and then there's this phrase that's not an insignificant phrase, and the coastlands wait for his law. So that's a reference to the Gentile world, but to the whole world. The whole world is waiting. You've heard of the proverb perhaps 25-25 says, like cold water to a thirsty soul, so it's good news from a far country. And this is why we have missions. Because the grand narrative of Christ, the servant. He didn't set his face to Jerusalem for Jerusalem only. He set his face to Jerusalem to go die, to go redeem a world, to go redeem all of his people. And so We go on mission. We go to the coastlands. We go to the ends of the earth with water, with the gospel. And so this cup of cold water that quenches the thirsty soul, the that uh of the good news of this great servant. Having set his face at Jerusalem to die, we do so just as triumphantly as Christ entered Jerusalem. There are many weary souls around us in our lives, many, many bruised reeds that are ready to break. But the justice that Jesus is bringing, it is a lasting justice, it is a sure justice, it is a secure justice, it is news that you can bring And I've almost feel like I've uh shared too much with respect to all the work that's going to be discussed on Good Friday and next side uh next Sunday. So I want to encourage you, I want to urge you to come back on Friday, Good Friday, and hear in more granular detail about this work. About what it is that Jesus did to secure and establish this justice. It wasn't a pretty day, but it was a necessary day. It was a necessary thing. Now, as we round up our time this morning, how do we apply this? What does all this look like exactly? Well, some of us are bruised, some of us are weary. Even the people of God, our hearts can grow faint, our faith can wane at times. We know Christ, but maybe some of us don't know Christ. If you're listening to this, then I want to implore you Behold him. Behold Christ. Behold the servant. Look to him. Look at him. Stop what you're doing and look at him. Behold him. I'm not gonna promise that your everyday problems will go away, but I am suggesting that your greatest problem Has resolution in this servant Jesus Christ who brought forth justice for me and he brought it for you. Let us pray. Gracious God, thank you so much for the work of Christ who went in many years ago on that triumphal entry day. Setting his face to Jerusalem, setting his face to the cross, setting his face to bring justice in what we know to be that work of his death and his resurrection. Father, help us. In our weakness, help us where we are prone to unbelief. Help us to behold you, O God. To be enraptured by you and to be caught up in the good news that reconciliation with you is possible and it is secured. It is true. We love you, Father, and we thank you that you love us in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.