To the series on the church. Under the identity of the church You recall that we've been looking at the priesthood of all believers. The best passage to display this is First Peter chapter two. You notice that in verse five, we've been looking In that chapter, there are three aspects of the priesthood of all believers, and then in verse nine there is a fourth aspect. In verse five we read that we are living stones Built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices. You see there, first of all, that we are priests. And secondly, the Bible says not only are we priests, but we're also the temple. We're the spiritual house in which the priest functions. And then this morning not only are we the priest and the temple, but we're also the sacrifice. We are the offering. We're being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Then the next thing we will look at finally will be the fourth aspect that we're not only Priests, but we are a particular kind of priest. We're royal priests. We're kings who are priests. In verse nine, you see, you're a royal priesthood. So let's take a look at this chapter now once again. Follow through in the scripture as I read it. Chapter two verses four to ten. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual House to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, see, I lay a stone in Zion. A chosen and precious cornerstone. And the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now, to you who believe this stone is precious, But to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected has become the capstone, and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood. A holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy And again, verse 5. You like living stones are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. Offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. You and I are priests who offer a sacrifice, and we are the sacrifice. Now what does this refer to in verse 5? It says there that we are to be a holy priesthood offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. What does that refer to? What is it that I am to offer? Well, in order to understand this, we need to see the three stages of sacrifice that are presented to us in the Bible. And as is true in so many cases, in order to understand the New Testament, we need to go back to the Old Testament. In order to understand something in the Old Testament, you usually have to see how it is completed in the New Testament. But to understand something in the New Testament, you usually have to discover its roots in the Old Testament. So that's what we have to do with this matter of sacrifice. So then on the outline, follow along as we look first of all at the Old Testament sacrifices. You see, most people think that the sacrifices in the Old Testament were only for Sin. The sacrifice for sin was certainly a very major element in the sacrificial system. The sacrifices in the Old Testament in fact fell into two categories, not just one. There were sacrifices for sin on the one hand, and also there were sacrifices for worship. Basically, there were five sacrifices mentioned in the Old Testament. You find those in the first six chapters of Leviticus. We're not going to go through that now. I just refer you to that so that you can look them up and see. what they are. But those five sacrifices fall into these two categories. First of all, there are sacrifices for sin. The first of those is the sin offering. You see that in Leviticus four and five. The Day of Atonement was the highest kind of sin offering, but that's the category it fell into. Secondly, there was the trespass offering. A little different from the sin offering in Leviticus 5 and 6. I'm not going to go into the distinctions now, but these offerings both pictured the guilty sinner standing before a holy God. And that sinner, you and me have no access to that God because He is holy, He is perfect, and we've broken His law, we've broken His commandments, and we stand there guilty with no hope of being able to approach Him on our our own. And so that guilty sinner stands there and a sacrifice is brought forward, a substitute. And I lay my hands on that substitute, on the head of that bull or that goat. And that animal then has its throat cut. And the blood all pours out, and it's gathered in a basin. And that blood then is taken by the high priest into the holy place, and the blood is sprinkled on the horns of the altar. And that's the picture of that sacrifice, that bull or that goat, having its blood cover my sin. It covers the sin. It cleanses the sin. It's the basis of God forgiving that sin. So that I can approach him. But there's three other sacrifices that are mentioned in those chapters of Leviticus that are not primarily or in some cases at all. for sin. Those three sacrifices you see there under Part B, generally we could say that those are for worship First of all, in Leviticus 1, there's the burnt offering, the symbol of giving my whole self to God in wholeshold devotion or commitment to Him. Then, secondly, there is in Leviticus 2 the grain offering. It's always struck me as a curious one because uh the King James called it the meat offering, and it's the one offering that has nothing to do with meat. Now don't ask me why, it was always called the meat offering. It was then called the meal offering, from which apparently that term was associated. But if you ever see in the old uh old Bible the meat offering, the meat offering is the one offering that's not meat, it's grain. And so you see in the Leviticus II, the grain offering, sometimes called the uh among the grain offerings were the offering of first fruits that we've talked about in the past, the offering of the showbread, as the old term was, uh or the bread of the presence in the temple, and other kinds of things. This was the symbol of presenting my goods to God. The burnt offering presented my whole self to Him. That's worked out in the grain offering, where I give to Him the substance of what is mine, and show that all the time. All that I own is his. Then the third offering that was presented was the fellowship offering. This commonly has been known as the peace offering or the thank offering. But really the NIV's term I think is probably the best one. It's the fellowship offering. This was the offering in which I approached God for fellowship, to commune with Him, in which I perhaps made a special offering from gr for gratitude, for a particular mercy of His. Now you see in the burn offering, the grain offering, and the fellowship offering, these are not offerings for sin. And you see that kind of distinction in how those offerings are dealt with. You notice there that in the sin offering and the first the burn offering of the fell of the worship offerings, blood is sprinkled. Blood is involved. Where there is sin, blood must be shed. Blood must be sprinkled. And the burnt offering, of course, has in mind that in order for me to be, to belong to God, To be his, to have my whole life, that must be a clean life that's cleansed by sin, cleansed from sin. But then The other two offerings, the grain offering and the fellowship offering, involved wine or oil. And the wine and the oil were not sprinkled, they were poured. You see this mentioned in a number of places in the Old Testament that there was the pouring of the wine or the oil in conjunction with this sacrifice. Now it's interesting to notice that there's a there's a sharp distinction here. Leviticus 5 11 tells us uh if this fellow can't afford to give a bull or a goat and he can all he can afford is two little doves or pigeons. Pigeons are pretty cheap, you know, still in those days like they are today you go into any park and you pick up a couple pigeons. They had to be clean pigeons, though, for sacrifice here. If however he can't afford two if he can't afford two doves or even young pigeons, this guy's really poor, then he's to bring an offering of his sin, a tenth of an easel Because it's a sin offering. You're never to have oil, incense, or wine associated with a sin offering. Why? Because oil and wine were a symbol in the Old Testament of joy Of celebration. And a sin offering was a reminder of the terrible necessity for blood to be shed in order for God to accept us. There was nothing joyful, there was no celebration in making a sin offering. It was the reminder to us that blood had to be shed for us to approach God. But in the fellowship, in the giving of the grains, it was celebration. So oil and wine were poured. Now, move on in the Old Testament, and you find Much to your amazement, if you had never seen this before, that there's going to come a person who himself is going to be the sin offering. Isaiah chapter fifty-three, in verse six we read that All we like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And how is he going to do that? Verse 10. Yet it's the Lord's will to crush him. to cause him to suffer. And though the Lord makes his life a sin offering, a guilt offering This one who's going to come, God is going to make to be a final guilt offering. So Jesus comes. And what does he say to his disciples? When they're all arguing about who's going to be the big shot in the kingdom, he says, even the Son of Man came not to be served. But to serve and to give his life for a ransom for many, to give his life as a sacrifice, an offering for many Ephesians chapter 5 that we heard from last week. You remember when Mike uh built his argument about why we imitate God? It's based on what Jesus did and what does he say in Ephesians chapter 5? Verse one and two, be imitators of God, therefore as dearly beloved s children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering. And as a sacrifice to God. Jesus Christ, then, was the fulfillment of the sin offering. Jesus was that final sacrifice. Is it ever repeated? We take a look at Hebrews, and a number of places we're told, such as in Hebrews chapter 7, verse 26 and verse 27. Such a high priest meets our need, this one Jesus, one who is holy, blameless, pure, set apart from sinners, exalted above the heavens. Unlike the other high priests, this one does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins and then for the sins of the people. But he sacrificed for their sins once for all. Once for all, when he offered himself. Jesus Christ then is finished in his sacrifice. Chapters 9 and 10 develop that and take a look at that later. Jesus Christ's sin offering was once for all. It was never repeated. Why then? Why then does 1 Peter 2. 5 say that we, the church, are being constructed to offer acceptable sacrifices? If Jesus offered the sacrifice once for all, what sacrifice can we repeat? Can we repeat the sacrifice that he made? Why does Peter, after Hebrews, is saying, there is no more sacrifice for sin, there is no more offering for sin, then Peter says That we're a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifice is acceptable to God. Is the Bible contradicting itself? In one place it says there is no more offering. In another place it says the very nature of the church is to offer offerings. How do you reconcile that? Well, the reconciliation, of course, is to understand the distinction that I just opened up to you. It's to see that while Jesus, once for all, was the sacrifice for sin, the church as a way of life Is a sacrifice for worship. And that's the distinction that we must keep in mind. The Church of Jesus Christ, then, by its very nature, is an offering for worship. And that offering is not once for all. It's a way of life. Being an offering is a way of life for you and for me. Because Jesus Christ made that once for all sacrifice for sin. Peter says that you and I can offer sacrifices that are acceptable to him. Now I'm going to come back to that term acceptable in a minute. But first of all, I want to ask what is this acceptable offering? What is this offering that we bring? Well, in order to find out what it is, we turn to Romans chapter twelve. In Romans chapter 12, after Paul has talked about all that Jesus Christ has done for us, in chapter 12, verse 1, he sums up and he reflects back on all this and he says, Therefore I urge you, brothers. In view of God's mercy, to offer what? Your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. Which is your spiritual worship. What is your offering? It's your body It's your life. It's your rights. Laid on the altar for Jesus Christ. And what's it for? Notice it's not for sin. It's not to gain acceptance with God. It's not to earn his favor. But he says, you offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing, or the same word acceptable. It's a different word in the Greek, but it's a similar word, means acceptable, that which is pleasing to God, which is your spiritual worship. It's a sacrifice for worship, not for sin. A sacrifice like the bird offering, the grain offering, and the fellowship offering to God. A sacrifice which is pleasing and acceptable to him. Now, at this point, I think we need to make an important distinction that I think Christians often miss. I am an offering, and you are an offering, an offering of worship, which is in response to God's grace, his grace shown to you and to me in creation and redemption. But that does not mean that your life or my life is to be one long, endless string of sacrifice and sacrifices and suffering. So many Christians I know are afraid to enjoy anything because somehow that seems unspiritual. I was talking to a person just this week, a very mature Christian, and I asked this person, what is it that you enjoy? The person says, I don't know what that means. I don't know how to enjoy And so often we as Christians think that we're not offerings, but we're not sacrifices pleasing to God if we're enjoying something. Read a book just this week written by a Christian And the line of thought was basically this. It said, Beware if you are comfortable, for at such a time the Son of Man will come to test you and call you to his bar. Well that was the effect of that. You know, you sort of feel like uh if I'm not worrying about something, I better start worrying because surely God's gonna give me something that's really gonna hit me. I mean if I'm enjoying life, there must be something wrong. God's really gonna get me. Now what kind of a view of a father is that? And this whole notion that we are sacrifices for Jesus Christ, that we're an offering for him, has been perverted to mean that we must always be in a state of suffering for him. That if we're not suffering, surely God must be displeased with our enjoyment. Somehow get this idea from Christians that God's unhappy if I'm happy That he's looking down from heaven, just rejoicing in all the people who are unhappy for him, because they're the real sacrifices. I heard a Christian once who was trying to decide between two courses of action of God's will, Plan A and Plan B, weighed all these plans and uh couldn't really come up with any clear direction And so I said, uh, well which have course have you decided to take? Well I've decided on course B. That must be God's will. Why not? Why do you say that? Because I prefer to do A. And and I've talked to people who have this idea, if I want to do A, God must want me to do B And it's this idea that God delights in our suffering and in our sacrifice. What I'm trying to say is that God has said that we're an offering for worship. But that idea of being an offering, while it does involve sacrifice, it does involve suffering. Don't think we can back off from that. The reason it involves sacrifice and suffering is because we are sinners living in an abnormal world. When Jesus Christ comes to take us to be with him, we will be an offering for his delight throughout eternity, and it will be without suffering. See, the reason you and I suffer is because God wants to purge something out of our life. Or because we're in a spiritual battle in which we cannot afford to cling to our rights. We can't have those rights. Jesus Christ gave up all of his rights in order to save us. He was an offering, a sacrifice for us. But let's not confuse in that That if I ever enjoy something, God must be displeased. God must be unhappy. You know what I think the real problem is here? I suspect that the real problem is that you and I find it difficult to believe that we're acceptable offerings. Did you notice in 1 Peter 2, 5, what it said concerning our offering? We bring an offering to him or his priest. offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. It doesn't say work on making those sacrifices acceptable. It says the sacrifices we offer are acceptable. What does Romans 12:1 say? I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing. to God, which is your spiritual worship. See, I think that the problem for many of us is we don't believe that our lives are acceptable offerings We look at the sin. We look at the disobedience. We look at how we turn away from the things of God constantly. And all we're aware of Is that God must be displeased with how I live. But that's not what Peter and Romans say. They say that the offering is acceptable, that God is pleased with my offering of my life. How can that be? Statement from Gordon McDonald in a discussion that I read this week, I think helps to deal with this and place it in the right perspective. McDonald was uh Reflecting on how he viewed himself, pastor of the largest evangelical church in New England, a very successful man, and a man of great zeal and drive for the Lord. And he was reflecting on how he viewed himself, and he says this, one of the most meaningful verses to him has been in this regard from Psalm 103, as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. I began to contemplate my relationship to God in the same way I relate to my 13-year-old daughter. I enjoy her at this age. I'd be disturbed if she tried to act like a 20-year-old. I don't want her to grow up too quickly, nor do I want her to act like a six-year-old. In the same way, I sense that God is enjoying me as a 40-year-old. I suspect that he hopes that at the age of 45 I will show more Christ-likeness. But I feel there's a contentment on God's part with what I am at this stage of life. If God is reasonably content with me in my present condition That I'm satisfied too. And I'm learning as the Spirit of God exposes and sensitizes me, both through failure and success, to new depths of wisdom, insight, and discovery, that I like what I'm becoming. There's one thing I think we need to add to that statement. If we don't, it will be very harmful. That is the reason I'm acceptable to God. It's not because I can look at the progress and say, well, God is basically pleased with how I'm turning out. Isn't that great? God's looking and saying, Well, you know, you've done this and this very well. And I can rest on that. No. The only reason that I can rest in that satisfaction and know these sacrifices acceptable is because of Jesus. Again, take a look at 1 Peter 2. 5, what he says there. You're to offer sacrifices, where he says that we're a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God how? Through Jesus Christ. Because Jesus made the sacrifice for sin, which made me once for all acceptable to God, my sacrifice is acceptable. I don't have to suffer in order to prove to him that my sacrifice is acceptable. I don't somehow have to renounce enjoyment of life in order to be acceptable. Jesus Christ has made me acceptable. And when God looks at my life, he looks at that life with pleasure. Because of Jesus, because Jesus has cleansed it. And God enjoys me. God enjoys you. He's content with you. He delights in you. And your sacrifice, your offering of your life is acceptable to him. I talked to a Christian this week, a very mature Christian, who had walked with the Lord for many years. You know what he said to me? He said, Al, as I look back on my life, I don't think I've ever done anything that I have felt pleased the Lord But what a statement. He wasn't simply saying, I know that my motives are all polluted and corrupt, and I know that apart from Jesus Christ that there could not be that acceptance. So I'd agree with him 100%. But what he was saying is, I have never felt that God accepted me I had never felt that the offering of my life was really acceptable to him. And that's what we see, brothers and sisters We need to rejoice and rest in the fact that our offering is acceptable God delights in our offering. It's pleasing to him. Notice the particulars of how the scripture works that out. How do we offer ourselves to him? A number of ways are mentioned. First of all, through prayer. Notice, in Revelation chapter 8, we have an example of this, the offering of our prayers to God as acceptable offerings. In Revelation 8, verse 3 and 4, another angel who had a golden censer came and stood at the altar. He was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne. And the smoke of the incense, together with the prayers of the saints, went up before God from the angels' hands. The Old Testament teaches us clearly That the ascending of the aroma and the smoke to God meant that it was a pleasing sacrifice to him. That's why Cain's sacrifice of smoke did not ascend. But God's telling us here that your prayers and my prayers are pleasing offerings to him. Do you sometimes feel when you pray that your prayers are a mockery to God? He doesn't really listen. He says, What a rotten prayer. What a self-centered, paltry prayer. Can't you do any better than that? Just flagellate yourself about your prayer. That's not what the Lord says. It says your prayer ascends to him. It's a pleasing offering to him when it's offered through Jesus. We also see that our praise is a pleasing offering. In Hebrews chapter 13. In verse 15, we read, Through Jesus, therefore, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise. What is that? The fruit of our lips that confess his name. And we see in the next verse that that's a pleasing offering to him. My wife says to me, Do you love me? And I said, Of course I love you. You know I love you. So you haven't told me that recently Say, well, you know I love you by the things that I do for you. And besides, I just told you a week or so ago. Well she says I want to hear it I have a short memory when it comes to your love. I need to hear you tell me, at least daily, that you love me. Why? Because when I say to her that I love her, it seals in our relationship the fact that I do. And by the very fact that I tell her, I love you, honey. There is in that transaction, once again, the confessing with my mouth of my love, which imprints it more deeply on my heart. When we praise God, we're simply telling him who he is. Well, we tell him we love him. We're confessing, and therefore sealing to our hearts again the bond of our love to him. That's a pleasing offering to him, he says. When's the last time you took out time and said, you know, the priority of my day today is just to spend a half hour telling the Lord I love him? What do you think I'm serving everybody for? What do you think I'm doing all this stuff in the church for? The Lord says, wait a minute, I want you to stop. And I just want to hear from you about your love for me. And we need to stop, and we need to just praise him. Hebrew says, that's a pleasing offering, that's a sacrifice that delights him. He goes on to the next verse, verse 16. And we see there that a pleasing offering is the sharing and the doing good to one another. He says there, and don't forget, you see, while you're praising him, don't forget to do good and to share with others For with such sacrifices, both, I think that refers to verse 15 and 16, both the confessing, the praising, and the doing good, with both these sacrifices, God is pleased. Again. Uh just so that we get the point. The Lord is showing us again and again. God is pleased with that sacrifice. So my wife says, Well now uh you got the point about telling me you love me. So the last couple days all I've done is go around saying, I love you, I love you. Uh but you don't do anything, you know. You're uh late when we're supposed to have dinner and uh you didn't tell me about uh your plans here and that fouled me up and you were thoughtless in this area And so uh just telling you you love me isn't enough. I must anticipate her needs. I must be thoughtful And so God is saying here, while we're praising him, we also join that with the doing good, the practical demonstration toward one another of our love for the Lord. How do you show the Lord you love him? By doing good for your brother and sister. Before by doing this, God says that's an acceptable offering to him When I help you out, when you help me out and we minister to one another, God says that is a pleasing offering to him that we're giving to him. Now what about uh Paul gives an example of that same kind of thing in Philippians chapter 4. You notice in Philippians 4, there in verse 14, Paul talking to the Philippians and says, uh, it was good of you to share in my troubles. Moreover, as you Philippians know in the early days of your acquaintance with the gospel, when I set out to Macedonia, not one church shared with me in a matter of giving or receiving. Everybody could care less, except you only Freedom when I was in Thessalonica you sent me aid again and again when I was in need. Not that I'm looking for a gift, but that I'm looking for what may be credited to your account. Now what is that I have received full payment and even more. I'm amply supplied. Now I've received from Paproditus the gifts she sent. And they are a fragrant offering. These gifts that you gave to me, a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. Notice what Paul does, he piles three things on top of each other. He says it's a fragrant offering, that means it's pleasing, it's acceptable to God, and it's pleasing to God. Paul really wants them to understand that what they did for him in fellowship was an offering, in fact, to Jesus. And that's the way it is with you and me, in the fellowship together in the Church of Jesus Christ. Do you ever think, as you're doing good for others, that somehow this is just what you ought to do, and you do it so that you won't feel guilty or selfish by not doing it? We'll soon run dry with that kind of motivation. Rather, when we do good for one another, even to the point of sacrifice To the point of being unselfish, where it's a great inconvenience or loss to ourselves. What we need to remind ourselves of that This is an offering to my Lord. This is an offering to the Lord who loved me and bought me and sacrificed himself for me. And it pleases him. And so I'll do it to please him, because I love him. The Bible tells us that our ministry of evangelism is a pleasing sacrifice to him. Remember we looked at this some weeks ago in Romans. Chapter fifteen in verse sixteen Paul says that he's a minister of the gospel of Christ to the Gentiles with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God So the Gentiles might be an offering to God. But what kind of offering? Notice what he says? They might become an offering acceptable to God. Person that you minister the gospel to, in witnessing, to Jesus. And that person comes to Jesus Christ and what God says, that's your awesome. It's acceptable to pleasing to him. Oh, how often I think we tend to see human relationships only on the horizontal plane God says he wants you to get his perspective to see that how we treat one another isn't often concluded. Excuse me, since And then finally, the hardest thing of all is my life. My life itself. And this I think is what is pictured in the Green Captain. That's why I explained that earlier. You see in Philippians chapter two and verse seventeen, Paul talks about his life as a drink offer. If I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming of your face from your face, I'm glad and rejoiced with all of you. Well what do you mean by that? Well then you see the saying in verse fourteen, he talks about the fact that Christians are to do with everything without complaining or arguing He won't say, I'm a drink offering being poured out for you. He won't move on to give an example, anymore, a person who cares for you So he says there in verse twenty, Timothy two in verse nineteen, he says in verse twenty, I have nobody else like Timothy who takes a genuine genuine interest in your welfare. So everybody else looks out for his own interests and not those of Jesus Christ. What's the nature of the drink offering? It's one who's being poured out. Giving up the rights. My right. So as we said in the beginning of the chapter, in verse three, I don't see things out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility I consider others More important than myself. So I don't look out just for my own interest, but the interest of others. I give up my rights Because I'm an offering to Jesus. And I'm an offering, a drink offering being poured out. Now why is it that he pictures our laying down our rights as a drink offering Well think about it for a minute. Think about what it was to give a drink offering. How do you give a drink offering? Well, first of all, you have to give it freely Uh you can't give a drink offering singingly or spingily. You know, you ever try to pour something out a drop at a time? It doesn't work too well. If you're gonna pour something out, the best way to pour it out is just pour it. And let the whole thing come out That's the way the drink offerings were offered in the Old Testament. You took that wine and you took that oil and you poured it all over the sacrifice. Because to pour in the Bible, as he pours out his spirit on us, means to give abundantly. It's to give it freely. And that's what you do when you pour yourself out as an offering of Jesus. You say, Lord, use my rights and I give them freely to you. I don't give them stingily to you right by right. And I'm just gonna let you have this one. I'm gonna clutch onto it as long as I can till I see if I can trust you. The second thing about drink offering is that it's got to be given irrevocably. If you give a drink offering, you see you're pouring it out, you'll never get it back. Did you ever try to pour you ever pour something out on the floor and then decide that it really you wanted it back in the bottle? Uh you try to get up with a spoon or a sponge or something and get it all back in the butt. You can't do it. Once it's poured out, it's gone And that's the way it is with our rights and our lives. That's what God's picturing here. We're to give it and say, Lord, I'm not going to clutch onto it, I'm not going to hold it back. I'm going to trust you. My rights, my life belongs to you. And then thirdly. You're to give it joyfully. You see, the drink offering was an offering of wine and oil. You never gave blood as a drink offering. It was always gladness. It was always the oil, the wine, the gladness of my heart by which I give it. That's what a drink offering is. And that's what Paul says his life is. In fact, in 2 Timothy 4, verse 16, he says, at the very end of his life, I am now being poured out as a drink offering to the Lord. There it is, my whole life laid out to the Lord. I've given it irrevocably, freely, joyfully to him. Now how do we apply this? Well first of all You need to see that the only sacrifice for sin is Jesus. The church is a sacrifice for worship, but until you've had Jesus as the sacrifice for your sin, you can never worship him. Have you trusted Jesus personally as the sacrifice for your sin? Anything else will never do, and any offering you could ever make will be unacceptable. The only way your life becomes acceptable to God is through the offering of Jesus, by which He has taken the punishment that you and I deserve for sin. And he makes you acceptable by giving you his righteousness. Secondly, have you ever looked at your life as an offering to God? Have you ever looked at your life as an offering to Jesus? Or do you look at the Christian life as just one string of obedience? And you've got to obey because you don't want to feel guilty for not obeying. But you've missed that element that your life is a pleasing and acceptable offering to him. But that obedience is something which is an offering that pleases your God. Do you see your being an offering as a way of life? Have you ever settled that? What about the particulars then? Go on to the third point. If you and I have seen that and have settled that, what is it then that you're holding back in your offering Because it seems to be too great a sacrifice. Have you accepted the fact that you're a pleasing and acceptable offering? And if you have, you've come to realize, however, even with that, that there are areas of your life that the Lord wants you to give more willingly. He wants you to lay it on the altar. Right now you're still holding on to it. You're still clutching that area. And the Lord is saying, I want that to be an offering, acceptable, pleasing to me. What is it? See, sacrifice always involves trust, because I'm saying that what will be gained by faith is more valuable than what I'm going to give up. If I'm not really convinced that to give this area of my life as an offering to Jesus Christ will in fact gain greater benefit Then my clutching onto it, if I don't trust him, if I'm not concerned, that what's most important is that he receives a pleasing offering. Then I'm gonna hang on to it. No matter how many sermons I hear on it, no matter how convinced I am the thing is wrong in itself, I'll hang on to it. Because it's not worth giving up. What's the area for you Is it that area of setting aside regularly a time in his word for praise and worship daily? You say, oh, but I get up so early now. How could I sacrifice getting up any earlier? What can I do? You kids say I have to get up so early for the school bus How am I ever going to get up even earlier to be able to read the Bible, to pray to the Lord? I just can't do it You see, you can't say you can't do it. What you're really saying is that's too great a sacrifice. It's too great a sacrifice to go to bed a little earlier. It's too great a sacrifice. It's not worth it to get up a little earlier, to get into God's Word, to spend that time alone with Him. Like Howard, the fellow who preached here last week, covenanted, promised to God as he went to seminary, Lord, I'm going to establish, I'm going to promise. To give you for my life, the rest of my life, two hours a day in Bible study and prayer, worship Two hours a day. So that's okay. He's a student. You know, student ain't a flexible, scheduled guy probably gets up and does it any old time he wants and fits his studies in around it You know what time he has to get up to do that on the schedule he works? He gets up every morning at 4 a. m. to be able to have that time with the Lord If you sense the power in his own, in his preaching, in his declaring the Word of God last week, it comes from two hours that Mike has set aside as an offering to God. To give to him in walking with him. Now I'm not laying that on you and saying, Oh, I'll get up at four AM. You know, that that fits into the thing that he has done and I'm not saying that you or I necessarily are called to do that. All I'm saying is, can you say honestly it's too great a sacrifice to get up ten or fifteen minutes earlier So that you could have that regular time as an offering to God. What about your possessions? I've learned in my own life that possessions, if they're not an offering to God, are a burden to me. Who just bought a new car? You know, a little Dotson. Yeah, it's just a Dotson, but it's a new car. As long as I try to protect that car and say that that car is for me and I don't trust the Lord and how he'll use it, the car will be a burden to me. The only way I can enjoy it is to say, Lord, you provided for it, therefore it's yours. You'll have to take care of it in the way you want. And I have to struggle with that with all of my possessions. Do we see our possessions as an acceptable offering for God to use and be pleased with? What about your career? I read a book last uh fall, Voices of American Fundamentalism. Boy, book of all these great giants of American fundamentalism. The thing that struck me in that book was these were all very powerful personalities. All men who made their mark on history, for good or for bad, they made their mark on history in the leadership they exerted. Made me very competitive. See, I'm a very competitive person by nature. I read that and I became competitive and I said, yeah, I want to be that kind of person. I want to make a reputation for myself so that when I retire or die, people will say, you know, yeah, Alan Harris, he really made a mark on the church. You know, I had to go out and wrestle with that for weeks. I remember once finally coming to this little grove of trees in the woods, and finally, as if it were physically in my mind, I had to say, Lord, I lay my career on the altar before you And that I will not aspire to anything else Except to serve you where you've placed me. I will not seek anything else Because to do it is to gain my own reputation. It's not an offering to you. Have you ever laid your career, your plans for your life? on the altar for Jesus Christ as an offering of worship acceptable to him. What is it in your life? What are you holding back? Wrestle through with the Lord this day before you come to the Lord's Supper tonight and lay it on the altar. Pour it out freely, irrevocably, joyfully For Jesus also loved you and gave himself up for you, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. Let's pray. Our Lord our God, how we give you thanks and praise this morning that Jesus was an acceptable sacrifice. His sacrifice was accepted for our sin. And so we, as the body of your people, as holy priests, Can offer our bodies, our lives, our rights, as acceptable offerings to you, offerings of worship pleasing to you Help us, Father, to get outside of ourselves and seeing the things we do only on the human level. But help us this week to realize that how we treat each other. The time we take to pray, to worship you, to do good, to be generous, that these things are offerings to you Help us, Father, to not be weary in well-doing with our time. And not to be resentful of the intrusions on it, but Father, that we might realize that we're offerings to you. Help us, Father, to believe that our offering is acceptable. That you don't despise our offering. That you don't always look down and say, It's not enough, you must do more. You're not that kind of God. But by grace you've brought us to yourself and by grace you accept our offering. It's acceptable. It's pleasing to you. You delight in it. It's a fragrant aroma in your nostrils. We ourselves are pleasing and fragrant to you as your people. Help us, Father, to realize that, to understand it. To act on it, to rejoice in it this day and this week for Jesus' sake. Amen.