The slide says up on the screens that children worship with their families to fifth Sunday. And so that is our habit on the fifth Sunday. There is a quiet room, nursery accessible via the lobby. If you've got a Wiggler that is available to you. And nursery is available during the whole service. I'm going to apologize ahead of time. This is one of those Sundays of the year where I have a headache. Happens when I was a weekly preacher, happened three, four times a year, and well, it's your first one. What that means is that I am not my normal zippy self. But the Spirit typically still uses these Sundays, and so you pray for me that that's the case, I would really appreciate it. Our scripture reading for this morning is the one that we've been considering here for quite a while, and we're going to keep considering from 1 John chapter 4 and verses 7 to 21. Let me read it and then I'll pray for us and we'll jump in. Hear God's word from 1 John chapter 4, starting at verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. In this commandment we have from him: Whoever loves God must also love his brother. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray together. Father, you uh know my sense of weakness today. We thank you that you give a word that lives itself by the Spirit. And so, Spirit, come. Work through a work, a weak, hurting preacher. Minister your word to your people. Convince us that our guilt is taken away in Christ. We pray in his name. Amen. We've been making our way through a series on the attributes of God, whereon the love of God, and in particular, our sensing. The love of God. And to do that, we've been seeking in this section of sermons to work to remove the barriers to sensing God's love that we have. in our hearts. We've gone through being disgruntled. We've gone through not feeling strong emotion. We uh are whether we're convinced or not that God is for us. So we've been through those so far. And then we're going to review a little bit in the first point and we're going to get to where we're going to go in the second point, which relates to a nagging sense of guilt. So let's first seek to know and believe the love that God has for you. Look with me again at verses 7 through 10, and then we'll pop down to 16. Notice the tenderness here that God has for us, as John writes, we're to hear the heart of God for us is people beloved. Let us love one another. Remember this is so important because this is the one thing that Jesus puts his finger on. All people will know you are my disciples if you have Love for one another. Right? So this is the demonstrating thing to the world. This is gospel demonstration, the love that we have for one another. That love is from God. And the one who loves has been born of God, knows God, and in fact, a way of knowing. Is whether someone knows God or not, is do they love? Anyone who does not love does not know God. Why? Because God is love. He loves because he is love. Just like goodness that we looked at earlier on in the series. God is good, so he does good. God is love and so he loves. Well, how do you know that God is love? Go on up in verse 9. In this, the love of God was made manifest. You want to see the love of God? What it's like, the quality of it, the bigness of it, the wonder of it. The love of God was made manifest among us where we can see it. Where did we see it? That God has sent his only Son into the world. Why? Why did God send his only Son into the world? If you go on in the verse, it says that we might live through him, that we might move from death to life. That's what it says in John 5. 24, that we might come to life. Through him. Jesus comes into the world in a combination of two factors, our need and his love. We had a need that we could not meet. He had a love that wanted to meet our need, and so he came into the world. That we might live through Him. This love, is it because we love God first that He then starts to love us? Verse 10 disabuses you of that notion. In this is love, not that we have loved God. We haven't, we can't, and we won't. Work up love for God. We can't. That's not the basis upon which we are loved. What's the basis upon which that we're loved? He loved us. He set his love on us. Remember when we ended a couple of weeks ago in Ephesians chapter 1 that he had his eye on you, child of God. Before the foundation of the world, he said, I want you and my family. He loved us. And send his son to be the propitiation, this big word that I challenge you to use sometime properly in the course of a week. What is propitiation? That which turns aside rightly deserves wrath. Jesus comes as the propitiation for our sins. And then our challenge down in verse 16. John says, and we're meant to come into this. And have it be as much our statement of belief, our statement of ourselves, what we think. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. That's where we're trying to go. To not have the love of God be on the other side of the sliding glass door and other people are enjoying it, but I it's I'm not I can't make contact with it. But for me That I would come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. Because again, in case you forgot from verse 8, God is love. And then there's this wonderful language that makes you think of John 15 and abiding. Whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. In particular, if you look at verse 13, right, because he has given us this wonderful phrase, he has given us of his spirit. So, what we're trying to do is to seek to know and believe the love that God has for you. What keeps us from that? That was review. What keeps us from that? To, for this week at least, to look at what keeps us from knowing and believing the love of God, sensing the love that God has for us, we've got to return to this big word in verse. 10. Why is propitiation necessary? Here's why. This side of Eden This side of the fall, this side of sin and the consequences of sin, which is most of what we're trying to manage if we're honest This side of Eden, what do we experience? We experience pretty well recognized guilt, shame, and fear. Those are the three major emotions that humans feel this side of Eden. Different cultures express them in different amounts, in different ways. But guilt, shame, and fear are the things that we primarily feel. So we're going to try and deal with each of those in due time. Today we're going to think about guilt And I promise that we're going to return soon to fear. And then a couple of sermons, at least, on shame. Let's think about guilt a little bit and its relationship to propitiation. How do you deal with your guilt? How do you deal with your guilt? My wife had a co-worker Some years ago, not a believer, not someone who trusted Christ, far from Christ, who was convinced the guilt was actually the problem Not something on the path to a solution. But that guilt itself was the problem. And so she made it her goal to not feel guilt. You realize that's a bad pass, right? Guilt is there for a reason. How do you deal with your guilt, with that nagging sense that you've done wrong? How do you react to it? When you feel guilty, do you doubt God's forgiveness of you? Do you believe somehow that your sins are uniquely unforgivable? And if that's true, why? Why would your sins be unforgivable? Now, there's some variety to this particular struggle, and we'll explore that uh as we go on. But before we get to exploring why people have that sense, let's make sure we understand why Christ came and how that pertains. to our guilt. The good news of the gospel is that as you are living in daily repentance and faith, your guilt is removed in Christ. I am working my way through an outline that's in the bulletin. If you're a note taker, you might have noticed it there. It's also on the slides. The good news of the gospel is that as you live in daily repentance and faith, trusting in Christ, that your guilt is removed in Christ. Guilt is recognized as having sort of two poles, two sides of a coin to it. There's both the objective sense of guilt where we're guilty before God. And there's the subjective sense of guilt where I feel guilty. So let's think with the objective side first. God is, and as the Lord usually does, Jason picked a great passage this morning from Ephesians chapter 2. God is angry with sinners who sin. And rightly so. He feels, well, now let's invert it. You feel indignant when you're sinned against, right? The reason you feel indignant when you're sinned against is you're made in the image of God. And he feels indignant when he is sinned against. And so even in that indignancy, you feel like God does. What does sin do in relationship to God in the vertical plane, if you will? Sin incurs a debt with God and he says guilty. That's objective guilt. That's the objective side. The subjective side is that I feel guilty. Now, it is important to recognize that those are two different things, and picking them apart is super, super important. Here's why. Sometimes I can feel guilty when objectively I'm not guilty. And vice versa. There are times when I am objectively guilty before God, but I don't feel it. Let me give you some examples, or an example at least, of each of those. So, first, where I'm not guilty before God, but I feel guilty. I'm going to use this illustration a little bit different way later. But my my wife will be here in a couple of weeks with me, and she would tell you freely that she struggles with being a people pleaser. And so she'll go through a situation and and she'll get to the end of it and she's like, I don't, mmm, I mmm, no, I don't think that person felt good about that interaction. And Jesus is up there and he's going, nothing to see here. But in Julianne's little heart, she's she's she's upset. She feels subjectively guilty. But she is not objectively guilty. Okay? Now how about the inverse? Uh there are quite a few people in our culture Um, who, say, for example, will um engage in in premarital sex, the co-habitation, they'll live together, they feel no guilt at all. They have no subjective sense of guilt at all. But they are objectively guilty before God. Who gave sex for within marriage between a man and a woman? So we must tease these apart and be careful I think that for the variability in people and the nagging sense of guilt that they have. Even as they trust in Christ and they're turning from their sins, that variability depends on what you feel guilty about. And so let me give you a couple of categories that I've seen over time as I've pastored. Some people struggle because they see themselves as having many sins. They've got lots of individual sins. Do you know if you only sin three times a day in an average lifetime, you would sin 75,000 times? Only three times a day. Friends, I believe I sin more than three times an hour. That's a mountain of sin. But some people, more tender consciences Sometime early in my Christian life, um somebody got a hold of me through book or just trying to counsel a knucklehead. And taught me to start thinking about my sin in light of the fruit of the Spirit And that it wasn't simply when I did acts that were the that are labeled by God through Paul in Galatians 5 that I wasn't just saying when I did acts of the flesh. That was very obvious. But also I was sinning when I did not positively bear the fruit of the Spirit, when I did not exhibit love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. I sin a lot, friends And maybe you do too. And when you have that realization of it, you're like, I can God forgive that many sins? So that's the struggle of some. Others, the kind of struggle that they have about sort of nagging guilt Is uh it comes in this form to somebody like me, preacher, you have no idea what I have done. If you knew, you would be scandalized and you you would agree with me that that sin is so great it cannot be forgiven. And some people just struggle that there's some big heinous sin in their past or present that God cannot forgive. And then there's the person who has uh what our Puritan forefathers would call a besetting sin. It's a sin that they keep falling into. They repent, it seems attractive again, the idol gets glossed up, and it's kind of like, oh, shiny. And they go and they do it again. And they do it again. And they do it again. And despite their trying and reading and getting counsel and help from friends, they keep falling in to the same sin, seemingly making no progression. And they imagine that the counter is counting And at a certain point. Nope. Sorry. You're past 70 times seven. That's it. No more forgiveness for you. So, for most of us, one of those three is true. Maybe more than one. Maybe all of them. So these work on us differently. Let's think about objective guilt first, and we'll come back to subjective guilt later. Because if your objective guilt is properly dealt with, then hopefully your subjective guilt can follow. But first, an exhortation. You're likely going to need to shake yourself by the spiritual lapels with the gospel. Maybe you'll remember Psalm 42, 5, where David addresses himself and he says, Why are you downcast, O my soul? He's coming and shaking himself by the spiritual lapels. The people who study brain science Tell us that as we play these tapes about our guilt in our heads, that we are laying down neural pathways that more easily fire the next time. That a similar situation occurs. We'll talk about this more when we get to Shane. Well, what does that mean? I think it's true. The science shows it. What this means is that we must shake ourselves by the spiritual lapels We need to kindly preach the gospel to ourselves on a daily basis so that those pathways are rewired with new and better messages that are stronger and better than the ones we've been telling ourselves. Early on in our Christian lives, my wife and I, she we were both missionaries, and um she was overseas and we were dating and we uh read books together. And so we'd read a chapter and then we'd write back and forth like realized letters. Remember what those were? Postage. Yeah, those enormous box of them. Neither one of us struggled to speak. And one of the books that we read while my wife was overseas was a book um called Transforming Grace by Jerry Bridges. Anyone had the privilege of reading that book. That was one of the most marvelous things that ever happened to my wife and I. Was reading that book. Because reading it convinced me that every morning when I got in the shower, I needed to preach the gospel to myself. That I needed that gospel every single day to beat it into my head that it was true Because it's so wonderful and yet so hard to believe that it's true. We need to give ourselves that message that is stronger and better than the ones that we've been telling ourselves. Your objective guilt is what Christ dealt with as he fleshed out triune love, as he was manifested among us being sent into the world. How does God deal with your objective guilt in Christ? Then I'm just going to read some passages. Psalm 103 For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, which is how far, Matt Majors? Infinite. As far as the East is from the West, so far does He remove our transgressions from us. All of them. Every single one of them. Isaiah six Wonderful vision of God, Isaiah, crumbles and says, I'm undone. Woe is me. The Lord says, behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. What is God's love like to us in Christ? How is our guilt dealt with? Micah 7, verses 18 to 19. Who is a God like you? The refrain in the scriptures of that particular phrase, that what's supposed to return in your head is none. There's no godness like this. Who is a God like you? What's he like? Pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance for his people. He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love. delights in the steadfast love of sending his love on you He will again, going on the same passage, have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities underfoot. He will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. Now, how can God do this? How can God take the enormous pile of guilt that we have, the debt that we have? Because Sin incurs a debt. How can God do this? How can He forgive our sins? 2 Corinthians 5, 21 For our sake, he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. There's this great transference that happens for the people of God. That as we come and we turn from our sin and we trust in Christ, that our sin goes on Christ and his righteousness comes on us. So when the Father looks at us, he says, both not guilty and righteous in Christ. Your guilt is objectively removed because the love of the Father overflowed to send the Son, his only Son, the Son he loved, into the worlds. And Jesus comes and he lives perfectly in our place, in the place of our living incredibly imperfectly. Jesus comes, the Father says, go do, and Jesus does everything the Father asks, and he has no sin. He never sins. Which is stunning. That Jesus never sins. But instead he fulfills all righteousness, we're told. He does all that the Father said, do Jesus did. But then his life ends. And he dies for sins, not for sins that he did, but sins that we did. And so he dies horribly, painfully. Shamefully, as we'll look at beginning in a couple of weeks. He dies horribly for sinners. This is how your objective guilt is removed because Jesus paid the debt that your sin incurred. He took the guilt on himself and gives to you his righteousness How can that objective removal of guilt become subjectively true for me in my experience that I feel as though my guilt is removed? If you're familiar with Psalm 51, and we'll return to the person here for just a moment who thinks, I did that big sin that God could not forgive me for. Psalm fifty one is David on the backside of lust, adultery. Accomplice to murder. Oh, neglecting his duty to his nation. You'll notice that the beginning of that If you look in, I think it's 1 Samuel 17, you'll see that the way that it starts off is it's sort of ominous. Like you should hear the jaws music in the background. In the spring when kings go off to war, David stayed. Oh no. You're meant to hear this ominous tone when you read that. Because the beginning of David's sin was actually him neglecting his duty to the Lord, to his people, to his nation, by staying home instead of going to war. That's what he was supposed to do. And he didn't. And that was then the occasion for him lasting after Bathsheba, taking him into his own bed, making sure her husband got killed. You know all that. Alright now. Psalm fifty one is the record. For us, of what repentance looks like when you feel unbelievably guilty over your sin David, who had fairly obviously committed some very horizontal sins against real people. Is most concerned about the vertical with God. He says, against you and you only have I sinned. He sensed the gravity of what he had done, and he came very honestly and very cleanly, without excuse, to God. And confessed his sin. Psalm 32, you get the record of David and what his response was to bringing his sin to the Lord and sensing the Lord's. Forgiveness for him. Blessed is the man whose transgressions are forgiven. So, how do you move from that sense of having subjective guilt? Weird as it sounds, true repentance is the pathway Because in true repentance, I actually own myself as a sinner and my particular sins to God. And I anew make that move from trying to save myself. That's what sin is doing. In the moment I'm trying to save myself in the midst of the circumstance. And I come over and I say, Jesus, oh, I desperately need you. And that's how we move From a sense of subjective guilt to a sense of freedom and joy and rejoicing Subjective guilt like shame can be sticky. It can stick to you. I don't know if Maryland has these, but where I grew up in New York, we would walk through the woods and you get home and your pants were covered in these birds. Um and if you had a um I guess we have a l we must have some of these in Idaho because we'll we'll be petting our dog and you'll come to the spot and it's like what's this This what that's like encased and you're trying to get it out and it's terrible. And subjective guilt can be like that. So let's look at a couple of hard cases of how to help with subjective guilt. Many times subjective guilt can come about because we have bowed down to an idol. Again. I talked a little bit earlier about Julianne, but many of us are people pleasers. People pleasers do have that experience where they will hurt someone unintentionally, a situation where offense is not given, but it's taken. And God's not upset, but a more sensitive person is. And the people pleaser finds himself in the place Where again Jesus is not upset, but they feel guilty and they can't fix it. They can't fix the situation. They can't fix themselves. What do you do? You come and you come in repentance. And you say, this is impossible for me to do. I cannot please all the people all the time. No creature can do that. And so I own my frailty and my weakness and my sin if I have it and I entrust myself to the Lord. Another hard scenario. Frustration with a recurring sin that I'm struggling against. Doing it again. Why does this thing feel like such a such a good idea? I had a deacon in the first church that I pastored. And um We'd be talking about his sin and the sin he was struggling with, and he's like, but Pastor, it seemed like a really good idea at the time. Doesn't sin always feel that way? Especially the ones that we recurrently fall into? So I've got this frustration with a recurring sin, with a besetting sin I'm struggling against. I feel guilty, even though I might understand objectively that I'm forgiven. Why do I keep still feeling guilty? If I've done this transition from repentance, renewed my repentance and faith, why do I still feel guilty? Well, if it's me, and maybe some of you are like me, it's basically because of my pride. If I'm honest and I listen to what I'm saying to myself as I kick myself Yeah. Man. I thought I was farther ahead. I thought I'd knock this thing out. I'm so frustrated with myself. I don't want to struggle with this any longer. I want to declare victory. And it's a death trap. How do we address ourselves? I'm going to sound a little bit like a broken record, but it's a good record Preach the gospel to yourself daily to lay down those new neural pathways that speak the right Message. Think of it as a spiritual habit. Do you know how long it takes to build a new habit? Anybody have that factoid off the top of their head? Asher is back there in the sound booth. Does he know that factoid? 66 days. That's why it's so hard to embed a new habit, because few of us have the stick toitiveness to do 66 days of anything new But if you preach the gospel to yourself thoughtfully, kindly, as though it was the message that really made the most difference. It's more than your favorite news channel, more than what you like to read, more than who you like to listen to or watch. Your spiritual life would be vastly better. What do you need to speak to yourself? It's the gospel that then third says that God can and does love me. in Christ. You see, our subjective experience of guilt can lead us to think, mmm, God doesn't love me Maybe even God couldn't love me. So for the sake of time at least, let's consider just two reasons why this can sometimes be our experience. There's more, but let's think of the first, maybe the two biggest reasons that I see The first reason that I see for this is we try and really own that God can and does love me in Christ, is the sense that my guilt is bigger than his grace. My guilt is bigger than God's grace. My daughter and I play a lovely daily game when we go to bed. She starts it. She says, I love you. And I answer back, I love you more. And she answers back, I love you most, which appears to be the end. Until I say, impossible. This is what God says to you about your guilt in relationship to his grace. Impossible. That your sin is bigger than my grace. Impossible Your sin, though, if it is at all like mine, is enormous. Was committed by a creature, and it's finite and limited. The grace that is offered to us in Christ comes from the heart of a God with infinite love who also extends infinite grace. Your guilt is not bigger than God's grace. It's impossible. See, this is part of the scandal of the gospel. God, we're told in Romans 4. 8, God justifies the ungodly. He pronounces righteous. He says, Over you, righteous, as though you had never sinned Heidelberg Catechism wonderfully puts it, as though you had never sinned and done everything that God asked you to do. That's what's pronounced over you. God pronounces over you what's true of you in Christ, not what is true of you apart from Christ. Your guilt is not bigger. Then it's grace. But you have to preach that to yourself. You have to dig into it. So that you come to believe it more and more Another reason people struggle with this. Struggle with actually saying God can and does love me in Christ. One more reason sometimes people feel a nagging subjective guilt that God is still against me. Remember we thought about a couple of weeks ago this idea of God being for you or against you and that in Christ God is for you. Sometimes people have a sense, a nagging subjective guilt that, ah, it seems like God is still against me. I'm not sure that God loves me. Because if God loved me then, and all you have to do is fill in the blank. And when you fill in the blank, you fill in that blank with what you think will make you ultimately happy. If God loves me, then what See, when we do that, what what we're saying in essence, kindly friends, trying to be kind. Is that you're imagining God's love wrongly? When we do that, we're imagining God's love not expressed in his Son and a cross dying for your sins and mine. But we're thinking about God's love captured in having certain blessings. If God loved me, then I would have someone to love and to love me. If God loved me, then I would have And pick your possession or your experience. If God loved me, then I would have an opportunity to Fill in the blank. You'd have a possibility. These three help me think through this when I'm struggling with this, a person, a possession, or a possibility. Yeah, three P's. I'm a preacher. A person, a possession, or a possibility. Some pointed questions for my heart and yours. Do you conceive that God is in your service or your debt You see, we we easily fall into using the D-word. The D word is deserve. I deserve fill in the blank. For those of us who have come to Christ and we have said we've agreed with Ephesians 2 that we read it earlier that we were dead in trespasses and sins and there was no hope for us and the wrath of God was on us and that was right and true. That it would be, but here we find ourselves, but God, who's extended us mercy. When we get back To the D word. Deserve. We are in an extraordinarily dangerous place Because if you understand the gospel, you understand what you actually deserve. Is God in your service or death? If he was, who is God in that scenario? It's me. I've made myself to be God. In that scenario. Friend, if you're tempted to think this way, you may misunderstand Christianity entirely. Imagine this. A treasonous, wicked rebel comes hat in hand to a righteously indignant king. Expecting the gallows, which is what would be appropriate. Instead, the unthinkable happens. There's pardon. There's, as it's put so poignantly in Hamilton, forgiveness. What should be the response to a wicked rebel, treasonous who comes hat in hand to a king who receives the unthinkable pardon and forgiveness? What should be the response? Devoted thankfulness. All your days, all my days. But here's what happens to us. We forgiven rebels can forget what we deserve on our own. We forget our objective guilt. And we begin to think if this is our little trap, this is a bad king. He's against me, not for me, if I don't get Fill in the blank that I think will make me happy. Do you struggle along those lines? If you do, I want to encourage you to pray Um so I'm going to say something dangerous here, so pay attention and put your seatbelts on. God already knows. He already knows that that's the broken mechanism of your heart. He's already looking at you and going, you know that'll never actually satisfy. Won't you come to me for satisfaction? God loves it when we come to Him and we say, I have tried to put my trust in something made instead of you. Would you forgive me? Would you satisfy me? God loves it when we come and pray to him like that. Jesus loves for us to come to him. I love this passage in Hebrews chapter 4. Jesus actually understands and sympathizes. with us. Hebrews chapter 4, 15 to 16, you should read it. You should memorize it. It's one of the very best passages in the scriptures. Jesus actually understands. The struggle of living as a human on earth with centers around you. So as you ponder, Jesus, last and very short, It should cause you to believe the love that God has for you, despite your guilt. We again return to verse 16. So we have come, one, we have come to know to and to believe the love that God has for us. Know and believe. What stands in the way for you? Is it this matter of guilt If it is, I would encourage you that the trajectory, the path to be on, the path to walk. Is that the cross would be getting bigger to you in your perception of it? The size of the cross is proportional to the size of the sin that you think you have. And so if you remember Jesus gives us this formula in the Gospels, right? Hughes forgiven little does what? Okay, so if you find yourself with little love, what do you know about yourself? You believe you've been forgiven very little. If you've been forgiven a lot, like I have, what happens? You love a lot. You have joy even in the midst of the struggle. Is the cross getting bigger to your perception of? Do you see the grace of God bigger than it used to be because you know your sin to be bigger than you thought it was? Then the cross is getting bigger, and your thankfulness is growing. Remember, friends, why this is so important. Your actual experience of God's love is crucial. To enjoying God and fulfilling the great commandment, to love God and to love neighbor. What God calls us to is to believe the love he has for us. And he bids us in this passage to consider the work of Jesus and his propitiation. That the Father, the Father sent the Son, that we might live, really live. Through Christ. God did all that is needed to relieve our guilt that we might know his love. And he bids us to believe it. So let's do it. Let's believe it. Let's pray together Father, we feel guilt Many times because we have done wrong. Sometimes it's not because we've done wrong, but because of other Other things, things we can't fix. But we yearn that our hearts could be free of a sense of nagging guilt. Spirit, would you show us the wonder of Jesus' propitiation for us? That the cross indeed would be getting bigger. To our perception of it, that we would be convincible that your grace is greater than our sin, that indeed our sin has been atoned for and our guilt has been atoned taken away and placed on Christ. As hard as this is to believe, Holy Spirit, we pray that you'd convince us. That it's true, and that it's wonderful, and that it's good, and that indeed we are loved in Christ. Convince us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.