Thanksgiving morning, Macy's Day Parade. Where's the Lord when we're a wayward? All right, so we're going to talk about God's omnipresence today or his immensity. Okay, and that those are both true at the same time. He's over that curtain. trying to help you see the imminence aspect of God's omnipresence or his nearness uh as well as his above all. One of my favorite things about Thanksgiving is the Macy's Day Parade. Close. And you're standing with God. And I don't think this passage is clearly in the note of comfort, so I don't think this is David sort of rebelling and saying I'm going to run away or whatever. So Jen Wilkin quote. can be uh dismissed to children's worship. That's how we experience time. Maybe you've heard someone say, you know, that in some way everything is divine. Right? but in a specific and personal way that he is with you as an individual Yes, perfect knowledge of you. So look with me, Psalm 139, starting at verse 1. But it's not just God's observation of your body. I'm thinking Matthew 9. Even before a word is on my tongue, as I'm in the background moding, pondering, perfecting, while it's only in my heart This is what his knowledge of us is like and we're meant to enjoy it. a day videotape of every day of your life with the soundtrack of your invo inside voice of thoughts and heart meditations, that tape exists. I'm not really bad. And I've tried to find life in lots of other places than you. Jeremiah twenty-three, twenty-four says, Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? Which is a couple hour drive from the Denver airport. I don't think. Where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your presence? If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Okay? So they can exist, two things can exist in very close proximity without confusing each other. He can be everywhere without being everything. distinguished. He's a spirit. That's panentheism, for people like big words. That we understand that God is present everywhere. And they have these thoughts and Jesus, the text says, Jesus knowing their thoughts. Such knowledge, such knowledge of you, it's too wonderful for me. Enjoy it. in God's eyes. This knowledge that God has of my heart and your heart is why something so radical as the coming of Jesus is what's needed. Our sin is so radical that the only solution was that the Father would send the Son to take on flesh, to live perfectly, to die horribly, to resurrect gloriously, and to pray for us now. Somewhere other than in God. Turning from finding significance elsewhere, your record of sin is crazy, but it's what we're told. Because I know how much junk is there. The whole scope of time, including all people. Just the time doesn't contain God, neither does space. That is everything that's been created. That we can take comfort, we can receive comfort instead of trying to manufacture it because God actually is there and can give us comfort Then we'll try and emulate it. face to face with those we love seeking the face of God. And experienced differently. He gives us a comforting presence when we're conflicted or troubled. And yet there he found the Lord also there. uh the weakness that I feel to describe you in this way accurately Well, how can God know all about us? 18-month-old, 14-month-old? Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. He made time. So we're trying to get towards the neighborhood of trying to think about God's omnipresence. God exists apart from the world, transcendence, but all of him is present everywhere to the world, his immanence. You lay your hand on me for care. That's how perfect he lives for your sake. If I take the wings in the morning, so I go all the way as far east as you can possibly be. God's attributes all exist at the same time in the same being, right? And because of that, he is equally and fully present everywhere at all times with all people. If we aren't comforted by it, then we can't seek as creatures to s to somehow. So if we don't try and grasp this, we can't be comforted by it. I can let myself off the hook of worrying about that, of worrying about that which I can't control. This is a wonderful passage in the Gospels where Jesus is talking to the disciples and they're worried because they're going to get persecuted and he's like, I'll give you words then, okay? You can take a turn with him, every day by faith. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. Okay? But they can both exist and one exists equally present. Right? Well what's what's knowledge, God's knowledge of us like? The only solution to our sin problem is for the Father to send the Son. This is one of the most heartening things that God brings to my mind. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. exist in the same being. Right? I try and be more than I am as a creature if I don't grasp that God's like this. And instead stick to the small domain that God has given me. Superscript the the translators put in, search me, O God, and know my heart. attribute to describe accurately and grab on to. He's everywhere at all times. So let me give you this analogy that is helpful in some ways. Or dissolved like lemonade mix in water, right? Okay? along with the world as evolution proceeds forward. Now at the outset here, this is potentially good or potentially bad. The Lord already knows it. Comprehensively. And instead, in its place, we have the perfect life of Jesus. Is it's not just of the past or the present, but it's also of the future. Knowing our futures. Even after we've come to know him. God pre-plans his patience. And we grab hold of the one who is big. We do this with with technology. We can take comfort by turning to him frequently. Where we don't take a turn with him every day. He learns contentment because he lived to pray always. And some of these analogies are going to be closer to the aspect of God. They can only be in one spot. They understand you intimately and receive you Um one of the authors I like to read, Jen Wilkin, talks about people going to anybody ever been to Four Corners? Let's relate backwards a little bit to God's greatness, what we've done in the last two weeks. Okay, hard concept to get your mind around, but that's it. Right? Sometimes you run into people who say, well, you know, I've done okay. As if I had never sinned and done everything that God commanded. This is why it's so critical that you trust in Jesus. I'm made for you, I turn back to you. So remember that the attributes of God, we can't like split them apart and say, oh, that's God's right arm, and it works like this, right? We wish to be somewhere else to affect something. It's wonderful. You know when I sit down and when I rise up, you discern my thoughts from afar. And that we will receive comfort from this word that you've given to us, for that's its design. Put it in a way that I think hits I don't feel that way about omnipresence. If you taught your kids the kids' catechism, one of the early questions is that God doesn't have the answer to it is God doesn't have a body like men. All things cohere, Colossians tells us, in Christ. That's not good. God takes notice of it all. God's knowledge, so think about the the uh the parade. I'm still seen. Yes, even there. In every difficult conversation, in every time of sadness, at every time and in every place And we can drive ourselves nuts. This is why you believer can take comfort. O Lord, you. But God gets you. In fact, you're acquainted with all my ways. That God is incredibly aware of. Though he spoke wisely, there weren't ones that he even in his mind regretted. I will remember your sins no more. And that's crazy talk. How is it that we can be comforted? If I ascend to heaven, there. First ten gives you the point. I get feeling alone. So I'm going to do the best I got. He's immense. How do we access the comfort of God that He is present with us? Psalm 139 verses 1 through 12. Know my heart this morning, and my desire to not demean you, but exalt you, and also. Help us to enjoy you in your immensity. Think about your own body and soul. You, that one, personally, trying God, you have searched me and known me You discern my thoughts from afar. We've looked previously at God's omniscience that he knows everything, including everything about us. This knowledge that God has, this comprehensive knowledge of my heart broken, dark with sin. Even there, your hands shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me Even as I've tried to grasp this again and get this in my brain well to be able to teach it again this week, it's important to try and grasp this even though it's hard, and I grant you that it's hard. He says, thus we make a take a turn with him every day by faith. Be incredibly rude. Well that's two physical things, sugar and water. And Jesus lives perfectly, including in his thinking, including in his words. Your right hand i it'll it shall hold me If we stretch our brains and seek to understand this, what use is it to us? How did he learn contentment? The the fish is always in water. Which is pretty crazy. God's uh interested in you. Because it's what we need. What's your need in terms of God's presence? We slightly larger people will be thinking about Psalm 139 this morning. Someone who had to take refuge in a cave for safety. One analogy that is helpful to me is to think about a fish in water. It's what's needed for us so that we can be accepted into God's family. David saw this as a good thing. We're never actually alone. It's what enables the fish's existence. Without Jesus in play, that is. Personally known, understood, there is somebody that gets you. You, what's God's presence like? So he is apart from time, he is present at all times in the same way. It it always exists right next to its friends. They can exist and exist equally present while still being distinguished Analogies. One more note on this topic of God's knowledge of us. Maybe sometime we can sing. If I don't get this, I try and fill the gap of it not being there with me. We think we can be with somebody via FaceTime, but in reality we end up we while we try and be in two places, we really are fully in neither one of them. He made it. So this is other people talk about God's omnipresence as his immensity. 4 is the one I wrote down as I was working on the sermon that there's this interaction where Jesus forgives someone's sins and heals them and people are chirping in the background. Uh this morning Sunday school um as I was going down the stairs uh one of you all with an incredibly cute toe head with curls uh was walking down the stairs holding this little I don't know So thankful, Holy Spirit, that you give us a word that's clear. Do you catch that? You see, if you have Christ as your own, if you're turning from sinning, you're trusting in Christ, then this searching and knowing is not a fearful thing, but it's a good thing. He will hold me fast. Because He has seen the heart of every person. And repentance is, I'm, yeah, I'm done with that. So we we war against our creaturliness. Behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. So this is an aspect, if you will, of God's infinite nature. If we don't try and grasp it, we can't possibly be comforted by it. So Psalm 139, let's hear God's word. Some of these attributes were an omnipresence this morning. Well that's just like a little picture for us of what our desire is as a creature. He's the one who extended it. It's another way of talking about omnipresence. That's where this text begins, and so it's where we're going to begin. God's eye has seen, God's ear has heard. We experience time as though we're standing in front of Macy's and the parade is going past us. Recently, Jillian and I went on a trip to a conference in, it was in Estes Park, Colorado. Trying. Here's a Jen Wilken quote. This morning they're going to be um thinking about from 2 Chronicles 34 the word calls us back to God God experiences time, if we can even put it in that way, as though he's on top of the Empire State Building and He can see the whole parade all at once. Their hands. And he's over both of them, but present along with. It caught me today differently. And we'll drive ours we'll we'll drive ourselves nuts. So by analogy, imagine Julian and I are riding all the way from Denver to Estus Park and me not talking to her at all. But my soul is as much in this finger and this finger and up here as this finger is next to this one. It's only if he's present always and everywhere. I'm not sure I want anybody to discern my thoughts from afar. God gives us his strengthening presence when we need courage. This is a of course a a misconception. He knows you. Declares the Lord. And a spirit, he exists not alongside the world, as though the world were his body. You'll see as we go down here. It's an act of his will to remember your sins and my sins no more. Even there, your hands shall leave me Just as time doesn't contain God, neither does space. It is high. I grew up in New York, and so watching the Macy's Day Parade on television was the highlight of Thanksgiving morning. Let's think about something that's physical and something that's non-physical This is, as I said, of David, it's a believers refrain for comfort. And other people look at it and they go, Good, finally, somebody gets me. Okay. Even when physically or even emotionally dark, they are not barriers to God. This is what God's presence is like That the only solution, an incredible solution, I might add. It's meant to be a comfort to us, that He's always with us, and not just in a generic way. God kind of grades on a curve. Your hand shall lead me, your right hand shall hold me. It's wonderful. I would never do that. That's the record that gets credited to you when you trust in Jesus. As you trust in Jesus, and remember what these two motions are, repent and believe, right? Think about the all times. God's knowledge, this is one of the most heartening things, is I have gotten less hair and gray hair. Even there, here's the comfort So they go down the stairs. Sometimes you'll be in the situation where you need courage, and God's the manifestation of his presence is that he puts courage into you. He's also near to it. And so when you look at sugar in water, sugar never becomes water, water never becomes sugar, but the sugar and the water are right up next to each other. That's the mistake of pantheism, where God and the world are the same, they're indistinguishable. Now, why is that important to realize? Think about all the ways that we try and be in two places at once. So the God who stretches, we thought about last time, God's greatness, or the God who stretches out the heaven, it's for him, it's the size of a curtain Now, I realize that for some people they might not Do I not fill heaven and earth? Zoom is a curse for this. So is he just above? Or he's dead. And he still sets his love on us. He's, if you will, bigger than the curtain that he made And if we're not comforted by God's presence, God's omnipresence. But we're never actually alone. And I'll give you several that hopefully can help you pick it up. And as you do that, as you trust in Jesus And I'm scratching and we're going to pray that I have a voice by the time we're done. Something that I struggle with quite a lot. Even the things that you wisely left unsaid. You and me, as we've worshipped idols, we reveal what we give trust to, what we look for for hope and security and significance. You've got to add one more glorious thought to this mix Never. That is crazy talk, friends. He will hold me fast. Shows us that Jesus is God, right? God's presence everywhere. Who is this? He made space. We wish to not be where we are. Think about your own body and soul. You have searched me and known me. While God is fully present everywhere, at all times and all places, His presence is manifested. So, uh, and and also wayward, which we'll come back to. I cannot attain it If I ascend to heaven, you are there. We've seen this analogy before, but I think it's a good one, and it helps me with all times. It's mind-blowing. She's wonderful. But we're going to try to together. But I recognize that potentially it could be fearsome He pre-plans ongoing kindness and grace to us. When we trust him as fully present everywhere, we are finally free to be fully present wherever he has placed us. That the way that we access the comforting presence of God is to turn to him in prayer. Remember, last time we were together we talked about how God is both transcendent, He's above all and over all, but He's also imminent. You know when I sit down and when I rise up, so you there's a pair there, several pairs in this passage, a pair for there for you see me always. Some of these attributes um I look at them and I'm I feel like I can describe them super well to you and like So he's right there constantly. And then David's reaction as he ponders these truths about God. You do realize that's what sin is, right? If I make my bed in Sheol, that's the place of the dead, it's the lowest place, there. These analogies, all analogies fail. And in panentheism, God is becoming It is slighting God not to walk with him. But that's not the teaching of the scriptures. Right? Because God is always with you Somehow, you know, he he gives a free pass to those who aren't so bad. One of the most wonderful things about God's knowledge. My soul is equally present in this finger as this finger. This is the choir master, it's the Psalm of David, which is not insignificant. But the fish is always in water. So they interrelate, they cross over each other. Is he just transcendent? His presence everywhere, and this is for blessing, you hem me in behind and before. If I truly believe that God is great, in that He's omnipresent and He's in control of the affairs of the world. You search out my path. That's the language of the Heidelberg Catechism when it talks about this righteousness of Christ that's ours by faith. Verse 7, where shall I go from your spirit or where shall I flee from your presence? There. And part of the solution to that is that we repent of wanting to be bigger than we are. He sets his love on us with full knowledge of how miserably we will do in the future. Slowly, stair by stair. Now, this is as I said at the outset, partially potentially good or bad. We thought about that 24-hour God's presence is manifested and experienced by us differently at different times, dependent on what we need. And so for the fish, water is life. It's high. So let's go on and look. If you don't know that song, go find it on YouTube. Eh sorry, that's not in the text. He spread out the curtain. It's what we need He's trying to say, can I get away? He gives us our a convicting presence by the Spirit when we take sin lightly. I did this yesterday, walking around Centennial. Um, not being in a place where others could see you on purpose Right? This is the word of the Lord. Why is it important? Yes. It's an extraordinarily difficult Getting our minds around such a concept is hard, but let me start with a couple of analogies that hopefully God's not extended. I cannot attain it. At the cross, justice and mercy come together. If you and I are really going to enjoy God's knowledge of us and not just cower, which is what I'm tempted to do. Got up in the Empire State Building seeing it all, the whole scope of your life and my life. Okay, along with. That little marker that where the four states come together, right? God's omnipresence. All the ways that I and you, that we've given our affection to something other than Him. No, but the dark is scary Even there. This is uh if you look at the heading there um uh uh in the ESV, uh the Right? We're going to begin with enjoying God's knowledge of you Who is this one that is Lord? Just as time doesn't contain God, he invented time Oh Lord, you have searched me and known me. I pray that you'll help me to be clear. They they they're they're joined at the hip or at the joint. You may feel alone. And if one of you or several of you have better ideas of ways to put this, I would gain great value from it. Your spouse may not, your best friend may not, your roommate may not, your parents may not, your children may not. I certainly don't want somebody to discern my thoughts from up close That's how perfect a living. You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. So God is everywhere at all times. And I turn to Jesus and I go, I need you. As we turn to prayer, I want you to take a minute. Children that are age four through grade two. Father, uh you We pray in Jesus' name. So my finger You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Right? That's the mixing of the creator and the creature. God sets his love on sinners like me and like you Like we can with humans. Someone really does get you. What this means is that sin is not just the big things that other people have seen. Here's the way the old Puritan Watson puts it. No, he's also That he's Yahweh incarnate. So why, encouragement here is to take comfort. And yet we can do that with God, can't we? You discern my thoughts from afar And he sends Jesus who takes on flesh with an advent a couple of weeks. Let's think about along with a little bit. And this not confusing God and the world that he made is really important. That's not the way that God is. It leads me to worship. All people are really bad You're trying to find life somehow. All right? Big huge steps. We wish to go back in time and fix things. If I dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, the farthest extent known, there. He's not very large in space. Some people look at that and they go, hmm Let's grasp that God is present everywhere. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. Declares the Lord. You remember in the Gospels? They illustrate something about God's omnipresence, but not all of it. This is why we should take comfort in God's omnipresence. We wish to be elsewhere. We live and move and have our being Why? Am I lying down? Your record of sin is purposefully forgotten by God. The night is bright as day, for darkness is as light with you. If a king was in our presence, it would be slighting him to neglect him and play with the pet. I get that. Oh, we have so much sin. We're coming up to Thanksgiving, as Gary mentioned. Could I get away from you? Hopefully most of you have dissolved sugar in water. For us, God is life. This is the Hebrew word for Yahweh. When I repent, I'm basically saying I got a big load of sin. Okay, so so here's the problem. Because he is there with me in it. Everywhere I understand that. Amen. That's not the nature of reality. And again, some of these analogies are going to be more And you can do all kinds of fun things where you're like, I'm in four states at once, right? Thanksgiving afternoon, of course, highlighted by football. You're trying to manage life on your own. Because you're a one-year-old. Do comfort us, amaze us. It depends on your view of God. Two distinguishable things, body and soul. Let us pray together. He made space. I'm known and loved. I need you're living for me. Because God is present everywhere. Look at me starting in verse 7. Believe me. Right? They stay Okay, so so they always exist right next to each other. And I'm not one of those people that's so bad. We wish to go forward in time to assure things. Why should we take comfort? I travel for a living. Promise. I'm going to let you start working. This is the creator of heaven and earth. You're trying to find security or significance. You're dying for me. He's near and close. But Darkness is not a barrier.