Good morning, my name is Matt Bolding, and I'm the interim preacher and consultant to the session, and uh will have the privilege of speaking God's word this morning. But before that. If you are an adult or a youth volunteer that was involved in VBS this week, I'd like you to stand. An adult or youth volunteer that was involved in BBS this week. I was very slightly involved in BBS this week. Very slightly. And it was wonderful. And I'm very thankful. And so let's thank the Lord for this book. If you were a kid Who participated in BBS this week? Would you stand? All right. Let's pray for these Mushkins and others who came. Father, thank you. That the gospel went forth this week through us, the little ones. How many of us can think back on those earliest influences on our spiritual lives? Might you wrap your grace into the lives of these little ones. The ones that were here this morning, the ones that came from the community, ones perhaps from other churches. Work, we pray. Bring your gospel home. In Jesus' name. Amen. Vicki Van Hubble's also gone on vacation today. And when you see her, Thank her. She put in a disproportionate amount of work on this. And um she did a great job. We are in a series on the attributes of God and we're focused particularly right now on the love of God and our seeking to actually receive that and the barriers that we have to actually receiving the love of God. And so we've been musing, making our way, stopping at various points. In 1 John chapter 4 and verses 7 to 21, and so let me read that for you. Let's hear God's word. Beloved, let us love one another, for our love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only son into the world. So that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment. And whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God, must also love his brother. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together Father, these words uh hit me differently each time I read them. Different things leap out. Make me wonder. Make me long for. Make me wish that I understood better. And that I felt more Might those same things be happening here in our congregation? And might you provoke us? Towards an appropriate emotional response to your love. Help us to want to remove the barriers that we have erected To your love. And to really feel it. That having experienced it, we would give it away. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen So we've been looking at God's love. We looked in the beginning of this little section of this series that God is love. And thus having love for us, he couldn't not love. It's in this very character too. He wouldn't not. But God having love for us, while it's a very significant part of the equation, is not all of it. For we also have to receive God's love. That's significant too. God can throw the ball of his love towards us, but we have to actually catch it, receive it. Without that, we don't end up where God desires us, which is to be a loving person. Let's see the very simple formula here in verse 19. We love, say it with me. We love because he first loved us. We love. How? Because he first loved us. It's a response. An emotional response. Now, for that response to happen, for us to end up as loving people, the love of God has to be known, believed, received, enjoyed. by you so that you have a reservoir of love to draw on. I've been using that phrase for some years and I I do I don't recall where I got it from. Somebody probably taught it to me. If you know what it is, come tell me. Because I'd rather credit them. But I was rereading Romans 5. 5 this morning. And in the ESV, the way that it's spoken of is that God has poured his love into our hearts. It's beautiful that our heart can be a reservoir of God's love. And you need that reservoir to draw on so that you end up being a profoundly loving person. God calls us in response to his given and received love to love him and to love others People that already know Christ, right? So the passion here is whoever loves God must also love his brother. Let us love one another, verse 7, right? So God has a twin passion. Right? Ultimately we love our neighbor, but we have two kinds of neighbors. Those that we worship with, right? That are we're in the same congregation with, and those that we're not, those that are yet who don't yet know Christ. They don't know how good his love is. And the only way that they can find that out is from us. So God is this twin passion of who we would love. Him, those within and those without. Well, how do we get there? Why is it that we don't end up this way as loving people It's there on the page. God's love. He's given you love. But why don't we end up as loving people? My supposition is that we put up barriers to God's love, walling us off from it. Last week we looked at uh the first of these barriers, and the title that I give to that is uh Disgruntles. We wall ourselves off from God's love because we don't like that this love comes to us by sheer grace. through the propitiatory work of Christ, what we looked at in verse 10. We just don't like it. We'd rather it be different than that. We don't like that it's not because of what we do or don't do. And so we end up disgruntled. We'd rather it be like my young niece I told you about last week. We'd rather it be by self. Now the right response, if you realize this about yourself, that that's that that's you. And People that have never spoken to me in this church walked up to me last week or talked to me during the week and they were just like, okay, God got me, and that's me. And if this is you, the right response is to renounce your pride. It is to give up on the project of trying to save yourself. Because that's really what it is. The passage makes extraordinarily clear, in this is love, not that we have loved God. And that's meant to tamp down your aspiration to get this done by yourself. So the right response, if that's your struggle, if that's your love barrier, is to renounce your pride, to repent of wanting to save yourself. And said to come and believe and rely on Jesus anew. To turn to Jesus, gratefully receive his grace Knowing that if it was dependent upon me for me to be saved, if it was dependent upon you for you to be saved, you would be hopeless. Realize that, you would be hopeless. Because we can never do enough and we can never be good enough. We can either not do enough bad stuff or do enough good stuff. We simply can't. And that's a hopeless venture. Because we would never measure up. Now that's not the only barrier, though. Look with me at verse 16 We're mostly going to sort of camp here and think about this and look at it from some different angles that we might indeed sense the love of God for us. So verse 16, so we have come to know And to believe the love that God has for us. We have come to know and to believe. Know experientially, not just notitionally. 2 plus 2 equals 4, great thing to know. Doesn't necessarily need to move you. Sorry, mathematicians. But the love of God, to know the love of God experientially, ought to move you Believe in a life-altering what we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. Believe in a life-altering way. Because we're told in verse 13, he's given us of a spirit, we can believe in a life-altering way concerning this love of God because we're indwelt. By life-changing Holy Spirit. And as a result, our heart is different and becoming different through time. We're on a different trajectory than we were before. Question. How do you know if I believe something? We have come to know and believe the love that God has for us. How do you know if I believe something? Let me give you an illustration. Stool. Do you think this stool will hold me up if I sit on it? Why would you think so? Well Megan leaned on it. I got a fair bit of weight on Megan. But Megan leaned on it. So, you know, I've recently seen evidence that possibly this stool could hold me up. My dad in my early years as a child built houses. He built the house I grew up in. It's quite wonderful experience. We grew up around tools and dust. If I even smell sawdust, I am thrown back into the life of my youth. My brother is a fine craftsman. He does woodworking. The only bookshelves I have in my house that still hold my little book collection are ones that my brother made for me. He makes unbelievably beautiful things. So I'm fairly experienced at looking at woodworking. So I look at this and I kinda inspect it and it's all tight. The screws look like they're in. It's gonna work. Okay. So you think this will hold me up? I'm just I'm really not sure. I mean you say it But how do I know? Do I believe it can hold me up? I don't know. I don't know. How do you know if I believe, if I know and believe, that it will hold me out? Really? But what if it breaks that collapse on the platform and look stupid? That would be a bad day. I think that was the same little kid that spoke of that a week a few weeks ago when I was preaching. Really nervous. Oh man, my back was getting tired. All right That's how you know whether I know and believe that this stool can hold me up. So I sat on it. You told me. I inspected it. I saw other people's evidence. But the only way that you know whether I actually know and believe that the school can hold me up is if I sit on that. A true belief dynamic requires, requires that your emotions be engaged. Did you notice how many emotions I went through for you about sitting on this Your emotions have to be engaged. Are they when you think about the love of God for you? Now this whole area of emotions is a barrier for many of us. And not just men, although I think we're stereotyped that way. Perhaps accurately, perhaps not. I've known plenty of women who for a whole variety of reasons wall themselves off from the love of God. Now we can't sort through the whole variety of reasons that any of us might refuse to engage emotionally in God's with God's love. But a good counselor for sure could help you with that. And if this is a big challenge for you, I highly commend that Here's how to think about this sermon. It's a pointer. It's a sign directing you towards a healthy, God-honoring direction in this area. And it's important that along the way, as you walk that path, that you don't beat yourself up, that you're patient with yourself. One of the elders that I was privileged to serve with in West Seattle used to talk about how the Christian life is not a matter of perfection, but of walking in a new direction. Think of this path as we engage it this morning as a trajectory that you would increasingly believe more and more the love that God has for you. With a caution. Don't make the mistake of thinking that you can skip this This is actually essential if you're going to end up as a person that's known for being loving. That is, for this passion to actually come, for this passage to actually come to fruition in your life, for verse 19 to happen, that you love because you since he first loved you. You can't skip this. And instead, typical three-point Presbyterian sermon, of course. You've got to give spirit-led emotions their due. We're going to camp here in verse 16. We're going to muse on this. We're going to meditate together. We're going to Think about genuinely knowing and believing, not simply with the mind, but with the heart that our feelings were moved. Why would we do that? Why would we camp here Well, you and I were made in the image of a God who feels. It's all through the scriptures So we're made in the image of the feeling God, and so we're meant to feel. Think of Jesus. In his perfect humanity, what do you see Jesus like as he goes about his ministry? He feels very deeply about lots of things. This is what we're made for. Which is why you've got to give spirit-led emotions their due. Now why do people stay away from this where I am today, where we're camped out? Given our sinful state, our emotions are also broken. And so they can get us in trouble in life. And so we we kind of wall ourselves off from emotions in an effort at self-protection. We try and eliminate them as a factor and instead seek to only employ our mind and will. And so rationality and duty predominate our lives, or we attempt at least for that to be the case. But here's the problem. You may not have noticed this about yourself, but I hope you will never forget not to after I say this next thing I'm going to say. You always do. Exactly what you feel like doing. In every instance, you always do exactly what you feel like you're doing. Now somebody come back and they say, well, no, no, no, no, no. I serve duty. I exert my will to do what I'm supposed to Hmm. I bet you felt like that, didn't you? I bet you felt like doing that in that moment. Which is why You pulled out duty as a motivator and you tried to exert your will because you felt like it's what you should do. Our emotions are there, lurking underwater, like the submerged portion of an iceberg. Anyone know the factoid about how much of the iceberg is underwater? Seven eighths. Seven eighths. Only an eighth of it's above water But that's the way for many of us that our emotions are. They're underwater. They're unseen and untapped. Well, you might come back to me and say, well, you know, those emotions, they can be real troublesome. They can. No end of problems. Let's just not Yeah. Mm-hmm. Stay away from them. But seeking to suppress your emotions is radically unwise. It's to live as two-thirds of a human. And A not enjoying one. And one that's not very enjoyable to be around either. Is it any wonder that our lives can feel empty and dull? I admit our emotions can be dangerous. So can your mind and your will. All of them are corrupted. Your mind and your will are no more peerless guys than your emotions. Our emotions must be consciously under the Lordship of Christ, and most certainly led by the Spirit. This is what we see, for example. I enjoy the life of the Apostle Paul very much so. This is what you see Paul doing, how he lives out his Christian life. Particularly you can think about the book of 2 Corinthians. If you get the chance, it's actually really neat to read the whole book in one shot. Not stop, not you can meditate on things, but try and read the whole thing through and you get done and you're like, ooh, wow. Just a lot of emotion there. But it was emotion under control, under, it was spirit-led emotion. Here's uh just a snippet. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus. Why would we suffer all that? So that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. What you see in the life of the Apostle Paul is his heart set aflame and put in action. Moved by the gospel, moved by what we read here in 1 John 4, about the work of Jesus, about the heart of the Father, about the ministry of the indwelling Holy Spirit, you see it in action. In the life of the Apostle Paul. Moved by the gospel, moved by his life's circumstances, he feels deeply. And he does so without shame. And I would note, with great effect, great kingdom impact You only have to turn to the Psalms to see that the people of God have always expressed themselves, felt deeply and expressed themselves with a huge and huge variety. Of forms of emotional expression. Here's my little tiny point in this section of the sermon. I'm just trying to alert you to the fact. That if you don't give God-given emotions their due, you can't, you won't enjoy God. And you won't end up where this passage is seeking to push you, which is to respond to the love of God with love. Because if you can't feel it, you can't give it. It's that simple. Now you might do loving actions out of duty. It's my pastoral opinion that many Christians overly rely on duty. But in so doing, they also do a very small, limited checklist of things that duty drives them towards. And they avoid things that are hard, things that they couldn't do in their own power, particularly things that require being, well, profoundly loving. and outward oriented towards people who are different than them. Here's what happens if you rely on duty Anybody on a motorcycle? Please, somebody. Thank you, sir. One? Ah, only one. We are soul brothers I had the privilege pre-kids to own two motorcycles, one that my brother gave me when I got married, one that I bought along the way because somebody wanted to buy the first one that I had, so they bought me a second one. It's a great story. And we're still great friends. A motorcycle is gas, the gas tank in a motorcycle works in such a way that there's a reserve. that's near the bottom of the tank. That if you're running low and um and you're like, shoot, I gotta get to a gas station, you can flip a switch and there's a little bit more gas available to you. Like 15 miles worth of gas. Not a lot, but a little bit. Enough to try and find a gas station. Now make an analogy out of that. To rely on duty as the main motivator for living the Christian life is like thinking the reserve tank on your motorcycle has got enough gas to get you from downtown D. C. to Fells Point in rush hour traffic on a Friday. It's too little. There's not enough there. We talk about not having enough in the tank. That's exactly it. That's exactly it. If you tried that fool's errand, where would you find yourself? On the side of BW Highway, calling AAA for gas. Now here's what happens. AAA comes for gas and you're like, oh, oh, you know, I just need like a half a cup. Just just a half AAA guy's like, I don't usually measure this in cups, but okay, half a cup. Thanks But that's what we do. We get a little tiny duty refill We're kind of like, okay. And I'm off to do my little checklist again. Friends, it doesn't work. It's no wonder that we feel exhausted in the Christian life. We are. And without a reservoir of love in your soul, duty will only take you so far. Until you get a little new infusion of guilt that stirs up your duty. And so you do a little bit more, but you don't do it from joy because you're running on fumes. And that is not The definition of a life, a wash in God's love. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. Well, where do we go? Couple places. Well, I think the first place we have to go is we have to join the man in Mark 9. 24. Jesus needs his son healed. Jesus says, Do you believe? Remember what the man says? I believe help my. Do you remember? I believe help my unbelief. We should also return to John's question, or to Jesus' question from John 5, the man of the pool. Do you want to be healed? And if so, and I'm telling you you should want to. For your own joy, for the sake of those around you, for other congregants here, for family and children and grandchildren, for those who don't yet know Christ, you should want to. You should want to be healed. And so let's listen to a gentle and winsome call from God who made our emotions and calls us to spirit-led emotions. Let's seek to feel as God designed you. When you look at verse 16, how does it hit you? Can you say, personalize it, I have come to know and to believe the love that God has. for me. Can you say that? Do you want to be able to say that? Now, maybe you look maybe um you're looking through that glass door that I described last week where it's kind of like I can see it, I can see it in other people's lives, I'd like to have it for myself, but there's a There's a sh a barrier right here in front of me. I can't get to it. How do I get there? broken and and incapable as I feel. Let me give you a few ideas about how to walk in this direction. The first is to be genuinely open. To be genuinely open. Not like, oh, the preacher told me, husband and wife have a conversation. Could go either way. Well another preacher said that, you know, you should feel more. Talk about your feelings. Yeah, you're right. No. I mean, like go to the Lord and say, Lord, this is broken in me. I need this healed. I want to be healed. I I want to personalize this and believe it and live in light of it every day. Be genuinely open. Now I get that could be scary, unknown, ambiguous, out of control, like tearing open a feather pillow and not being able to control where all the feathers go after you open it. Believe me, I get it. But your Father in heaven who made you to feel and invites you to feel will be there with you. Again, I believe. Help my unbelief. So we open. Second, pray. Pray to be healed with hope. Do you realize this is, we read about the work of Jesus, we'll celebrate the work of Jesus at the Lord's table. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only son into the world. That's the love of the Father for us. The Son comes into the world. Why? That we might live. Because he loved us. This is what Jesus came for. That was near death. This is what Jesus came for. To love. To, as they said earlier from Romans 25, to pour love into our hearts. To give us empowering love as a fruit of giving us of Holy Spirit. Why does Jesus desire that our emotions would be healed? So will you indeed enjoy him forever? And for now, for the sake of the world, who desperately needs loving people. Desperately. So be generally open, pray, and let me tell you a story. There once was a young man some years ago who grew up in a family with parents, both of whom had come from abusive backgrounds. And the net effect of that was that the household was filled with a lot of anger. Enough anger That the young person was scared. Scared that uh parents would get divorced Scared about what that would mean. Scared about the effect that he could see on his older brother. And so that young person decided, you know what? Motions are dangerous. All I see is destruction. Yeah. No more And so that young person turned into a young man, walked through life wonderfully became a Christian through the witness of non-Christians around him, but still walled off from emotion And eventually, God called that young man into Christian service to become a missionary. So the young man went off, still balled up from emotion, went off to missionary training, met a girl, liked the girl Didn't know that he liked the girl, but did Got to the end of the training, and the girl came to him and said, Well, how do you feel about me? And the young man said, I have no idea. And the girl said, Um, I think I do. Could I help you with that? And in a move that could only be attributed to the grace of God and the working of the Holy Spirit, The young man said, Yes, I would like to feel And thus began a nearly three-decade journey of that once young man Thinner than the one before you that had black hair once. A long, wonderful, glorious journey towards feeling One that is entirely worth it. I can testify to you that God changes people in profound ways. Including in their emotional life. I tell people about the way that I was And they're like, no. And I'm like, yeah. The way I analogized it my life back then was as though I was speeding through life and everything was black and white and two-dimensional. I was just on a bullet train through life. And that once I could slow down and feel, that things became color and three-dimensional, and I experienced them. In real time, sometimes even in slow motion. This is one of the reasons there's lots and lots and lots of, and I'm happy to have any conversation with anybody who wants to talk about this. I take flower pictures. If you look at our photo stream, there are hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of pictures of flowers. Because someone convinced me that it would actually be really good for me to stop and smell the flowers I have flowers from all over CPC. I sent them to my wife. It's great. It's one of the few special things we have when I'm on the road. I can testify to you that God can profoundly change this area of your life because He did it in my life. I wanted to be healed. Do you Recognize that this isn't to its own end, but it is a sole necessity, S-O-U-L, sole necessity for what this passage talks about to work. To actually sit down on the stool to believe and to know experientially the love of God. You need this. You need it. You need a working emotional system. And as you walk increasingly that way, as you begin to feel as God designs you, then you'll last in very briefly. You'll begin to believe in your heart that God's love you, that God loves you. Much of my point today, it's really just a one-point sermon disguised as a three-point one. Much of my point today has been to encourage you. To be willing to have a spirit-led, not out of control, not life-dominating emotions, not destruction-wrecking emotions. but spirit-led emotions. God's desire is that you would have a conscious, willing embrace of your emotions. So that you will know and believe that He loves you. Friends, you simply can't love God Or love neighbor sincerely and authentically if you don't feel the love of God Duty, I'm sure you've discovered, quickly turns into drudgery, and the tank runs dry. Besides, delight is way more fun and is a much more powerful fuel for Christian living. How do you move closer to this? How do you move closer to this? Look with me again at verses 9 and 10 In this, the love of God. Do you want to see the love of God? In this, the love of God was made manifested, shown forth among us. That God sent his only son into the worlds. Why? So that we could live. That we could live through him. In this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us. How do you know he loved us? He sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Why did Jesus come to earth? Why did Jesus come to earth? Two reasons. His love Our need. His love. Our need. Here's my parting question for you. And this has taken the teaching of a of another that I have appreciated greatly. Is the cross becoming larger in your perception of it? So is this more meaningful now to you than it was a year ago or five years ago. The way that one man put it that I think is really helpful is the cross becoming larger. The cross becomes larger when I sense my sinfulness more. And so I see what Christ paid for me was larger than I thought. And so that um and so that grace appears larger to me because I see how much more I needed the cross. So is the cross becoming larger to you in time? This is amazing. I dare you to believe this. It's radically good news that if believed, really believed with the heart, it'll change your life. If you let it seep in and heal, more and more hurts and wounds. And it is the path to end up a loving person. This is the path, friends. Won't you believe in your heart that God loves you? Let's pray together Father, you work pretty hard in your word to try to convince us that indeed you love us. You're not. You don't shortchange us. You're giving us an abundance To try and convince us that indeed you love us. Jesus, thank you that you came and lived in our place. Because we we haven't done all that we were supposed to do. And you died in our place because there's lots of stuff that we shouldn't have done that we did And you rose and ascended, and you pray for us. Thank you Holy Spirit, if the folks here at CPC, folks online, if they're at all like that young man once was. And we tend to insulate ourselves from this kind of truth Would you help us not to? But to want to be healed instead. Work this in us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.