Do you know what the most common thing that people in our culture say about Christians and why they don't why they're not interested in Christianity, they're not interested in the church, they're not interested in in um in their faith? judging us any longer because of Christ. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future, all are yours. It is not the way that I commonly live. Um, not just about the Corinthians, but really by any human court. The right hand of the Father is giving me the Spirit who doesn't just change me and then leave, but stays. But imagine with me for a second that you actually don't believe that. It's fine. So we didn't have to judge ourselves any longer. To daily repent and believe. Like the older brother in the parable of the prodigals, that person who has that mindset He tells him how to regard them in chapter 4, the first couple of verses. Work through it and we'll come back and focus on a few elements. Servants of Christ, two labels, servants of Christ, stewards of the mysteries of God. Toward others. What does the gospel teach you? Comparing, boasting, pride. Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time. How does Christ's return to judge the living and the dead comfort you? punishment, but me and all his chosen ones he will take along with him into the joy and glory of heaven. From a heart oriented towards God, unless the Spirit indwells them. Proclamation. 1 Corinthians 3. So let me just remind you of this trajectory that we've been working through. What that means then is if God isn't judging me any longer, and I understand that, then I don't have to judge me any longer. Not only is God not condemning us to these bookends, Romans 8 has these bookends, there's no more condemnation, and what do we get at the end if God's for us, which he most certainly is. So if you feel the freedom not to judge yourself any longer, then that also ought to bleed out in the way that you love your neighbor. Your posture towards yourself has changed because you understand God's heart for you in Christ, and so your posture towards yourself has changed, which means that you have the opportunity to change your posture towards those that are around you. Whether you're there in your family or they're in your workplace or your neighborhood, you have the opportunity to actually love your neighbor. You've gotten used to that for me. Most judgmental people believe that they are doing particular people, the one in front of them that they're judging, and the world a service by judging. In work, in middle class culture, in parenting, in schooling choices, in politics, in public health. Parading, I'm of Paul. politics or a particular view of public health and what should have been done or not done. We wish these were true coming out of our mouths. He says, but with me, you know, it's a it's a very small thing that I should be judged by you. Is that what he said? Not to go beyond what is written, that none of you, what's the goal here? If the verdict is in about me, right? The gospel has the opportunity. It makes relationship hard if not impossible, and so it displeases God. Judge now. Can you make the pulpit hot? Post-Pentecost to convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Remember Romans 8. Is yours because you're Christ, and Christ is God's. I'm just saying it's the incredible smallest part of what you've done. Every breath was from the Lord. Moreover, it is required of sewers that they be found faithful, but with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. Then not only is nobody can be against us because God's for us. And not feel like we need to judge them in real time now. That's why people stay away from Christ, his churches, and his people. The inner mindset of a judgmental person is that they believe they are doing particular people and the world a service. All things are yours. It's already yours. We'll come back and think about identity later and how that is related to judgment to judgment. I'm the worst sinner I know. of judging. Little puny, frail, limited, sinful creature. Where does that leave you? The verdict comes after the performance in any other kind of religious system than Christianity. That you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. And judging is the opposite of loving your neighbor. Haven't you experienced them from the judgmental people around you? Which is why we're going to return and go through this passage in 1 Corinthians 3. For our own and for the benefit of the believers and the unbelievers around us. After all, there has to be someone who upholds my high standards in conduct Well, he says, all things are yours. And Paul says, because the verdict's already in, I don't even judge myself. None of which you had anything to do with. Judge, the very one who has already stood trial in my place before God, and so has removed the whole curse from me, all his enemies in mine, he will condemn to everlasting death. In fact, I do not even judge myself. Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God. For who sees anything different in you? Because I've gotten out of the judging business. By judging. Isn't that what's going on? They feel deserving. But when Paul goes into verse 3, we go into a place that many of us wish that we could say these next things that Paul says. The chief of sinners. I'm the worst sinner I know. You hear what you say to yourself, you hear what you say about other people. And then each one will receive his commendation or also his condemnation from the Lord. Would and fill in the blank with whatever public health viewpoint you thought was important. That's incredibly critical. You were born into a particular family in a particular decade, in a particular country in time, with particular influences and opportunities. He had me in mind as he came to earth. Love your neighbor, especially with the gospel, not personal judgment. Sinners need prayers and love. Fairly direct and clear. To everyone who doesn't fit their high standards. We we don't need to say that it's a particular person that we've hitched our wagon to. And you are Christ's. I regularly, you are regularly, the victim of judgment, which is no fun either. Christians are so judgmental. Wouldn't it be marvelous that other people's opinion of you, their approval or not approval of you, that it was a it was a very small thing to you Would you do that this morning? I was personally attacked yesterday. So two-point sermon. And I am. The preacher used an analogy that I found helpful. You just do the pulpit mic? Father, it's much easier for us to judge than to not judge. To our families, to those that we go to church with To those who don't yet know you, where we live, work, and play, it's readily apparent to all that we're actually quite good at being judgmental. And that we turn away from it. I do not ever want to see that person ever again in my life. Can we not be these kind of judgmental people? All right, first, believe you ought not judge. Until we see it as wicked pride, we won't make progress. Paul starts in 321, so let no one boast in men. This is why it's so critical that you understand that the verdict's in. This gospel of God took hold of Paul by the power of the Spirit. I find for me second nature. So let no one boast in men, for all things are yours You're not self-generating. So if he's not judging me, I don't have to judge you. The gospel says Jesus did it all will you simply receive? So we've been making our way, uh we've had a pause here because of um Easter and also my being gone The verdict's in because the Lord, it's the Lord who judges me, and He's judged Christ in my place. Paul says, I've applied these things and I'm trying to teach you to myself and to Apollos for your benefit, brothers, why that you might learn by us So if the verdict is in in terms of justification, then I'm in a certain state, if I believe that, that God's not judging me any longer. There was no other way. Pray for conviction. Well, maybe you're buying that you ought not judge, that it's not your role, but maybe judgment has a powerful hold on you. And yet this isn't what you have for us. Despite its ill effects, we tend, I tend to practice judgment regularly. Okay. We apologize for the technical difficulties. Uh Heidelberg 52, the Heidelberg Catechism Catechisms were uh teaching tools that were developed in the Reformation era to teach us the basics of the faith. Jesus is as clear as he can be on this topic. So how shouldn't uh the Corinthians think about these apostles? And what that yields is that you're judgmental towards yourself and you're judgmental towards others. That, friends, is humbling and ennobling at the same time. It's because it's corrosive to relationship. And that's whether you're Paul or Apollos or Cephas or any of these other things, you've already got all It's not our place. No one obeys from a heart oriented towards God unless the Spirit indwells them. 21 down through 4. If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? 1, there is therefore now no, say the word with me, there is no condemnation. That's the heart of judgment. Why? Until we recognize our pride that lies underneath our judgmentalism, that stands behind it, that imbues it in every in every little bit of it. God through Paul points us in a different direction in this text. He says, what that means is verse 5, therefore do not pronounce judgment before the time. Which is not good. That's what happens when we judge. Thanks. Withholding judgment is a faith endeavor. This I should warn you ahead of time. If I hurt your feelings, please come up and talk to me. In Christ, you just don't realize that. Could you see yourself saying that? Puffed up one against another. You cohered in Christ in every one of those moments. If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? In all my distress and persecution, I turn my eyes to the heavens and confidently await as Because when the Lord comes, he's going to bring everything to light. The hope to uproot judgment is gospel humility. It's the distinction between moralism, do better so you're acceptable to God, and the gospel I promise I'll balance it out with a four-point sermon sometime soon, okay? This group was of Apollosis, this group was of Cephas. No, he says, I say it with me, I am. What do you have that you did not receive? Which is why I need Jesus. I commonly live the opposite of that. Well, it leaves you nervous. The gospel teaches you that I am so flawed and sinful that Jesus had to come and die for me. The implication that we're going to think through today is that I can be free from feeling the need to judge others. I was at a different church yesterday working. Paul says, you can be free of that. It's not the time. Get us to start on that path. The verdicts in. It was tearing them apart. And this is where you understand that what he's talking about is that the verdict is in because of Christ. So if if I, because of Christ, is living perfectly in my place, his dying for me, his rising for me, his ascending for me, his interceding for me right now, It's possible that the gospel could humble you if you let it be spoken to you deep in your soul. See, most of all of who you are is not at all a part of what you've done. You don't generate anything. But I'm also so loved and valued that Jesus was glad to die for me. Do you believe that? In all my distress and persecution, too hot. So we're trying to understand the implications of God no longer judging me. And Christ is God's. Because ideally, you know yourself better than anybody else because you live inside of your own head and heart Actually, that's what other believers need too. And so people self-appoint to be the protectors of their high standards and they call people to obey them. And so go back to verse 21. And then he gets to, I think that what is important in terms of humility says who sees anything different in you? Withholding judgment is a faith endeavor It's red. God will judge. 7. And yet it's not the way that certainly as I have prayed over the sermon that I found And that is certainly what God wants to do. John 16, 8. In Jesus' name. I was um listening to a sermon in the sex this morning, and um What do you have that you did not receive? They feel bitter. That's the simple, the simple path. We started thinking about how God is gracious to us, and because of him being gracious to us, he is not judging us any longer. So uh understand what's what he's being said here is that that which you sought by affiliating yourself with a person, and you can just substitute here. And not because verse 4, I'm not aware of anything against myself. None of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. But before he goes there, he says, don't boast in men. Genetics, parents, the people around you, the teachers that you had. We're accepted fully into the family as we seek to daily repent and believe. That's how we think about ourselves. As I come and I say, Well, you know, of course, that anybody who loves their neighbor. What if you don't actually believe that the verdict is in for you because of Christ? Alert to us the heart. Why is judging others such a big deal? We're going to return to this text to learn more about Paul's gospel psychology. I'll be very happy to apologize. Paul doesn't have this confidence because he's not aware of anything against himself. If we understand the gospel of grace, we can feel the freedom to leave others to God's judgment. I should have put a trigger warning right here in the sermon. For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. You don't need that. And so I'm going to read the passage for this morning, which is 1 Corinthians 3 21 down through 4. Let's hear God's word. And we're going to do this just two headings. It's the opposite of loving your neighbor as yourself. Nervous before God? Believe you ought not judge. I'm going to blaze through it, making a few comments as we go, and then we'll focus on a few elements. Could you see yourself it coming out of your mouth? It's destructive. We'll come back and ponder that phrase in a little bit. We yearn for them to be true. And I was personally attacked. Suppose you're a person who feels like you do have insight, discernment, that you see things clearly. I commonly live judge much That's what they say. Can you say that honestly Every breath was a gift from Him. Jesus is exercising about judgment because judgment always does that. Where do you go to start stopping judging Remember the problem in Corinth was that uh they were judging each they were Your practical belief in the coming judgment of God means that you can be free to not judge now. And you compare that with the scriptures, and you go, Oh, I am a very wicked person. He said, it's funny how you see people who started life on third base really proud that they got to third base. But it's you already had that which you saw. The Holy Spirit has come in resurrection power. If it really concerns you and you need the average to be three. Now, I warned you that it was blunt We now pause. Amen. That's God's posture towards us. And I mean that They were doing it, and Paul says, stop it. In Christianity, the verdict comes first. Here's the answer. The reason Jesus is so direct about being judgmental is that it has awful destructive consequences. He's going to disclose the purposes of the heart. I have applied all these things to myself and to Paulus for your benefit, brothers You want to remove from us the need to judge so that we won't. And this is actually critical in our culture right now, and the interest of the spread of the gospel in it. Do you really want to be near them? Sorry. That which you sought by hitching your wagon to something, you already have. It's how you ought to think about us. It's not a the Holy Spirit's not a flipper of people, right? Nervous before yourself? This is how one should regard us. I know it's a Presbyterian. They were trying to get an identity by hitching themselves to a particular person. And even that, every single moment of you doing something with what you were given. In any other kind of religious system, the verdict comes after the performance. Or do you do you proudly think the Spirit of God is so weak that your judging work is needed, or else the world will fall apart? Alert to us what's in the heart of judgment. Absolutely, there's hope. And like the older brother in the parable of the prodigals that we considered two times ago when I was here in Luke 15. It's God who empowers you and enables you to do it I'm so flawed and sinful he had to die for me, yet I'm so loved and valued that he was glad to die for me. It's dignifying if you let it be. This is how one should regard us? What's our role? It can be a viewpoint, it can be a party, it can be a kind of economics. Don't worry about it. Paul, of course, was the one who said famously, I was the chief of sinners. Jesus says in Matthew 7:1, you can find it other places, says, judge not that you not be judged. Not even once And this is how this is linked. And Paul's actually not concerned Can you say that honestly? He wants to get us out of the judging business. For who? That's the heart of judgment. In every one of those moments, you were entirely dependent in every single one of those moments that you did something with what you were given. And of course they come across as rather judgmental because they are. And he desperately wanted it to take hold in the lives of the Corinthians because judgment. That's my friend, as we were driving to the airport last night, said. You you can pick anything you want that you hitched your wagon to. Make disciples of unbelievers by gospel preaching and teaching. Um, the next few bullet points are fairly direct How is it possible that you wouldn't do that? Thanks for making it hot. Well, is there any hope for us to be different? And in this way Perhaps even more. Nervous before other people? It's only two points. Let me And he gives us the path to walk that they might be, that they could be for us. Verse 5 of 1 Corinthians 4 is an embedded command. That's people's greatest need, not judgment. And if I don't have to judge me any longer, that opens up the opportunity that I don't have to judge you any longer. For those who were in Christ Jesus. Now, what does that do? What what do you have that you didn't receive? What's the inner mindset of a judgmental person? Why is Jesus so direct about this And if the great apostle Paul could say, I am. We're seeking the freedom to act like God does toward me. No, he knows himself that way. It's not our place and it's not the time. This is the word of the Lord. Christians are so judgmental And it's on the basis of the verdicts that we live out the Christian life. And that's why God wants to free us from it. That's what people need, not your judgment That's certainly apparent to the people around us. Sure, as stewards, verse two, we've got to be faithful and we plan to be and we want to be. You can be free. But the path runs right through humility. You'll live, I promise. He's for us. I don't. Look at verse 5. Expect an answer? So what's your role? Somebody has to hold up my high standards, so I will. We'll talk about that more next time. Well, I evidently That's the family habit. It is the Lord who judges me. I know, you don't, I will educate you. I'm not saying that you didn't do anything with them. I think we're out of batteries. Make disciples of unbelievers by gospel It's As servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Wouldn't that be marvelous? Um He changes people's hearts, but then stays. I'm the worst sinner I know. And he says, but it's it's not I'm not acquitted because I'm I'm repentant. What does it do if you have this mindset? So Heidelberg Catechism number 52 says If it's not judgment, what's your role? For those online, we apologize. What what would distinguish you? Remember, no one obeys. So how was that? I'll just send you the pulpit, okay? What should you do? Remember that? Nothing. Let's pray together. 7. In fact, you ought not.