Once again, good to be with you. We're going to start a multi-part series this morning, as Dick uh noted, on the love of God. So misunderstood, super important so that we get it right, and so we're gonna we're gonna work on this for a while. Let me read from 1 John chapter 4, and I'm going to read verses 7 through 21. And this is going to set a larger context. We're not going to cover all this today, but I want you to see all of it. Let's hear God's word. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sends his only Son into the world. So that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us. So that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love But perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen And this commandment we have from him, whoever loves God must also love his brother. Let's pray together Father, you make quite clear in this passage. The importance of us loving. Of us loving each other. That hasn't always happened here at CPC. It always hasn't always happened with me. This one gives us trouble And yet you give grace that is greater than our sin. You give, as we've read, of yourself to us. Holy Spirit, I am slow to learn these things. Perhaps many of us are. Would you work by your word this morning? Would you convince us? Would we be convincible That indeed you are love. And that's why you love. And that's what gives us hope that we can love. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're gonna uh begin. to ponder God's attribute, the attribute love, the love of God. I say begin because it is going to be a multi-part series. series, this portion of my attribute series was eight sermons long last time, which will take us a while. Okay. We're only going to get down really to verse 10 in any detail this morning. Why? There's lots of attributes and lots of things to consider. Why would we spend so long on the love of God? I've been privileged to be in Christian ministry for almost 30 years, and I have found in those years, even up to today, today, today. That this is the one that gives me the most trouble. Most of my problems lie here. And most of the people that I've pastored and ministered to over the years, this is where their problems lie too. And so we will sit here and meditate. Our problem that we have with the love of God is multifaceted. And so it's going to take us multiple sermons to look at those facets and try and uproot those things that keep us from enjoying this and ending up as loving people, which as you'll see is absolutely crucial. It's crucial that we end up as loving people. And the only way that we can end up as loving people is to understand and embrace and be awash in the love of God. That's what we're told here. The problem that I want to try and solve very simply this morning, just one problem, is the problem that goes like this. Well, sure, God is love, but Well sure, of course, preacher, God is love, but now how do you fill in the blank after the butt? What do you fill it in with? However, you choose to fill in the blank is the very way you want to caveat or condition or recast. Or think that somehow you have to balance off the love of God that flows from his being. And it's dangerous to do that. Now, of course, we need to understand that God's love is different than the world's definitions of love. God's love is certainly not uh you know as uh as common today to say, will you be you? That's perceived as being loving. God's love is certainly not that kind of love, because actually that would be profoundly unloving You've heard me say already, God loves you, he loves me enough to take us as we are when we begin that lifestyle of repentance and faith, when we Stop trying to functionally save ourselves by our sin or by our not sinning, and instead we come over and we trust in Christ alone. God, of course, takes us right where we are when we begin that lifestyle of repentance and faith. Now here's a but to believe. But He loves you too much to leave you where you are. He'll take you as you are, but he loves you too much to leave you where you are. Understand that leaving you where you are, letting you be you exactly as you are when you first come to repentance in faith, that would actually be unloving. It will be unloving to you, and it will be unloving to the people around you. Because both you and I need to be quite different than we are. And our only hope to be different. Sorry. To end up loving. The only way that we can end up loving, really loving, the people around us. is to be amazed at the love of God for me, the love of God for you It's only if we're amazed and are wash in God's love that we end up being loving people. That's what you're taught here. So let's get to it. Let's first understand how important it is to get God's love right. Understand how important it is to get God's love right Look with me at verse 7. This first word is wonderful, beloved. It's very tender. John's got some really direct things to say. To the people to whom he's writing, but he the way that he addresses them is below. And he says, Let us love one another. Now, why is this important? Why is it important? He's going to come back at the end of this. I'm not going to go through verses 11 and 12 in any detail. But notice down there that he says we ought to love one another. Why is this so important? Well, let's see if you can fill in a blank for me. This is from John 13, 35. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have. Oh come on, you can't be asleep yet. By this, all people, all people, the people around us who don't know Jesus, who desperately want a love unlike what they have ever experienced or could experience, the people around us Jesus says, by this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. That the people around us in our community, in Columbia and El Cate City, what they most need to see Is you awash in God's love in such a way that you love one another Do they need to hear the word of the gospel? Absolutely, from a profoundly loving person But love, let us love one another, for love is from God. How can it be from God? Well, because it's it's who He is. We'll see that in just a second. And whoever loves, it's a good question to ask yourself. Do I love? Whoever loves has been born of God. There's been a transformation in their life. Their heart has been changed by the Holy Spirit through hearing the gospel in the Spirit, applying the gospel to a person's heart. They've been born of God. Other places, born from above, born again. These are the similar words. Someone's come from death to life, right? Whoever loves has been born of God. There's been a change in their life, and they know God. Anyone who does not love does not know God. You can't get more stark than that. You can't get more absolute than that. Anyone who does not love does not know God Why is that? You hear me mention books. I'm going to, of course, mention a book. Michael Reeves's book, Delighting in the Trinity, is entirely worth your time and effort. And here's uh Reeves talking about um Puritson Richard Sibbs. Sibs was adamant That it is our view of God that shapes us most deeply. We become like what we worship. We become like what we worship And so if we worship a God who is love, we become loving people. If we worship a God where we caveat his love and we say, well, God is love, but Then we end up as people who others experienced as, well, he'd be loving if it wasn't for Those correlate. If you caveat God's love, you end up as an unloving person. I'm sorry, it's just that stark. Anyone who does not love does not know God. We become like what we worship. So if we worship a God who has this on crazy love, then we become people who are amazed that God would love someone like me. And so I reach out with love to people around me. But if that's not my experience, then people experience me a different way than that. There's just no other way around it. You see, if we aim to respond to the Great Commandment, right? Love God, love neighbor, if we aim to respond to the Great Commandment. Whoever our neighbor is, then we must desperately know the love of God. We must know God rightly We must love the correct God, not a false impression where we sort of remake God into some kind of carnival mirror image, right? And this, of course, is put very starkly here. This is of utmost importance. If we don't love, we don't know God. If if you or I, if if we don't love at all, what you're told here What God tells you and I through John is that if we don't love it all, we haven't been changed yet. The Holy Spirit hasn't worked the gospel message deep into our hearts. And that's worthy of considering. Do you love it all? Do you love it all in a way that an unbeliever doesn't? Do you love in a way that it's obvious that the Holy Spirit has taken up residence in your heart and you're different than you were? You're meant to consider that. I'm meant to consider that Now, if our love is it's halting, it's occasional, it's sometimes Then we need this to come home way more. And would you consider that your caveats might be hurting you? Sure, God's love, but would you consider that your caveats are hurting you? Now the good thing is that's solvable Maybe not easily solvable. That's why we're going to spend a lot of time on it. But it's certainly solvable. And the solution is to accurately understand and receive and believe and enjoy. Who God is, to receive this love as though it is true for me. Here's the way that I like to think about it. Can I roll over, wake up in the morning, roll over on my back, and begin to pray in bed And say this and believe it. I am loved by God. Can you do that? Honestly? I think it's because we have struggles in this area as God's people. This is why the Apostle Paul praises he does in Ephesians 3. 16 to 19. Here's part of what he prays. That according to the riches of his glory, he meeting God may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God See, it's not just us that struggle with this. You should take some comfort that the church in Ephesus struggled with this, and that's why Paul prayed for it. In fact, he constructs an entire letter to help them come to realize how they could love each other and ought to love each other despite their differences. That's the point of the book of Ephesians, if you didn't realize that. This is good to pray for yourself Wouldn't that be great to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge? Now, next in verse 8, the Apostle John's going to say that God's love, but I'm going to save that for last, and instead I want to jump to John's proof that God is love. How do you know God is love? We looked already at how important it is that we get this right. To get God's love right, super important. How do you know that God is love? Look at verses 9 and 10. How do you know God's love? In this. The love of God was made manifest. Do you want to see it? You want to see the love of God? I was praying as the baptism was going on because I I love the Heidelberg Catechism, the Belgian Confession, the way that they talk about baptism. And the rough language is, as surely as the water washes away dirt. The love of God is such that the blood of Jesus surely washes away my sin. You want to see, you got to see the love of God this morning. You get to see the love of God tonight if you come and celebrate the Lord's Supper with us. In this, the love of God was made to manifest. The word manifest is a wonderful Greek word. It's the same root, it's like um phantasm. It was made manifest so you could see it. You want to see God's love? Among us where we can see it? You want to see it? God sent his only son into the world. That's how you know the love of God, that God sent his only son, his only son into the world. I have three sons, you may have none of them. They are mine. I love them. I don't plan on giving them up. But God sent his only son. He only had one. And that one son he had, what I would never do, he did. He gave him up Why did God send his only son into the world? So that we might live through him, that we might, as it's put in John 5 2. 24, upon faith that we might move from death. to life that we might live through him. See, this is one of the struggles with love that we're gonna, that we'll wrestle with in future sermons. Right? Because some of us have the sense, well, but I'm unlovable, or I'm unlovely, or I've been loved poorly. Or can't you see I'm not, nobody could love me? And this is meant to give you hope. Because it's not through yourself that you live. It's not because you're lovely that you have God's love. It's not that you're lovable that you have God's love. We'll wrestle through that in just a second. But how is it that the love of God was made manifest among us? God sent his only son into the world. Why? So that we might live through him. And this is love. Verse 10. Not that we have loved God. See, you could read this in such a way that you could look at it and go, oh right, you're right, preacher, I've got to work. Boy, I gotta work harder at loving God. Just so I'm acceptable to God and you know I'm doing the right thing. I'm walking the path right. That's the dead end. I'll tell you where that path goes. It's not a great place. It'll lead you into shame and guilt that we'll look at later, because the love of God is meant to eradicate those. And fear, too. So the message here is not, you know, get at it. Start loving. Get better at loving. That's not mm-mm. In this is love. Not that we have loved God. We haven't, we can't, we won't. You can try and work up love. Good luck with that. That's not a great life. To pass the frustration Not that I personally would know that, of course, just from other people's experience. They've told me about that. And this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us. How did he love us? He sent his son. Now why did he send his son? There's a big word here at the end of verse 10. It's it's it's the P word. Let's all say it together, friends. Propitiation. If you're by I heard a I like to listen to other people's sermons. Um my sermons are unlike other people's I frequently am frustrated by other people's sermons, but I enjoy listening to them. And one preacher I listened to this week says, if the word propitiation is not in your Bible, get a different Bible. This is an exceedingly important word. There are certain words that we ought to hold dear even though we use them in no other context. If you can use the word propitiation this week. in a regular sentence with a normal person, I would be impressed This is an exceedingly important word to wrap your arms around and enjoy. God sent his only son into the world that we might live through him, and this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son. Why did he send his son? to be the propitiation for our sins. Old Anavib put it as the atoning sacrifice, which is a helpful description. What is propitiation? It is that which turns aside rightly deserved wrath. An atoning sacrifice, a propitiation for our sins. It is that which turns aside God's rightly deserved wrath towards us for our sins. God's wrath for your sins and mine was exhausted on Jesus. You see we're tempted to say Sure sure God's love but And one of the things that we're tempted to fill that blank with is something along the lines of my life is not the way that I think it should be. And so we read backwards from what we thought our life should be, or from what we should be experiencing, or where we should be, or what our relationship should be like. And we read backwards and go, well, if God was loving then, now you when you fill in that blank, you see what actually arose your sense of God's love. And what God's trying to show you is that how could I love you more? Than to give up my own son for you. That the way that I would deal with my wrath that you deserve is that I exhaust that wrath on my only son. How could I be more loving than that? I'm not trying to diminish what's painful in your life. I'm not trying to diminish. The things could be different. We live as broken people among broken people in a broken world. There's a lot that is not right. That's why we look to the life of the world to come. But one thing you should be very, very careful not to do is to take the way that you wish that life would be. And to read that as though God is not love and that he's not loving The only proof that you need that God is love and that he's loving is to look at the cross. How did God love us? He sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Sometimes people will say wrongly that God has unconditional love for people. They'll say that wrongly Why is it wrong? It's wrong because the reality is something far better and more wonderful than that. God's love is actually contra-conditional. It's contra-conditional. It's against the condition. Not that we have loved God. It's not as though we get love because we're great people or we've done something to receive it. No, in fact, we've done all the things that we shouldn't have. All the things God said to do, we said, meh. Nah, I think I'll do what I want. God says, no, don't do those things. Hmm, those look good. That's what we've done. The love that we receive is contraconditional. There's a um I've sent this to Megan, but there's uh we'll link to uh David Pollison Peace, in the description of the YouTube video, that's a great article about why God's love is better than unconditional. It's contracondal. It's against the love. This is why we need propitiation. There isn't something in us that deserves love. In fact, the opposite is the case. We don't deserve love. Now here's one of the rocks that we're going to have to pull out in future sermons. Me and maybe some of you really wish the gospel wasn't the way that it is. We wish that we didn't need grace. We wish that we got God's love because we were good enough for it. And that most of or a lot of our interior life, it's like, man, I know I'm not worthy, but I wish I was. I wish I was good enough, but I'm not. My life would be better if I was, though And the the it's an that's an acid, friends, to your soul. It's an acid to your soul. To wish for that. I understand it. I live inside of it. I am telling you, it is something that will eat you alive The gospel is better than that. The news of God's grace is better than that. But in our pride, in my pride, I can really be secretly resentful That's the terms of the gospel. In that sense, I'm I'm allergic to grace. Are you? It is not the case that we deserve love, but it is the case that we have received love. Our only hope is that God loves us not based on who we are or what we've done or not done, but on who He is and what Jesus has done. If you will, that's met condition love. Jesus met the conditions for you to receive God's love. And what we read here in 1 John is That this is the right reading of the coming of the Son of God into the world. God's Romans 5:8, God shows his love for us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This This, friends, is a very different kind of love than a person has ever offered you And there we stumble into one of our other barriers that we'll have to talk about in time. We tend to doubt God's love because we imagine it that it is like broken. many times sinful human love. But God doesn't love that way. Well, what should you believe? You should believe last, very briefly, that God is love. Look at verse 8. The second half. And who does not love does not know God? Why? Why does that fit together? Because God is love. Remember a while back we started talking thinking about God's goodness, he does good because he is good. God loves because he is love. He's not merely love, he's not only love, but he is certainly fully and all the way through love. That's what you're told here. Now how can this be? How is it that this little simple formulation, God is love, how can this be? How can you try and begin to get your mind around this? Well, one way that we're pushed towards this and towards understanding this. is by thinking about the relationship between the Father and the Son in the Trinity The Father has always been loving towards his son even before the world was made. That's what we're taught in John 17, 24. We don't have time to look at that. But you can write it down and you can look at it this afternoon. Even before the world was made, the Father had love for the Son. It's a longer and really fun conversation, but I'm going to give you a summary. In my studied sense of these things, and this is following uh Jonathan Edwards' line of thinking, God created the world not because he needed love, Not because he was lonely and he needed people to love him. God created the world so that his love could find expression and that it could be experienced. That the love, Michael Reese will help you with this too, delighting eternity, but the love that existed for the Father to the Son. that it needed to find creative expression. And thus the world. And all of you. That's how core love is to who God is. That same eternal heart of love we're told amazingly is also towards us. You might recall in Ephesians 1:4 that we are chosen in Christ. We are loved in Christ. When, friends? Before the foundation of the worlds. If you are one of God's kids, one of the wonderful things that you ought to bask in. To think about, to dwell in, to be awash in, to meditate upon. Way more than whether the warriors are going to win or not. Way more than if the Rangers are gonna win. Is that you were on God's heart when He made the world? Now that's a big thought. And you'd be tempted because it's a big thought to go Skip. Too long, didn't read. No, friends, y this is one you need to read. That before the foundation of the world, you were on God's heart. That's what his love is like. How tranquilizing for the heart, one author puts it, since God's love toward me had no beginning, it can have no ending. This is why Romans 8, 31-39, that nothing can separate us from the love of God can be true. Nothing can. It's crucial that you and I realize that God doesn't just have love that comes and goes like ours. Reeves says, love is not something the father has, merely one of his many moods. Rather, he is love. He could not not love. If he did not love, he would not love. The Father. Here's the bottom line. Do you believe what this says? Do you buy this? Or have you caveated this away so much that it it there's no power to it at all? John tells us that Jesus' coming reveals God is love. That coming we're told here, his only son in the world to be a propitiation for our sins. Jesus lived a hard but perfect life in our place. He died, he rose, he ascended, and now he prays for us. And what Paul prayed in Ephesians, I wonder I wonder. If Jesus prays that for you and for me, do you want to be convinced of this more I do. And like I said, you can come tonight and you can taste and see that the Lord is good and loving. For that's the message that will be on the Lord's table tonight. For now, though, let's pray that just this one truth would take root in our hearts Father, it's a very simple truth. But this truth that you are love, that you've always had love, that you couldn't not love, that you couldn't not love me because of Jesus. You know very well that sometimes this doesn't strike me at all And thus, for my friends here, maybe it doesn't strike them at all either, that we're not amazed by this and blown away by it. And changed by it. That we're not awash it. But I want to be And I pray for my friends that they would want to know the strength and the length and the height and the depth Of your love. Help us to, Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.