It's great to be back with you. We uh do get this great privilege um to continue to meditate and to think through the love of God and for us to Try and ask the Lord to remove the barriers that we have to believing that He is love and so that He loves us and so that we live awash in His love. Let me read this text that will be in several times from 1 John chapter 4 and verses 7 through 21. Let's hear God's word. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we have loved God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is Law perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him whoever loves God must also love his brother. This is the word of the Lord. Let's go to our God with our thanks for his word. Father, this is a good word. It's an encouraging word. If we have the ears to hear it, the heart to believe it, and the dependence. To rely on you, Holy Spirit, that we might live in light of it. Would you give us that dependence? Would you convince us that there is great goodness here? A wonder A way of thinking and being and living for our own sanity For the good of this body, and for the sake of the witness of the gospel in the world through us. Work in us, Holy Spirit, this word that you've given. Help us to rejoice, Father, in the giving of your Son. Might we treasure you, Jesus. We pray in your name. Amen. Why, let me remind you, why will we spend several sermons on this aspect of God's love? Remember, God's attributes sit in relationship with each other. It's not as though the wrath of God is over here and the goodness of God is over here and the love of God is over here. But they are in all and through all. It's a loving goodness. It's a wrathful love. We'll get there, I promise. That might be hard to grasp right now. But they're shot through each other, right? Why spend so much time on the love of God? We are called to respond to God's love with love. Right? So we're called to love God, to love neighbor, and in this passage in particular, to love those neighbors that are closest to us in the body of Christ. to love one another. We don't do these things because we don't feel God's love. It's not more complex than that. I think we want to make it more complex than that, but it's not more complex than that. We love because he first loved us. It's no more complex than that. Many of you have advanced degrees, you're physicists, you're mathematicians, you're engineers, or whatever. This is an uncomplex formula. Some of you know that I'm privileged to stay in the downstairs apartment of the plants is. And um I've wondered how to pluralize that. Maybe you can help me with the rule. Plants? Plants? Planti. Well, in the bedroom where I'm privileged to stay are some of um Ken's old books. And so I occasionally let my eye go to the spines of books that I'm really, really glad that I did not have to read. Non-Euclidean algebra was the one my eye fell on last night. I was like, I'm not even sure what those words mean. But I'm positive that the formulas in that book are more complex than I want them to be. This is not complex. It is simple, but it is challenging Because a simple truth impinges on hearts that feel very complex. The truth isn't complex. But the hearts that the truth seeks to sink into are very much that way. I call these barriers to sensing God's love. We don't do these things. Love God, love neighbor, love one another Because we don't feel God's love. And without feeling God's love, we don't have a reservoir of love to draw on. The boat that's in the lobby. I sniffed a picture of yesterday as it was getting set up for VBS because it is an exact duplicate of a boat that I grew up um going fishing with with or going fishing with my dad um to a particular place we used to take that boat That was a large reservoir in upstate New York that was for drinking water. The reservoir that is God's love is not like Lake Mead. Perhaps you've read about the diminishing levels of Lake Mead and how it it I prayed this morning for rain. For the West, where I live. Because Lake Mead is dropping precipitously to the point where there may not be drinking water for the southwest. God's love is not like that kind of reservoir. It is an unceasing, overflowing reservoir But is it that way in our hearts? When we don't feel God's love, we don't have a reservoir of love in our hearts to draw on. Very simply put, if I don't know and feel God's love, I will not end up as a loving person. And being a loving person is what those around you, whether they currently follow Christ or not, that's what they most need from you. So my question for you is, is this an issue for you? Loving other people? Responding with love, that responding with love is your knee-jerk reaction when you see people struggling and in need. Do you want to grow in this? Last week, PD very Helpfully spoke on John five. And you might remember if you've heard that sermon if you haven't, you should go online and see it and see it or listen to it. There in John 5, Jesus comes upon an invalid, and he asks him this very, very interesting question The i it's it's an odd question too, because it's kind of like the guy's been lame for for thirty-eight years, he's sitting by the pool, and why is he sitting by the pool? Because well it's Hoping he might get healed, but there's something else going on that Jesus wants to pull out of his heart. So he asks it, do you want to be healed? And that same question confronts you from the Lord as it relates to love. Do you want to be healed? Now perhaps you say to yourself, well, other people, they might be able to know and to feel that God loves them, but but not me. I'll never feel the love of God because and then we we fill in that blank and we find a way. To put ourselves in the place where that's never true for us. That it never comes home. And it never changes us. And that we don't have love to give away. Do you want to be healed? Now, this raises its own question. What's bigger in your mind and your heart? Is the barrier that you feel to God's love, is that bigger, or is God's love bigger? Which is bigger? Is God bigger or is the barrier bigger? My hope in the series of sermons is to help you examine your barriers to knowing God's love that you might be healed, that you might daily be able to say with certainty. God is bigger. He is love. And I believe that he loves me forever because of Jesus Now for that to be possible, some of you may still need to be convinced of what we looked at three weeks ago, which is just the straight Frank truth from this passage that God is love. So let me review that briefly, and then we will move on to one big barrier today. So the first thing Your outline if you're a note taker is to believe that God is love. I'm just going to give you the three points from the last sermon and a couple of quotes. We looked at first how you have to understand how important it is to get God's love right. We looked at that from verses 7 and 8, and you might remember this quote. From um this is from Michael Reeves' book. The Puritan Sibbs was adamant that it is our view of God that shapes us most deeply. We become like what we worship. So if you worship a God who is love, you're shaped by that But if you fill in the blank with something other or you caveat away God's love, then you're shaped by that as well. This is why it's so important to get God's love right. We become like what we worship. Well, how do you know God is love? Well, you look at verses 9 through 12. The love of God is made manifest among us. Well, how do we see that? God sent manifest as this beautiful like um we get phantasm from it, right? It's manifested that God sent his only son into the world why so that we can live. We can live because Jesus has been the propitiation for our sins. One author puts it, the love of God was the impulsive power of Christ's incarnation. Remember, we talked a little bit about the idea of unconditional love and my dislike for that particular term. Not because I don't think that God's love's marvelous and wonderful, but because it's actually better than that. God's love, you'll remember, is contra-conditional. It's that we that we haven't merited it, but he still loves us. Or we could say in Christ it is met conditional. Christ met the conditions. in order for us to be loved. We'll wrestle more with that a little bit later. And uh of course there is the piece by David Pollison that's linked in the description of the YouTube video from June the 5th. And so where we tried to land that Sunday, two, three Sundays ago was to believe that God is love. This very straightforward statement from verse 8, God is love, and we'll see it repeated on verses 13 and 16. At the core of God, shot through all of his other attributes, is love. We see that that love Towards where does it come from? Where did it find fruition and expression even before the world was made? We learn from John 17, 24, that the Father loved his son before the world, before anything else was Love is that core to who God is. Even following the line of Jonathan Edwards that that's why creation is. That's why you are. It's why I am. Because God wanted to express His love. That same eternal heart of love that the Father has for the Son is also towards us, we thought about from Ephesians 1, right? That we're loved in Christ before the foundation. of the world. Michael Reeves reminds us, love is not something the Father has, merely one of his many moods. Rather, he is love. He could not not love. If he did not love, he would not be father. Okay, so that's the review. The question that we want to wrestle with some today and keep wrestling with is, do you believe this? Do you buy it? Is it changing you? And to that end, let's start to understand and seek God's help to remove your love barriers. Let me show you verses 13 to 16, kind of where I'm headed Look at me at verse 13. By this, well, by what? Well we'll get there. We know that we abide in him and he in us. Because he, the Father, has given us of his spirit. One of the things that I've started to do in preparation for these sermons at our weekly staff meeting. is asking the staff, because they know you a lot better than I do, um, what do you what do you think would be most helpful for a CPC? What do you what do you think is there that would be helpful for me to to put my finger on and and to um Help the congregation think through. And one of the things that was said this week by a staff member was: I don't think we know much about this. That he has given us of his spirit. This is a way of talking about, in John's language, about this wonderful, glorious mystery that the Holy Spirit comes in under the preaching of the gospel and changes people's hearts. So that what was, the scriptures would say, what was a heart of stone becomes a heart of flesh, a heart that was uninterested in God, unaware of sin, not turning to Christ, not turning from sin, suddenly becomes interested. That heart becomes interested in Christ. Begins a lifestyle of repentance and faith, trusting in Christ and turning from self-salvation and from sin. And that the Holy Spirit does this wonderful work in people's hearts under the preaching of the gospel. And then he stays. So it's not like a builder that you get who comes in and got your house and renovates it and then he's on to something else. That's not the way the Holy Spirit is. O Spirit comes and changes and stays and keeps changing us. By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us because He has given us of His Spirit. And we, verse 14, the apostolic witness here, we have seen So this is something unique to John, right? He was an apostle. He saw the life and death and resurrection and ascension of Jesus. We have seen and so we testify that the Father has sent his son earlier up. We Saw in verse 9 that God sent his only son into the world. That's how we know that God is love. He does that loving act. And he sends his son into the world to be the savior of the world, of people, even of place. We uh in the Creed, sometime in the evening service, we'll do the Nicene Creed. I love the way the Nicene Creed speaks in the ends. About that, we confess that we look to the life of the world to come. And I encourage you, as I have, I think before, don't lie. Don't lie when you say the creed. Instead, actually do look to the life of the world to come. Because that life is when you see it described in the scriptures, because Jesus is the Savior of the world Is what he does in individual human hearts now, he will do to everything. The same word is used. We use this fancy word in theology that we call regeneration. Here, say it with me. Regeneration. Right? That's what God does in individual human hearts. It's the same word, though, that he says about everything. That everything will be regenerated. In the new heavens, the new earth. He's the savior of the world. Whoever confesses, verse 15 That Jesus is the Son of God. Not just like, oh, Jesus is the Son of God. No, not like that. Like all of the depth and wonder that goes with that. Someone can say that from a true heart. God abides in him. Think of John 15 there. The vine and the branches. God abides in him, and he and God. Verse 16. So we have there's two things here, and they're both critical. We have come to know the knowledge and experiential knowledge. And to believe. No? Believe. The love that God has for us. I repeat, God is love from verse 8. And whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. So in this passage, I think one of the challenging things that pushes on us is that we are forced to ask ourselves. Am I a loving person? Do I actually love one another in the body? That's the particular focus of this passage But God's calling on us to love is throughout the scriptures. Well, it's right there in the Great Commandment. And so we're we're meant to to ask ourselves and says to ask, does God abide in me? Do I abide in God? Is this heart as this heart transformation happens for me So we have come to know verse 16 and to believe. So these are the two things that are needed. To know that God is love and that he has love for me And to believe the love God has for us, for you, for me And so you're pushed to ask, do I? Do I know it? Do I believe it? Now, we're camping on this because many people don't. And their lives show forth that they actually don't. Well, why don't people know and believe the love that God has for them? They have barriers. The way I like to analogise this is and this is sometimes my experience where I'll look through a sliding glass door I have in my uh my office at home. Um is uh isn't in our bedroom, which is a quite large upstairs bedroom and family-sized log cabin. Yes, it's picturesque and wonderful And so my desk sits, and right behind my monitor is actually a wall, but to my right is a big double window, and to my left is a full-size glass door. And so I look out on the wonder of God's creation as I sit at my desk. But sometimes the love of God can be like standing at my glass door. Which I frequently do when I'm on phone calls and I'm talking to people and I'm watching the birds and the water and and what's going on. And it can feel like the love of God is out there. And I'm in here. And there's this impenetrable pane of glass between me and it I can see it. I can see other people enjoying it. But I can't get there. And so we have these barriers. That make us feel distant from the love of God, even cut off from it. And so these sermons are really trying to understand and take down those barriers. Let me entice you. Into why you want to ask Holy Spirit to take down your barriers. God, God's love is is like uh just the right temperature waterfall for you to step towards and into to soak and enjoy. And that's what he invites us into. And yet sometimes we don't take him up on it. Why? Assuming you want to be healed, let's begin today with an incredibly common barrier to God's love that many people struggle with. And the title that I have in my notes is Disgruntled. That some people have a barrier to God's love because they're actually disgruntled. Here's what I mean. I don't like the terms of this love that comes by sheer grace. I would rather it be based on my character or my performance. It's insulting, it's degrading, and I refuse to enjoy it if it comes like this. Now, I've said that with a quite rebellious tone on purpose, because that's really the human heart rebelling. Against God and his offer of love that comes to us by grace. The most honest form of this is the person who says, I want to deserve love. And I won't take it any other way. And so if you're going to tell me, preacher, that, you know, this is This love from God comes by sheer grace. It's not by what I do. It's not by who I am. I haven't measured up. I haven't performed. But I still get it. But because it's but it's because of Christ and by grace. Sorry. Not interested. The love that God offers to us is based on Christ meeting the conditions for us to be loved. And some of us, if we're honest, we just refuse that out of hand. We don't like the terms. So here's the question. Is your love barrier actually a dislike? Of the gospel of grace. A practical refusal of the propitiation of Jesus. A kind of rebuke of God for sending his son to be the Savior. And for giving us his spirit. Is practically speaking your barrier. Yeah, just not down with grace. I'd rather it not be that way. I don't like those terms. My niece, uh Cassidy, uh, was born the day before I met my wife. It was, I like to say, a very good weekend in our family. As the toddler as young married, we babysat Cassidy and her older sister Dalen. And Cassny was rather famous for saying when you would offer her help as a toddler, she would often say, by self. By stuff. And toddlers can do that. And I hope you realize that adults can do that. And not just men not wanting help with directions. Not just that. This also shows up in the hearts of adults who are allergic to grace, who refuse to rejoice in grace. And in so doing, they cut themselves off. They can't feel the wonder and goodness of God's love because they don't like the terms. They're disgruntled that God's love comes on the terms of grace and not on the basis of personal merit or worthiness. If at the outset you're insulted by this kind of love from God, love flowing from the core of who He is That is also not because you were somehow worthy. You're gonna have a really hard time with this See, the gospel that the world speaks to you is the very best thing that could ever happen to you is for you to receive the verdict from other people and from yourself. I'm worth it. I did it. If you're wanting to be somehow worthy of it, you'll never feel it Some of us just don't want love on these terms. It's too degrading. Feels like pity. And we don't want to be pitiable, but strong and competent and worthy. But the gospel says, Romans 5:8, God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. So here's the question. Are you still fighting God about the terms of the gospel? And is this your barrier to sensing his love? A little further on, Romans 6. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. It's a free gift. But must be received as such and without caveats Over and over, we're told that Christ didn't come for the healthy but the sick. He came for the spiritually dead. But if in the background of your mind and your heart You're sort of upset that God's never going to say to you, you're okay in yourself. You're worthy. You're never going to enjoy his love. Because you don't want his love on pity terms. Could I encourage you to stop hoping for a pronouncement that will never come? Now it was a pronouncement that was made. It was said of Jesus. This is my son, in whom I am pleased. And when we come, turning from sin and trusting in Christ That pronouncement is yours in him. The pronouncement that's set over you is, this is my beloved adopted son, my beloved adopted daughter. Through Christ, I am forever pleased with you. And when you stop rebelling against the very concept of grace, you can begin to enjoy God's love for you. So that's the first barrier. Being disgruntled that this love comes to us based on grace And so the call that we have here, briefly from verse 16, is to believe the love that God has for you. How do you begin to feel God's love as you tear down this barrier or others? What I would say is pray to Holy Spirit to be healed. Pray to Holy Spirit to be healed. Verse 13, because he has given us of a spirit. This is how we know. This is part of what it means to be loved by God. God abides in us by the Spirit. Now this healing is what you might call spiritual healing. This isn't like your body, where God may or may not uh heal it in this life. I have a knee, I think I told you that my left knee is um occasionally bone on bone And when it's occasionally bon on bowed, I occasionally go, ow, and hope other things don't come out of my lap Because it's painful. And so the good news in this life for me is knee replacements in my future if I want to stay athletic. I can pray, I probably should probably pray more, that the Lord would heal my knee. I don't have a huge amount of confidence, given the degree of stupidity that I have exercised in my life, that the Lord is interested in that. Your heart is not like that. The healing to receive in your heart is not like that. God may or may not heal my knee. But it appears, except if I make use of some technology, that it will not be until the life of the world to come. But Jesus came that your heart could be healed in this life. How? Meditate. Meditate on God's love Use it. So I use this. I don't know if I've done this here. I use I say meditate and people are just like, no, not the Eastern clear your mind. I want you to fill your mind with something different than you typically do. When I talk to people about meditating, they're kind of like, oh, that old thing that people used to do. Yeah, I don't do that Yeah you do. Everybody does. You have to. You couldn't not Your mind rests on things. You direct your mind to rest on things. You turn things over and over in your mind. All of us do. It just matters whether it's good things. Remember the direction in Philippians? Set your mind on things above, further on, right. Whatever's true and noble and lovely and praiseworthy All of us meditate. All of you meditate. So don't give yourself the excuse. Oh, I couldn't do that. No, you do. Every day, actually. It's just on what Do you meditate? Meditate on God's love. Ask indwelling Holy Spirit to convince you that you would experientially know and believe the love God has for you. Here's what one author says. The better we are acquainted with his love, its character, its fullness, its blessedness, the more will our hearts be drawn out in love toward him. And what can you meditate? God's encouragement to know and believe the love he has for you is wrapped up in the gospel of grace that is shot through this longer passage. The proof God is love and thus has love for sinners like you and me, right? That's what verse 14 talks about. That God, the Father, has sent his son to be the Savior of the worlds. The proof of God's love is that he sent his only son as a propitiation. Anybody use it in a sentence in a regular conversation? He's he sent his son as a propitiation, a sacrifice to turn away wrath. That the Father's heart of love for you and me is wrapped up in this wonderful mystery that though we didn't have to. He chose to send his only son into the world. Do you know that nothing can strange, no one Constrained the Father to send the Son. No outside force, no outside person. It flowed from inside of him that it's what he wanted to do. Was the Father to send his only son? And in the Council of Heaven, the Father said, It's a lost world, it's a messed up people. How are we going to solve this? And Jesus raised his hand. And he said, I'll go. Meditate on that. The wonder of Holy Spirit's love is that He patiently indwells us. And waits for us to ask, heal me, convince me, enable me to know and believe the love God has for me that I might be a loving person. Won't you believe the love God has for you? Let's pray. Father, you've given ample evidence to us that you are love We can see it because of how much you've done that is loving. Especially in the sending of your son. Jesus, thank you that you uh were willing That you most willingly came as mediator To do that which we could never do, that the verdict would come, but it would come through you, through your living and dying and rising, ascending for us. And thank you that you pray for us, Jesus. How we need that. Holy Spirit. I know I am dull. That I want to feel these things more, of which I've spoken of what you've said. And I pray that here for these friends, that they would want that too. That when you pose the question to us, do you want to be healed? That we would say yes And we would say it by prayer, by dependence, by meditation on your gospel of grace. Help us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen