To see Jesus as the Savior of my life when I was maybe eighty-nine years old. But it hasn't been until a couple years ago that I actually accepted him as the Lord of my life. Listen to this testimony by Stephanie Watson. He says, even though I knew Christ was my savior for a long time, I found myself unhappy and unsatisfied. And I knew I wasn't living an abundant life. The more I cried, the more I felt. I was totally incapable of doing God's gifts. After much struggling I realized that I had not really yielded to him as my man I still claimed the ownership. So I dedicated my whole life to him to be hard to describe the transformation that took place as a result of it. Or have you ever heard a message in which the speaker says, Now for those of you who have never received Jesus as a as your Savior, I urge you to come to Christ. And then after you sometimes say But now there are some of you who have received him as the Savior of your life, but you've never taken taken him as Lord of your life And so now I speak to you to take Jesus not only as Savior, but also as Lord as you like. That's the message you see a little booklet like this, that has been very widely circulated in Christianity. The booklet that says, Have you made the wonderful discovery of the pure fear of life? And a booklet like this, which is very popular, told that there are three kinds of people But first of all there is the natural man, the man who is without hope in God, who does not know Christ. Esse family then there is the pure format, the Christians, which will fly under the control of the Lord people's rights and bearing fruits and power to the result of us But then there's a third kind of person, and that person is called the carnal man. This is a person who has Christ as Savior, but not as Lord of his life. And because of that, this person is not living at all like Christ. So it's none of the fruit of this spirit, and there's no power in his life to live for Christ. In fact, this person lives like a non-first. We see these things all have in common. A basic view of Christianity which says that there is a layer which we can say is the gospel. The gospel has to do with salvation. Now picture that. Here's a layer of the gospel dealing with salvation. Then there's a slab above that. And you build on that a second story. And that second story says, Lordship, that yields with service So that you have the gospel that deals with salvation, but then the Lord Jesus Christ deals with service as a person. Now that's an absolute false deal with after. You see, what I want to demonstrate for you, in these left students, is if my own part of that, the most of the stuff, is the very part of the back This is the very heart of the doctor. And you can never make such a distinction. Take a look at your bulletin to see how I'm going to be developing this. You see there the top half of the bullet reveals with the views that we're going to be concerned. First of all, the thesis of the views on the Lordship of Christ is simply this that it is impossible to have Christ as your Savior and to receive him as your Lord Now I'm not saying that it is impossible to be a person and not have an abode of every area of your life It's not a question of that at all. None of us have it as the Lord of every area of our lives. Some of us even became Christians without realizing the Lordship itself. Rather, what I am saying is that when God brings this to your attention, when the Lordship of Christ becomes an issue to you, it is impossible to have Christ and to receive Him. Basically, in your basic orientation of life, as the Lord of your life. If he's not your Lord, he's not your faith Now secondly, the purpose of stuff concerning this week. Why am I going to deceive? Why am I going to take four weeks to spend on a topic when there are so many other things we could discover? So these are the four purposes I hope you're confident. Number one, to awaken you with a false experience of salvation. Maybe there are some of you here who say, yes, I I believe in that. And uh I've accepted Christ. Uh I don't have any problems with that But he's not the Lord of your life. He doesn't determine your value system. He's not the controlling thought when you make decisions as to whether it will please him or not. In fact, you take very little thought of him in revealing affairs at all. And if you have no concern for Christ's rule of your life, then you're not a Christian. Now I'm going to keep the project so that it's something that we don't have to worry about whether in fact that's what the Bible is saying or whether that's what I say. That is demonstrable clearly from Egypt. And I'm long for you pure imagination to realize the need of the presence And to come to us, to find your rest and peace and the salvation that He offers, only on the basis of His sacrifice. To find your salvation and your rest in peace. the peace of God in Christ. The second purpose is for those of you, most of you, who have subjected, to help you to awaken such strange views. And most of us here have several bodies, that Jesus is our Savior and our Lord, that He rules our lives. But we also have friends and family Do have at one time or another moved with reason or price, it hasn't had any real effect in the way that they live And many of the circumstances for these people that we might very dear. And I hope that this brief will help you to know how to deal with a person who's in that resistance. I hope that you'll be able to use this little seat. Simply being a bulletin, the one that you have to turn five ways in order to make sense out of it. This little sheet on the Lord Cip of Science We should be able to use this as a tool in a person's life to help them to understand the Lordship of Christ as part of the doctrine so that they can really come to know the Lord Jesus. and enter into the life that we have to give to us. Then thirdly, my third purpose is that all of us will deal with areas of our lives where we're resisting the blows. Because it says no one of us is perfect in following Jesus as Lord. I still know that I'm not. And I know that God is continually raising up new areas in my life And he's telling me that I wasn't even aware of before that I had to submit it that to his voice. And he's very graceful and patiently gradually revealed to me one and two and three to five Every once in a while we may become overwhelmed with pen, but we need to work them out. We need to arrange our pioneers and say, God, what if we used to see what we would do with them? What positive resistance in my life is holding out against the claim of your Lordship on us? And it was nearly that. We could be able to pick one or two and so on over the priority matter in the next couple weeks. And that you will see real progress as you as far as the principles of glory in your own life and following Jesus, with feeling his power You see what we changed me about age. And then fourthly, my fourth purpose in this is to encourage the inner sufficiency of the goal You see, this is just a heavy, but it's also a height. The point is Jesus is Lord, he is that whatever his Lord should command you to do His statistics enables you to do. But what he calls you for. Because you just is described not as a dopher, but as a You know the difference between a go-head and a shepherd? A boathead puts the herd of them and drives them before him. A shepherd leaves the seat by going before him. But our Savior is a shepherd who goes before us as our Lord, who doesn't drive us before Him with simple commands. And we want to appeal to sufficiency as lawyers. We're not going to accomplish the things that you're fine as to this. Now what's the means I hope to use to accomplish these purposes? Well, the means is to build on one simple verse, even a part of a verse, Acts 21631. You see, what I want to do is I want to demonstrate that the Lord Jesus Christ is at the very heart of the most basic statement of the gospel. And the most basic statement of the gospel I know in the whole New Testament is At sixteen thirty one, where the other came to Paul and said, What do I do to be saved? And Paul simply said, Believe on the Lord's Jesus and you'll be saved. Now I don't know of a simplest statement of the gospel getting down to the verb angle than that. Believe on the Lord Jesus and you'll be saved. If they take a look at that wordship piece that you have here with all these verses, what I'm seeking to do, what I'm going to do in these next four weeks, is to take this one verse, out 1631, and I'm going to take a look at three words for the The three words believe, Lord, and faith. And I want to tell you that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the very warp and the root of these words that they used in the New Testament. I want to demonstrate to you there, and every channel of a doubt that beliefs involve their dealers. That's the nature of our faith But Jesus intrinsically is Lord. That's the object of our faith. And then finally that salvation is essentially from disobedience. not simply the guilt of disobedience, but from the disobedience of God. And that is the result or the purpose of our faith Now notice that there are seven texts from the Bible under each of these texts. Seven texts under belief involved to be used, seven under Jesus is Lord, and seven under salvation is son with the Jesus. If you'd like, you may find it profitable if you're wondering what to do in terms of daily Bible reading. Because one of these passages we've said for the next three weeks will have two times And to go through and examine yourself the word of God to see if in self-that's what it says. Don't take my word for it. Take a look at the 15 yourself And see if that's what helps. It may help you also in using it in the lives of others, if this is an issue that you've already settled in your own life. But I want to say you can do passages The future that I'm proposing. Now the fourth week, after we're going through those three words, I want to deal with the specific issue of the final person Carnal system confusion. I don't want to tap it right at the street. I want to go right to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, where Paul speaks to the Christian system as being carnal system. When I take a look at what that passage is saying. And let's take a look at the statements in your face so as by fire if we have no fruit. And see what that means. And by doing that, I hope to demonstrate to you that the voice of the sun is a very hard to get out. Fourthly, you see the the basic question. And what is the basic question? Well, you see the basic question is simply look who lines you like. That's what all of this is about. A very practical, basic question Who runs your life? The answer to that question is the answer to what you're hoping with Now again, I'm not saying that uh this is consistently throughout my whole life, I'm talking about a basic orientation This question is more important than what you're going to do this afternoon, what you're going to do this week, whatever you're planning, it's more important than your mind, it's more important than your retirement that you're preparing for, because it's a question of eternal significance. There's no more important questions. Then who runs your life? Because the answer to that question turn to do your question with that is Well now then having said this by way of orientation, I want to briefly take a look at this first test. The belief involves obedience. And I want to demonstrate these down over there. Is that true in the New Testament I want to do that by telling two things, you see them bear on the bulletin. The first thing that the definition of belief necessitates or beliefs It's the very necessity of believe necessity to read it. It's the very nature of the New Testament words, to believe or to properly thought Because this word does not refer simply to mental effects, to circumstance. The word is not the kind of word that you would use to say, I believe that that elevator can take me to the fifth floor. Rather, it refers to a whole commitment, a reliance, a trust upon the object of the truth. The new Catholic word believe on with two words, believe on or believe unto or believe in is a phrase which refers to that wholesale commitment to which we illustrated rather by getting into the elevators And until I've gotten into the elevator, I haven't believed in it or on it. When I get into that elevator and push the button and it takes me to the fifth floor, then I've believed that. That's a reliance. It's a commitment of myself. Take a look at John 2, 24, to see an example of this. In John chapter 2, verse 24, we read about Jesus having faith. Now what does he say then? Well in John two twenty-four we read the Jesus on his part was not entrusting himself to them, to these people who said they believed in him, because he knew it was in their hearts. So that's what it's talking about. That word entrusting himself to them is the same word used in the rest of the New Testament to believe or in Christ. It's to entrust yourself to someone. Now, since when we trust Christ with salvation, we are entrusting ourselves to him. We're taking limited place We're taking in his word to be all that he claims to be. I think that the very heart of the claim of Jesus Christ is his claim upon our lives So you see it is an anomaly of contradiction for us to say that we can believe violence without entrusting ourselves to them, which involves obeying Following him as our Lord and our Master. Without this idea of our demons related to our belief in Christ. These two words are so closely related in the New Testament that oftentimes they are used independently. Did you ever notice that? The new character involves these characters so closely together with the word believe and obey are all And what we have on that sheet is seven examples of precisely that. We're going to take a look very briefly at only four of these examples right now. The first one is John three thirty six. Right next to the John two to be just looked at. Take a look at this. Notice in John three thirty-six We read in verse 35 that the Father loves his son and has given all things into his hands. Then verse 36, he who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not believe in the sun does not have eternal life, that's good, that's good. He who believes in the sun has eternal life, he who does not believe in the sun does not have But what if the word that God uses there? He says he who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son shall not be like what the wrath of God abides us. Thanks for John could a different reason we use the word believe. He does it's not believed. But he substitutes another word that in his mind is so closely related to it. So he can use an interference. He said he who does not understand shall not see us. Well you see, but the issue that God's talking about here is not how many climates you and I are going to have in our background in heaven He's talking not about how many crowns we can array on our coffee stuff. He's talking about the most basic we see of all. Heaven or hell The issue is whether the wrath of God abides upon you or whether you have life in Jesus. And that's determined by whether or not you obey Him Substituted Eden by that also by saying whether or not you believe in him. Suppression people about him. Take a look at Eden chapter 5 for the second of that. Hebrews chapter 5. We read about Jesus' obedience. And in Hebrews 5, in verse 8, we read that all those Jesus was a son. He learned the Libra from the things which he proposed. And having been made perfect, he began to all those who believe on him, the author of eternal salvation. But obviously true. But the author of Hebrews substitutes once again. This word obey To become to all those who obey Him, the source of eternal salvation. Now you see again. This passage is not talking about secret things. It's not talking about those who are into the deeper life, who have really found the secret of Christian mics. It's talking about every Christian. talking about salvation in its most basic and rudimentary honest. He who obeys the faith and he's going to be salvation. Take a look at the same example, Matthew chapter 7. In Matthew 7, these are two three examples of the same exact faith. In the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus was talking about what it meant to follow him. Again, beginning in verse 15. Hear the word of God, not my word now. As Jesus speaks there. He says that in the first example, verses fifteen to nineteen, beware of the false prophets, those who are professing these. Who come to you and keep clothing, but inwardly are ravenous walls. How are you going to know them? You will know them by their truth. Therefore, God is controlled with us, no sin is compared. So every truth there every good truth bears good truth. But the rotten fruit is rotten fruit. A good fruit cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a rotten fruit produce good fruit. Everything that does not serve good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then you remember an observable difference by their light, by their feet. Now I've often said that God has not called us to be judges of people's lives, but he has called us to be doing something. And this is what Jesus is talking about here So we can see the effects of Jesus' work in a purpose by the fruits that they bear in their life. The second example, verses 21 to 23 Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he doesn't. He says, But he who dies the will of my father who is in heaven. What he says in verse 22, not a few years, not a further Or scattering of those who somehow lift the message. Not a few liberals who don't believe in the secret. But he says here, Money will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, give it to me. And in your name did we cross our dream and perform many wonderful works. And I will declare to them I never leave Impulsiven means impact volumes. And these multiple involves And then third of them, verses twenty-four to twenty-seven. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts upon them Maybe compare it to a wise man who built his house upon the rock. Could you honor this story? The wise man built his half upon the rock, and the rain descended, and the flood came. And the wind blew and burst against the house and yet it didn't fall because it had been founded upon the rock. And everyone who hears the words of mind and does not ask apart What's the distinction in verse 24 and 26? The only distinction between two that Jesus mentioned is just the first hears his words and acts upon it, the second hears his words, and he doesn't act upon it. He doesn't even. He's not obedient. And this one is a foolish man who was out on the sand and the rain descended and the floods came and the wind blew. And burst against that happiness. Well you notice these two houses look exactly the same. It's nothing different describing about what the houses look like. And in this room we all come and we're nice together and we can all sing the rooms and we can all play together. We all look pretty similar But then the story tells the desire to get our lives and that we are the foundation. It's going to reveal the foundation in your life and in my life. It may be in this life. It may be something that's that's ahead of us. But only things will do when a lot of easy place is What does it even realize in my life I don't know? But it will reveal in fact whether we take Christ, not only a seven fall morning when we can come together and can see why they appear. These are maybe even it. What's the thing is that Jones we're talking about and Jones talking too In James chapter 2, we have the last example that we're looking at at night, where James talks about this question of faith and work The words are often misunderstood at this point as as providing a concept, some sort of a life, an unreconcilable alternatives to two things. Simple rusty news. But you see it is only our evangelical distortion of what two things is, that it's given to us so many problems with what Ben's talking about. Because Jesus says that in verse 17 and 18, even so, a faith which has no words is dead, meaning by itself. But someone may well say you have faith and I have worked. Tell me your faith without your work. I'll tell you my faith some of it. So then it's twenty six. Just as the body without the spirit is just. Without the faith without works It's dead. The word dead there means blue, empty, useless. Read that whole copy. This is an example of the thing useless. But the point is simply this. We are saved by faith alone. No one ever enters in to the least degree to our salvation. I must make sure that it's perfectly clear so that I'm not misunderstood. Work under no way. We're going to merit in gaining acceptance before God as far as It is through the righteousness of Christ alone. And there is nothing I can add to that. We are saved by faith alone. That a faith which is away with that affairs. A thing which is away unadorned, undemonstrated by a saint life is in fact a curious faith. It's not a New Testament faith. That's all the change of things There are two cases demonstrated by the outworking of the righteousness of Christ in the person's life, inevitably by the Holy Spirit. You think we need personally talked about our relationship with Christ along the lines of a marriage? It says that we become united to you by faith, analogous to the marriage relationship. Now, this is true The wedding is over. The concetti is in flow. The tape is in cut. The present's open. And our time and his bride will alone at night. At the far point away from the curb, the bride rebounds to the far side of the seat and far away from the new hosting seat. Calm take your home. Oh, we haven't signed our home anymore. Are you home that we ready for seven? No, no, I don't want to go to that house for building this. At least not yet not for a long time. Take me back to my flat. Probably the flag and there could be no doubt about it. But please, I want to go back to my old apartment Now that we're married, I'll try to see you about once a week and as far as women review is concerned, although nothing works. I'm I'm going back to my old occupations. My old friends, my old past times. Well yes, of course I love you. I've accepted you with my husband, haven't I? I belong to you forever. But I refuse to let you interview with my life. I'm going to make it to you with myself Well, of course if I'm sick or if I need any money, I'll call for you at once because after all I've accepted you as my husband. In the meantime, thank you for loving me. Thank you for asking me to be married. Thank you for being my husband. But keep your hands off my left. I don't know if that's maybe you know something like that. And what is it what we do to the gospel when we say that we can trust Jesus as Savior? And yet that it's possible to live as a Christian with his hands off our life The intellect means nothing except the doctrine. So finally consider the application to this thought. The first thing Have I to ruin on belief without regard to believe? Why need to come to cross life as being personally preventing? Well maybe you've already had a knowledge of God. A knowledge that's been confined to your head, an understanding of God to think. But in fact, have we ever worked into your life when you entrust your doctorance and the only help of fathers? And that means that your life becomes his. But you know our will be if you don't have a control to look with Jesus Christ does, to serve him, to please him, then you can continue upon a false thing. of belief. And I urge you to learn anything that you have about today. Don't let another day go by. Without talking to another Christian, without just getting along with God and your Bible. And totally the Christians are trusted in Christ and we presented in any time. And your only hope is from what he has got. The sort of differences. What are the implications of it when you're in time daily in the world? You cannot say that you're suffering from it, if you're not a day You cannot say that you're obeying Christ if you're not reading his word to find out what his will is to you for them. And so you see that very time in the Whereby I get the noise. I find out what it all should mean. It's in principle related to trusting this. It's my favorite. It's the most inevitable artwork of my doctor's day. Promoted, exactly that one exactly So that my day will go all right. But simply require to believe in him to see the pleasure in the day. And final thirdness, it's the shipment, the final authority in my life to regulate both my beliefs and practices What about your belief? If I show you something that the Bible teaches and it clearly contradicts your belief about the way God ought to be, what do you do about? A number of us have come from backgrounds, myself included, to say that infant baptism is something that can't be a biblical doctrine No Bible shows you from the scriptures that the Bible teaches that we should baptize in Christ. How do you handle that incident? God is the one in a way that I can demonstrate that to you. But what is our attitude when someone says us something that we say them, well, that's different I think God ought to be. I've got to hear about it. To believe him, to bring our minds into conformity to his people What about our processes? What about if I can show you something in your life that clearly violates the scriptures in the way that you live? What's your response? Pretty defensive? Well, so am I? I can empathize it up. Most of us are pretty defensive at face when we see that the picture has cut across the grain of some closed behaviors. But what about asking you've worked through some of that potential? Do you then say, well, I just think this? Or do you say no, I've got to do that. I've got to think that I think that I've got to to to do that and maybe I can't say Lord I want to change it. I can only say Lord I want to want to change it. And you can keep backing up. Well Lord I don't even want to want to change it. I just want you to make me want to want to change it But sooner or later we're going to come back to where we say that at least I do want that light. That I began to work again. That's I remember speaking on this at a conference. One of the people who was at that conference came up to me last week and we said that The application of this message to me means I'm turning myself into the police tonight. I've committed a crime and somebody else has been arrested for it. And I've been trying to avoid that for a while now and been trying to just uh rationalize. that but I see now that I can't continue with that. I've got to deal with that. I've got to give myself up. I remember another person coming who was going with a person Uh, this person is very romantically involved with a person who is not a Christian. And so we're that relationship with heavy. And I said, realize what this means. You cannot marry a person who doesn't love Jesus Christ. He's your Lord. And if this person doesn't love Jesus and he is, we're never going to be able to build a marriage. That is very, very difficult. If you like to go to your clear Jesus is my Lord, if you want to break off that relationship And that's been a month a woman who was the Jewish remaining of that time trusted price because she'd seen no effect of the power of her life before that time. And that person then got into the hospital and she had to spend a lot of time. Go past yourself. Some for that purpose. But Rafael and also that other thoughts. Also wasn't it? And just out of concern for him, he led him to pass What the one heard about the relationship is over the month one can do for a real life. If she's married to him now, when a home is very she herself. When we serve this, and take a little forward, sometimes it's great cost. We send us out for sickness. We experience the power of what it means the process of the feeling work and in the end. So some of this throughout the world didn't look at You have before you got letters from the palace and labanetta. I hope you'll take that home and read it. Thank you for Mebanella's topics in their use. And for them the Lordship of Christ is no intellectual matter. It is something that costs and there. I just read yesterday the N Visa. It costs of the gospel have been recently killed. Nine missionaries were slaughtered there in blue. And the civil war in Modesia has a distinctly anti-Christian doctrine. Christians are suffering. 50 people a day are dying and they'll be many of them Christians with Jesus Christ. Christians there come out and have Bibles now. They'll be dead and these Christians themselves. And click the back to the crazy card. Okay, well that that's uh that's really tough, and I'm so glad that that's over there and I hear. But don't be so sick. A couple of weeks ago, a fellow who's an image of Walter Jesus, not those great house, has determined that because he fell and blood Jesus of Lord you become a person just last year. And as a software across the so we decided that we were going to go back into what I would call the trip, which is a function board, so we may need a fuss Usually all quite as flat as the upper classrooms. And everybody gets down and emotions for the same as possible to message. There were six people who decided because of their lots of disease that they were going to go back to museums and have a ministry. There's nobody else there. Not a minute, he would have customers. He went back there and he got a remunerated lot of person. And a couple weeks ago he was counted with the money. The kind of became quite violent Someone had to intervene and even uh restore peace like this. And his roommate said that he apologized for the dystiolic behavior and the reactions he said towards the bathroom. He then said, Okay, let's go out tonight, let's talk about this tomorrow. In fact, while he was the person, that is women, took out a mant and stabbed him to death. It could be what he was a bit witness to He was killed because he gave up to Jesus, not in the Jesus, not in the time. This was now dead, and he started to come up towards Well I don't know what it costs for me that may start as an extreme. But there is areas, there are all areas in your life that you just voices, the scientific costume But the reminding release and the trust is that such a crisis involve our obedience. And it involves an obedience to a Christ who is Lord of all lives. That's possible. Because three is bad for evil. And what I got. Yes, where do we even talk about that before you That's more worse. You're not married because you know you know. You're worried because you are mad. You think you're fine. And we want to recognize you for what you are. We want to recognize that you have been given given a dominion that is an ever after you, your kingdom shall never end, either in its extent or its duration. And we come before you are born because you are fearful and verified. We seek to lift you up and to step down To realize what it means to acknowledge all of your saying. How eminently worthy you are to be saved in Christ. To once and for all rid ourselves of a nation, which is simply a problem solver that I just favor. One that we can go to in order to simply find peace is Comfort. The father of you might come and realize that the peace and comfort would be really father in you beyond anything that you can draw. It involves a whole different value A part of the teaching, may I ask I was before you. And I'll ask you to tell us what I do Tell us what it is here in Columbia right now. And we're reminded again that we're at a battlefield. We're reminded again that real mortar is resisted on every side. It's resisted on every side by those that we love, it's existed, by those who do work with. And Lord Jesus we pray to make a place for pray for people here who don't know him He has presumed upon a thorough understanding, a kind of understanding so many of us could be seen in our country of what the Bible says Absolutely. We're living people there as real solid sex in Jesus as a sacrifice. How is sufficient to make us acceptable before you grant us light in your name? And a salvation we can buy our obedience Working in the consistent life. We know that there are areas of our lives that we don't want you to test Left side of the feelings, by your simple frequent motion continues to pass them. The continuous program is unconscious Not because it'll make us any more acceptable. Not because you'll love us anyone. But simply because we want to be more easy. We want for you to use us more effectively And we want to read out of our lives these things with distance because we want it to do that in this next thing. We pay for the recommendation very well in the studio by regarding a system from all of us We might lift up your name. That you would kill their leaderhood with his kids and the choir of their saints. That we might enter into work with women, that we might receive nourishment from them. To lift up Jesus as Lord in the state of man. Lord as they uh uh forced to come home this week, we pray that you would uh enable them to get out safely. You say five or that you would uh enable them to get back in very quickly. So that uh your work will continue that. You say five is your keep less We're coming under freedom domination more closely, freedoms, and particularly fruiting for the gospel, for the Middle East, how we started to And in the name of Christ, the Lord Jesus himself is going to be work for this situation with the reverse That the gospel would one and be glorified in the Lebanon and in the Middle East, and they further inward their amongst the Semitic peoples Galileans Father, we say that you would also protect and encourage your people to redeem, to stop out of it, to be done. And in so many places where the morphism of Christ is a very Help again, close enough, to go to your name. Help us all those father to take our soul from Him. Do the good creatures and save us. Let's go by saying I won't we could say it Speak me, O Lord, thy holy way. Notice the words could be single, could have prayer as defenders. Because you're speaking to God As you speak in honest in this prayer and you use it. But you say what do you want to say these words yourself?